FusionIn the mid-2000s, the auditing and consulting firm Deloitte had a gender pay problem.  This chart comes from Fusion, which analyzed 2005 salary information for over 30,000 employees. The data was leaked as part of the major Sony Pictures hack. According to Kevin Roose, the information appeared to come from the computer of a current HR employee at Sony who used to work at Deloitte and still had the files on her computer. The info includes many of the top-paid people at Deloitte, including more than 1,000 directors. Roose reports that "the top 10 highest earners are all men, as are 22 of the top 25, 43 of the top 50, and 85 of the top 100." He says that this appears to be a compilation of data for an internal study in 2006 about whether there was racial or gender discrimination going on at the company.  Fifty-eight groups within the company were examined. Thirty-four seemed to have significant results regarding gender or race. Eighteen were considered "problematic based on both regressions &amp; t-tests." Deloitte apparently looked into those 18 groups, although representatives from the company have not yet responded to requests for comment.  While you can see from the chart that women make less than men at all levels, the gap appears to widen near the range of $75,000 to $80,000. The top-paid woman makes 25% less in salary than the top-paid man (this appears to be just salary, not total comp). And, from a rough estimate looking at the chart, there appear to be about twice as many men making $100,000 as women.  Men make up more than half of the total workforce at Deloitte, but not by much. They are about 55%, according to Fusion's Felix Salmon. We'd love to know how this data has changed in the past nine years. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Herbalife logo is seen on a building housing some of their offices in downtown Los Angeles, California(Reuters) - Herbalife Ltd won preliminary court approval of its $15 million settlement of class-action litigation accusing the maker of weight loss and nutritional products of being a "pyramid scheme" that misleads distributors about how much money they can make. In a decision dated Tuesday, U.S. District Judge Beverly Reid O'Connell in Los Angeles called the accord "fair, reasonable, and adequate," a standard often used to assess class-action settlements. The accord also requires Herbalife to provide up to $2.5 million to distributors who return unused products. In addition, Herbalife agreed to change some corporate policies, including over how it defines distributors and handles shipping charges on returned products, for at least three years. The Los Angeles-based company did not admit wrongdoing. O'Connell scheduled a May 11, 2015 hearing to consider final approval of the accord. About $5.25 million of the settlement funds could go toward attorney's fees. Herbalife has long been under attack by short-sellers like billionaire hedge fund manager William Ackman, who has accused it of inflating results that depend more on its ability to recruit new distributors than its ability to sell products. Authorities such as the FBI, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and some state attorneys general have also been probing Herbalife's activities. Herbalife has denied being a pyramid scheme, but the negative publicity has hurt North American sales. Shares of Herbalife closed down 30 cents at $42.08 in Wednesday trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The share price has fallen nearly 50 percent since reaching a record $83.48 on Jan. 8. The case is Bostick et al v. Herbalife International of America Inc et al, U.S. District Court, Central District of California, No. 13-02488.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Investors who have been out of fixed income instruments over the last 10 years have missed one of the truly epic risk adjusted rides of the last 100 years.   Over this period US T-bonds have generated an 8% annualized return with a standard deviation of just 13.3.  That’s relative to the S&amp;P 500 which has generated a 7.8% return with a standard deviation of 16.   The aggregate bond index has been even sexier.  The iShares aggregate bond index has generated a 4.5% annualized return with a standard deviation of just 3.8.  This was virtually a risk free return during a period when interest rates have been 0% over much of the holding period.  How many people would have loved having access to a 4.5% return with almost no negative volatility?  My guess is a heckuvalot of people…. What’s even more interesting about this period is that money managers have been almost universally bearish on bonds THE WHOLE TIME.  According to the 2004 Barron’s Big Money poll 73% of investors were bearish on US government bonds and 77% were bearish on corporates.   In 2006 the average respondent had just a 18% allocation to fixed income.  According to the 2013 Big Money poll 91% of respondents were bearish on T-bonds and 82% were bearish on corporates.   So far this year T-bonds are up over 20% soundly beating the pants off of stocks on both a nominal and risk adjusted basis.  In other words, the “big money” has been big time wrong for a long time. So, what causes this?  How can fixed income represent the overwhelming majority of financial assets, generate some of the best risk adjusted returns over long periods and still remain the ugly stepchild relative to equities?  I can’t be certain, but my guess is that most investors only care to look at the nominal return and have failed to interpret the risk of rising interest rates due to deficient modeling of the macro system. First, we tend not to care HOW people make their money, but only that they make money.  This obsession with nominal headline returns is why stocks always look sexier.  In general we tend to see academics or researcher backtest 100 year returns on stocks, declare “stocks for the long-run” and we all become convinced that owning a stock heavy portfolio is the high probability way to generate high returns going forward.  And in doing so we lose sight of the bigger picture and how those returns are generated. The fact that we don’t even consider risk adjusted returns in many cases leads us to believe that a high nominal return is a good return even when it often isn’t. In addition, I’ve been reading stories about rising interest rates for most of this 10 year period despite the fact that interest rates have stayed low or continued to fall.  There seems to be a permanent belief that since interest rates are low then they must go up.  And since most investors are conditioned to think that rising rates are bad for bonds (they’re not actually – Tbonds generated a 5.6% annual return in the 1970’s) then they conclude that stocks are the only game in town.  This, unfortunately, is not only grounded in the myth that rising rates are bad for bonds, but also in the misunderstandings of the monetary system.  Most investors have a very poor understanding of what drives interest rates, who controls interest rates and how that translates into the risk in owning fixed income instruments.  This lack of understanding results in having no framework or model by which these investors can predict or understand the risks of future returns. The unfortunate result of all of this is that many investors have not had exposure to this epic ride.  In large part thanks to macro misunderstandings. FREE AppDownload
 Apple is primarily a smartphone company. Though the company has other wonderful products, the iPhone is steadily growing as a source of the company's revenue and earnings. But at least one major bank sees huge upside in other Apple products next year. "We believe 'services' is an area within Apple that has strong potential to grow with other yet to be announced initiatives that have close to 100% margins," Barclays analyst Ben Reitzes wrote. In particular, Reitzes says Apple Pay will be a massively profitable business, which will help margins if Apple can expand it. Reitzes also expects a subscription video service similar to the Beats service for audio, which Apple is reportedly going to push to all iPhones next year.  "A more comprehensive media service to integrate TV and subscriptions seem like a no brainer at some point," Reitzes says.  Barclays also expects Apple's margins to benefit from the Apple Watch, which will have some high-priced options, and from movement by phone and tablet buyers to devices with larger screens, like the iPhone 6 Plus and the full iPad (rather than the iPad mini). Barclays is particularly bullish on the iPad 6 Plus in China next spring. Barclays raised its price target on Apple to $140 from $120 per share, a whopping vote of confidence in the company's plans for 2015 and beyond.   FREE AppDownload
MUMBAI/SEOUL (Reuters) - Mumbai civil servant Sachin Kenjale regularly ends his day with a steaming cup of instant coffee after trying the drink for the first time with friends around two years ago. Typical of the growing thirst for quick and cheap coffee sweeping parts of Asia traditionally considered bastions of tea drinking, industry officials say that kind of demand will push the market share of the robusta beans used to make instant powder above more expensive arabica by the end of the decade. Reaching that milestone would underscore a major market shift, with robusta's popularity soaring as increasing wealth prompts more people in emerging nations to start drinking coffee, a boon for key growers of the bean such as Vietnam and Indonesia. But arabica farmers in Latin America and East Africa fear the ascent of the cheaper robusta bean could take the edge off growth in demand for their crops, which are more difficult to cultivate but typically yield a less-harsh and more aromatic brew often favoured in Europe and North America. "Robusta coffee production has grown every year, and it will continue to grow. But I think it would be a less wonderful world if we didn't have arabica coffee still with us," said Ric Rhinehart, executive director at trade body the Specialty Coffee Association of America. Global coffee demand will climb to 175 million 60 kg bags by 2020 from almost 150 million now and under 120 million in 2005, according to forecasts from trade body the International Coffee Organization (ICO). That would be worth over $50 billion at current prices. Data from the ICO and International Trade Centre, a World Trade Organization subsidiary, shows increasing appetite for robusta is the main driver for that growth. And industry consensus is emerging that robusta's market share will rise from its current 40 percent to overtake arabica soon, with a major coffee company and traders telling Reuters that could happen by 2020. "Robusta's share of global coffee demand will reach 50 percent towards the end of this decade," said a buyer of both robusta and arabica at that global coffee firm. None of those making predictions wanted to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter for some suppliers. "The robusta coffee trend is growing right now because of instant coffee, and low quality coffee," said Samuel Demisse, general manager of U.S.-based arabica dealer Keffa Coffee. The retail cost of 100 grams of branded instant coffee stands at around $5, while the same amount of arabica can cost $10. Industry officials said the increase in demand for instant is largely coming from Asia's emerging markets, in particular China and India where some consumers are shifting from tea. Buyers can be influenced by television commercials showing apparently successful and happy people enjoying instant coffee, tacitly equating the drink with social status as food companies look to tap rising consumer incomes. Growth potential in India and China is huge as current personal consumption is still as low as five cups a year, compared with over 1,000 cups in some European countries. Kenjale, 35, in Mumbai said he still prefers tea in the morning and that he is currently the only coffee drinker in his family. Appetite is also increasing in Southeast Asia where Indonesia has seen its exports fall because of rising domestic demand. While Brazil, the world's biggest exporter, grows both arabica and robusta, other big producers in South and Central America such as Colombia and Mexico are worried about the spread of robusta as they have solely focused on churning out its more expensive rival. "It is a challenge. We can't compete in price with robusta," said Carlos Ignacio Rojas, head of Colombia's National Coffee Exporters' Association.   (Additional reporting by Ho Binh Minh in HANOI, Michael Taylor in JAKARTA, Brian Kim in SEOUL, Elias Biryabarema in KAMPALA and Peter Murphy in BOGOTA; Writing by Henning Gloystein; Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Wealthy Baby Boomers Are Terrified Of Health-Care Costs (Financial Advisor Magazine)  62% of wealthy Baby Boomers "are terrified of out-of-control health care costs and 72% say health care costs are their top concern for their retirement years," according to a Nationwide Retirement Institute survey. "Wealthy" was defined as those whose household incomes of at least $150,000. The survey shows that "even America's affluent workers don't know how they will fund their health care costs in retirement and they don't expect Obamacare with help them," John Carter, the president of Nationwide's retirement plan business, said. 26% believe that the "solution" to health care costs is working in retirement. However, according to Carter, only 3% actually manage to do so. The End Of The Year Is The Perfect Time To Rebalance Your Portfolio (Morningstar)  Research has shown that rebalancing portfolios is one way to reduce risk, and investors should consider rebalancing at the end of the year, according to Christine Benz. "But assuming that you are going to be doing some rebalancing within your taxable portfolio, you can also perhaps be a little bit preemptive in terms of managing your tax hit," Benz adds. "If you're going to be selling something and realizing capital gains on which you'll owe taxes, you may be able to find some losing holdings in your portfolio that you can sell, realize the tax loss, and use that tax loss to offset your capital gains burden." Fidelity Is Fully Embracing Robo Offerings (Investment News)  Fidelity just made a deal with another robo-adviser, LearnVest, reports Liz Skinner. This comes two months after the firm made its first deal with a robo-adviser, Betterment Institutional. And in the future, the firm is considering launching its own automated advice platform. Fidelity's relatively new focus on robo-advisers reflects the larger shift happening in the advisory industry overall. "We have a front row seat on what the market is looking for and we're monitoring it very quickly to see what we could do on a proprietary basis. The market should not be surprised if we serve up these capabilities more natively through time," said Michael Durbin, the president of Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services. Equities Are Going To Drive Convertible Bonds In 2015 (Advisor Perspectives)  Convertible bonds allow investors to switch their bonds into equity — so a strong equity market is great news for convertible bond investors. Since credit and sovereign yields have dropped to historic lows, "the potential for investors to retain bond-like qualities while potentially benefiting from supportive equity markets can make convertibles a compelling opportunity," according to Martin Kuehle. However, it's important to remember that convertible bonds vary greatly by region. "The US convertible bond market is by far the biggest, most efficient and over the long-run, the most fairly price. At the other end of the spectrum, Asia is the smallest, least-liquid and on average comes with the highest credit exposure," write Kuehle. "Being aware of these differences is integral to generation outperformance." Northwestern Mutual Sold Russell Investments For $2.7 Billion (Financial Planning)  Northwestern Mutual sold Russell Investments for $2.7 billion to the London Stock Exchange, reports Suleman Din. Northwestern originally acquired the asset manager back in 1999. "Meanwhile, Russell has scaled back its exchange traded product offerings. It decided in late November that the Russell Equity ETF, its last existing ETF offering, did not generate the projected level of interest it wanted. Russell will halt any investment into the fund in January and close it by Feb. 6, 2015," reports Din. FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe bulls are back in control in the stock market.Stocks hit all-time highs again on Wednesday, with the Dow hitting a new record for the second day in a row and the benchmark S&amp;P 500 joining the blue chip index at a new record. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve released its latest Beige Book report, an anecdotal survey of economic activity across the Fed's 12 districts which showed that an expansion of economic activity and employment gains are widespread across the Fed's districts. The report also showed that consumer spending advanced across many districts, aided by lower gasoline prices, with wage and inflation growth remaining subdued.  2. The Beige Book also contained commentary from professionals in the oil &amp; gas industry, with the overall takeaway from the Beige Book being that while we haven't seen changes in behavior from these companies yet, everyone has noted the decline in oil prices. Growth in drilling activity was seen in Texas' Permian Basin, and while outlooks for next year were still positive, they were less optimistic than the prior report.  3. And despite the decline in oil prices, North Dakota governor Jack Dalrymple on Wednesday proposed a two-year state budget that forecasts rebounding oil prices and a 23% jump in oil taxes. Dalrymple's plan expects daily oil production to rise 15% by June 2017. West Texas Intermediate crude prices settled near $67.30 on Wednesday. 4. Wall Street strategists continue to publish their outlooks for 2015, with BMO Capital's Brian Belski putting a year-end price target on the S&amp;P 500 of 2,250, an 8.5% advance from current levels. Belski expects corporates to spend less on share buybacks and more investing in their businesses, which are dealing with equipment that is as old as its been in decades.  5. On Thursday, the European Central Bank is set to announce its latest monetary policy decision, and as has been the case over the last several months, the real focus will be on ECB president Mario Draghi's press conference following the decision. During Draghi's press conference, the market will look for any clues regarding the ECB's intention to expand its current asset purchase program or embark on a full quantitative easing program involving the purchase of corporate bonds, as some in the market expect the ECB to eventually undertake.  6. Friday morning will see the release of the November jobs report, and ahead of that report we got the latest private payrolls report from ADP, which showed payrolls jumped by 208,000 in November, less than the 222,000 that was expected by economists. ADP CEO Carlos Rodriguez said that, "Small businesses continued to drive job gains adding almost half the total for the month." Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics said that at the current pace of job gains, the unemployment rate will drop by 0.5% per year. 7. We got two pieces of service sector activity on Wednesday, with Markit's latest services PMI coming in at 56.2, showing that activity in the service sector expanded at its slowest pace since the spring. The Institute of Supply Management's latest service sector reading, by contrast, came in at 59.3, far better than what was expected by economists. But in a note to clients, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said that the seasonal adjustment used by ISM is flattering the reading. Don't Miss: Investor Asks Jim Cramer: 'When You Lie Upon Your Deathbed, How Will You Reflect Upon Your Legacy?' » FREE AppDownload
screengrab from "There Will Be Blood"There Will Be BloodOil prices have been crashing for the last few months. When prices get too low, drilling projects become unprofitable, which means companies will struggle to meet their expenses. This includes the interest expenses on their outstanding debt. There has been some concern about the lending exposure banks might have on their balance sheets that could be impacted by falling oil prices. Should these obligations go bad, the banks would have to eat some losses. RBC Capital Markets analyst Gerard Cassidy and his team dug into company filings for the biggest U.S. banks, and his conclusion is that tumbling oil prices aren't a big deal.  "In terms of portfolio concentration, we believe energy-related lending exposure at the top 20 banks is manageable," Cassidy writes in a note titled There Won't Be Blood. "We expect that commodity price volatility could temper loan growth in local economies with significant exposure to the oil industry, but that on the whole the risks posed to large U.S. banks are not material." Still, the absolute numbers are big. According to Cassidy, JP Morgan is exposed to around $47 billion worth of energy-related loans. Citi is exposed to $45.2 billion. However, they represent very tiny portions of their overall holdings. Keep in mind, banks are also exposed to the consumer who should benefit from falling gas prices. "We believe banks in general should benefit from lower oil prices driven by increasing loan growth and rising interest rates from an accelerating economy," said Cassidy. Here's a summary of the big bank's exposure to energy loans:  RBC Capital
Getty Images / Phillip ChambersPhillip Chambers, a driller for Raven Drilling, talks on a phone while drilling for oil in the Bakken shale formation outside Watford City, North Dakota.The Fed's Beige Book report on current economic conditions was released today. There's a lot of commentary from Fed contacts in both energy and oil-related services about the freefalling price of the commodity over the last month. The takeaway seems to be that the economy isn't yet seeing much response to the falling price of oil, but everyone is on the lookout for it. Drilling activity certainly doesn't seem to be slowing. Here are the most interesting tidbits (also one bonus about natural gas supply): FREE AppDownload
 Jim Cramer sits on the board of TheStreet.com, a small investment-news website he cofounded in 1999 and that currently trades on the Nasdaq with a market cap of about $80 million. One of the company's shareholders is not happy with Cramer. In letter sent to Cramer on Wednesday (via Talking Biz News), one of the company's shareholders, Cannell Capital, outlines a series of complaints. These include, among other things, Cramer's alleged enjoyment of a "perfumed sedan driver and assorted assistants who spray ionized lavender water on [Cramer's] barren cranium." It is unclear if this claim has any merit.  Cannell Capital, which owns 8.95% of TheStreet.com, proposed in its letter that either 1) TheStreet sell itself, or 2) Cramer stop working with CNBC and devote his time and energy solely to TheStreet while also taking a 70% pay cut. Cannell notes that the market cap of TheStreet.com has fallen from around $1.7 billion in 1999 to around $80 million today, a loss of more than $1.6 billion in shareholder value.  Cramer is currently one of the hosts of CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" program as well as the host of "Mad Money," which airs on weeknights.  Cannell's letter, while proposing some strategies for TheStreet.com, also implores Cramer to do some soul-searching. "You are 59," Cannell writes. "When you lie upon your deathbed, how will you reflect upon your legacy? Once a $70 stock, TST is now $2.20. You will have done well, but how has the common shareholder done?" Cannell notes that Cramer signed a four-year employment contract with TheStreet in November 2013 that pays him $3.5 million annually. And while the letter states, "I commend you for your tenacity and intellect," Cannell maintains that Cramer's conflict between his director role with TheStreet and his employment at CNBC creates a "grand structural conflict." In imploring Cramer to leave CNBC and devote his energy to TheStreet while also taking a 70% pay cut, Cannell invokes Steve Jobs' one-dollar-a-year salary, as well as Warren Buffett's $100,000/year salary. "I imagine that this communication may be received with some frustration and perhaps a little embarrassment," Cannell writes.  "Please rest assured that my intent is merely and solely to help all shareholders — not just one shareholder. Please review the facts for what they are." Whatever that is, exactly.  In afternoon trade on Wednesday following disclosure of the letter, shares of TheStreet were up more than 6%.     FREE AppDownload
Jay ButlerJust because the modern gentleman is busy, doesn't mean he isn't thoughtful. A gentleman values those who are close to him, and he knows they deserve the best gifts this holiday season. To help you out, Business Insider has put together a list of elegant, useful items he should get for each person in his life.  Take a look. You can thank us later. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/VailVail is the best ski mountain in America.Ski season has officially arrived in the US, with most mountain resorts officially opening within the next week. FindTheBest helped us pick the best ski resorts in the US. They generated a Smart Rating to rank ski resorts around the country, based on rankings from SKI Mag and PowderHounds.com, mountain size, terrain, and snowfall.  In addition to awesome slopes, these mountains offer everything from sleigh rides to heli skiing to bumping apres-ski parties. 
(Reuters) - North Dakota Governor Jack Dalrymple proposed a two-year state budget on Wednesday that forecasts rebounding oil prices and a 23 percent jump in oil taxes, a tacit bet the state's energy boom will continue unabated. Oil prices have dropped more than 30 percent since June amidst global oversupply and demand concerns. Last week OPEC opted not to cut its oil production, a step seen by many as designed to squeeze North Dakota and other oil-producing regions of the United States. Despite OPEC's decision, Dalrymple expects oil extraction and gross production taxes of $8.32 billion for the 2015 through 2017 biennium, well above the projected $6.76 billion for the two-year term about to end. Dalrymple expects daily oil production to rise 15 percent to about 1.4 million barrels by June 2017. "This budget plan is ambitious, but we have once again taken great care to make sure we have developed a budget that is balanced and sustainable," Dalrymple said in a speech at the state capitol in Bismarck. The budget, which must be approved by state legislators, is based on oil prices of $74 to $78 per barrel for the first year and $79 to $82 per barrel for the second. The forecasts are well above the current price of oil, around $67 per barrel. Many North Dakota oil executives say their wells are still making money despite the price slide. Dalrymple's $5 billion budget allocates $3.7 billion for oil-producing counties to build new roads and other public infrastructure projects. The state's western region is one of the fastest-growing parts of the United States. The budget also allocates funding for the state's Public Service Commission to hire eight new rail and pipeline safety inspectors; the state's Department of Mineral Resources to hire 22 oil well engineers and field inspectors; and the state's Department of Health, which oversees water and air quality, to hire 19 new inspectors. The state's General Fund, which funds much of the state government, receives only about 4 percent of all oil taxes. The state's Legacy Fund, which receives about 31 percent of oil taxes, is expected to reach $6 billion by 2017 from about $3.5 billion today. The fund, designed as a type of "rainy day" reserve, cannot be touched until 2017. (Reporting by Ernest Scheyder; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
Black Friday sales declined this year, while Cyber Monday fell short of predictions.  Some executives and analysts are blaming the decline on cash-strapped consumers. But one expert notes that retailers could be feeling the effects of opening on Thanksgiving.  "Opening on Thanksgiving has created a 'Prisoners' Dilemma' for retailers," said Andrew Lipsman, vice president of marketing and insights at ComScore. "No one wants to be the retailer to miss out, but the net effect could be negative."  A "Prisoners' Dilemma" refers to when the overall outcome is worse when both parties participate than if they didn't. For retailers, this means opening on Thanksgiving in a bid to get customers who are surely spending money at competitors.  But the mentality of Thanksgiving shoppers is different than it is at other times, Lipsman said. These consumers tend to go out in the evening after a family meal, and are mostly focused on "doorbusters," such as cheap electronics and towels. Black Friday shoppers, on the other hand, have a "shop 'til you drop" mindset and would spend most of the day hopping from store to store, without feeling time constraints like they might have the night before.  This could be leading to industry-wide declines on Black Friday weekend, Lipsman said.  Lipsman said he believes that slight declines in store traffic and sales are being offset by strong online business.  For the five-day period from Thanksgiving through Cyber Monday, online buying from desktop computers totaled $6.6 billion, up 24% from last year. Lipsman said that doom-and-gloom attitudes about consumers are wrong.  "This is a case of changing consumer behaviors," Lipsman said. "Many people are buying a few doorbusters on Thanksgiving and then supplementing by shopping online." FREE AppDownload
ReutersPresident Barack Obama had a lengthy conversation at an event hosted by the Business Roundtable, an association of American CEOs, on Wednesday.  In the discussion, Obama pointed out areas where he said the policies of his administration are in line with the interests of the business community. Obama mainly focused on his immigration reform push, but he also listed  three other areas where he said his agenda can help corporate America: Infrastructure: Obama described this as "one area where we need to go ahead and make significant investments." "Anybody who travels around the world and looks at what airports outside of the United States now look like — and roads, and trains, and ports, ... now look like — recognizes it makes no sense for us to have a first-class economy but second-class infrastructure," said Obama. Tax Reform: "I've consistently said that for us to have a system in which we have, on paper, one of the two or three-highest tax rates in the world when it comes to corporate taxation but in practice there's so many loopholes that you get so many loopholes between what companies pay, doesn't make sense." Trade: "In Asia, there is a great hunger for engagement with the United States of America and the Trans-Pacific Partnership is moving forward," Obama said. "We are optimistic about getting a deal done." FREE AppDownload
 Most of the headlines coming out of Venezuela have to do with the country's precarious economic situation, largely the result of plunging oil prices. But it should be remembered that there is an intense political struggle going on within the country as well — one that has the power to destabilize it entirely. Here's a reminder: Opposition leader Maria Corina Machado has been accused of treason and trying to assassinate President Nicolas Maduro. It is a crime punishable by 8-16 years in prison. A former legislator, Machado rose to prominence as an opposition leader at the beginning of the year, when political strife rocked Venezuela and hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated in the streets. At that time, former Mayor Leopoldo Lopez was the opposition figure who had the world's attention. The Harvard-educated activist turned himself in to Maduro's administration in February to cool tensions, and has been in prison ever since. According to reports, his prison guards throw excrement against his jail cell.  Lopez's absence left an opening that Machado and a number of opposition leaders have been trying to fill, but since this spring, the government has been better at quelling dissent. Enter the slide in oil prices. Oil makes up 95% of Venezuela's exports and over 60% of the country's revenue. As the price of the commodity plummeted, traders told Business Insider that default was the only possible ending. Venezuela lobbied its OPEC peers hard for a slowdown in oil production to prop up the price, but to no avail. Now it's burning through cash at an alarming rate — some of which was loaned to Venezuela by the Chinese in exchange for oil. Something has to give. The country has been spending more money than it brings in for years in an attempt to maintain social programs that date back to the administration of President Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Its fiscal deficit is at 17% of annual economic output. Another drain on the economy is Venezuela's Petrocaribe program, which "sells" oil to the country's Caribbean and Latin American allies at stunningly low rates. The country's foreign minister has promised that the program will continue as is. Nonetheless, Venezuela sold some debt the Dominican Republic owes it to Goldman Sachs, according to Bloomberg, so even some of those agreements may be subject to change. What all this means taken together is simply that Maduro is under an insane amount of pressure. His approval rating is at an all-time low of 24.5%, according to the Wall Street Journal. We can expect more desperate moves — more finger pointing, more scapegoating — to come along with more dissent. And it won't be pretty. ReutersMaria Corina Machado with Lilian Tintori, Leopoldo Lopez's wife (right).    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve just released its latest Beige Book report, an anecdotal report of economic conditions in each of the Fed's twelve districts. The latest Beige book showed that economic activity continued to expand in October and November, with employment gains widespread across districts. Consumer spending also continued to advance in most districts, aided by lower gasoline prices. The report showed, however, that wage growth and inflation both remain subdued.  Various districts were shown to have difficulty filling open positions in information technology, engineering, manufacturing, and transportation. The report is gathered from Federal Reserve staff meetings with local directors and interviews with key business contacts, economists, market experts, and other sources. Here's the full report: Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending continued to trend higher in most Districts in October and November. Some contacts viewed lower gasoline prices as a contributing factor to higher consumer spending, and an early cold spell helped spur sales of winter apparel in several Districts. Both the Richmond and San Francisco Districts pointed to durable goods purchases as a source of strength. Restaurant sales were up in Cleveland and San Francisco but down in Kansas City. Retailers in many Districts were optimistic about the upcoming holiday season. Auto sales were particularly strong in Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco, and lower gasoline prices boosted sales of SUVs and light trucks in Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago. Tourism reports were mostly positive for the reporting period. Early-winter weather conditions boosted activity in Richmond and Minneapolis as some ski resorts were able to open early. Richmond and San Francisco reported rising hotel occupancy rates and Philadelphia noted an increase in hotel revenues. Contacts in the Atlanta District noted an increase in the number of domestic and international visitors relative to last year and strong advance bookings for hotels and conferences for the first half of 2015. New York indicated that tourism was generally steady at a high level, with Broadway theater attendance and revenues moderately higher than a year ago. In contrast, tourism activity decreased further in the Kansas City District, but was expected to improve modestly in coming months. Hiring and Business SpendingEmployment gains were widespread across Districts in October and November. Boston reported increased employment in the software and IT sectors, and New York noted that financial firms were hiring more workers. Cleveland indicated that manufacturing, construction, and freight transportation payrolls were increasing, and Richmond cited stronger hiring by service-sector firms. Atlanta reported sizable gains in leisure and hospitality employment. Several Districts noted an increase in temporary staffing as well as an increase in temporary-to-permanent job transitions. Hiring plans increased in New York, Chicago, and St. Louis. With labor market conditions strengthening, contacts in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts noted that firms were having increased difficulty retaining key workers. Various Districts continued to report that firms had difficulties filling positions in IT and engineering, legal and health-care services, management, skilled manufacturing and building trades, and transportation and warehousing. Most Districts reported little change in holiday-related hiring relative to last year, though there were some reports of slightly higher rates of seasonal hiring in New York and Chicago. Districts reporting on business spending noted some improvement overall. Inventories were generally reported to be in line with sales. Richmond and Chicago noted some precautionary inventory building by retailers and manufacturers as insurance against another harsh winter. Reports on capital expenditures, both current and planned, were generally positive. Boston and Cleveland reported that retailers were investing in IT equipment and software to support e-commerce. Manufacturers in several Districts were expanding capital budgets both to replace existing equipment and to expand capacity. Freight companies in the Cleveland District were holding to plans to gradually replace an aging fleet and expand capacity. St. Louis and Minneapolis noted an increase in planned capital spending by service-sector firms. Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas cited an increase in mergers and acquisitions. Nonfinancial ServicesDemand for nonfinancial services rose in a number of Districts in October and November. Several Districts reported broad-based growth in demand for staffing services. Growth in professional business services fell in Kansas City, but the Richmond District reported gains in accounting business and Dallas experienced expansions in legal and insurance services. Demand for technology services rose in the Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts. San Francisco reported strong demand for cloud computing services. Growth in transportation services was uneven across Districts, but Cleveland continued to report strong demand, to the extent that shippers were running into capacity constraints. Various Districts reported increases in shipments of agricultural products, industrial machinery, oil and gas production materials, appliances, apparel, auto parts, e-commerce goods, and steel. Richmond reported increased port activity, especially for imports, but a decline in coal exports. ManufacturingManufacturing activity generally advanced during the reporting period. The automotive and aerospace industries continued to be sources of strength. Steel production increased in Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco. Fabricated metal manufacturers in the Chicago and Dallas Districts noted widespread growth in orders. Dallas reported that domestic sales for plastics were strong, while demand for plastics was steady in Richmond and declined in Kansas City. Chemical manufacturers in the Boston District indicated that the falling price of oil relative to natural gas had made U.S. producers less competitive, because foreign chemical producers rely more heavily on oil for feedstock and production. St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas reported that food production was little changed on balance, but production in Kansas City continued to decline. Chicago and Dallas indicated that shipments of construction materials increased. Manufacturers of heavy machinery in the Chicago District cited improvements in sales of construction machinery, but reported ongoing weak demand for agricultural and mining equipment. High-tech manufacturers in Boston, Dallas, and San Francisco noted steady growth in demand. Biotech revenue increased in the San Francisco District. Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity expanded overall in October and November, but saw a fair amount of variation across sectors and regions. Residential construction increased on balance across the Districts and multifamily construction remained stronger than single-family construction in a number of Districts. Reports on residential real estate activity were mixed. About half of the Districts reported an increase in home sales. Many Districts indicated that sales in the multifamily sector were stronger than sales in the single-family sector. Home prices were little changed in most Districts, although prices increased in the Richmond, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Nonresidential construction rose in most Districts. Construction of office space was relatively strong in some large urban areas, such as New York City and Philadelphia. Industrial construction was particularly strong in the Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts. Commercial real estate activity also increased in many Districts, with declining vacancies and rising rents for office space; especially strong activity was noted in the central business districts of some large urban areas. Vacancies for commercial and industrial space also dropped in several Districts. Banking and FinanceLending activity improved on net. A few Districts noted aggressive competition on loan pricing and terms or an easing of loan standards. Business lending increased for most types of loans. Boston, New York, and Richmond cited an increase in demand for commercial mortgages, and commercial and industrial lending increased in Philadelphia and St. Louis. San Francisco reported an increase in demand for small business refinance loans and noted private financing activity and venture capital activity were both strong. Chicago also cited stronger loan demand from small businesses for financing equipment and structures. Dallas indicated that real estate lending increased, with strength reported in loans for both single-family and multifamily construction projects. In contrast, Kansas City reported lower demand for agricultural loans, and Chicago noted lower utilization of credit lines for working capital. Consumer lending also increased. Several Districts reported continued strength in demand for auto loans. Richmond, St. Louis, and San Francisco noted an increase in credit card lending. Residential lending increased in a number of Districts, reflecting a mix of new mortgages, refinancings, and home equity lines of credit. Cleveland and Richmond indicated that first-time homebuyers continued to face challenges in qualifying for mortgages, although contacts in Boston were optimistic that the new Qualified Residential Mortgage rule would be helpful in this regard. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions were mixed across the Districts. Livestock operations were more profitable than a year ago; but with crop yields generally at above-average to record-high levels, lower crop prices were depressing farm incomes. Harvests were ahead of their normal pace in most Districts reporting on agriculture. However, excess moisture delayed harvests in some Districts, affected the quality of cotton in the Dallas District, and damaged wheat and barley crops in the San Francisco District. In contrast, drought conditions affected the Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts, as well as parts of the Dallas District. Dry weather delayed tree harvests in Richmond, even as Christmas orders picked up. Compared with a year ago, prices were lower for corn, soybeans, wheat, and hay, but higher for milk, dairy, poultry, hogs, cattle, and tomatoes. Livestock producers benefited from lower feed costs, and Chicago and Kansas City noted expansions in cattle herds. Richmond and San Francisco reported increased exports of agricultural products, but Dallas reported lower dairy exports. Natural resource activity was strong overall. Oil and natural gas exploration, drilling, and extraction remained at high levels in the Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, with expansions in drilling activity in Kansas City and Dallas. Atlanta reported that the recent drop in oil prices led firms to reevaluate their operations, though steady production is anticipated for both deepwater and onshore drilling; in the Dallas District, lower oil prices weighed on the outlook for drilling activity. Natural gas prices decreased slightly as inventories grew. Coal production in the Cleveland and St. Louis Districts was up from a year ago. Since the previous report, mining activity increased in the Minneapolis District. Healthy demand for timber was noted by San Francisco, leading to increased shortages of equipment and skilled loggers. Prices and WagesOverall price and wage inflation remained subdued in October and November. Price increases for raw materials were generally muted, though there were some exceptions, such as prices for certain agricultural products and building materials. Several Districts cited the decline in the price of oil over the reporting period and its effects on gasoline and diesel fuel prices. However, transportation costs rose in some Districts where capacity constraints were an issue. Chicago and San Francisco reported lower steel prices, but Dallas noted an increase in fabricated metals prices. Pass-through of higher costs to downstream prices remained limited, although Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas reported an uptick in the number of firms raising or expecting to raise prices. New York and Cleveland noted an increase among retailers in holiday promotional activity relative to last year, and Philadelphia indicated that retailers would be using promotions to extend the shorter-than-usual holiday shopping season. A number of Districts reported slight to moderate increases in labor costs during the reporting period. Upward wage pressures continued to be evident for certain types of occupations and for skilled workers. New York, Chicago, and San Francisco reported that employers were adjusting compensation to win well-qualified job candidates or to retain or give raises to high-value, long-term existing employees. In addition, Atlanta noted nascent signs of wage pressures for lower-skilled jobs, whose wages have been flat for several years. Minimum wage increases were said to be a source of higher labor costs in the Boston, Cleveland, and San Francisco Districts. Boston, Chicago, and Dallas noted actual or prospective increases in health insurance costs; in contrast, San Francisco indicated that increases in health insurance premiums for the coming year were low by historical standards. Some of the higher costs associated with health care were reportedly being passed on to employees. Return to top RetailRetail firms contacted this round report year-over-year increases in total sales ranging from zero (flat) to 6.5 percent. Their year-over-year comparable-store sales results are more varied, ranging from down 4 percent to up 7.5 percent. Inventories are well-managed. Some contacts report that their prices remain steady, while others indicate prices of some items are going up a bit. The reasons given for these modest price increases include passing on higher vendor prices and paying for increases in the minimum wage. Retailers are continuing to invest in software and support for online selling channels. All respondents say that they have seen continuing improvement in sales over the course of the year, that consumers appear to be more confident, and that the U.S. economy seems to be experiencing a real, albeit modest, rise. Contacts expect the holiday sales season to continue this positive momentum. Manufacturing and Related ServicesOf ten manufacturers responding this cycle, eight firms report stronger sales than a year earlier. The two citing weaker sales are both in semiconductor-related industries. One, a maker of testing equipment, is actually very positive about sales, saying that as long as people want smart phones, there will be strong demand for semiconductor testing equipment. The other is in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment business and is also quite optimistic overall. Manufacturing contacts generally say North America is an area of strength and Europe and Latin American are relatively weaker. A manufacturer of construction tools says the strengthening dollar is a "headwind" and has revised sales growth down slightly as a result. Firms report no significant movements in inventories. Capital spending is up, but more or less in line with plans at all contacted firms. The pricing environment is reportedly benign. Raising prices is not easy, but firms do not report tremendous pressure to cut prices. Costs are said to be under control as well. One firm in the chemical industry cites falling oil prices as a problem because chemicals are produced in the United States using natural gas whereas in the rest of the world, they are produced using oil. As a result, the fall in oil prices over the last few months has made foreign rivals more competitive, partly reversing U.S. chemical firms' prior advantage resulting from declines in the price of natural gas relative to oil in recent years. None of our contacts reports large increases or decreases in employment. A manufacturer of health and fitness equipment successfully hired technically skilled workers but only with great difficulty. A defense contractor says uncertainty about the federal budget makes workers reluctant to accept offers from them. A maker of medical equipment indicates that recent wage increases are at the higher end of their normal range. In general, responding manufacturers have a positive outlook on business conditions.  Software and Information Technology ServicesFirst District software and information technology services contacts generally report strong demand in recent months, with most citing revenue increases of 7 percent to 20 percent year-over-year. This sustained business growth is attributed to the improving macroeconomy, strength in the manufacturing sector, and high consumer demand for software products currently on the market. Only one contact--in the healthcare sector--reports a decrease in year-over-year nominal revenue, reflecting the expiration of federal stimulus related to health records software. Selling prices have generally remained stable. Most firms are adding to their headcounts through acquisition, increased utilization of contractors, or overall business expansion. Wages have largely remained constant in recent months. One contact notes upward wage pressure for higher-level R&amp;D and sales positions for which demand exceeds supply. Most firms are holding capital and technology spending steady, with one firm increasing spending to introduce a new software platform. Looking forward, most contacts are optimistic about current trends continuing; they expect flat to high-single-digit year-over-year revenue growth. Some respondents express concerns about continued weakness in Europe and Asia, stock market volatility, and the overall macroeconomy. Staffing ServicesNew England staffing contacts generally report increased business activity through November, with all but one contact citing a year-over-year increase in revenue. This uptick in demand reportedly reflects growth in the healthcare sector and improved business confidence. Furthermore, several contacts note increases in both direct hiring and the temporary-to-permanent conversion rate. Labor demand is strong, with increases for a variety of positions across the healthcare, commercial real estate, legal, customer service, manufacturing, and warehousing sectors. Contacts say labor supply continues to be tight, particularly for IT, legal, and nursing occupations. Their strategies to attract top candidates include networking, social media outreach, online recruiting, and offering modest wage premiums. Both bill and pay rates have trended upward in recent months. Most contacts are more optimistic than three months ago about the rest of the year, with year-end revenue growth forecasted to be in the low-to-high single-digit range. The main factors expected to affect business in upcoming months are winter and holiday seasonal effects, availability of workers, and health insurance costs from the Affordable Care Act. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate market trends in the First District are mostly unchanged since the last report. According to contacts, Boston's office market continues to see declining vacancy rates and modest rent increases. Investor demand for office and multifamily properties in Greater Boston remains very robust. A Rhode Island contact says business sentiment is improving based on beliefs that the newly elected governor will focus on job creation. Office leasing activity in Providence saw a modest rebound following a dip late in the third quarter, with robust demand in the Class B sector; there are, however, some concerns about plans among Class A office tenants to reduce space needs in 2015. Construction activity remains limited in the state, but includes a growing amount of build-to-suit activity in the industrial sector. In Hartford, market fundamentals are unchanged amid flat leasing demand, and there is no new construction activity. In Portland, investment sales increased across diverse property types and industrial leasing activity picked up since the last report, while office market fundamentals--including vacancy rates and rents--are roughly unchanged since one year ago and office leasing activity held steady in recent weeks. A few new infrastructure projects and some industrial construction activity are underway, and set to increase, along Portland's waterfront. A regional banking contact saw a modest increase in commercial real estate loan inquiries, including an uptick in loan demand for industrial properties in the Boston area; at the same time, he reports that the flow of lending activity at his bank is below its year-ago level. The outlook remains largely optimistic for the Boston and Portland commercial real estate markets. For Rhode Island, a modestly optimistic outlook for commercial real estate demand was qualified by contacts citing risks to the state's overall economic fortunes, including a looming state budget deficit. In Hartford, a contact foresees slow-to-negligible growth in economic activity and accordingly slow improvement in commercial real estate fundamentals. Residential Real EstateIn September, closed sales of single-family homes increased from a year earlier in four of the six New England states. Massachusetts experienced declining year-over-year sales for an eighth consecutive month; contacts in New Hampshire were unavailable to provide data. The median sales price for single-family homes decreased in three of the four states with sales increases; Maine was the exception, with a year-over-year increase in median sales price. Prices in Massachusetts remained flat, ending 23 consecutive months of year-over-year price rises. Massachusetts contacts say buyers are not willing to overextend themselves financially as home prices move higher, but some expect prices to remain flat, some say they will decline, and others expect an increase in the coming months; among the latter, one contact notes that preliminary October data show a modest increase in price compared to October 2013. Scarcity of inventory remains a concern in Massachusetts, with another consecutive month of year-over-year declines in inventory. Contacts in Massachusetts say new listings are insufficient to meet demand; they emphasize a need for new construction and for more sellers to list properties. By contrast, inventories are plentiful in Vermont, where there is more than 20 months of supply; realtors typically say a market is balanced when there is six months of supply--the current level in Rhode Island. Contacts across the First District believe recent market trends will continue in coming months. In the condominium market, September sales were mixed across the region, decreasing in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Maine, while increasing in Connecticut and Vermont compared with a year earlier. The change in median sales prices of condos also varied across the region, with year-over-year increases in Rhode Island, Maine, and Vermont, but decreases in Connecticut and Massachusetts; this represents the first price decrease for condos in Massachusetts after 15 months of increases. As with single-family homes, condo inventory remains a concern in Massachusetts, where year-over-year inventory decreases have continued for almost four years. Residential real estate contacts say they are generally content. Many contacts are optimistic about the new Qualified Residential Mortgage rule, expecting it to ease down payment and credit score requirements and thereby help qualified consumers afford and purchase a house. Return to top Consumer SpendingGeneral merchandise retailers say that sales have continued to trend up, running moderately ahead of 2013 levels. Sales came in slightly below plan in October--restrained by unseasonably warm weather--but slightly ahead of plan in early November. The snowstorm that hit large parts of metropolitan Buffalo in mid-November shut down many retailers and disrupted supplies, but the overall effect on sales remains to be seen. The pricing environment is described as more promotional than last year. Retailers are building inventories in advance of the upcoming holiday season. Reports from auto dealers across upstate New York indicate that sales were flat to down somewhat since the last report, even before the winter storm. Rochester-area dealers continue to characterize new vehicle sales as essentially flat in October and early November. However, Buffalo-area dealers report that new vehicle sales weakened in October and November. The used-car market was also mixed, with Buffalo-area dealers describing sales as soft but Rochester-area dealers characterizing them as improving. Auto dealers in both areas note that both wholesale and retail credit conditions remain in good shape. Consumer confidence in the region rebounded strongly in October: The Conference Board's survey showed confidence rebounding to its highest level in more than a year in both New York State and the broader Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA). Tourism activity has been mixed but generally steady at a high level. Broadway theaters report that attendance and revenues continue to run moderately ahead of comparable 2013 levels. Construction and Real EstateThe District's housing markets have taken on a somewhat softer tone in recent weeks. New York City's residential rental market has shown signs of softening: Rents in Manhattan and Brooklyn are reported to be steady to down slightly from a year ago, though they continue to rise modestly in Queens. Overall, New York City's co-op and condo market showed continued strength in October and early November--sales activity was down modestly from a year earlier but was still described as brisk, and lean inventories and strong demand continued to nudge up prices, which are reported to be running about 5 percent higher than a year ago. Single-family markets in Long Island and Staten Island--as well as in northern New Jersey, where there remains a large overhang of distressed properties--have lagged somewhat. The Buffalo-area market is characterized as having shifted from a seller's market to one that is more balanced, with sales activity leveling off and inventories continuing to build. Across New York State more broadly, the median selling price for single-family homes has edged down in recent months and was down slightly in October relative to a year earlier. New single-family construction activity has been sluggish, while multi-family construction has been robust. Commercial real estate markets have generally remained steady thus far in the fourth quarter. In Manhattan, office availability rates edged down to a six-year low, while asking rents leveled off and are up about 2 percent since the beginning of the year. Elsewhere around the New York City metropolitan region, office availability rates and asking rents were generally flat, except in northern New Jersey, where rents were up slightly. Office markets were also stable across most of upstate New York, except for metropolitan Buffalo, where the office availability rate has climbed to a multi-year high. Although a number of major office developments are under construction in New York City, new starts for office construction remain fairly depressed across the District. The market for industrial space has been a bit more robust: Asking rents are up from a year ago throughout the region, while availability rates have fallen to multi-year lows in and around New York City and have edged down in upstate New York. New starts for industrial construction have increased in recent months and are up from a year ago. Other Business ActivityService-sector firms across the District report increasingly widespread growth in business activity, though manufacturing firms report that activity has expanded at a subdued pace. Nevertheless, contacts in both sectors express increasingly widespread optimism about the near-term outlook. Manufacturers generally report that selling prices remain flat, while service firms report modest increases; contacts in both sectors note that input price pressures overall have abated since the last report. The labor market has continued to strengthen since the last report, with some reports of increased wage pressures. One employment agency contact reports that the labor market seems to be doing well but notes that it is difficult to gauge in light of the slowdown in permanent hiring that usually occurs before the holiday season. This contact also notes that employers are becoming more flexible on salaries and is optimistic about the outlook for 2015. Another major employment agency in New York City describes the job market as exceptionally strong and notes that qualified candidates are getting multiple offers; as a result, employers must often be willing to negotiate on pay and act quickly to fill job openings. In particular, financial firms are reported to be hiring more workers. One employment industry contact construes that retailers are hiring more seasonal help than last year, though a major retail chain indicates that it plans to hire about the same amount of seasonal help as in 2013. More generally, considerably more business contacts now say they plan to expand than reduce staffing levels in the year ahead. Financial DevelopmentsSmall- to medium-sized banks across the District report increased demand for commercial mortgages but steady demand for other categories of loans. Bankers report little change in demand for refinancing. Credit standards continue to be reported as little changed across all loan categories. Respondents indicate that spreads of loan rates over cost of funds have declined across all loan categories, with the decrease most prevalent in commercial mortgages. Finally, bankers report ongoing decreases in delinquency rates across all loan categories. Return to top Lending volumes grew at a modest pace (a slight acceleration from the prior period), and credit quality continued to improve, while contacts continued to describe heated price competition for loans. Overall, contacts reported slight increases in wages, home prices, and general price levels that were similar to those reported for the previous Beige Book period. Contacts continued to anticipate moderate growth of economic activity over the next six months. ManufacturingThird District manufacturers reported that activity has continued to grow since the previous Beige Book and that the pace has increased to a moderate rate. Similarly, firms reported strengthening of new orders and shipments, with a greater percentage of firms reporting increases and a smaller percentage of firms reporting decreases. Gains in activity continued to reflect relatively broad-based demand. Ongoing strength was mentioned by intermediate producers serving the automotive and commercial aviation sectors. Increased demand was reported to be coming from government expenditures on public infrastructure, especially bridges, and military spending. A chemical firm reported growing demand for products used for medical diagnostics but flat demand for lab chemicals. For the third consecutive Beige Book period, well over half of Third District manufacturing contacts expressed expectations of positive future growth during the next six months; less than 10 percent expected activity to decline. Firms also continued to report that they expect to increase employment levels and capital spending. RetailThird District contacts reported modest growth in nonauto retail sales since the prior Beige Book period, a somewhat faster pace than before. As with fall apparel, a recent cold snap is now helping to move winter product lines, although retailers continued promotions in order to capture market share. An operator of area malls reported that traffic has improved relative to last year, with shoppers spending a higher average amount, and that department stores seem to be doing better. An operator of outlet malls cited favorable weather and low gas prices as factors driving its strong October and November sales. Overall, contacts were optimistic that they would see a slight improvement in sales in the upcoming holiday season compared with last year. Retailers reported holding more promotions prior to Thanksgiving and planning more promotions for after Christmas to compensate for this year's shorter shopping period between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Pennsylvania analysts are anticipating that this may be the first year in which a majority of households eat their turkey and pumpkin pie at restaurants rather than at home. Auto dealers reported moderate growth in sales year over year. A Pennsylvania contact described sales levels throughout the state as steady from August through October after reaching a record high in July. Statewide sales in New Jersey are nearing their pre-recession peak of a half million vehicles per year. Falling gas prices have shifted sales away from cars and toward light trucks and SUVs. Early reports of November sales were described as "very good" in New Jersey and in Pennsylvania. Dealers continued to express optimism for ongoing sales growth into 2015. FinanceThird District financial firms reported modest increases in total loan volume, a somewhat faster pace than that reported in the previous Beige Book. Volumes increased most for commercial and industrial loans and for some consumer credit lines, including home equity but excluding credit cards. Contacts reported little change in volumes of home mortgages and commercial real estate. Contacts reported ongoing credit quality improvements and intense price competition for creditworthy loan prospects. Contacts described seeing and sensing continued strengthening of the economy. One bank contact reported that his bank's personnel and many of its customers had feelings about the economy that were "close to optimism." Many firms have rebuilt strong balance sheets, accelerated maintenance schedules, and increased their productivity, yet lack sufficient confidence to take on the added risk of expanding capacity, according to this contact. Real Estate and ConstructionThird District homebuilders have reported lower traffic and declining numbers of contract signings since the previous Beige Book period. Builders report that first-time homebuyers remain scarce and that contracts for new homes with existing homeowners are often burdened by contingencies to sell their current home. Builders are entering a seasonally slow period that will likely extend over the remainder of the year; contacts reported starting some additional homes on spec to maintain sufficient activity for their construction crews. Although existing home sales tend to decline at this time of year, residential real estate brokers observed that sales were greater than expected. On a year-over-year basis, closings and pending sales are turning positive again in most major markets. Brokers continued to note some difficulties with buyers securing financing and with contingent contracts as buyers struggle to sell their own homes. Brokers do not expect overall sales in 2014 to surpass 2013 levels, but remain optimistic for a return to growth in 2015. Construction and leasing reported by nonresidential real estate contacts have picked up to a modest pace of growth since the previous Beige Book period. Demand continues for new industrial/warehouse projects along the I-81/I-78 corridors. Recently, several major projects have broken ground in Center City Philadelphia; contracts have been signed and skilled tradespeople have been hired. An architecture and engineering firm reported ending its best year in the firm's history and that it expects to do more hiring in 2015. Contacts continued to report incremental improvements in leasing activity in downtown and suburban Philadelphia, especially for office, residential, and retail spaces in Center City Philadelphia. ServicesThird District service-sector firms have continued to report moderate growth in activity since the previous Beige Book. About half of all firms reported increases in new orders and sales. A large service contractor reported that new business opportunities were expanding, especially in the private sector. However, competition also remains strong with some projects lost to lower bidders. Staffing contacts in eastern and central Pennsylvania continued to report moderate increases in hiring for both temporary and permanent positions. Staffing requests have been broad-based and reflect business expansions as well as replacement hiring. Staffing firms remained upbeat about prospects for the remainder of this year. Overall, about three-fourths of all service-sector contacts reported expectations that growth trends will remain positive over the next six months; only a few anticipated declines. Most Third District tourist areas continued to benefit from great weather conditions throughout the fall. Contacts reported modest revenue gains overall, especially for hotels and restaurants. Visitors were still spending too little to make shore retailers happy. Early estimates by tourism contacts suggested that the remaining Atlantic City casinos may have absorbed about half of the revenues from three closed casinos and a much smaller percentage of employees. Most of the effects of the layoffs were felt within the immediate Atlantic County area. However, contacts throughout southern New Jersey anticipated some small effect from the reduced purchasing power of these laid-off workers. Prices and WagesOverall, Third District contacts reported little change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases that was seen in other recent Beige Book periods. About one-fifth of manufacturing contacts and one-fourth to one-third of service-sector contacts reported an increase in prices paid and received. Nearly three-fourths of manufacturing contacts reported no change in these prices, as did over one-half of nonmanufacturing contacts. Contacts from staffing and other firms noted little significant change to the slight wage pressures evident during the previous period. Brokers continued to report slight overall increases in home prices. The potential for falling gasoline prices to loosen consumers' pocketbooks sparked comments from retailers, brokers, and tourism contacts. Otherwise, few contacts reported material changes in wages or prices. Return to top Payrolls showed a mild increase, primarily in manufacturing, construction, and freight transportation. Staffing firms reported that the number of job openings and placements has fallen, which they attribute in part to seasonal effects. Because of shortages of certain types of skilled workers, upward pressure on wages is being felt by general building contractors, subcontractors, and freight haulers. Overall, input and finished goods prices were stable. There were scattered reports of rising prices for some metal and agricultural products and building materials. Transportation costs rose. ManufacturingDistrict factories reported that demand ranged from stable to showing modest growth since the previous report. Year-to-date results were generally better compared to those in 2013, with several contacts citing organic growth as a contributor. Our contacts are fairly optimistic and expect moderate to strong growth in 2015, though some expressed concern about the strengthening dollar and weakening foreign economies. On balance, steel shipments showed a modest improvement since the last report; total volume (tonnage) for 2014 is expected to be slightly higher compared to the previous year. Manufacturers and steel producers reported that the strongest demand came from the motor vehicle, nonresidential construction, and oil and gas industries. Year-to-date auto production through October at District assembly plants was more than 5 percent higher compared to the same period in 2013. Most of our contacts reported that capital spending in the current fiscal year is in line with budgeted amounts. Fiscal year 2015 budgets are expected to be higher, with monies being allocated mainly for new equipment and expansion of plant footprints. In general, input costs were stable during the past six weeks, though we heard reports about rising steel, coffee, and sugar prices and significantly higher costs associated with transportation. Finished goods prices held steady. Several contacts noted that it remains difficult to pass through any cost increases. Little change in labor conditions was reported: The pickup in new hiring that began in the middle of the year continued and finding skilled workers remains a challenge. Wage increases in 2015 are projected to range from 2 percent to 4 percent. Real Estate and ConstructionSales of new and existing single-family homes varied across geographic markets during the past six weeks. Several builders and real estate agents, who experienced slow sales during the summer, reported rising activity in September and October. In total, home sales showed a modest decline in the fourth quarter when compared to the third quarter. A couple of builders noted that they believe the decline is more than a seasonal effect. Reports on year-over-year home sales were mixed. Most builders expect that activity will stay at current levels, though they expressed concern about a potential rise in interest rates, continued strict lending standards, and rising development costs. Multifamily development remains strong. New-home contracts were mainly in the move-up price-point categories. First-time buyers still have difficulty qualifying for mortgages. A majority of builders reported raising prices on homes during the past couple of months in response to increased costs for labor and materials. The upward trend in selling prices of existing homes has flattened out, but the current average price remains higher than the average level for 2013 by a few percent. Nonresidential builders reported continued strong pipeline activity, and most indicated that the level of activity has increased relative to a year ago. Vacancy rates in existing retail, office, and warehouse space are on the decline. For the most part, general contractors are satisfied with their backlogs going into 2015. Market demand is broad based, although demand from shale-gas producers and for industrial space (manufacturing and distribution) is strongest. There has also been a pickup in requests for commercial space. On the downside, we heard a few reports about private capital being readily available so construction could proceed, but owners are reluctant to move projects into the construction phase because of uncertainty about the economy. Government-sponsored building activity remains relatively weak in some parts of the District. Most builders remain optimistic, but they are concerned about the availability of skilled labor, tight margins, the viability of the subcontractor market, and their own capacity constraints. General contractors are not overly concerned with rising prices for building materials, but they did note large price increases for concrete and drywall and smaller price increases for steel products. Transportation costs are rising, reflecting capacity constraints among trucking and rail carriers. A majority of general contractors reported that they expect to increase their payrolls in future months in response to rising demand and to expand capacity. Subcontractors are pushing through rate increases at a faster pace than general contractors had anticipated; these increases are needed to cover rising costs, including for labor and to widen margins. As a result, general contractors, who remain under pressure to keep their rates down, are facing additional margin compression. Consumer SpendingSpending at many retail outlets rose slightly since the last report. Nevertheless, retailers observed that even though lower gasoline prices are helping to boost spending, consumers are more interested in buying motor vehicles and experiences, such as vacations, rather than merchandise. On balance, same store revenues were flat relative to a year ago. Cold weather apparel is in demand and restaurateurs reported rising sales, especially in their take-out business. The outlook for the holiday shopping season is for revenues to be slightly higher than last year. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Restaurant operators noted that they are raising their prices for menu items that use animal products. Retailers are running more promotions than usual to entice consumers back into their stores. Capital budgets for the 2015 fiscal year will be maintained at current-year levels or reduced. Monies are being moved from brick and mortar to ecommerce. Excluding temporary seasonal hiring, retail payrolls were stable. Reports indicated higher labor costs due to minimum wage increases and more competition for hourly employees, which was attributed to the improving economy. New motor vehicle sales increased from September to October. Unit volume year-to-date was more than 5 percent higher compared to the same time period in 2013. Strong sales of SUVs and trucks continued; this strength was attributed to lower gas prices and strength in the construction industry. Some dealer inventory is high at this time because recent recalls have prevented certain models from being sold to the public. Demand for service technicians is up because of the recalls. Dealers project unit volume for all of 2014 will be 5 percent to 10 percent higher than in 2013, with sales being highly dependent on dealer and manufacturer incentives and the availability of leasing. Used-car purchases showed a moderate increase since the last report, and used-car prices are starting to decline. BankingBankers reported that demand for business credit was showing modest to moderate growth during the past six weeks. While demand was described as broad based, it was strongest for commercial real estate development, multifamily housing, and mergers and acquisitions. We heard several reports of large regional and national banks establishing a presence in smaller markets traditionally served by community banks. On net, consumer credit demand was roughly stable. The number of applications for auto loans remains strong, while households are making marginally greater use of credit cards and home equity products. Though the pricing environment remains competitive, interest rates were mainly steady for business and consumer credit and for residential mortgages. Delinquency rates are improving across loan categories. No changes were made to loan-application standards since the last report. Deposits were described as strong and growing. Little change in payrolls is expected in the near term. EnergyYear-to-date coal production across the District is slightly above prior-year levels. Output is projected to increase in Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia with no material change expected in eastern Kentucky and Ohio. The downward trend in spot prices for thermal and metallurgical coal is showing signs of flattening out. Activity in the Marcellus and Utica shale formations remains at a high level. We heard several reports indicating that although there is some financial belt-tightening by exploration and production companies, drilling programs should continue in most regions even though medium-term projections for oil and gas prices are at low levels. One industry executive reported that some investment will shift away from Pennsylvania to Ohio and West Virginia because the latter two states are rich in wet gas, which commands a price premium. On balance, energy-related equipment and materials prices were unchanged since the last report. Energy payrolls held steady. Freight TransportationFreight volume was little changed since the last report. Although shipments remain strong, capacity constraints are limiting the industry's growth. Demand is strongest from the agriculture, industrial machinery, and oil and gas industries. Little change in equipment pricing was noted. Due to lower diesel fuel prices and favorable pricing, carriers' bottom lines are either stable or improving. Our contacts' outlooks are positive, though any expected increase in activity through year's end is being attributed to typical seasonal swings. Capital spending in 2015 is projected to be on a par with the current year. Monies are being allocated to replace aging equipment (including auxiliary power units) and adding capacity, but the rate of increase is slow. Hiring is both for replacement and for adding capacity. Industry executives identified three sources of rising labor costs: wages (reflecting a driver shortage), healthcare (related to compliance with the Affordable Care Act), and regulatory compliance (related to hours-of-service rules). Return to top ManufacturingManufacturing activity increased at a slightly slower pace in recent weeks. Shipments and new orders grew modestly, and expectations for the months ahead remained positive. Inventories of finished goods and raw materials rose at a faster pace compared to the previous report. A South Carolina packaging materials manufacturer reported a great month, with increased new orders and shipments. He also said that he had expanded his facility. A machinery manufacturer in North Carolina stated that business improved, with more new customers. An engineered plastics producer in North Carolina reported steady demand and new purchases of equipment. In contrast, an auto parts manufacturer in South Carolina said that demand growth varied across business segments. A Virginia components producer reported no change in new orders and shipments, although the company has increased capital expenditures in anticipation of improved business prospects. A North Carolina dental products manufacturer said new orders slowed recently and demand was below a year ago. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slightly slower pace since the preceding report. PortsPort activity increased in recent weeks, especially on the import side. Container traffic remained very strong. Exports of empty containers rose, a signal of the peak season, since the containers will be filled and returned. Exports of filled containers also increased robustly, primarily those loaded with grain, soybeans, animal feed products, and waste paper. Coal exports declined since the previous report. Imported container counts exceeded exports, led by increases in consumer products such as appliances, holiday décor, and apparel. Imports of construction machinery, machine and auto parts, and agricultural products also rose. Delays in rail transportation of goods to ports remained an issue. RetailRetail sales rose moderately faster since our previous report, with slightly stronger big-ticket sales. An executive at a large chain department store reported a modest decline in same-store sales coupled with double-digit growth in online sales. He stated that his company's recent capital expenditures have been devoted to improving its internet site and credit card security. A car dealer in the Baltimore region said new car sales were strong in October, and trade-ins increased his stock of used and rental cars. He also stated that manufacturers have sent out recall notices and replacement parts are ready, but that many consumers are not bringing their recalled cars in for repair. An executive at another large auto dealership reported a high number of recall fixes along with increased used car sales. A hardware chain executive said he has built up inventory in anticipation of another harsh winter. Grocery managers reported faster price growth; other retail prices continued to rise moderately. ServicesNon-retail services firms' revenues rose more quickly in recent weeks. Several trucking contacts reported faster revenue growth; one said that rail delays have resulted in some additional cargo being moved by trucks. An executive at another large trucking firm stated that current strength at his business is being driven by seasonal demand. At other services firms, a finance executive reported that his clients were feeling more comfortable with asset market investments, and a partner at a CPA firm reported some new business. Service-sector prices continued to rise modestly since our previous report. Tourism and business travel remained on pace with our prior report, with particular strength in the Charlotte and Research Triangle regions of North Carolina and North Charleston, South Carolina. A source on the North Carolina outer banks reported that Thanksgiving week bookings are solid, and a Charleston, South Carolina restaurant executive said the local hospitality industry is thriving. Occupancy and room rates continued to rise in the Carolinas. A western Virginia ski resort manager reported that the recent sharp temperature drop allowed early snow-making, bringing a spike in bookings. He added that group bookings had nearly filled rooms for the Christmas season. FinanceLending conditions have improved somewhat since our previous report. Residential mortgage demand increased in Maryland, central South Carolina, and West Virginia, but was was little changed in Virginia and southeastern South Carolina. In North Carolina, reports varied: One lender said mortgage lending declined but another said loan demand was strong, especially for new construction. In Maryland and West Virginia, contacts reported that increased competition had led to aggressive mortgage terms and lower loan yields for banks. Deposits increased in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition, auto and consumer credit borrowing rose in North Carolina. A South Carolina contact said first-time homebuyers were finding it difficult to get financing as a result of the qualified mortgage rule. No changes to credit standards or credit quality were reported. Business lending rose in North Carolina, particularly for commercial real estate and business mergers and acquisitions. Commercial real estate lending also rose in Maryland and South Carolina. Mortgage interest rates declined slightly according to bankers in Virginia and West Virginia and were unchanged elsewhere in the District. Real EstateDistrict housing market activity increased modestly on balance since the previous report. Realtors continued to report steady levels of buyer traffic with slight increases in sale prices. Most brokers reported low levels of housing inventories, although contacts in Northern Virginia and the District of Columbia had slight increases. Average days on the market decreased in central Virginia and in the District of Columbia, but increased slightly in the Carolinas and Northern Virginia. A Northern Virginia Realtor reported greater movement in the $200,000 to $900,000 price range, but had fewer buyers for homes priced above $1 million, and said condo sales were stagnant. A contact in South Carolina reported tepid condo sales and steady demand for single-family homes priced below $250,000. Realtors reported no change in new home construction. Multifamily leasing was strong in Charlotte and Baltimore. Commercial real estate activity increased moderately in recent weeks. Brokers reported that commercial sale prices increased slightly, and that sales activity was strong in Richmond, Baltimore, and Charlotte. Multiple Virginia contacts reported an increase in retail construction. Brokers in Baltimore and Richmond said medical construction increased recently. A contact in Columbia, South Carolina reported a strong market for leasing of manufacturing plants and storage and distribution warehouses. A Realtor in Charleston, West Virginia said available Class A and Class B office space had increased in an already sluggish office market. In contrast, a Richmond broker described less availability of Class A office space. There were several reports of rising retail rental rates; growth in other rental rates varied by region and submarket. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesDistrict agribusiness conditions were reported as stable. A grower in South Carolina completed peanut harvesting, and one in West Virginia finished wheat and cover crop harvesting. Dry weather in eastern Virginia delayed tree harvests. A North Carolina contact reported higher year-over-year orders for Christmas trees from big-box stores. Soybean harvesting was half-completed in South Carolina and in West Virginia, where yields were above average. Demand for wood pellets increased. Farmers reported lower crop prices and higher poultry, cattle, and swine prices than a year ago. Input prices rose since the previous report. Some growers planned fewer equipment purchases relative to a year ago. Coal production remained at the same levels as in our preceding report and prices were unchanged. Natural gas production increased moderately in recent weeks, and prices decreased slightly. Labor MarketsDemand for workers picked up in the Carolinas but was little changed in Maryland and Virginia since the previous report. A staffing agency in North Carolina reported increased hiring of permanent workers across a broad base of industries. A South Carolina staffing agent reported increased direct hiring across a diverse set of industries, including engineering, manufacturing, financial services, and environmental sciences. In the Carolinas, temp hiring increased, and more clients converted temporary positions to permanent, reducing the pool of talented temporary workers. Contacts reported difficulty finding IT professionals, managers, and engineers, as well as manufacturing, transportation, and warehouse workers. Wages were stable except for a few occupations, such as computer programmers and truckers. However, a recruiting agency director in North Carolina said some sign-on bonuses and relocation assistance packages were being offered more frequently. According to our most recent surveys, manufacturing employment grew at a slightly slower rate while average wage growth increased marginally relative to the previous survey period; in the service sector, employment grew more rapidly and wages increased at a faster pace.  Return to top Retail sales were up slightly from the previous report while auto sales across the District were stable at a high level. Reports from the hospitality sector remained positive as the sector experienced increased activity from both domestic and international travelers. Residential real estate contacts noted that existing and new home sales were flat to slightly down from a month ago. Home prices improved modestly and inventory levels were relatively flat for both brokers and builders. Commercial real estate contacts reported increased activity, particularly in apartment construction. Manufacturers indicated that new orders and production increased since the previous report. Bankers indicated that loan activity was flat to slightly up for the reporting period. The District continued to experience modest job growth. On balance, input cost and wage pressures remained subdued. Consumer Spending and TourismSince the previous report, District retail contacts indicated that sales were up slightly. Some noted that the recent decline in gasoline prices allowed consumers to shift some of their spending towards discretionary items. Light vehicle sales continued at a relatively strong pace. Looking ahead, District retailers are optimistic about the upcoming holiday season. Reports on leisure and business travel remained positive since the previous reporting period. Hospitality contacts reported high occupancy rates at hotels and resorts, and the number of domestic and international visitors to the District increased from a year ago. Tourism contacts anticipate a robust holiday season and a solid start to 2015 with strong advance bookings in the hotel and conference segments for the first two quarters of next year. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict brokers indicated that growth in home sales has slowed since the previous report. A growing share of contacts reported that home sales fell short of their plan in October, and most contacts noted that home sales were flat or down slightly compared with a month ago. Brokers continued to report modest home price appreciation. The majority of brokers indicated that inventory levels remained flat from the prior month's level and noted that buyer traffic was flat to down. Brokers indicated that they expect home sales to remain flat or decline slightly over the next three months. Reports from District builders have been a bit less positive, on net since the previous report. A majority indicated that construction activity met their plan in October, but that new home sales had fallen short of their plan. Many builders characterized construction activity and new home sales as flat to slightly down from the previous report, while the inventory of unsold homes was flat to slightly up. They continued to report modest home price appreciation. Their outlook for new home sales and construction activity over the next three months was mixed. District commercial real estate brokers continued to report improving demand, though they cautioned that the rate of improvement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Commercial contractors noted continued strength in apartment construction and indicated that the level of nonresidential construction activity continued to increase modestly. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained fairly optimistic. Manufacturing and TransportationDistrict manufacturers reported increased activity in October. Solid gains were seen in new orders and production levels were notably higher compared with the previous reporting period. Employment levels increased modestly, and raw materials prices rose slightly for some manufacturers. However, the outlook among manufacturers is less optimistic than the previous report with less than a quarter of contacts expecting production levels to increase over the next three to six months. Transportation activity in the District continued to expand from the previous reporting period. Trucking contacts reported increased shipments of construction materials such as drywall and bulk cement. Rail shipments of agricultural products were up and volumes of chemical products, such as crude oil, liquefied natural gas, and sand for hydraulic fracturing, posted double-digit increases from a year ago. Logistics and delivery contacts indicated that recent growth was driven mostly by e-commerce. The majority of District transportation contacts expect even faster growth in the coming months, over and above the usual seasonal increase. Banking and FinanceReports on lending activity were mixed and varied by geographic area. In some areas, residential real estate lending was flat but commercial lending picked up, while in other parts of the District, mortgage lending consisted of a mix of new construction, refinancing, and home improvement loans. Regulatory requirements continued to be a concern for community bankers competing with larger banks for loans. Competition for qualified borrowers was characterized as "fierce," as low pricing and relaxed terms were being offered by some institutions to attract clients. Business contacts reported that credit availability was little changed from the previous report, with large businesses having easy access to credit and small businesses having more-restricted access. Some contacts expect modest improvements in lending activity through the end of the year. Employment and PricesNearly all states in the District experienced job growth, with 39,900 jobs added on net in September. Sectors with payroll additions varied by state, though leisure and hospitality gains were relatively widespread and sizeable across District states. The unemployment rate declined 0.1 percentage point from 6.9 percent to 6.8 percent during the same period. However, contacts continued to report challenges filling certain positions, namely construction and skilled trade jobs, drivers, and information technology positions. Some businesses also indicated that they were finding it increasingly difficult to fill low-skill positions. Input cost pressures remained muted across most sectors, with some easing of the pressure that had been reported earlier in the year. Firms' pricing power remained limited, According to results from the Atlanta Fed's October Business Inflation Expectations survey, expectations for the coming year continued to hover around 2 percent. There was little evidence of broad-based acceleration in wages outside of trucking, construction, banking, and information technology. However, there were nascent signs of some mounting wage pressures for lower-skill jobs--many of whose nominal wage rates have been flat for several years. Natural Resources and AgricultureIndustry contacts reported that the recent drop in oil prices led regional exploration and production firms to evaluate operational flexibility, cost- management strategies, and extraction technologies, although steady production is anticipated in both deepwater and onshore drilling. Contacts also shared that the supply of natural gas continued to grow faster than demand even after adjusting for seasonal factors. Large parts of Alabama and Georgia--and to a lesser extent, parts of the Florida panhandle, Louisiana, and Mississippi--experienced varying degrees of drought ranging from abnormally dry conditions to a few isolated areas of severe drought. Although heavy rain in early October delayed peanut harvesting in some parts of the District, harvests in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi were ahead of their 5-year average. Alabama and Georgia cotton crop harvests were ahead of their 5-year averages while recent rain in parts of Tennessee delayed some of their cotton harvesting activities. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending continued at a moderate pace in October and November. Higher consumer confidence and lower gasoline prices led to a more positive outlook for the holiday season among most non-auto retailers. The early arrival of winter weather helped some retailers, while others were concerned that it would dampen sales during the holidays. Auto sales and leasing activity remained strong, supported by low interest rates and extended financing terms. Lower gasoline prices continued to spur demand for trucks and SUVs. Auto dealers also indicated that used vehicle sales were somewhat above expectations and that used car prices, which had been declining recently, had leveled off. Business SpendingBusiness spending continued to grow at a moderate rate in October and November. Inventories were at comfortable levels for most manufacturers and retailers, though an early cold spell led to shortages of some winter-related retail items. There were also some reports of manufacturers stockpiling crucial inputs as insurance against another harsh winter. Capital expenditures and spending plans continued to rise, with expenditures primarily going toward replacing IT equipment and building new structures. Merger and acquisition activity also picked up. Actual hiring and hiring plans continued to increase at a moderate pace. Some retailers reported slightly higher seasonal employment levels than last year, while others reported boosting the hours of existing employees in lieu of hiring more seasonal staff. Contacts again noted strong demand for skilled workers, particularly for those in professional and technical occupations and skilled manufacturing and building trades. In addition, a staffing firm reported an increase in demand from small- and medium-sized businesses. Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity increased moderately over the reporting period. Residential construction rose in both the single- and multi-family markets. Builders expected that an improving economy and continued low interest rates would help support steady growth in new construction. Home sales picked up more than expected in both urban and suburban markets. Inventories of existing homes for sale also increased, as rising house prices prompted sellers to enter the market. Nonresidential construction expanded at a moderate pace, led by demand for industrial and office buildings. Commercial real estate activity increased broadly, as vacancies ticked down and rents rose. Contacts noted that sales of existing properties with tenants already in place were particularly strong. Leasing of industrial, office, and retail space increased. ManufacturingManufacturing continued to grow at a moderate pace in October and November. Activity in the auto, aerospace, and energy industries remained strong. An automaker reported adding a third shift to meet expected demand for new models. However, some auto suppliers noted a delay in orders while automakers retooled production facilities. Steel production grew steadily. Steel prices decreased and imports increased, due to weaker demand abroad. Most specialty metals manufacturers reported that order books reflected solid demand. While demand for heavy machinery grew slowly in general, there were marked differences across product categories: Sales of construction machinery picked up, but sales of agricultural and mining equipment remained weak. Manufacturers of household appliances and construction building materials reported an increase in shipments, and were encouraged that the improving labor market would continue to translate into stronger housing demand. Utility contacts reported that weather-adjusted load growth was up slightly as the number of residential customers increased. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions were little changed on balance in October and November. Financial market volatility increased significantly in mid-October, but declined over the remainder of the reporting period. Business loan demand was mixed. Banking contacts noted lower demand from middle-market firms, but an increase in demand from small businesses for financing equipment and structures. Utilization of credit lines for working capital declined across market segments. Consumer loan demand increased, with continued strength in auto lending and an increase in mortgage refinancing driven by lower mortgage rates. Prices and CostsCost pressures generally eased over the reporting period. Energy prices and iron ore and steel prices decreased since the last report. In contrast, several contacts reported transportation cost increases. In addition, with strengthening demand a number of manufacturers were able to raise prices and expect to put through further increases in coming quarters. Retail prices were little changed overall. Wage pressures continued for skilled workers as many contacts indicated shortages of available labor, but wage pressures remained less pronounced for unskilled workers. Non-wage costs changed little on balance, though a number of contacts reported rising health insurance costs, some of which was being passed on to employees. However, several contacts noted that they were re-examining their overall compensation policies because they are worried about losing talent. AgricultureThe District harvest was behind a normal year's pace even before early snows delayed progress in some parts of the District. Still, yields should set records for the District overall. Corn and soybean prices moved up during the reporting period, driven by the slow harvest, farmers storing much of the crop for later sale, and some shipping delays. Wheat prices rose as well. Milk and hog prices declined from the prior reporting period, but operations remained profitable. Cattle prices moved higher with signs of herd expansion. Weights for hogs and cattle at slaughter were very high, helping boost the supply of meat coming to market. Return to top Consumer SpendingAnecdotal reports from retailers indicated slow to modestly increasing consumer spending on net. Half of the retailers surveyed anticipate fourth-quarter sales to be similar to a year ago; the remainder of contacts were evenly split between anticipating lower and higher sales. About 40 percent of respondents anticipate that, if current conditions persist, sales will fall short of expectations; only 10 percent of retailers report that sales are on pace to exceed expectations. The majority of retail contacts anticipate that holiday sales will be on a par with last year's sales, and only about a quarter of respondents anticipate some growth in holiday sales. Major retailers in the District plan to hire roughly the same number of seasonal employees as they did last year to meet holiday demand. About half of the auto dealers surveyed anticipate fourth-quarter sales to be similar to a year ago; the remaining half of auto dealers were evenly split between anticipating lower and higher sales. The majority of auto dealers surveyed report that their inventories are at desired levels. Most auto dealers saw no change in the product mix of the automobiles being sold. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityPlans for manufacturing activity remained positive in the most recent reporting period. Firms in aviation, metals, furniture, industrial equipment, and automobile parts manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, one firm that manufactures industrial piping equipment reported plans to lay off workers. Reports from food manufacturers were mixed. Plans for activity in the District's service sector also remained positive. Firms in finance, information, and communications services reported plans for new hiring and expansion in the District. Reports from healthcare and transportation services firms were mixed. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales decreased in the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2013, September 2014 year-to-date home sales were down 4 percent in Louisville, 3 percent in Little Rock, 7 percent in Memphis, and 5 percent in St. Louis. September 2014 year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District's metro areas compared with the same period in 2013. Permits decreased 8 percent in Louisville, 25 percent in Little Rock, and 3 percent in St. Louis. Permits increased 4 percent in Memphis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions in the District have been mixed. Contacts in Louisville reported strong leasing activity for industrial and commercial space. Contacts in Little Rock noted that prospective tenants are being pickier about commercial real estate space in northwest Arkansas. Contacts in St. Louis noted a strong industrial market in southwest Illinois. Commercial and industrial construction has been mixed throughout the District. Contacts in Little Rock noted that multifamily developers continue to look for new sites to build apartment complexes. A contact in Memphis reported two new developments planned for the downtown area that will include a mix of office space, apartments, and restaurants. A contact in St. Louis reported that although the office market is tightening, developers are reluctant to begin construction unless they have found their first tenant. Banking and FinanceA survey of District banks showed that overall lending activity during the past three months was modestly improved compared with the same period last year. For commercial and industrial loans, credit standards eased somewhat, creditworthiness of applicants improved, demand was moderately stronger, and delinquencies were slightly lower. For prime residential mortgage loans, credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants remained unchanged, demand was unchanged to somewhat stronger, and delinquencies were slightly lower. For credit cards, credit standards were basically unchanged, demand was slightly stronger, creditworthiness of applicants was unchanged to slightly lower, and delinquencies were largely unchanged. For auto loans and other consumer loans, credit standards were basically unchanged, demand increased slightly, and delinquencies were unchanged to slightly lower. Creditworthiness of applicants decreased slightly for other consumer loans and remained unchanged for auto loans. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAs of early November, the harvest of District corn, rice, and sorghum crops was over 90 percent complete, and the harvest of District soybean and cotton crops was close to 80 percent complete. District farmers will see substantially larger field crop production in 2014 than in 2013. Specifically, the District corn and soybean crops will be 7.5 and 15.1 percent larger, respectively, in 2014 than in the previous year. District coal production for October 2014 was about 5.1 percent higher than in October 2013. Coal production year-to-date was 2.8 percent higher than the corresponding period a year ago. Employment, Wages, and PricesA survey of Eighth District businesses indicated that, in the past three months, prices and employment levels have grown slightly, while wages have grown modestly, compared with the same period last year. Sixty-five percent of contacts reported that prices charged to customers have stayed about the same relative to a year ago, while 21 percent reported an increase and 14 percent reported a decrease. Sixty-four percent of contacts reported that employment levels have stayed about the same, while 32 percent reported a slight increase and 5 percent reported a slight decline. Finally, 57 percent of contacts indicated that wages remained about the same, and 42 percent indicated that wages were higher. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased modestly, and retailers were cautiously optimistic for the holiday shopping season. Respondents to a survey of holiday shoppers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area that was conducted by the University of St. Thomas indicated that per-household spending will increase by about 4 percent relative to last year. Recent same-store sales at two large retailers were up slightly compared with a year ago. A food retailer in Minnesota reported that recent same-store sales were level from a year ago, while a restaurant chain in Minnesota noted that recent sales were down from last year. While fall tourism activity was level with a year ago, early snowfall in several areas of the District has led to increased optimism for the winter season. Some downhill and cross-country ski locations in Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin opened about two to three weeks earlier than usual. Likewise, in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, heavy snowfall has helped boost lodging reservations for the winter season according to an official. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity increased from a year ago and is expected to grow further in 2015. According to preliminary results from the Minneapolis Fed's 2015 business outlook poll, construction-sector respondents are optimistic for the coming year and expect sales volumes and capital investment to increase at their firms. "New construction activity is having a huge impact," commented a Minnesota commercial construction supply firm. In Sioux Falls, S.D., the value of October commercial permits almost doubled from a year ago. But, in Billings, Mont., commercial permits were down in value in October from a year earlier. Residential construction activity was mixed compared with last year. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of October residential permits decreased 9 percent compared with October 2013. However, the value of October residential permits in Sioux Falls increased 61 percent from the same period last year. October residential building permits in Billings increased significantly in value from last year for both single-family and multifamily buildings. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the previous report. A real estate analytics firm noted strength in several market segments. For example, in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the industrial vacancy rate dropped by 30 basis points in the third quarter from the same period last year, the office vacancy rate dropped 90 basis points, and the retail vacancy rate was flat. Residential real estate market activity also increased since the previous report. In the Sioux Falls area, October home sales were up 5 percent, inventory increased 4 percent, and the median sales price increased 8 percent relative to a year earlier. October home sales in western Wisconsin were up 20 percent from last year; the median sales price was up 3 percent. Home sales were up in Montana in the third quarter compared with last year. Minnesota home sales were up 4 percent from the same period a year ago in October, the inventory of homes for sale increased 8 percent, and the median sales price rose 2 percent. However, multifamily housing vacancy rates increased slightly from the second quarter to the third quarter in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased at a modest pace since the previous report; growth is expected to continue in 2015. Service-sector respondents to the business outlook poll expect sales volumes and capital investment at their firms to grow in 2015; more than four out of five were optimistic regarding their community's future economic performance. A contact at a mid-size environmental engineering firm noted 5 percent to 7 percent growth in revenue since the previous report. ManufacturingThe manufacturing sector grew at a healthy pace since the previous report. According to preliminary results from the Minneapolis Fed's 2015 survey of manufacturers, more than half of respondents indicated that demand and production had increased from a year earlier; on average, respondents expect orders, production, employment, investment, and profits at their operations to increase in the coming year. A manufacturing index for Minnesota and the Dakotas released by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) decreased in October from the previous month, but remained at levels consistent with an expansion in activity in all three states. A partnership among several firms announced plans for a $4 billion petrochemical facility in North Dakota that would be the largest private investment in the state's history. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector was steady, but mining activity rose since the previous report. In early November, oil and gas exploration activity decreased in North Dakota and increased in Montana relative to a month earlier; production remained at record levels. Despite recent declines in oil prices, officials in North Dakota expect oil production to continue increasing over the next two years. October production at District iron ore mines increased from a year earlier. In response to rail delays, District mines are sending more ore by truck to water ports. AgricultureOverall agricultural conditions improved from the previous report. Early estimates of crop production indicated record soybean harvests and a very large corn crop in District states. However, farm incomes continued to be affected by lower crop prices; in contrast, livestock and dairy producers benefited from lower feed costs and high output prices. Relative to a year earlier, prices received by farmers in October were lower for corn, soybeans, wheat, and hay; prices were higher for cattle, hogs, poultry, and milk. Employment, Wages, and PricesHiring continued to outpace layoff announcements. A medical technology company recently announced plans to hire almost 500 workers at facilities in western Wisconsin. A firm that supplies aerospace companies plans to expand operations in Minnesota, adding 30 to 50 new jobs. Business owners in western South Dakota noted difficulty finding qualified workers for open positions. Agricultural producers in eastern North Dakota recently reported difficulty finding enough truck drivers to move commodities. Nursing positions were difficult to fill in parts of Minnesota. In contrast, a vegetable canning plant in Minnesota recently announced that it will close, affecting 46 full-time workers and about 150 seasonal workers. Although overall wage increases were moderate, some signs of increased wage pressures were noted. According to preliminary results from the survey of manufacturers, respondents noted that wage increases averaged slightly less than 3 percent compared with a year ago. In Minnesota, a contact reported that wages for skilled construction trades have increased as much as 10 percent from a year ago, and a temporary staffing firm's representative noted that businesses were paying increased wages for some occupations. According to preliminary results from the business outlook poll, 16 percent of respondents expect wages and salaries in their communities to increase by 4 percent or more during 2015, up from 7 percent in last year's poll. Price increases were generally subdued. According to the business outlook poll, 37 percent of respondents expect prices for their firms' products and services to increase in 2015, while 20 percent expect decreases. In last year's poll, 33 percent expected increases and 15 percent expected decreases. Minnesota gasoline prices were down more than 20 cents per gallon from mid-October and from a year ago. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending increased at a modest pace since the previous survey, and most contacts expected faster growth in the months ahead. Retail sales grew moderately and were well above year-ago levels. Several retailers noted stronger sales of apparel and winter-weather products, though sales for some higher-priced items were again characterized as weak. Expectations for future sales remained solid, and inventory levels were expected to rise somewhat over the next few months. District auto sales declined in October and November. However, dealer contacts anticipated some increase in sales in the months ahead and noted solid sales for small SUVs and pickup trucks. Auto inventories rose but were expected to move lower in the coming months. Restaurant sales continued to decline but were slightly above year-ago levels. Restaurant contacts expected this weak activity to persist heading into the winter months, and several contacts continued to comment on the rising cost of labor. District tourism activity fell further but was flat compared to the previous year. However, tourism activity was expected to improve modestly in coming months. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityDistrict manufacturing and other business activity rose modestly in October and November. Total manufacturing production expanded slightly, with production of aircraft parts and equipment posting particularly strong gains. However, activity at food, plastics, and chemical plants continued to decline. Contacts reported solid gains in factory shipments and order backlogs, and expectations for future factory activity strengthened further. However, firms reported rising difficulties in attracting and retaining certain key workers, with several contacts noting increased labor costs. Manufacturers' capital spending plans remained positive and above year-ago levels, but the pace of expected growth moderated slightly. Transportation and wholesale trade firms reported moderate sales growth since the previous survey period, and activity remained considerably higher than a year ago with firms generally optimistic about future months. Professional and high-tech firms noted a drop in sales since the previous survey period, although sales were up solidly compared to last year, and contacts anticipated strong activity in coming months. One large high-tech firm said the government had shifted toward small businesses for local defense contracts, which had negatively affected their business. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict real estate activity edged up in October and November, as a slight decline in residential real estate activity was offset by moderate growth in commercial real estate activity. Residential home sales decreased slightly, reflecting typical seasonal sales patterns, with sales of low- and medium-priced homes continuing to outpace sales of higher-priced homes. Home prices increased modestly, and inventories decreased slightly since the previous survey period. Expectations for residential real estate sales and prices were slightly positive, but inventories were expected to continue to decline modestly. Housing starts increased at a modest pace, and construction supply sales were flat. Residential construction activity was expected to increase modestly as contacts anticipated higher sales, starts, and traffic of potential buyers. Commercial real estate activity continued to increase at a moderate pace with lower vacancy rates and stronger sales, prices, and construction activity. The commercial real estate market was expected to continue to expand moderately over the next few months. BankingBankers reported steady overall loan demand, stable loan quality, and slightly higher deposit levels compared to the previous survey period. Respondents indicated a decrease in the demand for agricultural loans. However, most contacts noted steady demand for consumer installment loans and commercial and industrial loans. Demand for both commercial and residential real estate loans was mixed compared to the last survey. Most bankers indicated loan quality was unchanged compared to a year ago, and a majority expected loan quality to remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories. In addition, a larger number of bankers reported increasing deposit levels than in the previous survey. AgricultureFarm income expectations fell sharply since the last survey period as above-average corn and soybean yields were not expected to fully offset low crop prices. District contacts reported current levels of farm income that were significantly lower than last year despite some support from crop insurance and strong profits in the livestock sector. Although reduced income for crop producers had contributed to a rise in the need for short-term loans to the farm sector, agricultural bankers reported that sufficient funds were available for qualified borrowers. Following several years of very strong growth, District cropland values declined slightly in recent months and were holding just above year-ago levels. However, improved profitability in the livestock sector and the potential for herd rebuilding had supported demand for high-quality pasture and contributed to moderate gains in ranchland values. EnergyDespite the current downward trend in oil prices, District energy-sector activity remained steady in October and November. Most contacts continued to report a high level of drilling activity, and active oil and gas rigs rose through early November, particularly for natural gas. Respondents remained optimistic about future drilling but were closely monitoring the price of oil, which was close to many firms' breakeven price. Oil prices were at a four-year low due to signs of an oversupplied global market and were expected to weaken marginally in coming weeks. Natural gas prices edged up in line with seasonal norms and colder weather and were anticipated to rise slightly as demand increases through the winter. Total revenues in the energy sector were expected to decline somewhat as a result of lower oil prices. Wages and PricesPrices in most industries grew modestly in October and November, and wage growth increased slightly, with many contacts reporting labor shortages. Retail prices edged up, and restaurant menu prices maintained their modest rate of growth. Manufacturers' raw materials prices increased, although at a slightly slower pace than in the previous survey, and finished goods prices rose modestly. Transportation input prices continued their moderate decline, but selling prices in the sector remained unchanged. Construction materials prices held steady relative to the previous reporting period, but most contacts expected slight growth moving forward. Wages in the retail sector increased in preparation for the holiday season, and retailers anticipated further increases in coming months. Wages grew slightly in the transportation sector, and manufacturers reported modest wage gains as they continued to highlight difficulties finding skilled labor. Respondents noted labor shortages for machinists, skilled construction trade workers, engineers, IT developers, and truck drivers. Return to top PricesMost responding firms said prices increased slightly or held steady since the previous report, with a slight uptick in the share of firms raising prices. Accounting, legal, and staffing firms said rates were unchanged over the reporting period. Some staffing firms, however, mentioned plans to increase fees early next year to cover higher costs resulting from the Affordable Care Act. Retailers and auto dealers also noted steady prices, while airlines reported higher fees and fares. Manufacturers of primary metals said they were finding it difficult to raise prices. Prices of construction materials such as cement, brick, and fabricated metals rose, while prices for transportation equipment and high-tech products held steady. Food producers continued to note selling price increases that reflected rising input costs, but added that they will likely not be able pass on cost increases in the future. Most transportation service firms, including airlines, reported lower fuel costs. The price of West Texas intermediate crude oil fell sharply over the reporting period, resulting in a notable decline in gasoline and diesel prices. The price of natural gas dropped slightly as well, reflecting rapid growth in inventories. Labor MarketEmployment at most firms held steady or increased since the previous report, and contacts continued to note difficulty in finding skilled workers, particularly in areas where the energy sector was booming. Reports of hiring came from accounting, legal, and staffing services firms and from food product, cement, fabricated metal, petrochemical, and transportation equipment manufacturers. Retailers also noted holiday-related hiring. Residential construction contacts continued to report labor shortages, and energy contacts saw no relief from the tight labor market, especially in West Texas. Financial firms reported greater difficulty in finding workers than in the past, and one law firm said they were increasingly losing mid-level lawyers to in-house counsel job offers from other companies. Upward wage pressures continued to be widespread, particularly for skilled labor. Upward wage pressures were reported for truck drivers, auto technicians, engineers, and for technically skilled workers in construction and food manufacturing. One primary metals manufacturing firm gave a five percent raise to all of its employees, and some construction-materials manufacturers noted an uptick in wage pressures. High-tech manufacturers said overall wage pressures eased since the previous report, though several contacts continued to note upward pressure for employees with certain technical skills. ManufacturingReports from manufacturers were mostly positive, with only a few noting slowing growth in demand. Cement producers noted improved demand, with one contact saying that demand resulting from industrial and commercial building activity was particularly robust. Lumber and brick manufacturers said sales grew at a slower pace since the last report. Fabricated metals manufacturers saw a broad-based increase in demand that resulted from strength in both energy-related work and in highway, commercial, and industrial construction. Reports from primary metals producers were mixed, with most contacts noting slightly higher sales but with one respondent reporting notably weaker demand. High-tech and transportation equipment manufacturers noted stable demand over the last six weeks, and outlooks were positive. Food producers said demand was unchanged, ignoring seasonal effects, over the reporting period, and noted increased optimism in their outlooks. Gulf Coast chemical producers reported higher production rates, with the end of several planned and unplanned plant outages. Domestic sales of PVC and polyethylene were strong, while export demand for these products declined. Refinery utilization rates along the Gulf Coast, while still high, decreased slightly in October. Refiners' margins remained healthy, and outlooks among refiners and chemical producers were positive. Retail SalesRetail demand growth fluctuated over the last six weeks. Sales were sluggish during the earlier part of the reporting period, but the unusually cold weather led to a strong acceleration in demand toward the end of the reporting period. Strength was noted in home, jewelry, cosmetics, and winter-weather related merchandise. Three national retailers said demand in Texas continued to outperform the national average. Outlooks for the remainder of the year were positive, and contacts expect low single-digit increases in sales next year. Automobile sales reports were mixed. One contact noted an all-time record sales month in October; however, others noted slightly softer demand recently. Year-over-year demand was up. Outlooks were optimistic, with contacts expecting sales growth in 2015 to be as strong as in 2014. Nonfinancial ServicesDemand for staffing services was flat to higher since the previous report. Houston and Dallas–Fort Worth continued to be the strongest markets, and most contacts said that workers at all skill levels were in high demand. One contact reported that while direct hiring was stronger, orders for temporary and contract workers were growing as well. Demand for accounting services fell, reflecting a normal seasonal downturn, but contacts noted that insurance firms were continuing to provide a healthy pipeline of work. Legal firms noted a slight increase in activity over the last six weeks. Work related to mergers and acquisitions picked up, while demand for legal services from oil and gas companies slowed in response to increased uncertainty regarding future oil prices. Litigation activity remained sluggish, but real estate and intellectual property work continued to be strong. Transportation service firms said changes in overall cargo volumes were mixed, but outlooks continued to be positive. Trucking firms reported strong demand, but said that cargo volumes were even with last year's levels. Shipping cargo volumes increased, boosted by notable growth in steel tonnage. Air cargo volumes fell but were up sharply from year-ago levels. Airlines said passenger demand held steady since the previous report. Domestic demand remained strong and outlooks were positive. Construction and Real EstateThe District's housing sector softened slightly during the reporting period. Slower growth in home sales was partly attributable to seasonal demand changes, although some of the weakening was attributed to higher home prices as well. Two contacts said that builders were not purchasing lots as readily as they have in the past. Outlooks were mostly optimistic, but a few contacts noted concerns about price affordability and the potential impact of an increase in mortgage rates on housing demand. Apartment demand remained strong, keeping occupancy rates high and rent growth solid in most major Texas metropolitan areas. Outlooks were generally positive, but contacts expect rent growth to slow in the near term. Office and industrial leasing activity was mostly unchanged from the previous report. Investor interest in commercial properties, including foreign capital investment, stayed solid. Outlooks were generally optimistic, although there was some concern about the potential effect of declining oil prices. Financial ServicesOverall loan demand expanded slightly during the last six weeks. Real estate lending increased, with strength noted in demand for construction loans for single-family and multifamily building activity. Consumer lending rose slightly, particularly for auto loans, while financing for medium-sized businesses held steady. Respondents noted increased optimism as year-end figures pointed to solid growth in 2014, although some contacts whose clients are in oil and gas production said they expect a possible slowdown in business because of declining oil prices. EnergyDemand for oilfield services continued to grow in the Eleventh District. Growth in Texas drilling activity was concentrated in the Permian Basin in West Texas; drilling activity outside of the Permian Basin was little changed. Outlooks for next year, though still positive, were less optimistic than in the prior report, and contacts said that budgets were being revised and capital expenditures are expected to decline in response to lower oil prices. AgricultureRecent rainfall improved soil moisture, although drought conditions remained severe in some northern parts of Texas. Harvesting wrapped up for most spring crops. Yields were generally strong and well above 10-year averages. Improved conditions for cotton allowed for more acres to be harvested this year than in the recent past, although the rains during harvest time have had an adverse effect on cotton quality. Dairy producers have had a tremendous year with good margins, but milk and dairy prices have fallen lately, reflecting shrinking exports and increased world production. Return to top Prices and WagesOverall price inflation remained modest during the reporting period. Historically low iron ore prices and strong competition from China contributed to declines in finished steel prices. Grain prices remained very low. Natural gas prices declined during the reporting period. Health-care sector contacts reported that medical insurance premium increases for individual coverage for 2015 were very low by historical standards. Prices remained stable in the Internet and digital media sector. However, a maker of paper card games announced the first price increases in eight years. Prices of wallboard, wood, cement, and insulation increased or held at relatively high levels during the reporting period. Average daily hotel room rates in southern California increased to pre-recession levels. In general, wages continued to increase at a modest pace during the reporting period. Several contacts reported that wages were flat or had increased at about the rate of price inflation in their area. Some employers are implementing wage increases in excess of price inflation for high-value, long-term employees whose wages have been flat in nominal terms for several years. Shortages of workers in skilled construction trades, computer programming, electronic game design, and bank loan origination boosted wages in those sectors. Some contacts in the hotel sector reported that recent minimum wage increases significantly affected overall compensation costs during the reporting period. Retail Trade and ServicesOverall retail sales grew moderately during the reporting period. Contacts cited lower gasoline prices and continued improvement in employment conditions in many geographic areas as spurs to growth. However, contacts reported that retail spending is soft in areas where the employment situation is still weak. Spending on durable goods and household items in the District grew faster than spending on apparel and groceries. Manufacturer incentives contributed to strong auto sales, especially of new vehicles. Many contacts expect this year's holiday retail sales to surpass last year's by 5 percent to 10 percent. Demand for business and consumer services grew moderately during the reporting period. Demand for cloud computing services continued to increase. Restaurant sales climbed, especially in the quick-service segment. Consumers shifted away from hamburgers, towards chicken, pizza, and Mexican food. Contacts expect that restaurant sales will increase further if gasoline prices continue to decline. Hotel occupancy rates in southern California have been increasing this fall, and October was a particularly strong month. However, holiday bookings by Western Europeans are down from last year. ManufacturingOverall District manufacturing activity picked up during the reporting period. Year-to-date semiconductor revenue increased 8 percent from the same period last year, and contacts expect strong sales to continue into 2015. However, slower growth in Europe and Asia contributed to softer sales of semiconductors used in power devices and equipment. Orders for residential building materials increased modestly during the reporting period. Capacity utilization for plants producing steel products used in nonresidential construction increased to its highest level since 2008. However, the stronger dollar and slower growth in Asia contributed to a modest decline in demand for recycled metals. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical sector revenue increased during the reporting period, but contacts reported that some biotechnology companies have postponed initial public offerings of their stock until the economic outlook for Europe improves. Year-to-date commercial aircraft deliveries and orders increased moderately from the same period last year. Aerospace and defense sector capacity utilization decreased during the reporting period. Agriculture and Resource-Related IndustriesAgricultural conditions in the District were mixed during the reporting period. In general, the continuing drought in California depressed yields for crops such as raisins and almonds. However, tomato production and prices hit record highs. Washington saw very strong apple and pear harvests and an increase in agricultural exports. Idaho farmers reported an excellent potato harvest, but late-season rains damaged wheat and barley crops. Domestic and foreign demand for West Coast timber is healthy, and contacts reported that shortages of skilled loggers and logging trucks and equipment increased somewhat. Real Estate and ConstructionReal estate activity advanced during the reporting period, albeit less consistently across the District for residential properties than for commercial properties. Contacts from some urban areas reported that home prices continued to increase rapidly; in other urban areas, however, prices stalled. In rural areas of the District, home prices generally increased at a moderate pace. Some contacts reported that, despite active construction and ample inventories, new homes have been selling at notably higher prices than comparable existing homes. Commercial real estate construction activity was solid during the reporting period, and vacancy rates decreased in most areas. Financial InstitutionsOverall loan demand increased moderately since the previous reporting period. Contacts cited stronger demand for auto loans, credit card loans, and small business refinance loans. Vigorous competition among lenders engendered very favorable loan terms for the highest-quality borrowers. Net interest margins remained narrow, and shrank further for some banks. Some contacts reported that, in their area as a whole, the profitability of community banks declined during the reporting period. In general, private financing activity and venture capital activity were strong.   FREE AppDownload
President Barack Obama spoke to some of the country's top business leaders on Wednesday and spent much of the conversation encouraging them to support his push for immigration reform. Speaking at an event hosted by the Business Roundtable, an association of CEOs of major US companies, Obama noted one benefit immigration brings to the business community: global competitiveness. "Just in terms of macroeconomics, this is something that's not a sexy argument to make to the public, but we are younger than our competitors and that is entirely because of immigration," Obama said. He then contrasted the US approach towards immigration with that of major countries in Europe and Asia. "And when you look at the problems that China, Japan, Europe, Russia are all going to have, a lot of it just has to do with  — they are getting old. And we stay young because we're constantly being replenished by these striving families from around the world and we should want that to continue," he added. Obama, who recently issued an executive action shielding millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation, praised the Business Roundtable for having a "terrific" position on the issue. However, the president noted his immigration reform efforts still face widespread opposition from Republicans who will control both houses of Congress for the final two years of his term. FREE AppDownload
BMO Capital's Brian Belski is among the top Wall Street strategist who sees more gains for this already 5-year old bull market. "Given the combination of improving economic conditions and rebounding earnings growth, we believe 2015 will represent another year of solid gains for US stocks," Belski wrote in a December 1 note to clients. "Our models suggest a year-end S&amp;P 500 price target of 2,250 on EPS of $126." Belski's target represents a respectable 8.5% gain from today's levels. And it makes him the third most bullish strategist followed by Business Insider. So, what's behind his bullish call? Among other things, Belski expects corporations to spend less on share buybacks and spend more on investing in their businesses, that is ramp up capital expenditures (capex). In addition to investing for growth, companies need to replace their old stuff. "[T]he average age of plant and equipment is at its highest levels in 50 and 15 years, respectively," Belski wrote. "The way we see it is that there is a tremendous amount of pent-up investment spending demand and ... we believe the next logical step for companies to improve growth prospects is to invest in their businesses." Remember, many of America's big companies like General Electric and United Technologies supply the stuff that categorized as capex. So, more capex is good for jobs, profits, and ultimately stocks. BMO Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockWe know they're warm, but throw out those tattered workout pants immediately. Staying warm during your winter workout doesn't mean you have to look sloppy. Insider Picks has put together some great winter workout clothes that'll keep you warm — and stylish. Sneakers, leggings, sweatshirts — we've got them all here. Skip the bulky parkas and pick up something that's both warm and lean. Here are some of the best options for this winter. NikeNike Tech Fleece 3MM BomberNike Tech Fleece 3MM BomberBring this season's trendy bomber jacket to your workout.Price: $150 Nike Shield Flash Max Combines reflectivity and weather protection.Price: $495  Nike Tech CapeLight weight warmth in a cotton blend, and it comes with a hood.Price: $130 NikeNike Tech CapeNike Aeroloft HybridHere's the lightweight alternative to a parka jacket to keep your core warm.Price: $250 North Face 'Crescent Sunset' Full Zip JacketA warm, thin jacket with a full zipper on the front.Price: $85.00 $63.75    This season colorful sneakers are all the rage. Plus, they're a fun way to break up the monotony of all the winter grays and navys. NikeNike Free 5.0 TR Fit 4 Nordic PrintNike Free 5.0 TR Fit 4 Nordic PrintThese light sneakers are best for training-specific flexibility and traction.Price: $110 NikeNike Free 5.0 FlashNike Free 5.0 TR Fit 4 Mezzo PrintThese are also for training-specific flexibility, but in a smaller print if you don't want to go too bold with your sneakers.Price: $100   Nike Free 5.0 FlashThese shoes provide visibility and weather protection — making them great for running in wet, dark conditions.Price: $115 Here are the best leggings and pants for this winter. If you're a runner, we recommend getting leggings. And if it's particularly cold, you can double up on wearing baggier pants over leggings. NikeNike Epic LuxNike Epic LuxIf you don't like frills, here is a great pair of basic, black leggings.Price: $110 Nike Rally TightHere are thin sweatpants that you can wear either before your workout (to keep muscles warm) or after.Price: $50 Nike Tech WovenIf you prefer your sweatpants on the baggier end, these are a better option.Price: $70 If you can't get enough leggings and pants, you should get some fun pairs as well. (Bonus: these can double up as "regular clothes," now that active-wear is officially on trend.) NikeNike Pro Hyperwarm Nordic Training PantsNike Pro Hyperwarm Nordic Training PantsThese leggings manage sweat and provide thermal insulation — making them perfect for staying warm and dry in the winter.Price: $60 Nike Pro Jordan Sneaker TightsThese are a limited-edition print on a sweat-wicking fabric. Score.Price: $130 Nike Pro Hyperwarm Mezzo WaistbandThese are a great option for staying really warm in the color weather.Price: $60 It's imperative to keep your muscles warm during the winter to prevent injuries and pulls. So you'll want to have at least one good sweatshirt on hand. And you might as well make it a cool one. NikeNike Tech Fleece 3MM CrewNike Tech Fleece 3MM CrewThis sweatshirt has a streamlined silhouette and a back zipper. Plus, this one's nice enough to wear around outside of your workout.Price: $120  Nike Tech Fleece CrewThe same silhouette as the previous sweatshirt, but in a fun print.Price: $120  Felted Crewneck PulloverIf you don't need anything super-stylish, this is a great basic pullover to keep your muscles warm.Price: $60 Here are all the things you generally forget to buy. Socks to prevent athletes foot; a gym bags to carry everything you need; and gloves to keep your fingers warm for outdoor runs. NikeNike Hoopes Elite Max Air Team BackpackNike Hoopes Elite Max Air Team BackpackThis backpack is water-resistant and has cushioned shoulder pads to keep your back safe.Price: $80 Nike Victory Gym Club Metallic Duffel BagThis bag is durable and water-resistant — so snow and rain won't get your things wet.Price: $110 Nike Vapor Flash This pair of gloves provide visibility and protection against rain and snow. A total lifesaver for runners.Price: $65 ASICS Women's Cushion Low Cut Socks (3-Pack)These socks are made to manage moisture and cushion your feet.Price: $10 Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
India’s seen a lot of economic success the past few months. The current account deficit shrank from 6.9 percent of GDP in 2012 to just 1 percent now, and stocks are on the rise. One of India’s most impressive successes, a sharp drop in inflation, is largely thanks to Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan. He’s outspoken. He’s headstrong. He’s also an author, professor, electrical engineer, and one of Paul Krugman's biggest trolls. Oh, and he called the 2008 financial crisis. So what's this guy's deal? He's got serious cred. Rajan, 51, is a tenured finance professor at the University of Chicago when he's not busy being India's central bank governor. Before taking over at the bank, he was the chief economic advisor to former prime minister Manmohan Singh's government. He's a candid critic of Indian corruption, he's written a couple of books on finance, and he also served three years as the IMF's chief economist. Some are eyeing him as a potential successor to Christine Lagarde as IMF head down the road. When Rajan took the helm at the Reserve Bank of India in September 2013, he faced a triple threat: a massive trade gap, a tumbling rupee, and a harsh economic slowdown. He aimed to increase savings, harness the power of financial markets to help the economy, and above all cut down inflation. So far he's done pretty well. Charles Platiau/Reuters He's got connections. Not only is Rajan well-sourced at the IMF, he's also a member of the Group of 30, an elite bunch of international financiers and academics. His G30 peers include Paul Volcker, Mark Carney, Mario Draghi, William Dudley, Timothy Geithner, and – awkwardly – Paul Krugman and Larry Summers. The latter two are not exactly friends of Rajan's. Back in 2005, Summers called Rajan a "Luddite" and his economic theories "misguided," when Rajan decided to be a huge buzzkill at former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's retirement party and delivered a scathing critique of the U.S. financial sector. He predicted disaster ahead for the global economy because banks were being too risky. He also said the government was covering up real supply-side weaknesses with easy credit, and advocated instead for better educating workers, encouraging entrepreneurship, and cleaning up the financial sector to make it do more good than harm. Krugman Feud Rajan's rivalry with Paul Krugman grew in the aftermath of the financial crisis, when Rajan wrote a piece in Foreign Affairs magazine arguing for fiscal austerity alongside other structural changes. Danish Siddiqui/ReutersKrugman retaliated in an op-ed and called out Rajan by name. While Rajan believed that America's economic woes stemmed from supply-side inefficiencies and workforce uncompetitiveness, Krugman said the problem was weak demand and the best solution would be fiscal and monetary stimulus. There's been a lot of back-and-forth between the two ever since. (Last year Rajan called Krugman "paranoid." The saga continues.) What's in store? In his 15 months at the RBI, Rajan has already met many of his goals. When he joined, there were serious concerns that India might need an IMF bailout. Now, it's among the strongest of the world's emerging markets. He focused chiefly on combatting India's rampant inflation and entrenched inflation expectations. But now that battle's been won: CPI is down to 5.5 percent, below next month's target of 8 percent, and even below the 6-percent January 2016 target. While the rupee remains weak, the recent drop in oil prices has helped shrink India's current account deficit, which will ease the pressure on Rajan to keep interest rates high in order to attract external financing. The next logical step for the governor is to start loosening monetary policy. He left interest rates unchanged yesterday, but will likely start easing his tight stance in February. And with this guy's track record, no one's going to challenge him. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Sebastien NogierBlackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien.At the beginning of 2014, Blackstone Group Vice Chairman Byron Wien released his 10 surprise predictions for the markets and the economy.  Wien is a legend on Wall Street, and his predictions are widely read and circulated at the beginning of the year. But with 2014 winding down and people starting to look ahead to what 2015 holds, it is only right that we take a look back and see how Wien did this year.  Wien calls his predictions "surprise" predictions that the average investor would only assign a one-in-three chance of happening. And following form, Wien got some of these calls really right, some of them really wrong, and only a few anywhere in-between. We scored Wien's predictions simply: Zero points for wrong predictions, one point for correct predictions, and one-half point for predictions that were right down the middle.  FREE AppDownload
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos chatted with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014. He insists it's way too early to call Amazon's Fire Phone a failure. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook   Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
REUTERS/Andres Stapff Global management consulting firm A.T. Kearney has conducted a survey to find out just how connected consumers across the world are to the internet.  Their findings show a world much further along on the path to constant technological connectivity than many might have thought.  For the survey, A.T. Kearney interviewed 10,000 people across ten different countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, Brazil, Russia, China, India, South Africa, and Nigeria. Every country surveyed, except for South Africa, is in the top ten of Internet-using countries in terms of number of users.   Here’s what the survey discovered about how consumers use the internet, behave on the internet, and how they buy things on the internet.  A.T. Kearney A.T. Kearney A.T. Kearney A.T. Kearney A.T. Kearney A.T. Kearney FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Azad LashkariA flame rises from a chimney at Taq Taq oil field in Arbil, in Iraq's Kurdistan region, August 16, 2014.LONDON/ARBIL (Reuters) - In January 2011, Exxon hired one of the best connected men in Iraq: Ali Khedery, an American of Iraqi descent who had served in Baghdad as a special assistant to five U.S. ambassadors and a senior adviser to three U.S. generals. At a meeting with Exxon a few months later to analyze Iraq's future, Khedery laid out his thoughts. Iraq under Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki was moving toward dictatorship and civil war, he said he told the session. "We will see a rise in violence and a total paralysis in Baghdad," he recalled saying. Iraq was likely to align itself more closely with Iran, which will "have an adverse impact on U.S. companies." The gloomy scenario grabbed the attention of Exxon executives. Just two years earlier, they had signed a $25 billion deal with Iraq to develop West Qurna, one of the largest oil fields in the country. "No one wanted to hear that they had negotiated a multi-billion dollar deal in a country which will soon implode," said Khedery, who has detailed to Reuters the meeting and subsequent events for the first time. He suggested an alternative: Kurdistan, a semi-autonomous region in northern Iraq that was politically stable, far from the chaos in the south, and had, by some estimates, oil reserves of 45 billion barrels. Less than a year later, Exxon signed a deal with Kurdistan. The story of how that happened explains much about the would-be nation's growing power. Interviews with key players in the secret 2011 negotiations - the talks involved not just Exxon but also fellow Western oil giant Royal Dutch Shell - show how Exxon's decision to invest infuriated both Washington and Baghdad, and helped propel Kurdistan closer to its long-held goal of independence. Kurds like to say they are the world's largest ethnic group without a state. Numbering some 35 million, they inhabit a band that stretches from Syria across southern Turkey and northern Iraq and into Iran. Most follow Sunni Islam and speak their own distinct languages. The Exxon deal fueled Kurdish self-belief. The presence of the biggest U.S. oil company has helped not just financially but also politically and even psychologically. "Part of the process of building our region has to do, of course, with dealing with oil, signing contracts, negotiations with various countries," Fuad Hussein, chief of staff to Kurdistan's president, told Reuters. The Exxon deal validated smaller oil deals Kurdistan had already signed and was "a big victory for us." Exxon declined to comment. Despite the deal, Kurdistan's path to nationhood is far from certain. Independence is opposed by Washington, Baghdad, neighboring Turkey and Iran. It also remains unclear whether the Kurds have the strength to stand alone in this volatile region. As militant group Islamic State (IS) advanced through Iraq this summer, Baghdad's troops melted away, leaving the Kurdish fighters known as peshmerga to halt the extremists. When IS threatened to take Arbil, Iraqi Kurdistan's capital, the United States bailed out the Kurds with a bombing campaign. On Tuesday, a temporary agreement between Baghdad and Arbil to end their dispute over oil exports and budget payments looked, at first glance, like Kurdistan returning to the Iraqi capital's control. But the deal does nothing to resolve the issues between Arbil and Baghdad, while forcing the Iraqi capital to effectively acknowledge Arbil's development of its energy resources with Exxon, other foreign companies and Turkey. Arbil has compromised, but it has also locked in the progress of the past three years. Oil companies have been interested in Kurdistan for years. But after the United States toppled Iraqi strongman Saddam Hussein in 2003, a series of governments in Baghdad made clear that to get a slice of the biggest prize – the huge reserves in Iraq's south – firms should not cut separate deals with the Kurds. The fear: Letting the Kurds control the oil would rob central government of billions of dollars in revenue and bring a breakup of the country closer. Western firms' reluctance began to melt after Kurdistan passed more business-friendly oil legislation in 2007. Mid-sized firms began to invest, though the biggest players remained on the sidelines. Baghdad finally divvied up the oil concessions in Iraq's south in 2009 and 2010, and oil majors rushed to sign. But terms were tough and many firms, including Exxon, were soon frustrated. Quietly, in late 2010, Exxon began putting out feelers to the Kurdish regional government. Proper talks began in early 2011, according to Hussein, the Kurdish president's chief of staff. Khedery had resigned from the U.S. administration the previous year to protest against U.S. policies in Iraq, which he thought were hurting Washington's interests in the region. In the oil world, filled with Texas oilmen and former U.S. military types, Khedery stood out. Young, rail thin and with the bearing of an academic, he appeared confident and well connected. He had been privy to many of the backroom political deals in Iraq since 2003, and had a direct channel to the president of Kurdistan. "He knew almost every official from the American side in Baghdad and he used to know every Iraqi leader," said Hussein, who had befriended Khedery when they worked together as advisers to the U.S. occupation authorities in Baghdad. Exxon began to rethink its approach to Kurdistan when a small group of company officials met long-time CEO Rex Tillerson and his deputies a few times in the spring of 2011. The first meeting took place at Exxon's headquarters near Dallas. The small Exxon team briefed Tillerson in his huge conference room. The oil boss listened quietly to the presentations, most of which focused on technology and geology, with a brief talk on Iraqi politics. Afterwards, most of Tillerson's questions were about politics. That's when Khedery spoke up. "I told him everything I thought would happen in Iraq," Khedery said. "I said that if you want to manage risk, then the last place you want to be is in Baghdad or southern Iraq." Those zones, he warned, were filled with Shi'ite militias, who had killed and maimed thousands of American troops, as well as "neo-Baathist insurgents, al Qaeda sleeper cells, and Iranian Revolutionary Guards." He pointed instead to Kurdistan, which was "more peaceful, more predictable, and overwhelmingly pro-American."   Serious talks with the Kurds began soon after, with a call from Khedery to Hussein, according to the presidential chief of staff. The two sides met secretly in London, Dubai and Arbil. On the Kurdish side, the main negotiator was Oil and Gas Minister Ashti Hawrami. But Kurdistan President Massoud Barzani also tapped Hussein to attend discussions. Unusually, the president even joined some meetings himself. Exxon was represented by senior executives from Texas. But it was not just Exxon and the Kurds talking. Europe's biggest oil major, Shell, was also involved, according to Hussein. Shell was Exxon's junior partner in the West Qurna field and had a separate deal with Baghdad to invest tens of billions of dollars in southern Iraq's Majnoon field. Exxon and Shell believed that teaming up – they had a combined market capitalization of more than $600 billion – would make it hard for Baghdad to throw them out of the south even if they cut a deal with Kurdistan. The first meeting was in Arbil, which is dominated by a central citadel that is one of the oldest continuously inhabited settlements in the world. The Exxon team, concerned about Kurdistan's relationship with Baghdad, and longterm stability, quizzed Barzani on his views of Iraq. "They wanted to know how my president is thinking, what is his vision," Hussein said. The chief of staff said Barzani called Prime Minister Maliki's policies damaging to Iraq. "(Barzani said) that if it will continue this is bad for the country, this is dangerous, the path must be changed." Barzani and Maliki both declined to comment. In the summer of 2011, as negotiations continued, Kurdistan sold two oil blocks to Hess, a U.S. company. Exxon and Shell had been keen to get the blocks, and the surprise sale nearly ended the talks, according to Hussein. To show Arbil was still serious, Barzani promised more attractive terms, according to both Khedery and Hussein. A signing ceremony in Arbil was planned for mid-October, but another complication arose. Shell was in the final stages of talks with Baghdad to obtain exclusive rights to process all natural gas produced in Iraq's south, a deal worth $17 billion. If Shell signed with Arbil, Baghdad might scuttle the gas deal. At a meeting with Barzani in the Imperial hotel in Vienna, where the Kurdish president was on holiday, Exxon executives said they were committed to signing. Shell's executives, though, seemed less sure. What Barzani and Exxon did not know was that Shell's CEO Peter Voser was in Baghdad, meeting Maliki to clinch the gas deal in southern Iraq. Just three days before the Kurdish deal was to be signed, Shell told Exxon it was no longer interested. A Shell spokesman declined to answer questions about the Kurdistan deal. "Today our focus is on delivering the Basrah Gas Company project and the Majnoon Oil Field development, both of which are projects of critical importance to the reconstruction and economic development of (Iraq)," the spokesman said. REUTERS/Tom DuncanThe oil tanker SCF Byrranga, which was renamed the United Kalavryta in March 2014 (also known as United Kalavrvta) and is currently off the coast of Texas with a cargo of Kurdish crude oil, is seen off the Isle of Arran, Scotland in this handout photo taken February 21, 2014. TERRITORIAL AMBITIONS? Exxon pushed ahead. The firm believed that rivals such as Chevron and Total would follow suit. The Texans kept things low key, though. An Exxon delegation flew to Arbil to sign the deal. Tillerson stayed in Dallas. The six blocks Exxon won were scattered around the autonomous region. One block was near Turkey and another near the border with Iran. The three most controversial were along the line that divides Kurdistan and the rest of Iraq, straddling areas whose control is disputed between Arbil and Baghdad. The Kurds included the blocks in the deal and later managed to bring the governor of Nineveh, one of the provinces affected, on board. To some, it looked as if Arbil was using Exxon to consolidate its borders. Hussein said Arbil already controlled the disputed territories and did not need Big Oil's legitimacy. Barzani, though, has since described the presence of companies such as Exxon as a form of insurance for Kurdistan.  When news of the deal leaked in early November 2011, both Baghdad and Washington were furious. Maliki wrote a letter to President Barack Obama demanding he push Exxon to scrap the deal. Iraq's deputy prime minister for energy affairs summoned Exxon executives to explain. To Washington, the deal was an embarrassment. The U.S. strategy was built on support for Maliki and its 'one Iraq' policy of a unified nation under a strong central government. Now one of America's most powerful corporations had undermined that approach. A former U.S. diplomat told Reuters the U.S. government had less than a day's notice of Exxon's deal. U.S. Ambassador to Iraq James Jeffrey was livid, said the former diplomat. "My understanding is that (Jeffrey) dropped a few F-bombs," he said. "He was less than amused." Hussein remembers a tense meeting he and the Kurdish oil minister, Ashti Hawrami, had with Jeffrey in Baghdad soon after the deal. "He was very angry," Hussein said. "We were trying to explain that what we are doing is in the interest of Iraq, what we are doing is in the interest of Kurds, what we are doing is legal." Hawrami declined to comment. Jeffrey has since left the State Department. He is reported to be a consultant to Exxon, but declined to comment for this story. Despite the anger, the deal was a political triumph for the Kurds. Exxon had shown Arbil could attract oil majors regardless of what Baghdad thought. Hawrami unveiled the deal at an Arbil energy conference in late 2011. Kurdistan had initially signed contracts with "small and beautiful" companies, he said. Now it was working with "the giant and magnificent." Within a few months, both Chevron and Total signed deals, further strengthening Kurdistan. A pact with Russia's Gazprom followed. "What really binds Kurdistan to Baghdad is money," said Robert Ford, who retired from his post as U.S. ambassador to Syria in February and previously served three stints for the State Department in Iraq. "The more the Kurds have an independent source of income, especially from energy, the more it feeds into their desire to establish greater autonomy if not independence from Baghdad." In January 2013, Exxon CEO Tillerson made his first and so far only visit to Iraq, traveling to Baghdad to mend fences with the central government. It isn't clear what happened in that meeting, but Baghdad has not canceled its own contract with the Texas firm. Arbil has even built a pipeline to Turkey, which makes it easier to export its oil.   The Iraqi capital remains riven by strife, but things are looking up for Exxon. The firm's main Iraqi critics – Maliki and two other senior politicians – were pushed from power this year in elections. The men who replaced them are more amenable to a compromise, as this week's agreement with Arbil shows. Khedery, who has since set up his own consultancy, is not surprised. "I think for Exxon," he said, "with their 125 years in business, the opposition from Maliki was simply seen as something that could be managed and eventually mitigated." (Zhdannikov reported from London, Coles from Arbil, Parker from Baghdad; Edited by Simon Robinson) FREE AppDownload
As 2014 has repeatedly demonstrated, there are serious issues with collegiate Greek life, specifically with traditional social fraternities. Don't expect them to be removed from college campuses anytime soon, though. The year opened with an editorial from Bloomberg View calling for the end of student Greek life, claiming that "the fraternities that dominate so much of collegiate social life are of dubious value." These arguments have only increased in the wake of various fraternity controversies this semester, leading to suspended Greek systems for at least four schools — Clemson University, West Virginia University, University of Virginia, and San Diego State University — and a high-profile move by Wesleyan University to co-educate their campus fraternities. However, the recent — and seemingly increasing — backlash against fraternities is actually nothing new. Business Insider spoke with University of Northern Colorado history professor Nicholas Syrett — author of "The Company He Keeps: A History of White College Fraternities" — who said the conversation about banning fraternities had happened many times before. "It does seem to me that the focus on campus sexual assault and rape is relatively new, but this discussion is hardly unprecedented," Syrett said. Earlier this year, Newsweek writer Zach Schoenfeld investigated a string of Greek-system shutterings in the 1980s and 1990s, which stemmed from "most of the usual suspects: worrisome hazing rituals, out-of-control alcohol abuse, sexism." Notably, though, as Shoenfeld and Syrett both point out, these schools were all small liberal arts colleges in the Northeast. Perhaps more importantly, none of the colleges to abolish Greek systems was particularly dependent on fraternities and sororities, either for students' social lives or campus housing. "When there have been discussions of doing this before, it hasn't happened," Syrett said. "The places that have gotten rid of fraternities were less dependent on them. The notion of repercussions hasn't been as strong." The only school that dismantled a truly entrenched fraternity system was Princeton University, Syrett said, and it's arguable how successful that change ultimately was. The "eating clubs" that were established in the wake of Greek life's demise, Syrett said, are not dissimilar from the system they replaced. One of Princeton's eating clubs, Tiger Inn, has recently made headlines for a series of lewd and sexist emails sent out to the membership by two student officers, who have since been removed from their positions. Via FlickrThe Tiger Inn eating club at Princeton University could easily be mistaken for a fraternity house. Even this semester's system-wide suspensions, which made headlines when first announced, appear to have had a minimal impact on Greek life. At Clemson, Greek life at least partially resumed within weeks of the original suspension. WVU's, SDSU's, and UVA's fraternity systems remain suspended, but UVA is set to resume Greek activities on Jan. 9 — the first day of fraternity and sorority recruitment. Perhaps ironically, these large, often public universities are the very schools that could benefit most from a strong Greek system — with thousands of people on campus, fraternities offer smaller communities to students who might otherwise feel overwhelmed or lost in the shuffle. It's clear that there are serious problems within many fraternity chapters. Syrett told Inside Higher Ed in 2009, after his book first came out, that "ample evidence" existed demonstrating that fraternity members were "involved in more binge drinking, hazing mishaps (some of which lead to serious injury and death), and sexual assault than most of their peers." Atlantic contributor Caitlin Flanagan also detailed many terrible qualities attributed to fraternities — from hazing to alcohol abuse to poor treatment of women — in an investigative feature for the magazine earlier this year titled "The Dark Power of Fraternities." However, despite the many issues and repeated calls for the end of collegiate Greek life, it seems exceptionally unlikely that fraternities and sororities will disappear anytime soon — if ever. Here are a few reasons why: Perhaps the biggest reason that collegiate Greek life will stay on campuses is the practical benefit that the system grants colleges. Greek housing in particular is so ingrained into many campuses that removing it would leave the schools with potentially thousands of students in need of a place to live and a logistical nightmare. When colleges began significantly growing during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, according to Flanagan, "the fraternities involved themselves very deeply in the business of student housing, which provided tremendous financial savings to their host institutions, and allowed them to expand the number of students they could admit." Flanagan also explains how this has become a potentially inescapable problem for colleges: Today, one in eight American students at four-year colleges lives in a Greek house, and a conservative estimate of the collective value of these houses across the country is $3 billion. Greek housing constitutes a troubling fact for college administrators (the majority of fraternity-related deaths occur in and around fraternity houses, over which the schools have limited and widely varying levels of operational oversight) and also a great boon to them (saving them untold millions of dollars in the construction and maintenance of campus-owned and -controlled dormitories). Via Wikimedia CommonsFraternities often provide colleges with much-needed student housing. Fraternities offer a social outlet to college campuses that operates outside of the school's budget and removes much of the potential liability that could threaten an administration. The Greek system's social benefit to colleges is highlighted in a Trinity College report from 2010 on the future of the school's fraternities and sororities. According to the report, "Between the College regulations and the law, [Trinity] had in fact allowed the popular, late-night social life to become the responsibility of the fraternities." The Trinity report cites "mutual benefits" for the school and its Greek system — "the College got a social outlet that did not come from the College budget and which existed at a small remove; and the fraternities got the attention and mystique accorded by peers." Flanagan also notes the social appeal of having fraternities for colleges, writing that "fraternities provide colleges with unlimited social programming of a kind that is highly attractive to legions of potential students, most of whom are not applying to ivy-covered rejection factories, but rather to vast public institutions and obscure private colleges that are desperate for students." Schools may also be hesitant to get rid of fraternities because they fear a financial blow — Greeks tend to be more professionally successful than unaffiliated students and will most likely donate more to their alma mater. "At least one study has affirmed what had long been assumed: that fraternity men tend to be generous to their alma maters," Flanagan wrote. This kind of pressure probably prevents colleges from removing Greek life, even if they want to. "Schools are beholden to donating alumni," Syrett said. "When they try and do something counter to the fraternities' interests, they have to worry about money." Via FlickrThese old-school frat boys are more likely to now donate to their alma mater. There is another, more intangible, reason that fraternities won't disappear from college campuses anytime soon — their removal may be against the United States Constitution. When a school administration threatens its campus' fraternity system, students often respond that any ban would infringe on their right to freedom of association, protected by the Constitution. Flanagan writes that while this argument may be "legally delicate," it has "withstood through the years." She writes: "The powerful and well-funded political-action committee that represents fraternities in Washington has fought successfully to ensure that freedom-of-association language is included in all higher-education reauthorization legislation, thus 'disallowing public Universities the ability to ban fraternities.'" National fraternity leadership recognizes that individual houses need to be punished if they break school policy, or the law, but that shouldn't affect a college's entire system. In a statement to Business Insider, Pete Smithhisler, the head of the North-American Interfraternity Conference, said: When there are unsafe situations that arise for any student, colleges and universities must act according to their own policies and procedures to ensure the safety of the entire campus. However, the NIC is opposed to unilaterally punishing all fraternities and fraternity members based on allegations limited to a handful of bad actors — especially when they are behaving within the school's rules, regulations and codes of conduct. Punishing an entire community for isolated or individual actions undermines the spirit of collaboration and education that is supposed to occur on campus. The NIC encourages colleges and universities to work collaboratively with students and fraternal partners to address the root causes or issues leading to the high-risk behaviors. FREE AppDownload
Chances are the last time you wore overalls they were a denim OshKosh B'gosh pair your mother put on you as a toddler. But Matt Jorgensen, Ben Waller, and Aidan Nelson — three friends who met while undergrads at Dartmouth College — are betting that's all about to change. They've created a new product, called Rousers, which they're calling overalls for the "modern urban man."  But these aren't your granddaddy's overalls, or even the ones you wore as a kid. They feature a slim, modern cut and are made with premium chino fabric.  The company wants to bring refinement to the overall with tortoiseshell-patterned buttons and herringbone-patterned pocket fabric round out the details. Of course, we were skeptical. "When you hear [overalls], it sounds almost like a little bit of a troll," Jorgensen admitted to Business Insider. But the choice to design overalls isn't a joke — far from it.  "Overalls, to us, embody a lot of what clothing should be: fun, practical, and versatile," said Jorgensen, who left his consulting job at Bain &amp; Company to work full-time on bringing Rousers to market. "There is this feeling that fashion should be fun without taking itself too seriously. For him, it was all about "building versus planning."  "I wanted the opportunity to build something tangible where I had the responsibility and ability to f*** up or make something fly," Jorgensen said. RousersAccording to Jorgensen, you can wear Rousers with a T-shirt, collared shirt, or even a jacket.Reaction to the new product has been very positive, he said. "Seeing that [overalls] can be stylish is, I think, surprising for a lot of people," he told us. He added that people who tried the garments on praised how they felt and liked how they looked in them. And "modern urban man" isn't just a code word for hipster. Though we imagine that early adopters will include farmers'-market-going, fixed-wheel-bike-riding, beard-sprouting Brooklynites, Jorgensen is confident overalls can break out of that niche market and be worn instead of a nice pair of jeans. Still, the partners realize that wearing overalls is "an edgy look." "It's probably not for everyone to wear a product that turns heads, but I think there are enough men out there looking for a unique look and don't necessarily take themselves too seriously," Jorgensen said. It wasn't easy for the three friends to get a working prototype off the ground without any garment-making experience. Help was needed, and through a friend of a friend (of a friend), the group was introduced to contacts in the New York fashion world, which helped them take their crude drawings and cutouts to the finished product. The overalls are only available via Kickstarter for now, and only if the project is funded. That doesn't look like it will be an issue though, as it has recieved a very enthusiastic response, with 75% of its $25,000 goal already met and over two weeks to go at the time of writing. Kickstarter has also featured the project as a "staff pick." The overalls will retail at $145, but are available for $98 to Kickstarter donors. If Rousers are successful, this is just the beginning for the trio. Right now they're only available in gray, but they envision the pants in every color, with slimmer cuts, a winter flannel version, and a summer linen version. Rousers are, of course, made in America, to go along with the garment's Americana heritage. If all goes according to plan, Rousers aims to become the next big e-commerce menswear brand. Belt makers, consider this your warning. RousersRousers are cut like a modern chino, with a tapered leg. FREE AppDownload
For the last six years, global monetary trends tended to affect emerging markets as a unit. First, near-zero interest rates in the developed world pushed yield-seeking capital into emerging stocks and bonds, then the “taper tantrum” sucked it back out. Today, however, their economic paths are diverging. Whether it’s sanctions on Russia dragging its entire economy to a halt or India’s economy finally delivering a positive surprise, the world’s emerging markets are once again charting their own courses, with growth rates ranging from a 1.5 percent contraction (Russia) to 6.8 percent (India). Regaining mastery of one’s own economic destiny is a good thing. Unfortunately, none of those destinies seem overly compelling in the short-term, as both country-specific and regional risks loom large in the months ahead. Weak euro-zone growth and Russian sanctions threaten Eastern Europe. Low oil prices will hurt exporters in Latin America and Asia. And what if the U.S. does go ahead and raise interest rates in mid-2015?  Overall, Credit Suisse expects the growth of emerging market economies to rise a mere 0.2 percentage points to 4.6 percent in 2015. Below, we consider the growth prospects for each region. Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EEMEA)  Regional GDP growth in EEMEA is expected to fall for the fourth straight year in 2015, from 2.2 percent to 1.8 percent. But that’s largely due to Russia, where Credit Suisse sees no end to Western sanctions until 2016. Higher military spending and household stockpiling of goods ahead of potential shortages buoyed industrial output and consumer demand for much of 2014, but a weakening ruble, high inflation, tight monetary policy, and low oil prices are expected to thwart growth going forward. In a show of regional resilience, however, domestic demand led growth significantly higher in the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland this year, helping to mitigate declining exports to Russia and Western Europe. That trend is expected to continue next year in Poland. Outside Eastern Europe, there are brightening hopes that 2015 will bring less turbulence than 2014 did. In Israel, exports slowed and investment fell during a three-month military conflict in Gaza, but with the crisis over, the economy should perform much better this year. Even South Africa, which Credit Suisse dubbed the most troubled emerging market economy just a year ago, should see its currency stabilize, fewer labor strikes, higher industrial output, and a doubling of GDP growth from 1.2 percent to 2.4 percent. In Turkey, where the lira was among the hardest-hit currencies in both the taper tantrum and an emerging markets selloff in January, lower oil prices should help improve all three of the interconnected economic ailments that led Foreign Affairs magazine to call the Turkish economy the most vulnerable of the “Fragile Five” – a large current account deficit, unstable currency, and high inflation. With the exception of Russia, 2015 looks like a year of modest improvement for EEMEA. Latin America Overall Latin American GDP growth is forecast to rise from 1.2 percent to 2.2 percent in 2015. Setting the pace: Mexico. Though drug violence and low oil prices pose a long-term threat to foreign investment and growth, close proximity to the strong U.S. economy should help raise GDP growth from 2.3 percent to 3.9 percent in 2015. And although Peru, the world’s third-largest copper producer, has been hurt by falling copper prices, higher output from its mines should ensure the country grows faster than any of its Latin American peers in 2015. But not all is rosy in the Southern Hemisphere, particularly for Argentina, Brazil, and Venezuela. If Argentina can’t strike a deal with holdout creditors early in 2015, there’s a risk of further peso devaluation and difficulty servicing international debt. Newly re-elected Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff will have her hands full in 2015 dealing with a corruption scandal involving the country’s oil company, Petrobras, paltry growth (0.6 percent), high inflation (6.5 percent), and the threat of a credit rating downgrade. Finally, Venezuela desperately needs to take measures such as devaluing the peso to ensure it can meet international debt obligations, but unpopular President Nicolas Maduro will surely be wary of difficult policy moves. Despite these headaches, however, Argentina and Venezuela are expected to grow – albeit slowly – in the coming year, after seeing their economies contract in 2014. Colombia is the only economy in Latin America that is expected to grow more slowly in 2015 than it did in 2014, as low oil prices and declining production promise to widen the current account deficit and force government spending cuts. Emerging Asia As for Asia, Credit Suisse is calling 2015 the year of three D’s – disappointing growth, macro cycle divergence, and a disinflationary environment. As we’ve written previously, low oil prices will lower inflation in many economies, while China’s ongoing economic slowdown will keep downward pressure on other commodity prices. While lower inflation levels will be a welcome development for high-inflation countries such as India, cheap oil will hurt producers such as Malaysia. Meanwhile, sluggish growth in Europe and Japan should weigh on Asian exporters. China surprised the world with a rate cut on Nov. 21, but those that need to tighten macroeconomic policy ahead of the Fed’s rate hike (Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines) are unlikely to be able to spend their way to growth. A few others, however, such as India, South Korea, and Thailand, may yet enact some stimulus, but Credit Suisse sees only one true bright spot in Asia next year – India. There, low oil prices will help sew up a large current account deficit and curb government losses on fuel subsidies. Analysts are also hopeful that structural reforms from newly elected Prime Minister Narendra Modi will jumpstart higher growth. While a rolling three-month measure of industrial output has started to inch higher in EEMEA and Latin America, it’s declining from relatively high levels in Asia. Each emerging market region faces its own specific challenges next year, but alone among its peers, Asia will enter 2015 in a cyclical slump. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report PIMCO/GROSSNEW YORK (Reuters) - Pacific Investment Management Co posted net outflows of $12.59 billion across its open-ended funds in November, down considerably from $48.3 billion of netflows the previous month, according to Morningstar data on Wednesday. So far this year, Pimco, a unit of Allianz SE , has seen net outflows of $121.73 billion across its open-ended funds, Morningstar added.  (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan) FREE AppDownload
Grace ChoiGrace Choi, founder and CEO of MINK.There's no shortage of hot startups. To stand out, startup CEOs are getting creative by launching innovative products and raising tons of money — and they've got the world talking. We've found the hottest startup CEOs in the US. We ranked the CEOs by buzz, accounting for how much money their company raised and how much they've been in the news this year. For the purpose of this list, we defined a startup as a private tech company that's less than five years old. With one exception, we included only US-based startups that have taken venture-capital funding and have not yet IPO'd or been acquired. Did we miss a buzzy startup CEO? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload

FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachTomorrow we get the last set of monetary policy decisions from the European Central Bank, announced at 12.45 p.m. GMT. President Mario Draghi is also up for a press conference, which kicks off 45 minutes later. Since the last meeting, a lot of European economic data has gotten worse, and it wasn't that pretty before anyway. Inflation is back down to 0.3% (the ECB is meant to achieve just below 2% inflation). Combined with the falling price of oil, markets are now pricing in outright deflation at the beginning of 2015.   Despite those figures, most analysts are not expecting any major new easing from the European Central Bank this week. A big speech from ECB vice president Vitor Constancio did push the possibility of sovereign QE (where the central bank buys government bonds) higher for a few economists. Days earlier, Draghi said that inflation expectations must be raised "as fast as possible", something that QE could help to do. And there's a consensus building that the ECB's current balance sheet target (to raise the amount of assets it owns by buying them) isn't likely to be hit if they don't go for bigger purchases. The bank wants to own about €3 trillion in assets, about €1 trillion more than they do now. The FT's James Mackintosh notes that the ECB will only reach this target with its asset-backed securities purchases (a different type of financial instrument it's currently buying) if it waits another 200 years. We'll also be getting economic forecasts on GDP growth and inflation from the ECB's staff. Based on data so far, here's what Credit Agricole thinks those might look like:  Credit Agricole As is clear, they're likely to be pretty grim. Here's a section of  analyst predictions for the ECB:  Capital Economics thinks there could be easing this month, or next, and that the ECB will announce it's buying a much bigger range of assets, including government bonds. However, they don't expect much of an impact: "The future size and scope of the policy will be limited by political and ideological objections, particularly from Germany." Lloyds economists aren't waiting for anything either: "We expect no sovereign QE announcement but Draghi is likely to adjust his Q&amp;A to avoid disappointment." Jefferies International's Marchel Alexandrovich: "We expect that the ECB will hold off on such a step this month. Draghi will reinforce the message that QE is in play, but the decision will have to wait until next year." Rabobank say the ECB will wait too: "President Draghi will have to build his case and get as many governing council members on board as possible. We suspect there are at least a couple of them that are willing to wait a few more months." Oxford Economics: "At the very least, we expect the ECB to indicate that it is planning more aggressive purchases in the nearer term. And it may pledge to return the balance sheet target to its €3trn peak by the end of 2015." BNP Paribas: "We continue to expect an announcement of a broadening of asset purchases next week... If we are a little ahead of ourselves and an announcement is not forthcoming as soon as next week, we would expect the communication from Mr Draghi at the press conference to signal that it will not be long in coming." BAML: "We don't expect hard decisions next week, but we now expect an announcement on "sovereign QE" by 5 March at the latest, with on balance a higher chance of a move by 22 January already." Deutsche Bank: "Our European economists are not expecting the central bank to announce any new material policies on Thursday." Credit Suisse are one of the only institutions expecting a full QE announcement tomorrow.  The consensus seems to be that Draghi will drop some dovish tones, perhaps going as far as practically confirming a wider programme is coming, but that the full details and announcement aren't coming tomorrow.  FREE AppDownload

Excitement surrounding medical marijuana led to a significant run-up in GW Pharmaceuticals' share price earlier this year, but based on the company's recently announced quarterly and fiscal full-year earnings results, the promise of marijuana profit remains far off in the distance. That's because GW Pharma has only one marketed marijuana derived therapy, Sativex, on the market, and Sativex, which is used to treat multiple sclerosis spasticity, has yet to win the FDA go-ahead for use in United States.  As a result, sales of Sativex, which come primarily from European markets, total just $2 million in the quarter ending June and were small enough for the full fiscal year ending September that the company didn't bother breaking them out in its quarterly earnings press release. Instead, the company focused the bulk of its earnings report on the promising opportunity for its marijuana-based medicine across various indications and a slate of trials spanning cancer pain, epilepsy, schizophrenia, and even diabetes. Those trials are all ongoing, so investors will need to rely on past trial data to make judgments on whether or not the market demand for GW Pharma's medicine will justify the company's $1.27 billion market cap. The closest of the trials to completion are the phase 3 studies that are being paid for by GW Pharma's U.S. commercialization partner, Otsuka. Otsuka, a large Japanese drugmaker, is evaluating the use of Sativex, which is a formulated marijuana extract containing the cannibinoids THC and CBD, in patients whose cancer pain isn't adequately treated by existing opiates, which are the current standard of care. According to GW Pharma, roughly 20% of advanced cancer patients fail to have their pain adequately controlled by opiates. That suggests there could be a big market for Sativex, assuming it delivers positive phase 3 results and that Otsuka can effectively market it. However, investors should also note that it is Otsuka, not GW Pharma, that may benefit most from a potential approval in cancer pain. That's because Otsuka owns the rights to commercialize Sativex for cancer pain in the U.S. Instead, GW Pharma will collect a 20% royalty on any eventual sales for the indication. via Substance.comCannabisRegardless, investors should gain additional insight into Sativex's efficacy in cancer pain soon. The first of three phase 3 trials for the indication is wrapping up this month, and that has GW Pharma telling investors that it will report data from the trial early next year. A second trial should offer up results before the end of the second quarter of 2015. If both trials demonstrate that Sativex can effectively control pain in these patients, then GW Pharma and Otsuka plan on filing an application for approval with the FDA before the end of 2015. While the market opportunity for Sativex in cancer pain is intriguing, much of investors' enthusiasm this past year has centered on Epidiolex, a formulation of the cannibinoid CBD, that GW Pharma is studying in patients with two rare forms of epilepsy: Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, or LGS.  The company began a phase 2/3 study of Epidiolex as an adjunct therapy in Dravet patients in October and plans to kick off additional phase 3 trials versus placebo in Dravet and LGS patients in the first quarter of 2015.  That suggests investors will have some insight into a potential path to the FDA later next year. In October, the company reported preliminary 12-week study data for epidiolex in Dravet patients showing that convulsive seizure frequency dropped 51%. However, that data included just 12 patients, so investors will want to see results from more patients before drawing any conclusions. GW Pharma's extensive trial activity means the company is burning through cash. Luckily for the company (and less so for investors who have been diluted), GW Pharma did two stock offerings this year that allowed it to raise $212 million for its balance sheet. That money will come in handy given that GW Pharma's $48.7 million in revenue during this past fiscal year -- most of which came from Otsuka -- was dwarfed by an R&amp;D budget that ate up $70.5 million. Spending doesn't show any sign of slowing either. Last quarter, the company spent nearly $20 million on R&amp;D. Since GW Pharma's Sativex sales for MS Spasticity aren't likely to move the needle anytime soon, and the company's development program isn't likely to put a drug in front of U.S. regulators until the second half of 2015 at the earliest, investors are right to approach this one with a wait-and-see mentality.  After all, the promise of medical marijuana is endlessly enticing, but there's little proof that promise will translate into profit anytime soon.  FREE AppDownload
 "Poor old Germany. Too big for Europe, too small for the world." That famous statement by former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger still holds some truth.  Today, Germany's politicians and the Bundesbank (the country's portion of the European Central Bank) are the two biggest obstacles toward more financial stimulus in Europe that could, if approved, revitalise the continent's flagging economies.  Germany has consistently opposed more monetary stimulus by objecting to interest rate cuts and quantitative easing, a method that is meant to push investors away from safe government bonds and into corporate bonds and stocks. German officials are also reliably opposed to looser deficit targets that could also boost the economy.  This conservative strategy may work for Germany — which does not necessarily need quantitative easing (Germany's growth is slow, but unemployment is at a record low) — but it does not bode well for more troubled economies in places like Spain, Italy, and Greece.  The problem is, because all the eurozone countries are bound by a single currency, the euro, they all have to subscribe to the same policies.  Unfortunately for Spain, Italy, Greece, and others, the European Central Bank is built on German foundations and operates in a similarly cautious manner. Christian Odendahl of the Centre for European Reform explains: The ECB was modelled on the German Bundesbank. As a result, it is one of the world’s most politically independent central banks; its mandate is focused narrowly on price stability; it does not take broader economic goals like unemployment into account in the way other central banks, such as the Fed, do; and it is de facto more restricted than other central banks, since controversial measures can lead to complex political and legal struggles, involving 18 (soon to be 19) countries. Its setup and philosophy are therefore 'German,' that is, conservative and cautious. In short: The tension between Germany and the eurozone parties that want more stimulus, like Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, is partly to blame for the near-zero growth and inflation in the region. It's hard not to feel bad for Germany, which didn't even want the euro in the first place. Through most of the 1990s, before the euro was introduced, German opinion polls did not support the new currency. The euro was officially adopted in 1999, without the approval from European citizens through a referendum. Only Denmark and Sweden held votes. Both countries rejected it. In the chart below, you can see that German support for the euro (gray line) remains below support from Europe as a whole (black line) between 1990 and 2011, with the exception of 2007. The Centre For European Policy Studies There's also some astonishing historical evidence suggesting then-West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl was pushed by former French President Francois Mitterrand into accepting the euro. Today, German politicians are stuck in a vicious cycle. Because most German voters don't favour stimulus measures, the more support these politicians offer to Europe-wide stimulus, the more voters they are likely to lose to the country's anti-euro party, Alternative fur Deutschland. In turn, the more support the AfD gains, the more the party is able to influence the debate over Europe in German politics, and the more other German politicians have to try to claw votes back. Ultimately, Germany is trapped in a pretty grim position: It's the only country capable of pulling Europe out of its funk, but most Germans never asked for — and don't seem to want — that responsibility. FREE AppDownload
 Bloomberg News' Mary Childs has a must-read inside account of how bond king Bill Gross fell from power at PIMCO.  On Sept. 26, Gross, the 70-year-old self-proclaimed "Justin Bieber of bonds," announced that he was leaving the firm he cofounded to join Janus Capital. He was reportedly going to be fired by PIMCO for "increasingly erratic behavior." In February, Gross was the subject of an incredibly unflattering Wall Street Journal article that detailed how Gross had a nasty clash with Mohamed El-Erian in front of the other employees. El-Erian, PIMCO's CEO and co-CIO, abruptly resigned from the company in January. According to the Journal, Gross referred to himself as "Secretariat," after the legendary racehorse. The article also said that Gross didn't like it when his traders made eye contact with or spoke to him.  According to Mary Childs' inside account, Gross tried to hunt down the employees he believed were leaking these sorts of conversations to the press.  From Bloomberg: In the weeks that followed, Gross tried to close ranks. He spent more than 20 minutes before a firm-wide meeting to discuss the media scrutiny that had beset the company, a speech in which he disparaged El-Erian, according to two people. When he ended to a standing ovation from the audience, including Hodge and Ivascyn, at least one executive declined to rise. Thimons, a managing director outspoken in his objections to Gross’s leadership, disagreed with his comments and refused to stand, according to a person who was present. According to Bloomberg, Gross said he was looking for "Mr. X" — the person he believed to be the mole. Gross thought portfolio managers Andrew Balls and Joshua Thimons were the ones speaking to the media. He unsuccessfully tried to have both of them fired.   From Bloomberg:  To stop the reports, Gross set up interrogations of members of the investment committee, managing directors, and lower-ranking money managers. He carried around a three-ring binder of printed-out e-mails and hand-written notes to find out who was talking to the press. Among his suspects were Balls, a former journalist, and Thimons, the executive who had remained seated during the standing ovation and who had organized a going-away party for El-Erian. Gross sought to fire Balls, a move opposed by Pimco’s new executives. Gross gave in and agreed not to pursue the matter at that time.  Until the end, Gross pushed Balls to leave PIMCO "for the good of the firm." He continued his hunt, staged public displays of anger to intimidate others, and singled people out by seating them off to the side at meetings. Ultimately, though, it was Gross who was on the verge of losing his job, not the mysterious Mr. X. Seeing the writing on the wall, Gross jumped ship before that happened.       FREE AppDownload
15 RenwickA mock interior of 15 Renwick.This is the top for New York City. It's all downhill from here. A new condo building is going up in Manhattan's Hudson Square neighborhood — the triangle on the river between Tribeca, SoHo, and the West Village that has until recently been mostly commercial and industrial buildings. 15 Renwick isn't just any building: it's a steampunk-themed luxury development. Steampunk-themed. Luxury. Development.  What is steampunk? It's mostly a literary and artistic genre. Think Helena Bonham Carter in Sweeney Todd, but much less murderous, riding atop a floating, steam-powered sidecar. 15 Renwick American novelist Caitlin Kittredge described it as "sort of Victorian-industrial, but with more whimsy and fewer orphans," according to the steampunk movement's official website. An overly optimistic nostalgia for an earlier time ... where have we heard that before?  Condos are priced between $2 million and $7.5 million (with hefty maintenance fees, natch). The building's amenities include the regular: parking, roof deck, laundry. But there are also on-brand steampunk touches: a "high design boxing gym," a zen garden, and a 24-hour butler (listed as a feature in the lobby, so presumably more like a doorman in a puffy shirt?).  There's never been a clearer sign that 21st-century New York is nothing but an amusement park for the world's wealthy and their children. It has ceased to be a real place for the rest of us. The building's website is filled with model-like characters who appear to have just stepped off the set of Hollywood films, as if actually living in this building is also just a fantasy. Given the number of foreigners buying condos in New York at the moment, that it would be totally sold, but no one would actually live in this building is not all that far fetched. The developer joked to DNAinfo's Danielle Tcholakian that it was a building for "rich hipsters." Here's how the building is described on its website. Screenshot of 15renwick.com Let's talk about the fact that there are characters in an apartment building. Not staff, but characters. Not residents, but characters. Living in this building is all about not living a real life.  It is questionable that living in New York City these days bears any resemblance to reality.  It's more like this:  15 Renwick FREE AppDownload
Getty Images EuropeChancellor George Osborne.Chancellor George Osborne laid out his final Autumn Statement on the nation's finances before the General Election next year. But the government's official budget watchdog appears far from convinced by current plans. As expected, the Autumn Statement included a number of measures aimed to increase voters' sense of wellbeing ahead of the vote. (It includes a cut in stamp duty paid on property purchases for 98% of homebuyers and populist tax moves like the so-called "Google Tax" on company profits shifted overseas.) At its heart, however, it is a reaffirmation of the commitment to cut the deficit. The problem is that Osborne will be unable to to achieve this based on currently announced plans, according to the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), the independent government finance watchdog. Here's why: The government has committed to cutting the budget deficit by the end of the next parliament — and suggested that it would achieve this ahead of schedule. However, it has also committed to protect spending on health, education, pensions and overseas aid. While laudable, this means that for it to achieve its target of cutting the deficit it will have to make even deeper cuts to other areas. These departments, including the police, the judiciary, the military, the diplomatic corps, and "other" spending (shown by the green blocks in the chart below) could see funding slashed in real terms by as much as 55% in the decade to 2018-19. You can see that in the future projections (the purple blocks) there just isn't that much room for "other" spending: OBR As a percentage of GDP this would mean that by 2019-2020 spending on public services would be at its lowest since the late 1930s. That would require either an unprecedented revolution in how these services are provided or sharp reductions in their provision. The OBR seems, to put it politely, far from convinced: The implied cuts in RDEL during the next Parliament would pose a significant challenge if they were confirmed as firm policy, one that would be all the greater if existing protections were maintained. But we do not believe that it would be appropriate for us to assume, ex ante, that these cuts would be inherently unachievable and make it our central forecast that this or a future Government would breach its stated spending limits if it chose and tried to implement them. But... we might need to include an ‘allowance for overspending’ in our forecasts, similar to the ‘allowance for shortfall’ that we currently incorporate to reflect likely underspending against DEL plans. That is as close as the OBR will ever come to saying that these plans look completely unworkable. Indeed it as much admits this stating that it is "quite possible" that a future government "would adopt different policies". While there have been significant spending cuts in the current parliament, they are only roughly 40% of what are implied under the government's plan. That means around 60% are set to come over the next five years. In other words, much of the pain is still yet to come. FREE AppDownload
Chinese officials have their work cut out for them. Not only are they trying to transform their export-led economy into one driven by domestic consumption and private investment, they’re trying to do so at a time when the global economy is sluggish. That’s proving to be challenging, especially since the performance of China’s own economy has been subpar. It’s also tricky because the country’s desire to move away from growth driven by public investment means it would be counterproductive to prop up the economy with the kind of heavy-handed fiscal and monetary policy that worked rather well during the global financial crisis in 2009. As a result, China had implemented only moderate stimulus measures this year, such as investment in selected public works projects and new credit lines to certain financial institutions. Broader policy actions such as rate cuts had been off the table. Until last week. On November 21, China’s central bank revealed the extent of its concern about the slowing economy when it unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate for the first time since July 2012, lowering it 40 basis points to 5.6 percent, in addition to cutting the 1-year deposit rate by 25 basis points to 2.75 percent. The move represented a clear shift in policy, say Credit Suisse analysts Dong Tao and Weishen Deng, from “neutral with a slight easing bias” to full-out “easing.” That shift comes on the heels of news that China’s GDP grew 7.3 percent in the third quarter, the lowest level since 2009, and the fact that the country is on course to miss its 7.5 percent growth target for the year. More recent October data shows persistent weakness. Industrial production rose a lower-than-expected 7.7 percent in October, down from 8 percent the previous month, while retail sales slowed to 11.5 percent from 11.6 percent. And bank credit increased by 548 billion Yuan during the month, well short of a Bloomberg consensus of 626 billion Yuan. “These weak credit data support our argument that risk appetite is low in the banking sector, despite the central bank’s ongoing efforts to provide liquidity,” Tao wrote in a November 24 note. Meanwhile, foreign direct investment in the first 10 months of the year declined 1.2 percent from last year’s levels, and China’s outbound investment will exceed FDI in 2014 for the first time since the open door policy took hold in the early 80s. “China’s role as the world factory is vanishing as direct investment in the manufacturing sector is shrinking,” says Tao. Credit Suisse forecasts further slowing, estimating GDP growth of only 6.8 percent for 2015. Tao and Deng also think that last week’s rate cut was just the first in a likely series of easing moves, and expect cuts to reserve requirement ratios over the next six months. With Europe and Japan already easing, China has joined a growing club of central banks that are adopting more accommodative monetary stances, leaving the U.S. as the sole major economic power moving in the other direction. FREE AppDownload
 Wall Street didn't always exist as we know it now. Forty years ago, banks were sleepier businesses — boring, even.  But then all of that changed. In an interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, Peter Solomon, founder of the Peter J. Solomon Company investment bank, pinpoints the moment everything shifted.  “I ascribe it to the 1981 going public of Salomon Brothers and two issues happened. One, the firms incorporated so they had limited liability, and number two, they had other people’s money so they could take more risk …there’s no question that that was the moment that Wall Street changed,” Solomon told von Stade. At that point Solomon had spent most of his career at Lehman Brothers, taking breaks to work in politics during a time when New York City was in an incredibly tenuous financial position. There was an energy crisis, inflation was high, and jobs were scarce. The entire country was hurting. Solomon worked in former New York Mayor Ed Koch's administration, and also worked on former President Jimmy Carter's second presidential run. When the latter failed, Solomon returned to Lehman Brothers. He said that was a mistake. "If I had to do it again... I would've taken six months off," he said. He believes that's still important to do when you're making a change in your career. Solomon's choice to go back him at Lehman during a fascinating time, though. It's all documented in Ken Auletta's book, "Greed and Glory on Wall Street: The Fall of The House of Lehman."  A battle between two rivals at the top of the firm — Lewis Glucksman, the head of trading, and Pete Peterson, the head of the investment-banking business — was tearing the firm apart. “There was a famous vote, a 14-1 vote, where I’m the only one voting against 14 of my partners in terms of accepting the deal between Peterson and Glucksman because I thought it would destroy the firm," said Solomon. "It destroyed the firm.” Solomon eventually started his own business — one of the first independent investment banks. The way he sees it, Wall Street banks are returning to the state they were in when things were more boring. The government has regulated risk out of that sector by raising liquidity requirements. “I think Wall Street is going to go back to where it was. I think that the Evercores and those types of companies that have done an excellent job are going to morph into the Lehman Brothers and the Morgan Stanleys of the 1980s, 30 years ago. I think the banks are going to go back to where they are. And I think the role of folks like ourselves is to be very very, very, very good in advisory business," he said. Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoWhen investors are ‘reaching for yield’, it’s a sure-fire warning sign. It’s something that financial historian Russell Napier highlights in his interview with Merryn Somerset Webb this week. Past experience shows that when investors get desperate, they’ll start lending money to any old enterprise with a good story, as long as it promises some sort of ‘real’ return. When investors become that indiscriminate about where they put their money, you can be sure that something will happen to burst their bubble sooner or later. And the an oil price crash might just be the thing to do it. It's been a great few years for ‘junk bonds’. As the name suggests, this is the risky end of the bond market. If you buy an investment-grade bond, the main concern on your mind will be prospects for inflation and interest rates over the period of the loan. The chance you might not get your money back is certainly a consideration, but it’s one of several. You’ll be more worried about the return on your money, than the return of your money. But if you buy a junk bond, it’s very different. The main question should be: what are the chances that this company will default? The thing is, investors seem to have been getting a little too relaxed about that question in recent years. Low interest rates and the hunt for yield have made it incredibly easy for all sorts of companies and countries to raise money at levels they would never have once dared dreamt of. Of course, because interest rates have been low, it’s been easy for most companies to service their debt. So default rates are historically low too. And as always happens, investors have looked at the low default rate, and assumed that this pleasant situation will continue forever – or for at least as long as their investment time-horizon is. So if a group of companies start going bust rather more rapidly than anyone expects, junk bond investors will be in for a nasty shock. And that looks rather like what might happen in the energy sector right now. On 27 November, the oil price collapsed. Oil cartel OPEC decided not to cut oil production, despite the fact that oil prices have plunged by around 30% since June. There are all sorts of reasons behind the decision. But it’s at least partly a game of chicken. It’s all about seeing who goes bust first – OPEC or their new rivals on the block, the US shale oil producers. The problem for OPEC is that many oil producers will keep pumping regardless of profitability, simply to maintain some cash flow. So while there may be a floor to the oil price, it could be quite a bit lower than where it is today. So as a consumer of oil-related products, I’m quite happy with this state of affairs. However, I’d be getting a little worried if I’d loaned money to the energy sector. As the Financial Times reports, “massive investment by oil drillers and exploration companies in US energy and shale gas projects in recent years has been partly financed via cheap borrowing conditions across capital markets.” Ten years ago, ‘energy debt’ accounted for 4% of the US junk bond market. Now it’s up to 16%. The crash in oil prices has not gone unnoticed. The average yield on junk energy bonds has risen sharply (in other words, prices have fallen) compared to other junk bonds. “Nearly a third” of that energy-related debt is now “trading so poorly, it currently qualifies as being classed as ‘distressed’, indicating a high likelihood of being restructured.” As Deutsche Bank put it, the tanking oil price “could potentially deliver a volatility shock large enough to trigger the next wave of defaults”. Could this have a knock-on effect? Given that many areas of the market – including stocks – are historically overvalued, and bond market liquidity in general is being questioned (we’ll come back to this next week some time), I wouldn’t bet against it. Banks are also sitting on some loans that now can’t be sold on to the wider market. Subprime should have taught everyone that panic in one area of the market can rapidly spread to apparently unrelated ones, as the scramble for liquidity sees even quality assets being sold off. As one credit trader tells the FT: “Equities ignore at their peril what is happening in the junk bond markets. We have had a long run in credit and slowly but surely, when things turn it starts in the weakest part of the market”. It’s certainly one reason to continue to be wary of overpriced US stocks. This article originally appeared at MoneyWeek.  Copyright 2014. Follow MoneyWeek on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Keith BedfordService sector activity accelerated in November. ISM's latest service sector PMI came in at 59.3.  Expectations were for the reading to come in at 57.5, up from 57.1 in October. October's report missed expectations. Wednesday's report showed that the new orders sub-index rose to 61.4, up from 59.1 in October, while the employment index fell to 56.7 against 59.6. This report from ISM also follows Markit's service sector PMI, which came in below expectations.  Markit's report showed that new orders rose at the slowest pace in seven months, while payroll and job gains accelerated in November.  From ISM, here's a look at what the survey's respondents said about business conditions in November. ISM FREE AppDownload
John Grees/ReutersService sector activity slowed in November. Markit's latest services PMI reading came in at 56.2, just below expectations and the flash reading, but indicating steady expansion in the services sector. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 56.5, up slightly from the preliminary 56.3 reading seen earlier this month.  The flash reading showed activity in the service sector expanded at its slowest pace since April.  Wednesday's report showed that output and new business volumes in the services sector expanded at the slowest pace in seven months, but payroll increases and the rate of job creation accelerated in November. Commenting on the report, Markit's Chris Williamson said, "The final PMI data confirm earlier flash readings that the US economy is likely to have slowed further in the fourth quarter ... The concern is that, with new business across manufacturing and services collectively growing at a much reduced rate compared to the summer months, companies could become more hesitant in taking on staff unless demand picks up soon again." Williamson added that, "However, at present, the slowing is still only modest, and leaves the economy growing at its approximate long-term trend rate."   FREE AppDownload
BloombergThe yield on the 10-year Treasury note year-to-date.Coming into 2014, almost all of Wall Street's top economists and interest rate gurus were convinced the 30-year old bond bull market was finally ending, and interest rates would trend higher throughout the year. In January, the consensus year-end forecast for the 10-year yield was 3.4%. With the US economy improving and the Federal Reserve ending its quantitative easing program, rising rates seemed to be an easy call. But that call was wrong. This year, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note peaked at 3.05% on January 2. And it got as low as 1.86% mid-October when volatility picked up across markets. Here's a list of the calls made in January that we now know to be inaccurate; some in part, others entirely. However, we found at least three folks who actually got the call right this year. Jeffrey Gundlach, CEO of DoubleLine, told clients in his January 14 start-of-the-year webcast that the 10-year Treasury yield could fall to 2.5% at the end of the year. "I think that there has been an embedded short position against the Treasury bond market of growing size," he said. "And if, for whatever reason, you get some more economic weakness or other drivers to safety that lead to a decline in Treasury yields, I think there could be a major pain trade in store." Steven Major, HSBC's head of fixed income research, said in a 2014 outlook that the 10-year yield would hit 2.1% by the third quarter. It reached this level in the first month of the fourth quarter. Marc Faber, publisher of The Gloom, Boom and Doom report, advised investors to buy 10-year notes. "I don’t believe in this magnificent U.S. economic recovery," he wrote in January. "The U.S. is going to turn down, and bond yields are going to fall." Even as US GDP in Q1, Faber has been largely wrong about the recovery. Still, anyone who bought bonds on that call should be thanking the doomsayer. ------------------- **NOTE: In Dec. 23, 2013 and Sept. 18, 2013 columns, Guggenheim's Scott Minerd said he expected "10-year yields to hit a peak at 3 percent." In the Sept. 18 column, he also said "if history is any indication, 10-year rates may be heading back to 2.25 percent or lower, meaning the bet may pay off." FREE AppDownload
Markit EconomicsNew survey data out of Russia confirms that the country's economy is in trouble. Russia's HSBC composite output index fell to 47.6 in November, down from 49.1 in October, which was the sharpest fall in activity since May. This was the sixth time in 2014 that Russia saw a negative reading. A PMI above 50 signals growth, while a number below 50 signals a contraction. "The PMI survey found the Russian economy risking not only prolonged, but deep recession. We expect 1.5% GDP decline in 2015, but are prepared to see even deeper decline if current negative trends by the PMI survey continue," writes Alexander Morozov, the Chief Economist of Russia, CIS and the Baltics at HSBC. Morozov's projection is much worse than the 0.8% GDP decline forecast by the Russian economy ministry earlier this week. The HSBC Services Business Activity Index fell to 44.5 in November — a five and a half year low. Additionally, for the first time in six years the majority of services firms expect activity to decline (as opposed to growth) over the next 12 months. Services "are so-called nontradable sectors. They do not win from currency depreciation, but lose from a faster price growth that accompanies the depreciation and erodes wages, incomes and profits," Morozov. And right now, Russia's currency is depreciating like crazy.  The ruble continues to plunge to new lows (currently around 53 to 1 dollar) — which could mean bad news in the future. Here's how much the ruble tanked against the dollar over the last several months:Bloomberg.comThe Ruble is in orange. It's tracking the crash in oil prices, which is the green line.Additionally, employment in the private sector decline for the 17th month in a row, and the "rate of job shedding accelerated to the fastest rate since September 2009," according to the report. The only sort of positive-looking number — manufacturing output, which rose at the strongest rate since July — is actually bad news, too. In the current circumstances, "manufacturing is a poor indicator of the overall trend in the Russian economy, especially if we account for the continuing decline in export demand for manufactured goods that once again prove to be inelastic to exchange rate movements," writes Morozov. So all in all, things aren't looking good.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPrivate payrolls in November grew by 208,o00 according to the latest report from ADP.  Expectations were for the report to show payrolls grew by 222,000 in November, down from 230,000 last month. Last month's gains were also revised up to 233,000. According to Carlos Rodriguez, CEO of ADP, "Small businesses continued to drive job gains adding almost half the total for the month." Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics said, "Steady as she goes in the job market... At this pace the unemployment rate will drop by half a percentage point per annum. The tightening in the job market will soon prompt acceleration in wage growth." This chart from ADP shows the changes in gains for the report over the last year. ADP And here are the job gains by company size in November. ADP FREE AppDownload
Abercrombie &amp; Fitch announced earnings today, and the results are ugly.  Sales fell 12% in the third quarter ended Nov. 1, while the company cut its profit outlook for the year. "The third quarter proved to be more difficult than expected," Abercrombie CEO Mike Jeffries said in a call with analysts Wednesday. "Traffic improved in August but then declined significantly in September and October." Jeffries cited weather, a highly promotional environment, and turmoil in the teen apparel market as reasons for the company's performance. "It is very clear that the young apparel sector in which we operate is going through a period of disruption and turmoil," he said. "We expect conditions to remain difficult [for the rest of the year]." The company said it expects per-share earnings of $1.50 to $1.65 for the year, down from its previous guidance of $2.15 to $2.35 a share. Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has said it plans to offset declining sales by phasing out visible logos on its clothing and offering trendier items. But Eric Beder, specialty apparel analyst at Wunderlich Securities, said he believes Abercrombie is running out of options.  "What is going to turn the tide?" Beder asked in a note to clients. "Frankly, we have no idea." Beder notes that Abercrombie has already exhausted numerous turnaround strategies, to no avail.  "Abercrombie has already aggressively closed domestic locations, cut back on inventories, shifted away from logo products, and cut costs," Beder writes.  The once-leading teen retailer has struggled to stay relevant since the surge in demand for fast-fashion brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M.  GettyAbercrombie & Fitch has said it plans to offset declining sales by phasing out visible logos on its clothing. Abercrombie has also been criticized for excluding plus-size customers and minorities in its stores.  For several months, Abercrombie has been touting a rebrand that apparently includes scaling back on logos and spraying less of its Fierce cologne in its stores.  But when Business Insider recently went shopping at the store, it was clear that little has changed since its heyday.  Beder says that a fundamental shift in teen customers is hurting Abercrombie, as well as competitors Aeropostale and American Eagle.  The mentality of teenage consumers is changing rapidly, according to Piper Jaffray's recent Taking Stock With Teens survey.  Researchers found that today's teens are increasingly spending on technology and food over clothing.  For the first time in history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing, according to the analysts at Piper Jaffray. This is fueled by trendy coffee drinks at Starbucks, the top food retailer among the demographic. FREE AppDownload
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of this morning's trader buzz: Good Morning!   US Futures are flat, and have been trading in a relatively tight range overnight.   Europe having a green day ahead of the ECB tomorrow, Miners are seeing some covering, while Banks are enjoying Italian Bonds hitting new all-time highs.   DAX is up 20bp as it continues to test unch on the day and bouncing – but Volumes are quieting down.   The MICEX is green again and the Ruble a slight bid as Oil stabilizes.   Asia had a very strong day, with the exception of Hong Kong, where protest angst hit Hang Seng for 1%.   Shanghai hit a fresh 3Y high as investors build in more easing from PBoC, Nikkei up 30bp to 7Y highs as Yen has fallen to 2007 Lows, and Aussie added 70bp as the resource stocks saw covering down under.  The 10Y is flat, with yields testing 2.3% in the overnight as several catalysts line up against Bonds (Shutdown Deal, Ukraine Truce, Issuance, Hawkspeak).  The DXY is higher, as the $/Y hits 119.50 ahead of heavy FX moving headlines today (ADP Jobs, Beige Book, 2 biggest FOMC Hawks speaking).  This is a headwind for commodities but WTI is barely green while Brent falls off 30bp.  Natty Gas is off 1.5% as the Front Page of Weather.com says – “Bad News for Winter Lovers”.   Metals are coming for sale, with Silver diving red the last few minutes, while Gold is barely green, struggling to stay upside $1200.   We have heavy Scheduled Catalysts today:  ADP Employment #s at 8:15; Nonfarm Productivity at 8:30; Markit US Services at 9:45; 10 brings us the Canadian Interest rate decision (no change), as well as ISM Services and the Online Help-Wanted Index.   10:30 we get DOE data for Crude, and at 12:30 Fed's Plosser (Hawk) Speaks on the Economic Outlook, at 2 we get the Fed’s Beige Book as well as a speech from Fed's Brainard (Dove) Speaks (Financial Stability).  At some point today we get Brazil’s Interest rate decision (50bp Hike), and tonight Fed's Fisher (hawk) Addresses the Dallas Business Club FREE AppDownload
Thank you for watching IGNITION 2014 live. The live-stream concluded at 5:15pm on Day 3 of the conference – Wednesday, December 3.  Watch highlights from the conference here &gt; IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogI’m an economist by training. I’ve seen pictures of oil rigs, but never seen one up close. As an economist, I have a tendency to use seasonally adjusted data to analyze the economy. For example, on my website I have a publication titled, “US Petroleum Weekly.” It shows data compiled by the US Department of Energy (DOE) for domestic production and usage, as well as exports and imports. I’ve been using the seasonally adjusted series rather than the unadjusted data compiled by DOE. One of our accounts noted that the seasonally adjusted production numbers show a decline of 0.4mbd over the past 10 weeks through the week of November 21 to 9.0mbd, while the unadjusted data continued to rise by 0.3mbd to 9.1mbd. The former suggest that the plunge in oil prices may be depressing production already, while the latter suggest that’s not so. The unadjusted data for the key oil-producing states, especially Texas and North Dakota, show production still rising. I will continue to monitor usage as well as exports and imports on a seasonally adjusted basis. However, I will focus on the unadjusted data for production to assess whether the drop in oil prices is depressing US oil field output. For now, my conclusion is that the US oil industry intends to play the Saudis’ game of chicken. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: China’s Soft Landing. (1) US oil production still going strong. (2) Saudis’ game of chicken. (3) Secular stagnation in Eurozone weighing on global economic growth. (4) Chinese imports suggest growth weaker than shown by GDP. (5) Emerging markets hard hit by China slowdown. (6) China still dependent on export-led growth. (7) Chinese crude oil demand and railway freight traffic also weak. (8) S&amp;P 500 earnings and revenues remain on bullish trends. (9) Dudley's upbeat outlook. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 auto-related industries. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who is leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, eats a local grilled fish during his official campaign kick-off for the Dec. 14 lower house election, at the Soma Haragama fishing port in Soma, Fukushima prefecture, on Tuesday.Good morning! Here are 10 big stories you need to hear about before markets open in the US. Europe Is Crumbling. The pace of economic activity fell to a 16-month low in the eurozone. Markit's eurozone composite output index fell to 51.1 in November from 52.1 in October. "The survey data suggest the region is on course to see a mere 0.1% GDP growth in the final quarter of the year, with a strong likelihood of the near-stagnation turning to renewed contraction in the New Year unless demand shows signs of reviving," Markit's Chris Williamson said. Germany Slows To A 17-Month Low. Germany's output index tumbled to 51.7. "Composite PMI data suggest that the German economy is likely to face another quarter of only marginal growth at best, with fears of a renewed downturn intensifying," Markit's Oliver Kolodseike said. Spain Slows To A 9-Month Low. Spain's output index fell to 53.8 in November as its services sector stumbled. "November was a difficult month for service providers in Spain, with growth of new work slowing to the weakest since October 2013," Markit's Andrew Harker said. France Is In Deep Trouble. France's output index fell to a nine-month low of 47.9, signaling outright contraction. "There are worrying signs of economic performance deteriorating in the core countries which, if sustained, could drive the region back into recession," Williamson said. "France remains the biggest concern, suffering an ongoing decline in business activity." But Italy's Looking Up. Italy's output index improved to a four-month high of 51.2. "Italy was the only country to see an improved rate of growth, raising hopes that it may pull out of recession in the fourth quarter, though the rate of expansion remained disappointingly modest and prone to further setbacks," Williamson said. China's Services Sector Picked Up Pace In November. HSBC's services PMI, a major business survey, rose from 52.9 to 53, and the government's official PMI rose from 53.8 to 53.9, with any number over 50 pointing to growth. US Data Is Coming. The Markit US services PMI report will be released at 9:45 a.m. ET, and the ISM services index comes at 10 a.m. ET. Economists expect both reports to reflect accelerating growth in the US economy. The ADP employment change report comes at 8:45 a.m.; economists estimate US companies added 222,000 private payrolls during the month. Markets Are Mixed. Europe is mixed, with Britain's FTSE down 0.2%, France's CAC 40 down 0.1%, and Germany's DAX up 0.1%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.3%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.9%. US stock market futures are flat. Southeastern Europe Is Reacting Badly To Russia's Aborted Pipeline. Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the decision to curtail the south stream gas pipeline earlier this week, but Bulgarian, Hungarian, and Serbian governments say they have already invested in the scheme and had no advance warning, according to the Financial Times.  A US Financial Watchdog Says Risks Are Rising. New rules to make banks safer after the credit crisis are imperfect and could boost less-regulated activities in the so-called shadow banking system, according to the Office of Financial Research. The body also said the Federal Reserve's annual check of the financial health of the banking system, known as stress tests, fell short on several counts. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA completed house is seen behind the earthworks of a home currently under construction in BrandywineNEW YORK, Dec 3 Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week as refinancing applications dropped, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 7.3 percent in the week ended Nov. 28. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 13.4 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 2.5 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.08 percent in the week, the lowest level since May 2013. They fell 7 basis points from 4.15 percent the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch) FREE AppDownload
Excel pivot tables are incredible tools that allow you to analyze large data sets many different ways in seconds. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
LONDON (Reuters) - The euro zone economy may face another contraction after business activity grew less than expected in November despite heavy discounting, surveys on Wednesday showed, although Asian readings were more upbeat. Firms across the euro zone cut prices again. That, and signs that the bloc's core economies are struggling, will concern the European Central Bank which has launched a raft of measures to revive growth and drive up dangerously low inflation. In contrast, a survey covering China's services industry showed slightly faster expansion. But after data on Monday said manufacturing growth was its weakest in at least six months, it may not be enough to allay concerns about a softening economy. "There are clear downside risks to various areas of the world economy including the euro zone and to some extent China," said Philip Shaw, chief economist at Investec. "The euro zone numbers do indicate the economy is moving forwards but at a snail's pace, (and) the pressure remains on the ECB." Markit's final November Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), based on surveys of thousands of companies across the euro area and seen as a good indicator of growth, sank to 51.1 from October's 52.1, missing an earlier flash reading of 51.4. November was the 17th month the index has been above the 50 level that separates growth from contraction. But the new business index fell below that mark for the first time since the middle of last year, suggesting a further downturn in December. "The region is on course to see a mere 0.1 percent GDP growth in the final quarter of the year, with a strong likelihood of the near-stagnation turning to renewed contraction in the new year unless demand shows signs of reviving," said Chris Williamson, Markit's chief economist. A Reuters poll last month predicted 0.2 percent economic growth this quarter and 0.3 percent next. A PMI covering the region's dominant service industry fell to 51.1 from October's 52.3 and showed firms have been cutting prices for three full years now to drum up business. Retail sales, a proxy for household demand and one of the weaker elements of the euro zone's slow and fragile recovery, picked up less than expected last month, official data showed. Inflation dipped to 0.3 percent in November on a year earlier, deep into the ECB's "danger zone" for price moves, although the central bank is not expected to further ease already very loose policy when it meets on Thursday. [ECB/INT] The ECB is offering banks long-term cheap loans and buying covered bonds and asset-backed securities. But facing resistance from Germany, there is only an even chance it will buy government bonds, a Reuters poll found last week. Conversely, the Bank of England is expected to begin tightening policy next year and after a survey showed its services sector expanded more than expected last month, recently revised forecasts for a later hike may be brought back in. The data will be welcomed by Finance Minister George Osborne who gives a half-yearly update on official growth and borrowing forecasts later on Wednesday, his penultimate such statement before May's national election. Other figures due later on Wednesday are expected to show an acceleration in activity in the United States' vast service industry.  China's official non-manufacturing PMI rose to 53.9 in November from 53.8 while a separate services PMI published by HSBC/Markit inched up to 53.0 last month from October's 52.9, as new orders rose at their quickest pace in 2-1/2 years. But the surveys painted a mixed picture of the labor market, which Chinese leaders say is a crucial consideration when setting policy. Along with Monday's news, that prompted some economists to predict China would cut interest rates again in coming months after doing so unexpectedly on Nov. 21. "Things have gotten worse rather than better," said Louis Kuijs, an economist at RBS in Hong Kong, adding that any bottoming out in China's sagging housing market is unlikely to lead to a solid rebound next year. "I predict one more rate cut to lower lending rates to 5.25 percent in the first quarter," he said. In other upbeat data from the region, activity in India's services industry expanded at its fastest rate in five months although the outlook was clouded by tumbling confidence.     (Additional reporting by Koh Gui Qing in Beijing; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Traders say the Russian central bank has stepped back into currency markets to halt the rouble's slide as it continued to fall in early trading Wednesday. Here's the evidence — the rouble suddenly reversed its losses in early trading to turn up on the day against the dollar: BloombergThe dollar versus the rouble. The central bank confirmed earlier rumours that it had intervened in currency markets on Monday. On Wednesday it confirmed that it had spent $700 million to defend the rouble over two days after the currency saw its worst falls against the dollar and the euro since the 1998 Russia crisis. According to Bloomberg, this joke has been bouncing around Russian social media: Heard the one about Vladimir Putin, the oil price and the ruble’s value against the dollar? They will all hit 63 next year. The joke is a humorous take on a serious problem that Russia is facing. The country's currency has proved hugely sensitive to drops in oil prices, closely tracking the collapse of crude oil prices, which have dropped by over 30% since June: BloombergThe rouble (orange) versus Brent oil price (green). Since the start of the year, Russia's international reserves have fallen almost $90 billion, to $420.4 billion from $510 billion as of Nov. 21. The country spent $15 billion in October alone buying up roubles in currency markets to soften the impact of the sharp drops in its value on the Russian economy. However, it has been unable to halt the slide as oil prices continued to drop and Western sanctions over Russia's role in the ongoing conflict in Ukraine took their toll. On Tuesday the country's Economic Development Ministry revised down its GDP projection for next year from 1.2% growth to a 0.8% contraction, suggesting that Russia is falling into a recession. The Russian government, along with the central bank, must now decide how much more of its foreign currency reserves it is willing to spend to defend the rouble from further falls. Top of their minds will be the more than $130 billion in foreign-currency debt due to be repaid by Russian businesses over the next 12 months. As the rouble falls, that bill is getting ever more expensive. The battle for the rouble continues...and it looks like the central bank is winning so far. After a sharp snap-back the rouble has strengthened almost 2% versus the dollar at the time of writing: BloombergDollar vs the rouble.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of oil company Eni-Saipem is pictured at its headquarters in RomeMILAN (Reuters) - Italian oil services firm Saipem may lose 1.25 billion euros ($1.55 billion) in revenue in 2015 due to Russia's apparent cancellation of the South Stream gas pipeline project, CEO Umberto Vergine told daily Il Sole 24 Ore in an interview. Russia on Monday scrapped the pipeline project to supply gas to southern Europe without crossing Ukraine. However, Saipem said on Tuesday it had not yet received formal notice of the termination of any South Stream contracts and operations were still underway. In the interview published on Wednesday, Vergine also said that 2015 would still be a year of transition for the company and more time would be needed than initially expected to recover profitability and cut debt. A Saipem spokeswoman confirmed the interview. "2015 was supposed to be the year when we stabilize our performance but instead the road will still be uphill," Vergine told the paper. "If you also consider the drop in the crude oil price, the impact of these factors will not be marginal." Saipem shares were volatile, with the stock up 0.9 percent at 10.1 euros by 0828 GMT (03:28 a.m. EST), after dipping into negative territory earlier. The stock fell more than 10 percent on Tuesday to a level last seen in 2008. South Stream's demise is the latest blow for a group which lost half its stock market value last year following two profit warnings, and cut this year's profit forecast in July. (Reporting by Agnieszka Flak; Editing by Richard Pullin and Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The Russian rouble has hit another new low, the Financial Times says: "The Russian currency has tumbled another 1.3 per cent to 54.676 per US dollar, the lowest on record, smashing past the previous low touched on Monday when the rouble suffered its worst drop since the country's 1998 financial crisis."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew Winning It's not good news: businesses say economic growth is now at a 16-month low, with a PMI reading of 51.1. The last time the readings were this low, Europe was barely edging out of recession. Markit, the firm that collates the PMI readings, says this suggests growth will be just 0.1% in the last quarter of the year, following the same result in the third quarter.  This is some of the last major data before the European Central Bank's decisions and president Mario Draghi's news conference Thursday. If they're weak, they're going to heap more pressure on the ECB to ease their policies. Any figure over 50 signals growth, while anything under 50 hints that the services sector is shrinking. Here's how it broke down by country: First out of the blocks is Spain: November's PMI is down to 52.7. That's the lowest in a year, down from 55.9 last month and way lower than the 55.2 that was expected. Not a good start. Italy comes next, beating expectations with a 51.8 reading. That's an improvement on October's 50.8 and much better than analysts expected. France, Europe's second-biggest economy, comes in with a PMI at 47.9, a nine-month low. That's after an October score of 48.3.  Lastly and probably most importantly, Germany's PMI dropped to 52.1, the weakest in 16 months. In October, Germany's services PMI was at 54.4. Analysts had expected a drop.    FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Mikhail MordasovA crew symbolically welding two pieces of South Stream gas pipeline together. Russia has since announced it is dropping the projectBrussels (AFP) - Europe played down Tuesday an angry Russia's shelving of the multi-billion-dollar South Stream gas pipeline project, saying it merely reinforced the need to find other energy sources amid the crisis in Ukraine. President Vladimir Putin unexpectedly announced during a visit to Turkey on Monday that he was closing the scheme to pump Russian gas to southeast Europe, blaming Brussels for making it impossible. The pipeline has become the latest casualty of the new Cold War between the West and Russia over Ukraine, with Brussels increasingly keen to wean the EU off its dependence on Moscow's fossil fuels. The European Union defended its position on Tuesday, saying that in its current form the South Stream pipeline breached its rules and that any such project on its territory must respect them. "The decision announced by Russia shows it is urgent not only to diversify the routes but also the sources of energy for the EU," EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini told reporters before meeting NATO foreign ministers. A scheduled EU meeting on South Stream on December 9 would go ahead as planned despite the Russian announcement, Mogherini added. The pipeline was to bypass crisis-hit Ukraine, flowing underneath Turkey's waters in the Black Sea and through the Balkans, crossing Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary and Slovenia and then Austria to connect with the main European pipeline network. But Bulgaria, once a strong backer of the project, changed its mind on the pipeline in June after the EU said Sofia had breached the bloc's competition rules by the way it awarded contracts for its leg of the pipeline. Putin said on Monday, at a news conference alongside Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara, that "in the current conditions Russia cannot continue with the realisation of this project."  Russian state gas giant Gazprom said it had instead signed an agreement on constructing an offshore pipeline across the Black Sea towards Turkey, the second biggest European-area importer of Russia gas after Germany. The EU refused to say whether it believed Putin -- or Gazprom boss Alexei Miller who said: "That's it, the project is closed." "To comment on whether South Stream is dead or not is not really for us to do," said Anna-Kaisa Itkonen, an energy spokeswoman for the Commission. The pipeline row is crucial because despite relations being at their worst since the Cold War, the EU gets about a third of its gas from Russia, with some Eastern European nations almost totally reliant on it. Around half currently transits through Ukraine, and just last month the EU brokered a deal between Moscow and Kiev to resume gas deliveries halted by the crisis and ensure warmth for European homes. South Stream would have removed the Ukrainian headache for Russia, but Brussels was less keen, seeing a need to look for other sources of energy away from the growing threat on its borders. Bulgaria's European Commission vice-president Kristalina Georgieva suggested that Putin's announcement had more to do with politics than the EU's rules. "The construction of pipelines should correspond to EU rules," she said. "This position is clear but it is in place for quite some time and it cannot be the reason for this decision" by Russia. Bulgaria's president Rosen Plevneliev on Tuesday rejected any responsibility for Putin's decision. "It is clear to everyone that South Stream is not a project only between Russia and Bulgaria but between Russia and the EU... The decision is entirely in the hands of Russia and the European Union," Plevneliev said. The EU shot back that South Stream was a matter between Russia and individual member states, while adding that Bulgaria would not be entitled to any compensation from Brussels for the project's failure. Hungary was meanwhile looking at alternative sources of gas including Azerbaijan "in order to secure Hungary's long-term energy supply", Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeLei Jun, founder and chief executive officer of China's mobile company Xiaomi, demonstrates the new features of the new Xiaomi Phone 4 at its launching ceremony, in Beijing July 22, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Wednesday. 1. Hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong have vowed to stay at protest sites, despite calls from the student leaders who founded the movement to retreat.  2. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called for early elections after firing his finance and justice ministers for opposing government policy.  3. President Barack Obama is said to have picked Ashton Carter, the former deputy secretary of defence, to replace outgoing defence secretary Chuck Hagel.  4. Xiaomi, the world's third-biggest smartphone manufacturer, made its first US investment as part of a $40 million funding round for a Silicon Valley wearables startup called Misfit. 5. The Iraq government and the autonomous Kurdish region reached a long-term deal to share the country's oil revenues and military resources. 6. China said on Wednesday that it hoped to keep strengthening relations with Taiwan after the island's pro-China nationalist governing party suffered a stunning electoral defeat.  7. The captain accused of causing the Costa Concordia cruise ship disaster, Francesco Schettino, said in a testimony that he manoeuvred the ship too close to an island to impress passengers with a better view. 8. Japan launched a space probe on a six-year journey to land on an asteroid and then bring samples back to earth. 9. Qatar released the design of their fourth stadium for the 2022 World Cup. 10. Archaeologists in South Carolina think they have uncovered the remnants of an 18th century wharf where some 100,000 African slaves arrived in America at the height of the slave trade.  And finally ... North Korea has banned its citizens from using the name Kim Jong-Un.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersOffshore oil platform is seen in Huntington Beach SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil rebounded more than 1 percent on Wednesday, with Brent rising above $71 a barrel, recouping some of its losses from the previous session as a turbulent market struggled to find a price floor. The market has swung through sharp gains and losses since OPEC announced last week that it would maintain steady output in an oversupplied market. Brent and U.S. crude are down more than 30 percent since June and touched five-year lows on Monday. Brent crude hit a high of $71.46 a barrel on Wednesday after falling $2 in the previous session. The January contract was up 75 cents at $71.29 by 0210 GMT (09:10 p.m. ET). U.S. crude for January was at $67.85 a barrel, up 97 cents, after dropping more than $2 the session before. The contract touched a high of $67.97 after data from the American Petroleum Institute showed a bigger than expected fall in crude inventories. "The market's volatility is a result of people working out what's going to happen next," said Jonathan Barratt, chief investment officer at Ayers Alliance Securities. He said a low price "will force weak people out of the market and the strong will prevail". Saudi Arabia and other key members have kept output stable in November, underlining their focus on defending market share, a Reuters survey found. OPEC's oil supply in November declined by 340,000 barrels per day (bpd) due to political instability in Libya. Yet, Iraq could export more crude after Baghdad reached a temporary deal with Kurdish regional authorities. Saudi Arabia would only consider cutting production if other countries, including non-OPEC producer Russia, joined in limits, former Saudi intelligence chief Prince Turki bin Faisal said. "Prices should find a volatile low at these levels" given that Russia, hurt by a drop in oil revenues, may act to prop up prices, Barratt said. Other factors that could support oil include whether OPEC will stay united on its policy and when non-OPEC producers will start to cut back output, he said. Still, chart analysts have warned that the months-long rout is not over yet and U.S. crude may quickly plunge toward $50 per barrel if a handful of tenuous support levels give way after a period of consolidation. In the United States, crude inventories fell by 6.5 million barrels in the week to Nov. 28 to 373 million, according to API, compared with analyst expectations for an increase of 1.3 million barrels. Data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration is due on Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. EST. (Reporting by Florence Tan; Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
