Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are up in Europe. Britain's FTSE is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%. Germany's DAX is up 0.5%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.7%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.9%. China reported that exports climbed 0.9% in April, which was much stronger than the 3% drop expected by economists. Later this morning, we will get monetary policy decisions from the Bank of England and the European Central Bank. Economists expect no change in the ultra loos monetary policies. In the U.S., we'll get a tally of initial weekly jobless claims. Economists estimate claims fell to 325,000 from 344,000 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims have trended higher in the past couple weeks," noted Nomura economists. "We need to observe claims in coming weeks to determine if this trend continues and if there has been any deterioration in labor market performance." U.S. futures are in the green with Dow futures up 18 points. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveIndia's elections are in the final stages and votes will be counted on May 16. With 814 million Indians eligible to vote, this has been the biggest election in history — understandably, the world has been watching to see how this plays out Opposition leader Narendra Modi is widely expected to be India's next prime minister and the ruling Congress party is expected to lose. Modi is currently the Chief Minister of Gujarat, a region known for economic progress but also violent riots. While he has managed to position himself as a champion of economic growth, his plans remain largely unclear. "He's selling a dream," said Ruchir Sharma, head of emerging markets and global macro at Morgan Stanley Investment Management. "We don't have specifics as yet." We spoke with Sharma, author of "Breakout Nations," on the Indian elections. Here are some highlights from the interview: Here's the entire interview: Business Insider: What would a Modi term mean for India? Ruchir Sharma: I've been traveling in India, although I'm based in New York, what really strikes me here is the fact that this campaign started out, as what I described, as an 'anybody but Congress' campaign. It was quite apparent over the last 24 to 36 months that people were quite disgusted with the ruling Congress government because they thought it was inept on every front, whether it was inflation, corruption, or getting anything executed. It was seen as incompetent. Modi has very smartly — this is the first time that I've seen this in India — been planning this like a U.S. presidential election. That is to say that ever since the BJP lost the election in 2009, five years ago, he has been sensing that the next election he really wants to take a shot at it. He has been behind the scenes working at it, in his own state of Gujarat. He's offered a complete contrast in terms of economic performance and governance, and the way the government runs there. He has systematically been planning this for five years in a U.S. presidential election style way. As I've been traveling what's been very apparent is that, I was in the interiors of Uttar Pradesh, one of India's poorest states and what I find remarkable is that in the villages, people would speak about how they think their problems could be fixed by Modi. From the depths of despair they've come to see Modi as the man who will come and change things. I don't know whether this feeling is irrational, because none of the people have ever been to Gujarat or possibly been outside their state and yet this feeling exists that he's going to come and change things. The whole Muslim issue is controversial, and it is baggage for Modi, and people understand that but think what the hell, things look so bad let's give this guy a shot. Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)BI: Do you give credence to the talk of the emergence of a messy coalition, or what some folks are calling the third front, with the rise of regional parties? RS: The current trend in India, and as you rightly pointed out the polls can be quite unreliable, really seems to suggest that Modi has made it all about himself, that he's succeeded in doing so, and that he's not going to need much outside help. That seems the way this election is headed currently, unless something dramatic happens this week or unless there's a voice out there that we're not picking up. The rise of the regional parties has been one of my favorite themes as well. I think that's a train that's continuing, but this is about the decimation of the Congress party. The Congress party in this election is likely to fall to its lowest tally ever in post-independence India. Its vote share has plummeted, so this is as much about Congress being completely decimated. And the regional parties are still doing what they have to do. One of the most fascinating statistics I find, which people can't quite appreciate, is that even if Modi wins this election quite comfortably, two-thirds of India would not have voted for him in this election. India remains a multiparty system, its polity is very fragmented. The regional parties are here to stay and possibly rise but Modi's real big gain is coming at the cost of the Congress party. The reason behind that statement is that the polity in India is very fragmented with strong regional identities...there are many states where the national parties such as the BJP only have a marginal presence and the regional or state level parties call the shots...that's why even in what is being described as a 'wave election' for Modi, his party is unlikely to win more than a third of the vote with the regional parties still cornering significant vote shares in states where the BJP and the Congress only have a marginal presence. BI: There are loads of publications that have pointed out that Gujarat was doing quite well before Modi came to power too. It isn't necessarily that's kept economic growth going in that state…RS: That's true. Gujarat has two advantages, one: the population is quite entrepreneurial and industrial and so Gujarat has been doing well for a longer period of time. And two: the geographical sweet spot — that it's basically located on the Western coast, and has good coastline, and that helps Gujarat a lot. Having said that, a look at the history of economic performance of Indian states, and what it shows typically is that many of the other states that were doing well in the previous decade, often tend to fade in the subsequent decade, so often we've seen examples of states, like some of the southern states, like Karnataka or Andhra Pradesh, they'll do well for five or 10 years, and then they won't do that well. In Gujarat, what's been remarkable is that it's continued to do well for long periods of time, under Modi, in fact the performance has improved a bit at the state level. But I really feel that this debate about what Gujarat has done, and how things have stayed in Gujarat has almost become a bit irrelevant because the perception which has spread like wildfire, is the fact that India needs a tough, decisive leader, at a time when it's going through a lot of economic turmoil — where inflation is really high, growth is really low — that we need a really decisive leader to come cut through this mess. Modi has been able to effectively position himself as just the answer to India's problem. We can spend a lot of time parsing through the data, and that's true of most debates, but the key here is that — and I can't understand whether it's rational or irrational — he has been able to position himself as a connoisseur of all of India's problems, including inflation which has been so high for five years now.  REUTERS/Anindito MukherjeePolling officials leave for their assigned stations after collecting the electronic voting machines from a distribution centre. BI: What are the big reforms we should expect from Modi and what reforms does India need?  RS: Here's the thing about Modi, he's selling a dream. We don't have specifics as yet. Indian campaigns are very different from U.S. campaigns where polices are debated a lot. In India the debate on policies, or even what they say in the manifesto, just doesn't mean much because those things aren't followed through. Or, the manifesto could be drafted by somebody who is not even supposed to that relevant in the next administration. It's very difficult for me to know what they're going to do. This election is about selling an economic dream, it's not about what the specifics are. What he will come [to power] and do, I don't know. What should he do? I think we all know — India needs better labor laws, the labor laws are much too rigid; Indian fiscal spending is out of control, spending needs to be put under check; you can't have wage inflation which is running way higher than productivity levels; we can't have subsidies for so many essential items in India; and similarly we can't have retroactive taxes; we can't have regulation which is unclear for so many critical sectors in India from power to coal. So the list of what needs to be done is long, and expectations are high, but specifics of what have been offered in the campaign so far, as is true of most Indian election campaigns, has been low. BI: After a pretty terrible run, Indian equities have been doing well recently. Are they just riding on the sentiment of Modi?  RS: I've seen in emerging markets over the past five to six months, all the emerging markets where you're expecting political change, markets have rallied quite a bit. We're seeing that in Indonesia, in India, and we're seeing that now in Brazil. Every time the polls show a drop for the incumbent there, the markets tend to rally. There's a real feeling among investors in all these emerging markets, that economic change is required and reforms are required, because the old model is not delivering results anymore. Whether the incumbents are tired and out of energy or they got too complacent. So yes, politics has been playing a role in influencing the Indian market direction over the last five to six months. Having said that I think the bigger picture is that the Indian market is one of the most highly correlated emerging markets in the world. In fact it's possibly the highest over a five, 10, 15 year period — there's no other emerging market that has a correlation as high, to other emerging markets, as India has. That still remains the dominant story but yeah, from a short-term stand point, it has been very driven by politics. BI: Some have argued that it doesn't matter who comes to power, India's investment cycle is going to languish for a while. Do you agree with that?  RS: I do sort of agree with the statement in that India's investment cycle has many problems which Modi may not be able to solve. For example a lot of stalled projects are at the state level, and not at the center. But having said that, I think the issue is that if he does carry out some of the critical reforms that we've spoken about — labor market reform, reducing government spending which allows interest rates to start coming down — I think those kinds of things will help investment. That's economics 101, if you do manage to get lower interest rates because inflation is brought under control, you do manage to get some sort of labor market reforms that will help the investment cycle.  AP Photo /Manish SwarupAn Indian woman shows her finger marked with indelible ink after casting her vote at a village near Sawai Madhopur in Rajasthan.BI: Why should the rest of the world be watching the Indian elections? What are the implications for U.S. investors for instance? RS: For U.S. investors, the key thing is that India has fallen off the map. After all the talk about China and India in the same breath, interest in India in general has faded a lot. Having said that, it is still a low-growth world, there are few growth opportunities out there. So if India  manages to get its growth rate up to 6 to 7% or so, it becomes a meaningful thing because it's a $2 trillion economy, and if it starts growing again at 7%, rather than the 4.5% we're currently down to, it becomes an interesting opportunity for lots of people because it means the pie is growing faster. Without getting something to shake the system up it will be difficult to get growth again. India, on the international stage, is a power that keeps punching below its weight. I don't think geopolitics is a factor at all. It's almost as if the world has told India go sort out your own problems in terms of the political and economic mess that we have. And in terms of geopolitics we're just not featuring much anymore. The focus in Asia, the pivot as you know, is basically about the rise of China and how that disturbs the relationship of other countries in the region. India is really out of that equation. Geopolitics isn't where India is featuring at the moment, it's really abut China and that west.  BI: Is there anything else you'd like to add that I haven't asked you about? RS: This is a big year for political change across the emerging world. Forty percent of all democracies in the emerging world are going to the polls this year. And there's a big anti-incumbency wave which is sweeping through the emerging world, where people want political change because they're fed up with the poor economic performance of the last two or three years.  Even in India this was very different from five years ago when investors were rooting for the Congress party to come back to power. And on the first day when the party returned to power, on the first day the stock market had to be shutdown because it lost 15% in a day or something which is the maximum upper limit. That should also remind investors that initial reaction can be quite impulsive and you've got to look at things over a period of time and how things play themselves out. The initial reaction can be quite impulsive, up or down, when you get the results, but it's worth remembering back in 2009, how quickly expectations were disappointed after that initial burst of enthusiasm. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthA balloon rises into the sky during the International Balloon Fiesta near Bristol in western England, August 7, 2009.The Path Of Least Resistance Is Upward (Bob Doll) Nuveen's Bob Doll says recent strong corporate earnings means higher stock prices for the rest of the year and into the next. "The recent sideways trend of global equities should gradually give way to a renewed uptrend as the global economic recovery gains traction," he writes. "While equities are still digesting last year’s strong gains, an imminent upturn in corporate earnings implies higher stock prices on a 6- to 12- month horizon, with risks tilted to the upside. A strengthening economic recovery also signals higher G7 government bond yields, especially as the markets begin factoring in the start of Fed rate hikes sometime next year. Investors remain cautious about the outlook but should gain greater comfort as global growth shifts onto a stronger trajectory. This should eventually result in a steady flow out of cash and bonds into stocks. Geopolitical risks aside, the path of least resistance for equities and bond yields is shifting upward." Don't Sell In May And Go Away This Year (Guggenheim Partners) You probably shouldn't be adhering to the old adage — or any adage, for that matter — that the sweetest spot for stocks is spring. But for Guggenheim CIO Scott Minerd, this is a particularly bad year to do so. "...in the face of strong U.S. economic fundamentals, which should be pushing interest rates higher, technical factors at home and abroad have driven interest rates in the opposite direction. This only adds to already improving U.S. economic prospects. Low interest rates and increasing employment will have a positive impact on housing and on consumer confidence and spending. We will also likely see a pick-up in mergers and acquisitions activity, and U.S. first-quarter corporate earnings have beaten estimates -- factors which should help push equity prices even higher. In fact, 2014 may be a year where it is wise to ignore the old adage to sell in May and go away."  What's Causing The Risk-Off Blip? (Kevin Ferry) Yields on U.S. treasuries have slipped recently in the face of seemingly stronger economic data. What gives? In an email to Kevin Ferry, an unnamed analyst lays out his thesis: "Public corporate pension funds — thanks to the over 30% gain in the S&amp;P500 last year and the rise in rates, which lowered the net present value of the liabilities many — are 100% to 110% funded. At the end of the first quarter a number of large pension funds were up 8% on the year because of there holdings in the "MOMO" stocks (Amazon, Facebook, Netflix etc.) and with the net present value of their liabilities lower, it became attractive to reduce growth assets and increase hedge assets. I think this explains the decline in momentum stocks in April and the strong bid for long dated fixed income. The question is this asset reallocation over. The answer is no! Big picture there are 16T in Private pension fund assets and 12T in US treasuries so this story will continue to play out as our population ages and preference for fixed income increases." There Is Nothing New Under The Amazon Bestseller List (Josh Brown) The Reformed Broker notes the list of best selling books on investing are all relatively old, written by guys like Lynch, Graham and Bogle. "What’s interesting to me is that so many of the top books for stock investors are from decades ago – in one case almost a century ago. I’m not sure you’d see that in other verticals, like sports, romance, suspense, history, politics etc. I think it goes to show how permanent sound financial advice is, how truly timeless some market wisdom has turned out to have been." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo hangs outside a branch of Barclays bank in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt; said it will cut 19,000 jobs in the next three years and set up a "bad bank" of assets to run down as it tries to get a turnaround plan back on track by cutting costs and lifting profitability. Barclays increased its expected job cuts this year to 14,000, from 12,000 announced in February, with the extra 2,000 jobs going in the investment bank. It said it will cut a further 5,000 jobs in the investment bank by the end of 2016. The bank said 115 billion pounds of risk-weighted assets would go into the bad bank, including 90 billion pounds of investment bank assets and all of its European retail banking operations, amounting to 16 billion pounds of assets. (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Matt Scuffham) FREE AppDownload
Colorado lawmakers approved the first financial system for the marijuana industry Wednesday, a network of uninsured cooperatives designed to give pot businesses a way to access basic banking services. The plan seeks to move the marijuana industry away from its cash-only roots. Banks routinely reject pot businesses for even basic services such as checking accounts because they fear running afoul of federal law, which considers marijuana and its proceeds illegal. The result: Pot shop owners deal in large amounts of cash, which makes them targets for criminals. Or they try to find ways around the problem, like drenching their proceeds in air freshener to remove the stink of marijuana and try to fool traditional banks into accepting their money. Colorado became the first state to allow recreational pot sales, which started Jan. 1. Washington state will follow suit, with retail sales expect to start in July. The U.S. Treasury Department said in February that banks could serve the marijuana industry under certain conditions. With the industry emerging from the underground, states want to track marijuana sales and collect taxes. It's a lot easier to do that when the businesses have bank accounts. But most banks have shrugged at the Treasury guidelines, calling them too onerous to accept marijuana-related clients. The result is a marijuana industry that still relies largely on cash, a safety risk for operators and a concern for Colorado's pot regulators. The bill approved Wednesday would allow marijuana businesses to pool money in cooperative s, but the co-ops would on take effect if the U.S. Federal Reserve agrees to allow them to do things like accept credit cards or checks. Democratic Gov. John Hickenlooper supports the pot bank plan and is expected to sign it into law, though a spokesman said Wednesday the governor had yet to review the final language. Lawmakers from both parties supported the banking co-ops as a way to properly audit marijuana shops and to make sure they're paying all their taxes. Dispensary owners came to the Capitol this session to tell of their difficulties paying taxes and utilities in cash and the dangers of dealing in cash. "It is very easy to see somebody get killed over this issue," Marijuana Industry Group Director Michael Elliott testified last month. The plan had bipartisan support, though some Republicans said that the effort won't pass federal muster. A few banks are accepting marijuana clients in light of the federal regulations. Numerica Credit Union in eastern Washington state is accepting limited business from marijuana growers and processors, The Spokesman-Review reported Wednesday. Colorado pot shop owners say a small number of credit unions will do business with them, too, though no banks or credit unions have said so publicly. ___ Online: House Bill 1398: http://bit.ly/1njtnLc Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerElon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors, waves during a news conference to mark the company's delivery of the first batch of electric cars to Chinese customers in Beijing April 22, 2014. Tesla CEO Elon Musk said Wednesday evening he hopes to break ground on the company's first Gigafactory as early as next month, but that the company is still deciding where to do so. In the firm's Q1 earnings call, Musk also added California is now back in the mix of potential sites for the battery factory, but added it may be too late. Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas are all said to be in the running.  The firm announced in February it would begin building Gigafactories to produce electric batteries for both its cars and for solar power systems — Musk is chairman of solar service firm SolarCity. Musk announced on the call that the firm had signed a letter of intent with Panasonic to partner with the electronics giant to supply parts for the factory, and anticipated a final agreement would come at the end of the month. There has been uncertainty about whether Panasonic was completely on board with the project.  Shares were down 7% after hours. FREE AppDownload
APDETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; announced on Wednesday a stock repurchase program of about $1.8 billion that it said will offset potential share dilution and positions the company to reduce its automotive debt by $883 million. The announcement boosted Ford stock about 0.7 percent to $15.57 per share after the New York Stock Exchange closed. Ford at the end of the first quarter had automotive debt of about $15.7 billion and has said that it plans to reduce that debt to about $10 billion by mid-decade. Up to 116 million shares will be repurchased. Up to 103 million shares are to offset the dilutive effect of potential conversions of the company's 4.25 percent senior convertible notes due November 15, 2016. At Wednesday's closing stock price of $15.46 per share, the 103 million shares would be worth about $1.6 billion. In addition, 12.6 million shares will be repurchased to offset the dilutive effect of share-based incentive pay for about 26,000 salaried employees for this year. Those employees include top executives. At Wednesday's closing stock price, that amounts to nearly $195 million. Bob Shanks, Ford chief financial officer, said the two actions reduce the company's diluted shares by about 3 percent. Starting on November 20, 2014, the company can terminate the noteholders' conversion rights, and it has the right to settle conversions with shares, cash or both. Shares repurchased in this program are intended to offset the dilutive effect of any shares Ford elects to issue to settle these potential conversions. (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
For the last 20 years, interest rates have been tumbling in what's been an epic bull market in bonds. But even on the way down, we experienced many short-term interest rate rallies. "Since 1966, the 10yr treasury yield rose by 50bps or more in 3 months at least once every year," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in an April 25 note to clients. "In 2013, the 10yr jumped by 100bps during the taper tizzy. Interest rate volatility is likely to be higher this summer if the acceleration changes Fed guidance or investor expectations on the trajectory of the Fed Funds rate." Bianco thinks that the risk of yields rallying is high due to the fact that the economy is improving. "Despite no 1Q GDP growth (SAAR), April's Mfg ISM and jobs report restores the credibility of $118-119 2014E S&amp;P EPS or up 9-10% on avg. rest of year," he said in a May 2 note. With earnings multiples high in the stock markets and spreads tight in the credit markets, Bianco worries that a rally in yields could mean volatility across the financial markets. This is one of the reasons why he thinks the next 5%+ move in the S&amp;P 500 is down. Bianco continues to see the S&amp;P 500 ending at 1,850 this year, and he recommends waiting for dips to buy. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
APSolarCity is up 7% after hours after reporting strong quarterly revenue and guidance. Q1 revenue for the San Francisco-based solar services provider increased 112% year-over-year to $63.5 million. That also beat forecasts of $53.4 million. The firm raised its full-year 2014 guidance to 500-500 megawatts deployed versus a prior statement of 475-525. And they expect 2015 to basically double that, at 900-1,000 megawatts. They also said they'd set a new quarterly record of booking 136 megawatts-worth of projects, most of it residential, adding 17,664 customers in Q1. They "remain firmly on track to meet [its] one million customer target by mid-2018."  Adjusted earnings missed by a penny at $0.82 net oss-per-share versus $0.81 expected. Management projects a slower Q2, with adjusted loss per share of $0.90-$1.  The company confirmed it had added a 15th state, Nevada, to its coverage area. The stock had fallen more than 9% to $47.71 during trading hours Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Marty LederhandlerDonald Trump signing a copy of his 1990 book, "Trump: Surviving at the Top."When we read the books and listen to the speeches of powerful executives, it's easy to assume they have it all figured out.  In fact, it's a good sign they've convinced themselves that, too, says Zac Bissonnette, author of the new book "Good Advice from Bad People." He believes shareholders should start getting nervous when an executive writes a self-help book or goes on a speaking circuit. "It suggests that executives are getting complacent," Bissonnette told Business Insider. "It's as if they're saying: 'I got this. I really have tremendous insight. I really have a strategy.'" And, as he shows in his book, success can easily lead to hubris. In 1999, for example, Dell founder and CEO Michael Dell wrote "Direct from Dell: Strategies That Revolutionized an Industry." Yet, as the industry further evolved over the next 15 years, Dell failed to keep up. In 2010, Harvard Business School's Prof. Peter Cohan said that he would no longer teach about Dell's glory days because in the span of a decade the company lost $68 billion for shareholders. Similarly, former Apple CEO John Sculley, infamous for forcing Steve Jobs out of Apple in 1985, wrote the 1987 memoir "Odyssey: Pepsi to Apple... A Journey of Adventure, Ideas and the Future." In it, he referred to himself as an impresario who encourages opposition to spur innovation. In reality, he didn't like direct challenges to his power and stripped Jobs of his managerial powers. The board eventually fired Sculley in 1993. One of Bissonnette's favorite examples is when Donald Trump wrote "Trump: Surviving at the Top," in 1990. In it, Trump counseled: "You have to be confident as you face the world each day, but you can't be too cocky. Anyone who thinks he's going to win them all is going to wind up a huge loser." The economy had taken a turn for the worse when the book hit the shelves, and Trump's net worth was tanking as he fought bankruptcy for his overleveraged real estate empire, which Bissonnette asserts "was, of course, a product of his excessive cockiness." Publishing a self-help book is just one sign of dangerous pride, Bissonnette says in a recent USA Today op-ed. He points to a 2007 NYU study that found stock market returns fall when a company's CEO builds his trophy home, and a German academic study that found the same thing happens when a company builds lavish headquarters. It's why he looks at more recent executive tomes — Sheryl Sandberg's "Lean In" and Tony Hsieh's "Delivering Happiness" — with a wary eye. While Bissonnette readily admits that all of the examples in his own book are merely anecdotes, he says executives may be better off avoiding the soap box and focusing instead on their companies and keeping them competitive. They don't need to hide in the shadows, ignoring every chance for a speech or editorial, he says, but they shouldn't get ahead of themselves either. They'll have plenty of time to share their wisdom and go on book tours when they retire, Bissonnette says. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA labourer repairs a street lamp next to a logo of Tesla Motors in front of a new showroom of the company in Shanghai.Electric car-maker Tesla has just released its Q1 financial results. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $0.12 per share, which was higher than the $0.07 expected by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. During the quarter, the company produced 7,535 models S and delivered 6,457. "While [deliveries] exceeded the average of seven analysts' estimates, it was less than the highest estimate," reported Bloomberg's Alan Ohnsman. The stock is down by around 6% in after-hours trading. Management expects about 7,500 deliveries in Q2 and says it's on track for 35,000 deliveries for the year. "We are expanding our factory capacity to support increased Model S production later this year and the introduction of Model X next year," said CEO Elon Musk. In March, Tesla stated in its annual report that it had "decided to slightly push back the development and timing of Model X to 2014" from its initial target for late 2013. "We still plan to invest $650-850 million for the year in capital expenditures for increased production capacity, growth in our store, service center and Supercharger footprints, Model X and S development and start of Gigafactory construction," said Musk. "With all these initiatives, we expect to be slightly free cash flow negative in 2014, before considering the equity required for leasing." Management expects gross margins to "increase slightly" from Q1 to Q2 and be "marginally profitable in Q2 on a non-GAAP basis." According to Bloomberg, analysts on average were forecasting the company to earn $0.20 per share. Everyone's still trying to figure out what it was about the announcement that has traders and investors disappointed. From the looks of it, it's probably the weak EPS guidance. It's worth noting that Tesla's stock price is still up over 30% since the beginning of the year, which compares to the Nasdaq's 2.6% decline. Tesla is also up 270% from a year ago. Tesla and its CEO Elon Musk got a lot of attention from the public and ire from car dealers for its direct-to-consumer sales model. "While consumers and the vast majority of jurisdictions have overwhelmingly welcomed our direct-sales model, there are still a few states in the U. S. where we face resistance," said Musk today. "In those states, we continue to fight to protect our customers’ ability to buy directly from Tesla. We believe strongly in the fairness of our position, which has been supported by a long list of consumer activists, economists and influential policy makers." FREE AppDownload
It closed the day down 3.74% at $30.66 per share. That's on top of Tuesday's plunge of nearly 18%. Part of the reason why Twitter fell so much this week is because the employee lockup period expired Tuesday. Many employees likely cashed in their stock. But it's important to note Twitter's founders and biggest stakeholders have said they don't plan to cash in. Twitter's tumble began last week when it reported that its monthly active user growth is slowing. It has 255 million monthly active users, which is smaller than Facebook (1.28 billion), LinkedIn (300 million), and WhatsApp (500 million). Still, Twitter's financials look pretty good. And because Twitter bought the mobile ad company MoPub last year, it has a nice safety net in its mobile ad network. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Dow: 16,520.41,+0.73%S&amp;P 500: 1,873.36, +0.30%NASDAQ: 4,048.92, -0.78% Whole Foods Shares Puréed. Whole Foods shares fell nearly 19% Wednesday following CEO John Mackey's acknowledgment of the increasingly competitive market for organic. "The growing demand for fresh healthy foods, the offering of natural and organic products is expanding everywhere and new stores, existing stores and online," he said on the firm's Q1 earnings call. The firm came in well short of estimates  Analysts Not Happy.  Mackey's call followed earnings and comp sales figures that fell well short of forecasts. Sell-side research guys covering Whole Foods did not find his explanation of "more competition" an adequate explanation for the miss, BI's Ashley Lutz reports. "I’ve got to be honest. I’m not really hearing anything that’s suggesting management is taking this situation as seriously as some investors want you to," Ken Goldman at JPMorgan said. "There’s a lot of talk about what’s going, not a lot to talk about what it takes to win the change market." Other Losers. Groupon fell 23% after a bunch of folks cut their price targets. First Solar was off more than 7%. Twitter was down 4.5%. Tesla fell 3.5%. Yellen Warns On Housing. In prepared remarks before Congress today, Fed Chair Janet Yellen warned the housing market was showing signs of weakness. TD Securities' Millan Mulraine characterized this as "an important departure from the past upbeat tone on the economic outlook." Lately, various housing-market metrics such as existing-home sales, new-home sales, and mortgage applications have all been flagging. Last week, we learned that the U.S. homeownership rate was at a 19-year low, and some experts think it'll never come back. "[T]he Fed is beginning to recognize that the biggest drop in affordability in more than 30 years is a serious drag on activity," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. Consumer Credit. Consumer credit balances increased by $17.5 billion in March to a total of $3.141 trillion. It was the biggest month-over-month growth rate since February 2013, Bloomberg said, and was well ahead of forecasts. Earnings. Stay tuned for Tesla and SolarCity. DON'T MISS: 10 Things Wrong With Our Payments System — And How To Make Billions Fixing Them » FREE AppDownload
Walmart Corporate/flickrFirstSolar shares couldn't hang on to early after-hours gains yesterday and are down more than 7% today. MarketWatch's Claudia Assis notes execs warned in their earnings call that Q2 earnings would underwhelm. From the transcript:  ...while we do not provide the straight quarterly guidance it is noteworthy that our second quarter 2013 earnings will be significantly lower than the current consensus estimate of approximately $0.60 due to the expected timing of certain project sales. This implies that the remainder of the earnings for the year will largely be reflected in the second half of the year and we’ll see consensus estimates for those periods. Despite raising full-year earnings guidance, they kept revenue estimates the same. Shares were trading at $62.58. They closed at $67.45 yesterday. SolarCity reports earnings after the bell today.  FREE AppDownload
Getty/Spencer PlattIn 2004, media mogul Martha Stewart was found guilty of obstructing justice and lying to investigators about a stock sale."The line between good and evil is permeable," said psychologist Philip Zimbardo, "and almost anyone can be induced to cross it when pressured by situational forces."  As Zimbardo and other social scientists have shown in a range of experiments, actions we deem evil — cheating, lying, stealing, and worse — don't spring from people's character, but the situations they find themselves in.  To better understand why, we examined research from the fields of psychology and ethics. Here's what we found.  Max Nisen and Aimee Groth contributed to this story.  FREE AppDownload
The Little OwlThe Little Owl in the West VillagePer Se recently announced it would start allowing diners to bring their own bottles of wine to the 3 Michelin-star restaurant — for a whopping $150 corkage fee.  This move got people talking, but Per Se is certainly not the first restaurant to allow diners to bring their own bottles. Dozens of other NYC restaurants feature BYOB policies — and it's not just the cheap hole-in-the wall joints that you'd expect.  Here are 13 great NYC restaurants that offer BYOB policies. We've noted the corking fee for the restaurants that have one. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSoccer legend Pele gestures in front of a huge credit card.Consumer credit balances increased by $17.5 billion in March to a total of $3.141 trillion. The gain was a bigger increase than the $15.5 billion expected by economists. This was the biggest month-over-month growth rate since February 2013, reports Bloomberg. Nonrevolving debt like college and auto loans grew by $16.4 billion. Revolving debt like credit cards increased by $1.1 billion. It's certainly worth noting that February's gain was revised down to $12.9 billion from an earlier estimate of $16.4 billion. Here's a breakdown via the Federal Reserve: Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCarten Marc Andreessen, co-founder and general partner of Andreessen Horowitz, speaks during the "The Future of Technology" panel at the Fortune Tech Brainstorm 2009 in Pasadena, California July 22, 2009. The efficient markets hypothesis (EMH) is one of the more controversial theories on how the financial markets work. Popularized by Nobel-prize-winning economist Eugene Fama, the EMH basically argues that all available information at any given time is priced into the market. And therefore, it's almost impossible to try to invest in a way to beat the market. Folks like Vanguard's Jack Bogle and Nobel-prize-winning economist Robert Shiller disagree with the EMH because it essentially denies the existence of asset bubbles. With high-priced momentum stocks like Twitter and Groupon crashing lately, people are once again suggesting that we are seeing a failure of the EMH. To that, famed venture capitalist Marc Andreessen offers a couple of Tweets. Andreessen explains that the current price of a company is often factored into the valuation model for that company. And as George Soros' theory of reflexivity posits, you basically get a feedback loop that can cause prices to keep going in one direction or another. Because of this relationship, "prices drive the creation of theories" that explain the moves. "Therefore a boom in theories of how everything's a bubble and certain to crash is evidence of a cyclical bottom, not a cyclical top," he says. "Therefore Efficient Market Hypothesis is correct if for 'all information' you substitute 'all information, theories, noise, and bullsh*t.'" With that conclusion, Andreessen is more or less bridging the gap between Fama and Shiller. Here are all of Andreessen's tweets. 1/Conventional view of how to value companies: (1) Analyze company + its financials + future cash flows; (2) Calculate correct valuation. 2/What actually happens: (1) Observe current market valuation; (2) Construct theory and model to explain that valuation. 3/In this way, George Soros's theory of reflexivity is exactly correct. http://t.co/iX3cWkmZP0 4/Fundamentals influence prices which influence fundamentals which influence prices which influence fundamentals... ad infinitum. 5/At cyclical top, high prices drive creation of theories to explain infinite future glory; negative investors &amp; analysts get fired. 6/At cyclical bottom, low prices drive creation of theories to explain permanent future misery; positive investors &amp; analysts get fired. 7/Therefore a boom in theories of how everything's a bubble and certain to crash is evidence of a cyclical bottom, not a cyclical top. 8/Therefore Efficient Market Hypothesis is correct if for "all information" you substitute "all information, theories, noise, and bullsh*t". 9/Since we are social animals, the challenge of actually standing outside of herd is brutally hard. Pressure to conform is constant/intense. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
The difference between graduating from college compared with obtaining only a high-school diploma is enormous, according to a new economic letter from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The paper's authors, Mary C. Daly and Leila Bengali, found that the average college graduate earns $800,000 more by retirement than the average high-school graduate. Daly and Bengali wrote that their examination of the cost of a college degree comes in response to increasing debate over whether attending college is worth the cost.  It also comes amid still-sluggish overall job growth, which is especially true among recent college graduates (those with a bachelor's degree between the ages of 22 and 27). According to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 44% of recent college graduates in 2012 were "underemployed," or working in a job that typically does not require a bachelor’s degree. But Daly and Bengali found, using U.S. survey data, that the average college graduate paying an annual tuition of $20,000 will recoup those costs by the time he or she is 40 — or even sooner. The authors used a few main data points to come to this conclusion. First, using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (a study that has been ongoing since 1968), they measured the difference among earnings premiums of four-year college graduates, high-school graduates, and people who have only completed "some college." In 2011, the latest data available from the study, four-year college graduates earned about 61% more per year than high-school graduates. The gap between people with a four-year degree vs. only completing "some college" was smaller, but still significant: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The chart above, however, combines the earnings of all college graduates. To check whether there was any change in value over certain groups, or "cohorts," graduating in different decades, the researchers compared the earnings of graduates from the 1950s-60s, 1970s-80s, and 1990s-2000s.  They found the value of a college degree has actually increased over time, into the 2000s: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco "The main message from these and similar calculations is that on average the value of college is high and not declining over time," the authors wrote. There's one caveat to this paper: One of the findings that led its authors to posit that attending college is so valuable is predicated on the calculation that most college graduates will recoup the cost of college by the time they are 40. But this forecast assumes an average tuition of about $21,000.  This number works for about 90% of students at public universities who are paying that amount or less, according to the paper. But only 20% of private non-profit colleges reported paying less than $21,000 in tuition. According to the College Board, the cost of tuition at private colleges in the 2013-14 academic year averaged about $30,094. For out-of-state students at public universities, the average cost was $22,203.  Daly told Business Insider this doesn't necessarily incentivize going to a public school over a private one — there are many dimensions by which people choose a college to attend. It does mean, however, that it could take the average private-college graduate a few years longer to "break even" on the cost of college. "What I think of it as is there are many more opportunities at public than private that fit that cost description," she said. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotEnterprise security company FireEye may have just become the poster child for the tech bubble, both in its highs and its lows. Shares of FireEye have been on a roller coaster since the company had a spectacular IPO last September. They are currently crashing, down nearly 25% on Wednesday and down a jaw-dropping 72% since its high in March. Shares are trading at about $28 on Wednesday after reaching a high of over $97 in March (the 52-week range is 27.22 - 97.35, most of it since March). When it launched as a public company in September, it priced its shares at $20. But that hasn't stopped it from announcing another acquisition. On Tuesday, it announced that it had bought security firm nPulse Technologies for about $70 million, $60 million cash and $10 million in stock. The purchase follows its $1 billion acquisition of another security firm, Mandiant, in January. Mandiant was famous for uncovering links between Chinese hackers and attacks on U.S. companies. In fact, the company's stock price got so hot, so fast, that it briefly turned founder Ashar Aziz into a billionaire with his 7.8% stake. Near that high point in March, FireEye cashed in with a secondary offering, selling 5.6 million shares and raising another $300 million, the same as it raised in its IPO. The news has been less great for investors. After getting excited about the company's future, they are now concerned about FireEye's slowing growth. NASDAQFireEye IPOOn Tuesday, the company announced a decent first quarter that topped Wall Street's expectations, a net loss of $101.2 million on a revenue spike of 161%, $74 million. But for the second time in two quarters, it revised its full-year guidance down. Management now expects a full-year loss of $2.10 to $2.30 per share on revenue of $405 million to $415 million, versus the consensus of a $2.03-per-share loss and revenue of $407 million. In March it told Wall Street to expect a loss of $2.00 to $2.20, well below what analysts wanted to hear at that time. This hits particularly hard because some Wall Street analysts have been really gung ho about the company, particularly after it bought Mandiant. Wells Fargo started tracking it in early 2014, saying FireEye was "a once-in-a-decade opportunity to invest in a truly disruptive technology." Analysts are still hot for the stock. The average target price is $70, according to Yahoo Finance. But some of them are coming back to earth about it. William Blair analyst Jonathan Ho, for instance, maintains an "outperform rating" on the stock but trimmed his price target to $70 from $105, reports the Fly On The Wall financial blog. One reason why analysts have been so hot on the company is because the company's flagship product solves a really hard computer security problem. It is able to stop hack attacks that were previously almost impossible to stop. But now the company is under the burden of matching Wall Street's very high hopes for it. FREE AppDownload
There is unabashed glee among those who have bemoaned the plight of the middle class as the one percent has pulled away, waving the book as the gotcha ya for income redistribution.   As should be clear from some of my previous posts, I am one of those people bemoaning the plight, but I am a little slower than many others to take up the Piketty banner. The book's argument looks at wealth and growth data over the past three centuries, and takes its implications forward with a similar, historical scope.  “In the twenty-first century” is just that; Piketty is willing to push the implications of his analysis not just over the next decade or two, but about as far as you want.  To hear people discuss it, he has discovered the equivalent of a law of physics, namely that capital grows faster than GDP, and if those who own the capital are taking a larger share than GDP has to offer, those without capital must be taking less.  Given the miracle of compounding, this is going to lead the capitalists not only to pull away from the proletariat, but pretty much to own everything. It is easy to run into problems when you are assuming the future will look the past, all the more so when you are also assuming exponential growth.  Capitalism is not a law of nature; it need not look the same in the future as in the past; it doesn’t even need to be at the core of society. In the sweep of history, capitalism is a recent development, one that happens to encompass roughly the three hundred years Piketty is using for his analysis. So we should temper our excitement; his work is really based on one, very long-term, sample. To see this point, rather than looking back for three hundred years, go back a few thousand.  In the West we have had two other periods comparable in many respects to that of the Industrial Era of today: The Roman Era, and then roughly a thousand years later the Commercial Era. Capital has been the dominating force this time around; in the others it was the military/political complex and the Church, respectively. And in both cases, the writers of the time assumed the structure of the era would go on indefinitely. It was just the way the world worked.  If we went back to the these times, the theme would be the consolidation of the political corpus or of the Church, the analysis would not have been centered on the divisions between those with capital and those without. (I won’t get into the comparable time period in China’s history, but given that Piketty cloaks his thesis with the scope of all human history, he should add a second sample to his analysis and see how his thesis fits the dynasties in China over the past couple of millennium. My bet is, not so well). Will the future look like the past? What might move us away from capitalism being the universal underpinning for society? Can the world look different in the future? Of course it can. How that happens and what comes next is an open question – people can't even agree on what led to the end of the Roman Era, and there we have the advantage of history to guide us. But here are some things just to give a flavor of the ways in which the capitalist system might be nudged from the current being the true and final state of mankind: Maybe the need for capital will diminish. All of the discussion of labor and capital presupposes that labor and capital matter. Will we move into a production mode where our demands are met with low capital expenditure? Piketty recognizes the obvious point that if there is little need for capital – and technology could bring that about – then his argument is no longer valid: “If capital is of no use as a factor of production, then by definition its marginal productivity is zero. In the abstract, one can easily imagine a society in which capital is of no use in the production process.” It might be something to think about in the abstract, but in his view it is not worth lingering, because “in all known human societies, including the most primitive, things have been arranged differently.” That is a pretty broad statement. Even if true, if extrapolating exponential growth is one red flag, a dismissal based on an its-never-happened-before argument is a second. Maybe we will all become capitalists. Look at the low amount of capital that has been needed for many recent start-ups. Those supplying the labor are also the owners and bring with them their own capital. Perhaps those who labor also be those who own the capital with which they labor? In subsistence agriculture, each farmer owns his own capital, his plot of land. Why not subsistence capitalism? We already have outsourced many tasks to ourselves by using the cheap capital of computers and the Internet; and will be able to do more as 3-D printing and crowd sourcing comes of age. Maybe the implications of differences in income and wealth will diminish. All of the discussion of wealth and income distribution presupposes that differences in income and wealth matter. As Piketty notes, the nineteenth century novels focused on wealth. Wealth was measured by the number of servants, and thus wealth as a multiple of average earnings x income from capital was key determinant of status. What is the focus today; what might it be twenty or thirty years from now? Looking at the middle class, which is the focus for both Piketty and many of his adherents, could we end up in a world where the differences from a day-to-day lifestyle standpoint are compressed between the super rich and the 'doing OK'? This can happen if what both the super rich and we spend our time on is inexpensive. We are heading in the direction already. We share the same smart phones and spend time in front of the same screen consuming the same content. Of course when it comes to rare wines, contemporary art, and airplane views of Central Park, a gap will remain. But for many of the super rich, we already are seeing erosion; a generation ago cars divided the rich from the middle class; now some of the wealthiest drive the same car I do. Maybe the consumption of capital-intensive goods will diminish. Consumption drives capitalism. What happens to the consumption of the products of the Industrial Age if we move into a more virtual economy? Consumption of virtual goods almost by definition does not require a lot of the brick and mortar capitalism that has dominated the Industrial Age. Some things, like cell phones and televisions are getting cheaper and cheaper, others like education more and more expensive. If those in the lower rung weight the former more heavily than the latter – and if at the end of the day we find the day-to-day consumption of even the wealthy is also biased that way (I say “at the end of the day” to mean in the post-college years), then much of the discussion of the distribution of wealth becomes moot. The Exception is the Rule Piketty notes that the events from 1914 through 1945 altered the course of expanding inequality, and did so even into the 1970’s and 1980’s. “One major lesson is already clear: it was the wars of the twentieth century that, to a large extent, wiped away the past and transformed the structure of inequality.” But that is now the past, and we are back on track:  “Today, in the second decade of the twenty-first century, inequalities of wealth that had supposedly disappeared are close to regaining or even surpassing their historical highs.” The period of retrenchment from his law of growing inequality is hard to take as an aberration given that it extends nearly seventy years. That is a big chunk of time, even if you are looking at a period from the 1700’s to the present. But Piketty does pull out this period as an aberration, as an exception to the rule. But it is not. It is part of the rule. It is an example of the ebb and flow of society and nature, of the noise that destroys and supplants family fortunes, states, and civilizations. It is not unique: for example, in the fourteenth century we had the Black Death, the Hundred Years’ War, and years of devastating famine. Not to mention financial failures that dwarf those of the Great Depression – but they in turn were so dwarfed by the other calamities that they hardly merit a footnote for the period. Piketty is unequivocal about the effects in the early twentieth century being an aberration, but not about why it was a period when his thesis did not obtain. “…we must insist on the fact that the fall in the capital/income ratio between 1914 and 1945 is explained to only a limited extent by the physical destruction of capital (buildings, factories, infrastructure, etc.) due to the two world wars…In fact, the budgetary and political shocks of two wars proved far more destructive to capital than combat itself.” So it was not just the destruction of capital, but political shocks. But if that, here is another idea: The period between 1914 and 1980 was the only extended period from the ushering in of the Industrial Age to now where there was no industrial revolution. The first industrial revolution ran from about 1760 to 1840.  The second went from the latter half of the 19th century (around the time of the introduction of Bessemer steel in the 1860s) until World Was I. And the third industrial revolution, the computer age, began to gather steam in the 1980s. So I could take Piketty's data and argue that the disparity occurs during periods of industrial revolution, and falters otherwise. No industrial revolution, no problem. But I'm not going to move into a teleological discussion on how our society could be transformed, anymore than I would talk about the demise of the Roman or the Commercial Era, except to point out the obvious, that unexpected things come along. And to note that, as I have pointed out elsewhere for the financial markets, the more complex and tightly coupled a society or era, the more likely something that does come along can exact a fatal toll. Conclusions are Opinions We can move on from Piketty’s thesis to his policy conclusions, and do so independent of the arguments that make up the bulk of the book. It is enough to have the opinion, as many already do, that the disparity in income and wealth is too great, and that the immobility up and down the ladder also is too great.  Or that, absent political action, these will become too great in the future. What disparity and immobility is too great is a matter of opinion, and after his analysis, that is how it remains. And if the issue is that the disparity will become too great in the future, the prudent course might be to wait and see what the future brings. The question of redistribution is a political, even a philosophical issue, not an economic one. (A side note: He differs from some others in arguing for taxes on wealth, but that is nothing new. Indeed that is how things were taxed in the China’s Song Dynasty). Piketty’s opinion seems to be that if we project out to the point that the wealth gap becomes what it was during the Belle Epoque of the early 1900's, we have gone too far. Another person could argue that such a disparity is fine, and then we are at the “agree to disagree” point of the argument.  He does ask, “Taking all these elements into account, what is the “right” split between capital and labor? Can we be sure that an economy based on the “free market” and private property always and everywhere leads to an optimal division, as if by magic?” There are not many who really believe in that magic. The question of the ideal split between labor and capital has been debated for over two centuries, which is to say it is a question that will probably never arrive at an answer. Marx stated it as the center of class warfare, couching it in terms of the working day: The capitalist maintains his rights as a purchaser when he tries to make the working-day as long as possible…. On the other hand...the laborer maintains his right as seller when he wishes to reduce the working-day to one of definite normal duration. There is here, therefore, an antinomy, right against right, both equally bearing the seal of the law of exchanges. Between equal rights force decides. Hence is it that in the history of capitalist production, the determination of what is a working-day, presents itself as the result of a struggle, a struggle between collective capital, i.e., the class of capitalists, and collective labour, i.e., the working-class. Marx begins with an acknowledgment of the perception of rights on the part of both the capitalist and the laborer, but then argues that the question of the length of the working day cannot be solved by an appeal to rights, but only through class struggle, wherein “force” decides between “equal rights”. (Force can mean physical force, but can also mean the force of the political process). It is difficult to do much more than simply take sides when it comes to economic rights, because what we call economic rights are really nothing more than the bargaining in an exchange between those providing labor and those providing capital. The social and economic pie has to be split, and there is no objective way to do so. There are some areas of fairness in the civil sphere – freedom from slavery and torture – but what are the rights inherent for a particular term of exchange between the parties in a trade? Where does this battle lead? For Marx, left unfettered capital digs it own grave, for Piketty, it grows without bound and swallows the world. For Marx, the return on capital falls to zero, for Piketty it persists above the growth rate of the economy. We can argue that Marx is wrong because up to this point we have not witnessed his outcome. I argue that Piketty is also wrong, because he makes the common error of assuming the future will look like the past, even as he recognizes that the past holds a source of failure for his thesis. FREE AppDownload
For those of you who are concerned with chart patterns, there is a "head and shoulders" pattern forming in the Nasdaq. In a nutshell, this formation is observed when a price peaks, then falls, then peaks at an even higher level, then tumbles, and then peaks again but doesn't rise as high as the second peak. From there, look out below. The chart below was made by Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Stephen Suttmeier and comes to us from Reformed Broker Josh Brown. Investors are probably well-advised to consider things like earnings and valuations before making a move. @ReformedBroker FREE AppDownload
SecondMarket, the company that plans to launch the first Bitcoin exchange network in the U.S., has polled 1,000 individuals VCs, Wall Streeters and Bitcoin enthusiasts about the state of the currency. The main finding: Of those who've previously purchased Bitcoin, 84% said they plan to buy more. Check out the full results in this nifty infographic: SecondMarket FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Todd KorolCanadian oil prices are now just $18 below the price of U.S. crude thanks to a series of new U.S.  pipelines, The Wall Street Journal reported this morning. This means the Keystone XL Pipeline is already obsolete.  "Higher oil prices in Canada ... are a sign that oil-sands crude is finding its way to the U.S. even without the approval of the controversial Keystone XL pipeline," Journal reporters Nicole Friedman and Chester Dawson said. "The resurgence in Canadian oil prices and energy stocks is further confirmation that the transportation problems that have prevented both Canada and the U.S. from enjoying the full benefits of the energy boom are easing." Until recently, crude from Canada's booming tar sands was getting trapped in the Midwest, preventing it from getting to the Gulf where it could be exported at market prices.  But in January, engineers switched on the Seaway Pipeline, which connects the major crude delivery hub in Cushing, Okla., with Gulf refineries. And rail now transports 550,000 barrels of Canadian crude, when five years ago barely 1,000 barrels were processed. As a result, the price of Canadian oil has since risen to $80.67 a barrel as of Tuesday, about $18 below WTI. In November the gap was as large as $40.  "It's not a necessity today," Chris Theal, president of Kootenay Capital Management in Calgary told BI. If current growth rates continue, he said, something like the Keystone may be needed. But Canada has gotten the hint from the Obama Administration, which has shown little interest in expediting the approval process, and has begun considering new pipelines. Two would take Alberta crude to Canada's west coast, another to New Brunswick on its eastern shore.     Analysts say that spread satisfies market conditions, and leaves Canadian producers in good shape.  "This is truly the best time for Canadian oil-and-gas companies … in at least three or four years," Eric Nuttall, a portfolio manager in Canada, told the Journal. A Senate initiative to override the executive branch is still finding footing — but existing statutes seem to say both the executive branch and the legislature possess authority to regulate something like Keystone, and the bill would likely end up in court. President Obama has shown no inclination to pressure  the State Department to expedite its review of the pipeline. "We have been of the opinion for nearly a year now that Keystone XL is dead," oil analyst Stephen Schork wrote this morning. FREE AppDownload
The Fed’s senior loan officer survey released Monday showed that banks are not making it easier for potential homebuyers. The survey of 74 domestic and 23 foreign banks operating in the US shows that banks are holding loan standards steady for prime mortgages and have raised them for nontraditional and subprime loans over the past three months. Fed officials have frequently stated that their ultra-easy monetary policy is aimed at keeping mortgage rates low to revive home sales. Their tapering talk last spring caused the 30-year mortgage rate to jump by about 100bps. It is still 82bps above the May 2, 2013 low. Meanwhile, the Fed is subjecting the banks to regular stress tests, which discourages them from making risky loans to would-be homeowners. In other words, the Fed is tapping on the mortgage-lending brakes and the monetary accelerator at the same time. This hasn’t stopped banks from making lots of business loans secured by inventories and other working capital. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Train Spotting.  (1) Stocks, the economy, and the weather. (2) Exports rising very slowly. (3) Homegrown growth. (4) Are railroads too busy hauling oil to ship autos? (5) Gundlach shorts housing. (6) Fed stepping on brakes and accelerator. (7) Transportation stocks rising along with business inventories. (8) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transportation stocks. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
 There's a ton of new investment going into changing the way we do payments. We need it. Most of our transactions rely on eons-old technology. Even newer innovations are starting to show their age, whether in the form of millions of people getting their credit card numbers stolen, or in the fight over how much a credit card company can charge a retailer to sign up for its network.  It ends up costing the economy billions in lost productivity. At the forefront of the movement to upend payments is Bitcoin, which has subtly begun morphing from an alternative currency aimed at taking down the dollar into a technology capable of addressing lots of payment problems in one go. But there are lots of other guys and gals in the space. Below is a list of 10 things about payments they've already begun targeting, or, we would kindly suggest, they redouble their efforts on. No. 1 with a bullet. There is no justifiable reason for either buyer or seller to have to deal with this. The ostensible purpose is to indemnify a retailer in case of fraud. But someone has got to come up with a way to enable verification that doesn't involve scribbling on a small piece of paper. Progress: Beginning late next year credit card companies will introduce technology that will someday allow us to enter a PIN instead.   A few places these days ask if you want your receipt emailed, but this is a rarity. There has to be a more efficient, automated way to keep track of all your transactions without stuffing small scraps of paper in your pocket.   Progress: Jack Dorsey wants to turn receipts into a "full-blown application." You're working late. You're out of cash. All you need is a Coke. You run downstairs to your bodega. You go to pay for the can with your credit card and the guy hits you with a minimum. Project doomed; resentment solidified.  The reason for these minimums is swipe fees, which make the cost of processing small transactions exorbitant for your average retailer and one of the things Bitcoin would help alleviate. Progress: Wal-Mart is now suing Visa for $5 billion over swipe fees. Yes, banking apps can now scan checks. But not all do. It would be better if we could simply get rid of checks in general, which are essentially a centuries-old technology.    Progress: YapStone is slowly but surely working its way through Manhattan to offer check-free rent payments. Studies have shown checks impose enormous burdens on retailers. One study has put the all-in cost of a typical grocery store check payment at $1.21 versus $0.78 for a debit card. Progress: Venmo has obviated the need for you to write large checks to your friends for money you owe them. It cost the CEO of Target his job, but we should really be blaming the plastic game in general. Progress: Blockchain cryptography could help alleviate this problem through the use of two-key encryption. As Ripple manager Alec Liu explained to us in an email, "If you are making a payment, you would personally access your private key, but the merchant never does—so it takes the merchant out of the equation as a potential vulnerability." The physical aspect, at least. You shouldn't have to face a temporary financial crisis if you leave your credit card on the Champ De Mars.  Progress: Mobile wallets, although no one has quite cracked the code to get them to expand en masse.  I used to play a game as a kid where I would try to remember the longest string of numbers possible. I think I got up to about 80 — impressive maybe, but I know I am dwarfed by the capabilities of others.  Now I can't even get to 16. Progress: Chrome, the world's most popular browser, does have an autofill feature, but it doesn't work on all websites. It's not clear whether FireFox, the world's second most popular browser, has a similar feature.  One final example of the paper mess. Some offices still make you physically staple your receipts to a sheet of paper to turn in. This is like the AOL of filing.  Progress: Expensify Ninety-eight percent of all electronic payment transactions in the U.S. currently go through  a 40-year-old network that began life in the Air Force. It's called ACH. It processes an average of 60 million individual transactions a day. It takes 24 hours, at best, for the transaction to clear both parties' banks. Even the Fed has called out ACH for being a dinosaur. The goal is "real-time" payments that happen soon after you push go on the transaction.  Progress: Ripple, which uses a technology called "consensus" to process transactions instantly. BOTTOM LINE: There are tons of problems in how we pay for stuff, and there are fortunes to be made by fixing them. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedFederal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen.Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen is presenting her economic outlook to the Joint Economic Committee in Washington, D.C., today. For the most part, she's been sticking to the Fed's script of noting problems in the labor market and reiterating that rates would be low for a long time. But everyone's flagging what she's said about housing in her prepared remarks. One cautionary note, though, is that readings on housing activity—a sector that has been recovering since 2011—have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching ... ... the recent flattening out in housing activity could prove more protracted than currently expected rather than resuming its earlier pace of recovery ... TD Securities' Millan Mulraine characterized this as "an important departure from the past upbeat tone on the economic outlook." Lately, various housing-market metrics such as existing-home sales, new-home sales, and mortgage applications have all been flagging. Last week, we learned that the U.S. homeownership rate was at a 19-year low, and some experts think it'll never come back. "[T]he Fed is beginning to recognize that the biggest drop in affordability in more than 30 years is a serious drag on activity," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. The bad stuff going on in the housing market is really only just half the story. In a new blog post on Calculated Risk, economist Bill McBride highlights nine things going right in the housing market. Among them he notes sales of distressed homes are declining, mortgage delinquenices are down sharply, mortgage credit is so tight it can only get looser, and the percent of homeowners in negative equity is tumbling. "The fading of the housing recovery is mainly due to two factors; the effects of the severe weather and last year’s rise in mortgage rates," noted Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "With the weather returning to normal and mortgage rates having fallen back a bit, the housing recovery will come back to life before long." Before she warned about housing, Yellen blamed the harsh winter weather for GDP in the first quarter essentially grinding to a halt. "With the harsh winter behind us, many recent indicators suggest that a rebound in spending and production is already under way, putting the overall economy on track for solid growth in the current quarter," Yellen said. As such, her comments on housing are definitely worth flagging because she seems to have doubts that warm weather will put the market back on track. "It is notable that the pending home sales index rebounded sharply in March and, while mortgage applications remain weak, the value of actual mortgage lending has started to rebound in recent weeks," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "Accordingly, we don't share Yellen's pessimism and expect a rebound in residential investment starting in the current quarter." For those watching interest rates, it may be too early to conclude that Yellen is about to change course of monetary policy. "Although this language is likely viewed as dovish, we do not believe that it suggests a later start to the Fed's rate hike cycle nor a slower pace to the speed of that cycle than is currently evident in the FOMC's forecasts provided in March," said UBS's Drew Matus. For now, we'll all just have to hope that Yellen's cautious tone is just that. FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff / Getty ImagesWilliam Bernstein, cofounder of investment management firm Efficient Frontier Advisors, writes in his recently published ebook "If You Can: How Millennials Can Get Rich Slowly" on the importance of having a basic understanding of finance in order to successfully save for retirement. On his website and re-posted here with his permission, he recommends reading the following books on investing. Those of you who are seeking investing enlightenment are not going to find much of it on the web. I suggest you log off, power down your computer, and read some books. Take your time. The months you spend perusing this list will be well spent. I'd recommend reading at least the first four books listed before even thinking of getting your hands dirty with real investing. 1. "A Random Walk Down Wall Street" by Burton Malkiel An excellent investment primer. It explains the basics of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds, and will reinforce the efficient market concept. 2. "Common Sense on Mutual Funds" by John Bogle It provides as much detail as you could ever want about this important investment vehicle. Mr. Bogle is the founder and retired chairman of The Vanguard Group, and has been an important voice in the industry for decades. Beautifully written, opinionated, and highly recommended.  (The book also demonstrates the democratization that has swept the investment industry in recent years. Until a decade ago the sort of sophisticated mutual fund analysis described in his book was the brief of just a handful of professionals with access to expensive proprietary databases and mainframe computers. Almost all of Bogle's work was done with a subscription to Morningstar and a statistically competent assistant, and could have been performed by any small investor with similar software and ability.) 3. "Global Investing" by Roger Ibbotson and Gary Brinson This is a beautifully written volume on the history of investible assets. An informed investor cannot know enough about market history, and this is the best single source in this area. Want to know what the returns for U.S. stocks have been in each of the past 200 years? The price of gold for the past 500 years? Interest rates and inflation for the past 800 years? It's all here. As implied by the title, the authors also provide an excellent perspective on the place of foreign assets in a diversified portfolio, and provide some worthwhile insights on portfolio theory and the efficiency of the marketplace. 4. "What Has Worked in Investing" is a free pamphlet from Tweedy, Browne A low-key sales pitch for their funds, it is also the best compilation I've seen of the data supporting the value method. 5. "The New Finance, the Case Against Efficient Markets" by Robert Haugen If you're intrigued by the Tweedy pamphlet and wonder why value investing still works after all these years, this is your book. The prose is breezy, even quirky Ben Graham meets Hunter Thompson on bad acid. 6. "Value Averaging" by Michael Edleson An extremely useful how-to guide on deploying a lump sum of money among multiple assets. Finally back in print as a Wiley Classic Edition. 7. "The Intelligent Investor" by Ben Graham A popularized and more readable version of his earlier classic, "Security Analysis," written with David Dodd. Although it has great relevance to the markets in general and should be read by any serious investor, it is particularly pertinent to those who feel compelled to buy individual stocks. Many of today's most successful money managers obtained their original financial inspiration from these two books. It is always fun to look at excesses in the marketplace and ask, "What would Ben say about this?" This 2003 edition benefits from annotation by one of finance's most brilliant observers, Jason Zweig. (By the way, if you get bitten by the Graham bug and decide to do "Security Analysis," make sure you read the original 1934 edition, recently reprinted by McGraw-Hill.) 8. "Devil Take the Hindmost" by Edward Chancellor You simply can't learn enough about market history, and Chancellor's story of boom and bust in the capital markets, beginning in the 17th century, is pure mind candy. Supersedes Mackay's "Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds." 9. "The Millionaire Next Door" by Thomas Stanley and William Danko If you can't save, it doesn't matter if your name is Warren Buffett. If you think the road to happiness runs past a Beemer and a McMansion, this book will scare you straight. 10. "Asset Allocation" by Roger Gibson Covers much of the same ground as my own books with more emphasis on the qualities of individual assets. For hard-core enthusiasts only; oriented towards the financial advisor. Unless you're a glutton for punishment, you won't read all of these books. But however many you do, it's time for a treat: a small bon bon written in 1940 by a man named Fred Schwed called "Where Are the Customers' Yachts?" The most recent version from Wiley is graced with forewords by both Micheal Lewis and Jason Zweig should tell you something; aside from being snort-out-your-nose funny, it is also both profound and prescient, full of observations about the financial markets that would not become generally accepted for a few more generations. You won't be sorry. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidDavid EinhornThis week, hedge fund manager David Einhorn showed us what one of the "cool kid stocks" he mentioned in his latest investor letter looks like. It's not pretty. "Cool kid stocks," according to Einhorn, are a pack of stocks that are way overvalued. His hedge fund, Greenlight Capital, is shorting a basket of them and on Monday he presented one, athenahealth to a room full of investors at the 19th Annual Sohn Investment Conference. Athenahealth is a business that provides outsourced administrative services for healthcare providers that, until Monday, enjoyed a stock price of over $125. Einhorn's bull thesis for the stock is for it to fall to $50, his bear case is that it could go to $14. And this presentation has everything: a kooky CEO, superenthusiastic Wall Street analysts, jokes, cartoons, YouTube clips, and more. By the time he was done presenting, the stock was down 7%, at Tuesday's close it was down almost 14%. Wednesday morning the stock started falling; an hour after the open it was down 8%. Carnage. Einhorn was kind enough to share the presentation on Greenlight Capital's website, and allow Business Insider to upload it with his comments here. Enjoy!
Merrill Lynch Private Banking and Investing Group has a new report out about how to build and maintain your family's money through generations. It's full of advice and stats about when to talk to your kids about money, how people prioritize their cash, and desires versus expectations. For example, about 17% of respondents surveyed by the bank want to maintain their wealth forever, but only about 11% are expected to do so. It also includes this handy "Checklist for Sustaining Wealth. For your consideration:             					                                                                                                                                            facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        google+                                                                        email                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                email                                                                                        share                                                                         share                                                                         tweet                                                                         share                                                                         email                                                                                        Share on Facebook                                                                         Share on Twitter                                                                         Share on Linkedin                                                                         Share on Google Plus                                                                         email                                                            Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                    _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                        	(function() {		'use strict';		// Notify the DFP code that a new ad has just been rendered		amplify.publish('adRender');	}());                Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						0									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Merrill Lynch's 6 Point Checklist For Keeping Your Family Dynasty Alive    Merrill Lynch's 6 Point Checklist For Keeping Your Family Dynasty Alive        Merrill Lynch Private Banking and Investing... FREE AppDownload
Corcoran Group Real EstateDavid Stockman, the former budget director who is largely associated with "Reaganomics," and his wife Jennifer Stockman, president of the Guggenheim Foundation, just purchased a 4,902-square-foot penthouse in Yorkville, according to The Real Deal. The couple reportedly paid $14.85 million, $50,000 above the most recent asking price. The apartment was sold by real estate developer Alexandre Bosoni.  The five-bedroom, six-bathroom penthouse is located in the newly constructed 170 East End Avenue, which, according to the Corcoran Group, has a ton of perks.  The building includes features such as a Pilates room, golf simulator, and a children's interactive room with computer games. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Eva the WeaverThe NASDAQ is falling again. It's already down over 1% in the early going. This comes on top of yesterday's big losses. In addition to the index losses, there are some big notable drops. AOL is down 18% after beating on revenue but missing on earnings. Twitter is down 3.5%. That stock got clobbered yesterday on the lockup expiration, and obviously the selling isn't over yet. Yahoo is down 5.6%. This is ominous since the world just got a look yesterday at the Alibaba S-1, which Yahoo owns a big part of. King, the maker of Candy Crush, is down nearly 10% after earnings this morning.. Whole Foods is down 21.5% after the company warned on weak same-store sales numbers, which was the result of bigger competition. So yeah, it's a really ugly day for some big names. Ominously, Yellen just came out and said that more accommodative policy wouldn't be warranted for awhile. That was no help. Tune in for details throughout the day. FREE AppDownload
APKIEV (Reuters) - A gas price dispute with Russia must be resolved by June so Ukraine can guarantee stable flows to Europe and avoid a new gas war, Ukrainian Energy Minister Yuri Prodan said. Ukraine, dependent for more than half of its gas needs on Russia, has balked at demands by Russia's state-controlled Gazprom to pay an almost 80 percent price increase, accusing Moscow of using energy supplies "politically" to punish the country for trying to break free from Kremlin influence. Kiev has instead set its sights on Poland, Hungary and Slovakia sending some of their gas deliveries, including from Russia, back along the pipeline to Ukraine, known as a reverse-flow delivery, to try to break its dependence on a country it accuses of fomenting unrest in its east. "It is very important to find answers to questions that have not been found to date," Prodan told Reuters in an interview. "It is a question of gas deliveries into underground storage, because if there is not enough gas at the beginning of the cold period, Russia will not be able to fulfill its obligations on transit (to Europe)." Prodan said Ukraine needed 17-20 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas in storage by mid-October to ensure Russian transit to Europe. At the moment, there in only 8.3 bcm. "We have some time. We will need to start seriously pumping gas no later than June," said Prodan. "Ukraine's and Europe's energy security are linked and we want to resolve this problem. Could we resolve this issue by June? I hope we can. We are all interested in this," he said. Prodan said Ukraine's state-run energy firm Naftogaz submitted several proposals to Gazprom last month, including fixing the price at $268.5 per 1,000 cubic meters until the end of the contract, removing the condition of 'take or pay' and a revision of the current level of Ukrainian gas debts to Russia. Tensions between Kiev and Moscow have reached new highs since Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea peninsula two months ago after protesters wanting closer relations with the European Union toppled the pro-Russian president. Ukraine fears secession referendums to be held this Sunday in Donetsk and Luhansk will be the first step to Moscow annexing the two eastern regions that are inhabited by Russian speakers. Russia denies any such ambition but says it reserves the right to send in troops if it deems ethnic Russians and Russian-speakers are in danger from what it calls Ukrainian extremists and fascists. The Kremlin has often used its energy dominance as a tool of foreign policy, cutting off supplies to Ukraine and Europe in 2005 and 2009 after gas price disputes with an earlier pro-Western government in what became known as the "gas wars". Ukraine desperately wants to change the conditions of a 2009 contract, negotiated by an earlier pro-Western government, which locked Kiev into buying a set volume whether it needed it or not at $485 per 1,000 cubic meters - the highest level in Europe. Moscow made this level more acceptable in later years by offering reductions for cooperation, meaning that in 2013 Ukraine paid around $400 per 1,000 cubic meters. It then dropped the price to $268.5 when ousted President Viktor Yanukovich turned his back on a trade and association agreement with the European Union. Now Russia wants the old contract and the old price to hold. "Ukraine is able to pay for gas, but it will only pay a market and a fair price," said Prodan. Russia has variously said that Kiev owes $2.2 billion for gas deliveries, then $3.5 billion when it included April supplies, running all the way up to more than $11 billion accounting for its total debt and lost profits. It has threatened to cut off supplies if Ukraine fails to pay, repeating the earlier "gas wars" when Europe suffered from shortages in the middle of winter. Prodan said Kiev would take Gazprom to arbitrage court in Stockholm if the two sides failed to agree on price by May 28. "We submitted a 'message on the negotiations' and Gazprom gets 30 days to respond. If there is no response and no agreement by May 28, the Ukrainian side will refer to the (international) arbitration court in Stockholm," he said. Ukraine will argue that Gazprom has abused its monopoly position on the market, he added. Russia has offered no official response, refusing to talk to a new government it says is illegitimate. Gazprom warned Kiev on Wednesday it had just over a week before Moscow will demand prepayment for its gas supplies, which would deepen the worst East-West rift since the end of the Cold War. Prodan said Ukraine knew that Russia could cut supplies and was actively looking for alternative energy sources. He said Ukraine had received gas from Poland and this month it had launched a new gas route from Hungary. A third way from Slovakia could be opened in September and Kiev could receive from Europe a total of 6.5 bcm of gas by the end of the year. Ukraine, which produces around 20 bcm of gas per year, consumed around 50 bcm of gas last year. In 2013Ukraine imported about 2 bcm of gas from the European Union. (Editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressUnited States Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen waits to speak at the 2014 National Interagency Community Reinvestment Conference in Chicago, March 31, 2014.Janet Yellen says a high degree of monetary accommodation remains warranted. In prepared remarks before Congress' Joint Economic Committee, she says she sees a "substantial amount" of slack in labor markets, and that persistent inflation below 2% could pose risks.  And she said she was concerned about housing, saying activity was "flattening" and could continue to do so for a "protracted" amount of time. This appears to be even more dovish that what markets had anticipated and they've all turned down. The S&amp;P is now off 0.40%, and the Dow is down 0.19%. That point about slack in labor markets is something we touched on recently — there's a huge debate among analysts about whether it's really that bad. In her remarks, Yellen points to historically high levels of long-term unemployed and part-time workers, as well as feeble wage growth, to make her case that it is. Full remarks below: Chairman Brady, Vice Chair Klobuchar, and other members of the Committee, I appreciate this opportunity to discuss the current economic situation and outlook along with monetary policy before turning to some issues regarding financial stability. Current Economic Situation and OutlookThe economy has continued to recover from the steep recession of 2008 and 2009. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth stepped up to an average annual rate of about 3-1/4 percent over the second half of last year, a faster pace than in the first half and during the preceding two years. Although real GDP growth is currently estimated to have paused in the first quarter of this year, I see that pause as mostly reflecting transitory factors, including the effects of the unusually cold and snowy winter weather. With the harsh winter behind us, many recent indicators suggest that a rebound in spending and production is already under way, putting the overall economy on track for solid growth in the current quarter. One cautionary note, though, is that readings on housing activity--a sector that has been recovering since 2011--have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching. Conditions in the labor market have continued to improve. The unemployment rate was 6.3 percent in April, about 1-1/4 percentage points below where it was a year ago. Moreover, gains in payroll employment averaged nearly 200,000 jobs per month over the past year. During the economic recovery so far, payroll employment has increased by about 8-1/2 million jobs since its low point, and the unemployment rate has declined about 3-3/4 percentage points since its peak. While conditions in the labor market have improved appreciably, they are still far from satisfactory. Even with recent declines in the unemployment rate, it continues to be elevated. Moreover, both the share of the labor force that has been unemployed for more than six months and the number of individuals who work part time but would prefer a full-time job are at historically high levels. In addition, most measures of labor compensation have been rising slowly--another signal that a substantial amount of slack remains in the labor market. Inflation has been quite low even as the economy has continued to expand. Some of the factors contributing to the softness in inflation over the past year, such as the declines seen in non-oil import prices, will probably be transitory. Importantly, measures of longer-run inflation expectations have remained stable. That said, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) recognizes that inflation persistently below 2 percent--the rate that the Committee judges to be most consistent with its dual mandate--could pose risks to economic performance, and we are monitoring inflation developments closely. Looking ahead, I expect that economic activity will expand at a somewhat faster pace this year than it did last year, that the unemployment rate will continue to decline gradually, and that inflation will begin to move up toward 2 percent. A faster rate of economic growth this year should be supported by reduced restraint from changes in fiscal policy, gains in household net worth from increases in home prices and equity values, a firming in foreign economic growth, and further improvements in household and business confidence as the economy continues to strengthen. Moreover, U.S. financial conditions remain supportive of growth in economic activity and employment. As always, considerable uncertainty surrounds this baseline economic outlook. At present, one prominent risk is that adverse developments abroad, such as heightened geopolitical tensions or an intensification of financial stresses in emerging market economies, could undermine confidence in the global economic recovery. Another risk--domestic in origin--is that the recent flattening out in housing activity could prove more protracted than currently expected rather than resuming its earlier pace of recovery. Both of these elements of uncertainty will bear close observation. Monetary PolicyTurning to monetary policy, the Federal Reserve remains committed to policies designed to restore labor market conditions and inflation to levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate. As always, our policy will continue to be guided by the evolving economic and financial situation, and we will adjust the stance of policy appropriately to take account of changes in the economic outlook. In light of the considerable degree of slack that remains in labor markets and the continuation of inflation below the Committee's 2 percent objective, a high degree of monetary accommodation remains warranted. With the federal funds rate, our traditional policy tool, near zero since late 2008, we have relied on two less conventional tools to provide support for the economy: asset purchases and forward guidance. And, because these policy tools are less familiar, we have been especially attentive in recent years to the need to communicate to the public about how we intend to employ our policy tools in response to changing economic circumstances. Our current program of asset purchases began in September 2012 when the economic recovery had weakened and progress in the labor market had slowed, and we said that our intention was to continue the program until we saw substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market. By December 2013, the Committee judged that the cumulative progress in the labor market warranted a modest reduction in the pace of asset purchases. At the first three meetings this year, our assessment was that there was sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions, so further measured reductions in asset purchases were appropriate. I should stress that even as the Committee reduces the pace of its purchases of longer-term securities, it is still adding to its holdings, and those sizable holdings continue to put significant downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and contribute to favorable conditions in broader financial markets. Our other important policy tool in recent years has been forward guidance about the likely path of the federal funds rate as the economic recovery proceeds. Beginning in December 2012, the Committee provided threshold-based guidance that turned importantly on the behavior of the unemployment rate. As you know, at our March 2014 meeting, with the unemployment rate nearing the threshold that had been laid out earlier, we undertook a significant review of our forward guidance. While indicating that the new guidance did not represent a shift in the FOMC's policy intentions, the Committee laid out a fuller description of the framework that will guide its policy decisions going forward. Specifically, the new language explains that, as the economy expands further, the Committee will continue to assess both the realized and expected progress toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. In assessing that progress, we will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. In March and again last month, we stated that we anticipated the current target range for the federal funds rate would be maintained for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if inflation continues to run below 2 percent, and provided that inflation expectations remain well anchored. The new language also includes information on our thinking about the likely path of the policy rate after the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation. In particular, we anticipate that even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic and financial conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels that the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Because the evolution of the economy is uncertain, policymakers need to carefully watch for signs that it is diverging from the baseline outlook and respond in a systematic way to stabilize the economy. Accordingly, for both our purchases and our forward guidance, we have tried to communicate as clearly as possible how changes in the economic outlook will affect our policy stance. In doing so, we will help the public to better understand how the Committee will respond to unanticipated developments, thereby reducing uncertainty about the course of unemployment and inflation. Financial StabilityIn addition to our monetary policy responsibilities, the Federal Reserve works to promote financial stability, focusing on identifying and monitoring vulnerabilities in the financial system and taking actions to reduce them. In this regard, the Committee recognizes that an extended period of low interest rates has the potential to induce investors to "reach for yield" by taking on increased leverage, duration risk, or credit risk. Some reach-for-yield behavior may be evident, for example, in the lower-rated corporate debt markets, where issuance of syndicated leveraged loans and high-yield bonds has continued to expand briskly, spreads have continued to narrow, and underwriting standards have loosened further. While some financial intermediaries have increased their exposure to duration and credit risk recently, these increases appear modest to date--particularly at the largest banks and life insurers. More generally, valuations for the equity market as a whole and other broad categories of assets, such as residential real estate, remain within historical norms. In addition, bank holding companies (BHCs) have improved their liquidity positions and raised capital ratios to levels significantly higher than prior to the financial crisis. Moreover, recently concluded stress tests mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act have provided a level of confidence in our assessment of how financial institutions would fare in an extended period of severely adverse macroeconomic conditions or a sharp steepening of the yield curve alongside a moderate recession. For the financial sector more broadly, leverage remains subdued and measures of wholesale short-term funding continue to be far below levels seen before the financial crisis. The Federal Reserve has also taken a number of regulatory steps--many in conjunction with other federal agencies--to continue to improve the resiliency of the financial system. Most recently, the Federal Reserve finalized a rule implementing section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish enhanced prudential standards for large banking firms in the form of risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, and risk-management requirements. In addition, the rule requires large foreign banking organizations to form a U.S. intermediate holding company, and it imposes enhanced prudential requirements for these intermediate holding companies. Looking forward, the Federal Reserve is considering whether additional measures are needed to further reduce the risks associated with large, interconnected financial institutions. While we have seen substantial improvements in labor market conditions and the overall economy since the financial crisis and severe recession, we recognize that more must be accomplished. Many Americans who want a job are still unemployed, inflation continues to run below the FOMC's longer-run objective, and work remains to further strengthen our financial system. I will continue to work closely with my colleagues and others to carry out the important mission that the Congress has given the Federal Reserve. Thank you. I will be pleased to take your questions. She is testifying before a joint session of Congress this morning. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoJosé Antonio Ocampo.So it's not just porn stars. José Antonio Ocampo — a world-renowned economist, former Colombian finance minister, and former nominee to head the World Bank — has filed a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau against JPMorgan. He says the bank shut down his accounts without warning, the Financial Times reports. “Friday was hell for me,” Ocampo told the FT. “I had all my money frozen. I am being treated like a criminal.” The bank says Ocampo's account was shut down because JPM is reevaluating its business with "politically exposed persons" like non-U.S. former high-level diplomats (think the Tony Blairs of the world) because of high compliance costs. It's all part of a new effort at the bank to clamp down on any potential for money laundering or security breaches. The bank paid $2 billion in fines for such violations last year. The worst part of this whole situation is aother diplomat's son* said that JPM was trying to sell his father more products a week before his accounts were also impacted by this new policy. Rough. For the full story head to the FT &gt; *This story has been edited to reflect that JPM was trying to sell products to another diplomat affected  by the policy, not Ocampo. FREE AppDownload
APWhole Foods CEO John Mackey.Whole Foods reported disappointing earnings yesterday, and shares are collapsing.  CEO John Mackey blames mounting competition from other retailers selling organic groceries, and suggested that the company would lower its prices to draw in more customers.  But his explanations were not enough for Wall Street analysts, who ripped into the company on the earnings conference call.  "I’ve got to be honest. I’m not really hearing anything that’s suggesting management is taking this situation as seriously as some investors want you to," Ken Goldman at JPMorgan said. "There’s a lot of talk about what’s going, not a lot to talk about what it takes to win the change market." He also suggested that the company has failed to change its strategy.  "I’m really just curious: What are you doing differently versus a year ago other than taking your cost down, which I think the market’s telling you may not be enough anymore?" he implored.  When Mackey stressed that the company was lowering prices, Goldman became impatient.  "You’ve been doing that for years. You’ve been taking price down for years. I mean, it’s hard to understand," he said.  Analysts also questioned why, despite slowing sales, the company is stocking more merchandise than ever.  Charles Grom at Sterne Agee asked management why it hasn't advertised lower prices to customers.  "You’re lowering prices, but you haven’t been really advertising them within the stores or doing it in some of the promotions that you do to get the message out there." he said. "Is it safe to say that that’s still to come or it’s not part of the strategy at all — you’re just going to lower the prices and hope that the customer starts to recognize that over time?"  Whole Foods Vice President David Lannon said that the company has made some attempts to advertise in California.  Mackey acknowledged that the call was awkward.  "I can tell by some of the questions on the call that people may not agree with our strategy and of course, people are free to make their own decisions about whether this is a good strategy or not," he said. "But we want to be as transparent and as honest and as open with our shareholders as we possibly can be." FREE AppDownload
Billionaire private equity chief Steve Schwarzman wins for the best photo bomb at Monday night's Met Ball.  We spotted the Blackstone Group CEO in a photo of Donatella Versace on the red carpet. It's pretty great.  We did a search for Schwarzman on AP Images and Getty and couldn't find anything from the ball of him. Looks like they were mostly focused on celebrities.  Anyway, sound off in the comments section with your best caption.  Check it out: AP Images AP Images FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
CNBC star Jim Cramer weighed in on what the Alibaba IPO means for other stocks: Let me be very clear: there is not enough money to handle the Alibaba deal right now. It will cause selling in most high growth stocks Cramer has been talking about this a lot lately. Last month he said, "A stock market is like any other market. It's all about supply and demand. That's basic economics 101. So when you flood the stock market with too much new supply, say via endless torrent of IPOs, that puts real downward pressure not just on those stocks but on the entire averages." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Juan Carlos UlateCosta Rican coffee farmer Isidro Corrales shows coffee beans affected by a tree-killing fungus known as roya in Perez Zeledon July 12, 2013.A fungus sweeping across Central America is destroying coffee crops and causing exports to plunge, The New York Times reports. The "coffee rust" fungus, also called la roya, has been thriving in recent years because of climate change, experts say. Higher temperatures across Central America have allowed the fungus to grow at higher altitudes. Growers have tried spraying fungicide on their crops to combat the coffee rust, but it hasn't worked. The fungus can also zap coffee beans of their flavor, according to The Wall Street Journal. A coffee buyer who talked to the Journal last year said the coffee she tasted in Honduras was "very underdeveloped" and void of its usual flavors. The Times details how the coffee rust has affected local economies in Central America as big farmers hire fewer workers to pick ripe coffee cherries, small farmers go into debt, merchants sell less, kids drop out of school to work for their parents, and landless migrant workers are paid even less. “If you frame this in terms of everyone that is connected to the economics of coffee, it’s a very serious problem,” Roberto de Michele, a specialist at the Inter-American Development Bank who is based in Guatemala City, told The Times. Crops have been devastated by the fungus — Bloomberg reports that about 40% of Guatemala’s 2013-2014 crop could be lost to the fungus. Guatemala's coffee harvest shrank 15% last year, according to The Times. The fungus could drive up coffee prices across the globe. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerElon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors, waves during a news conference to mark the company's delivery of the first batch of electric cars to Chinese customers in Beijing on April 22, 2014. In the past year or so, the Tesla story has morphed from one about electric cars upending the auto industry to changing how we get our energy everywhere, thanks to the automaker's announcement that it plans to build a giant battery factory. DoubleLine Capital founder Jeff Gundlach says it's time for Tesla founder Elon Musk to pick a narrative — the latter one, specifically. In an interview with Bloomberg News yesterday, Gundlach laid out a strategy by which Tesla goes all in on batteries and leaves the car manufacturing to existing giants. Tesla “could be wildly transformational the way electricity and electromagnets were,” Gundlach said, according to Bloomberg's Mary Childs. He added that he sees a 30% chance that Tesla will give speculative investors a “killer” return.  And he couldn't resist taking a swipe at Twitter, which fell nearly 18% yesterday after a proprietary lockup expired.  “What does Twitter (TWTR) create? It creates information flow but it’s not really creating anything," Gundlach said. "If you’re going to buy a highflier, I would rather own Tesla.” Gundlach also discussed what the Fed should be doing, and where he thinks China is going Click here to read the full story » FREE AppDownload
DigitalAlan/flickr DEERFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Mondelez and D.E. Master Blenders will link their coffee businesses together as Mondelez concentrates increasingly on its snack foods division and cost cutting. The deal is part of a $3.5 billion restructuring program underway at Mondelez that is projected to create $1.5 billion in savings by 2018. The company said that the restructuring is expected to include some job cuts, but it did not specify how many positions or where. Shares of Mondelez rose more than 5 percent before the opening bell Wednesday. Mondelez, which makes Oreo and Chips Ahoy cookies, Trident gum and Cadbury chocolate, split from Kraft Foods Group Inc. in late 2012. The newly formed coffee producer will sell Gevalia, Tassimo and Jacobs, which are Mondelez brands, and Senseo and Douwe Egberts from D.E. Master Blenders, formerly the Sara Lee coffee business. The new company, with annual revenue of more than $7 billion, will be called Jacobs Douwe Egberts and it will be headquartered in the Netherlands. Mondelez International Inc. had about $3.9 billion in revenue in 2013, while D.E. Master Blenders 1753 B.V. had approximately $3.4 billion. About 85 percent of overall revenue at Mondelez will come from its snacks once the coffee deal is complete, the company said. The deal only includes Mondelez's coffee portfolio outside of France. Acorn Holdings, which owns D.E. Master Blenders, has made a separate offer for the French business. Mondelez will receive about $5 billion when the transaction closes and have a 49 percent equity stake in the new company. Mondelez said that it plans to use most of the proceeds to expand its stock repurchases and anticipates using the balance to help lower debt and other things. Acorn will have a majority stake in the combined company and will also hold a majority of the board seats. D.E. Master Blenders Chairman Bart Becht will serve as chairman of the combined business. D.E. Master Blenders CEO Pierre Laubies is likely to become CEO of the new entity. The rest of the leadership team, to be named later, will consist of executives from both Mondelez and D.E. Master Blenders. Separately, Mondelez reported first-quarter adjusted earnings of 39 cents per share on revenue of $8.64 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet predicted earnings of 35 cents per share on revenue of $8.67 billion. Mondelez maintained its 2014 guidance for adjusted earnings between $1.73 and $1.78 per share, on a constant currency basis. Wall Street is looking for $1.71 per share. Shares in the Deerfield company climbed about 6 percent to $37.25 in premarket trading. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Lonely Planet via Getty ImagesWhole Foods shares are getting destroyed this morning. The stock is off 16% after earnings yesterday showed weak same-store sales growth. What's holding back the company? On a company conference call, CEO John Mackey explained. Organic food is now everywhere. Whole Foods just isn't that special anymore. Here's the key takeaway from the call, via Seeking Alpha: Since Q3 last year, our average price per item growth has moderated to 160 basis points from 3.3% to a three-year low of 1.7% this quarter. We attribute this primarily to our proactive value strategy and believe this is the biggest contributor to the change in our comp trends over the last several quarter A dynamically changing competitive market is certainly a factor as well. The growing demand for fresh healthy foods, the offering of natural and organic products is expanding everywhere and new stores, existing stores and online. Looking at the big picture, that’s a positive for us, as it affirms our mission for the last 36 years and speaks to the increasing growth opportunity. However, we believe it is currently impacting our transaction count growth. In addition, severe weather in several of our larger regions impacted shopping patterns again this quarter, customers making fewer trips and buying more items each trip. (Via CNBC) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA mascot dressed as a character from the mobile game "Candy Crush Saga" walks the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during the IPO of Mobile game maker King Digital Entertainment Plc March 26, 2014. King Digital, the company behind Candy Crush, just reported its first quarterly earnings as a public company. The numbers look pretty good, but King's stock is suffering. It's currently trading down 10.39% at $16.81 a share. King priced its IPO at $22.50 a share. Revenue increased to $607 million, which beat FactSet's estimate of $602 million. Gross bookings were $641.1 million, which is up from the previous quarter of $632 million. EPS was $0.61 versus analyst estimates of $0.57. Monthly active users were 481 million, up from the previous quarter which had 408 million monthly active users. Daily active users were also up: 143 million versus 124 million the quarter before. While the numbers are solid, King's stock could be tanking due to one important detail: The number of people paying for in-app power-ups is in decline. King has 11.9 million “unique payers,” down from 12.2 million in Q4. King hit its peak in Q3 with 13 million "unique payers." Meanwhile, its forward-looking statements, which include a bunch of risk factors. Here's a key nugget: "The fact that a relatively small number of games continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenue and gross bookings, and declines in popularity of these games could harm our financial results." King also notes that it relies heavily on third-party platforms and their popularity. Investors were also worried about the company's growth. Revenue in Q4 was down from its Q3 revenue. This quarter, as we noted, revenue is up sequentially, but it's still not as high as it was in Q3.  King    FREE AppDownload
We all struggle with procrastination – so how do we get the motivation we need to get over the hump? Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Jessica Rinaldi/Getty ImagesAOL Inc reported an 8% rise in first-quarter revenue, helped by an increase in ad sales. Revenue was $583.3 million, which was well ahead of analyst expectations of $577.7 million. The company's advertising revenue rose 16 percent to $433.4 million. Net income attributable to AOL, which owns the Huffington Post news website and the TechCrunch blog, fell to $9.3 million, or $0.11 per share, from $25.9 million, or $0.32, a year earlier. EPS was a miss, as analysts were looking for $0.45 per share. Here, from AOL's earnings presentation, is a summary of its results: AOL And here's a breakdown by AOL business lines: AOLAnd here is where the ad growth is coming from for AOL:AOL FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA trader smiles walking outside the energy options pit of the New York Mercantile Exchange October 17, 2008. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the topics people are talking about today. US Futures are starting mixed this AM, with the S&amp;P higher, but Nasdaq in the red, firmly below the 100dma.   Early, but the “New Tech” to “Old Tech” trade en fuego this AM, with FEYE and GRPN off 9%+, while EA is up almost 20%.   Over in Europe, markets are being resilient as Ukraine stress abates (Russia’s Micex up 1.5%), with the DAX basically unchanged in heavier volume into the ECB decision tomorrow.   US Weakness and a disappointing Alibaba valuation hit Nikkei in it’s first session open this week losing almost 3% in heavy trading, with major investor SoftBank hit for 5% on the lower Alibaba valuation (Watch YHOO)  – Interesting the Momentum Index over there outperformed – losing less than 2%.   China lost almost 1% in very light trading, as their Services number comes in slightly better.   Aussie lost 1% in heavier trade - Profittaking in Aussie’s banks ahead of earnings, and Miners were hit sharply as Ore is off 10% in a month.  Globally, Banks are weaker on results from SocGen and HSBC – as well as continued regulatory angst and a flattening US curve, with flows continuing towards Energy, with the XLE trading on new all-time highs this AM.  The US 10YY is off small ahead of Yellen climbing the steps of Capitol Hill this AM, but yields are well off overnight lows.   The € is slightly weaker on the miss in German Factory Orders, while the Yen is on 3week peaks on hawkish BOJ minutes.  The big FX mover overnight was the Kiwi getting whacked, as New Zealand’s central bank has warned it may intervene to suppress kiwi strength.   We have weakness in Industrial Metals, with Copper losing 40bp after failing the 50dma overnight.   Gold is showing some pop, despite the bad Chinese consumption headlines out there.   The Oil complex is higher into DOE inventories today – US stockpiles are foreseen to set new 32Y high.  Scheduled Catalysts today include Nonfarm Productivity at 8:30, Fed's Yellen Testifies to Joint Economic Committee at 10, DOE data for Crude at 10:30, there is NO POMO at 11, we have a 10Y auction at 1, followed by Consumer Credit at 3pm.  Before the US opening bell on Thursday, we will have digested interest rate decisions from the ECB, BOE, Indonesia and Malaysia FREE AppDownload
Chris Graythen/Getty ImagesThe death of the pop music industry has been predicted for years – and certainly since Apple launched a whizzy device called an iPod back in 2001. The rise of free or pirated music online and the declining sales of CDs has at the same time been wielded as a cautionary tale about the power of the internet. Still, this week’s comments by Lily Allen may finally confirm that any aspiring rock guitarists or pop singers might as well pack away their dreams and find a proper job. “Everyone assumes I made millions from the John Lewis ad. I probably made $13,500,” said the singer, whose cover of Keane’s Somewhere Only We Know made it to Number One last year. It was played incessantly on the radio, and – of course – the television, as the soundtrack to John Lewis’s Christmas advert, featuring an animated love story between a bear and a hare. Allen, who took a four-year break to bring up her children, has claimed that pop stars now make most of their money from turning up to awards ceremonies and product events. “There are the snobby launches of a new water at Claridge’s. Pointless stuff. And we all turn up because we get paid to be there,” she told Beat magazine. How much do they pay? “Depends. From $4,200 to $170,000? Now that people don’t buy music, we have to find other revenues. It’s not something I’ve really been offered. But I might,” she said. “I didn’t know how bad the music industry had got in those four years I was out.” Perhaps she should have taken a look at last year’s charts: not the music charts, but those tracking sales across the entire entertainment industry – albums, films and video-games – put together by the Entertainment Retailers Association. These reveal that the top-selling product in 2013 was the video-game Grand Theft Auto V, which sold 3.67 million copies, followed by the DVD of Skyfall, the James Bond film, which sold 2.96 million copies. You would need to go down to ninth place before you hit anything melodic – and that would be Now That’s What I Call Music! 86, which scraped just over one million units. The only other music in the Top 20, in physical or electronic format, is Now That’s What I Call Music! 85. Only a decade ago – the days when Dido, Coldplay and James Blunt were hit machines – it was not uncommon for an album to sell more than three million copies. You might think that the rise of digital music would compensate for the dire fall in sales of physical CDs, but this isn’t the case. Last year, the sales of all types of albums and singles totaled $1.77 billion in the UK, down 0.5 per cent on the year before and down 7 per cent over three years. None other than pop’s biggest female star, Beyoncé, complained on her latest album, singing: “Soul not for sale<U+2009>/ Probably won’t make no money off this<U+2009>/ Oh well.” Queen Bey even makes the credibility-stretching claim that she is going to have to work “nine to five to stay alive”. The problem is that people just do not buy music in the quantity that they used to. They either pick and choose the odd single, or they stream music on services such as Spotify or YouTube, often free of charge. But this does not mean that musicians will be forced to become buskers. Indeed, Allen’s candid assessment hints at how some musicians still make a comfortable living, despite falling sales. Touring has long been the most lucrative way of making money for the big stadium acts, such as the Rolling Stones and Elton John. Now the global recession is over, ticket prices are on the up and new acts, such as One Direction, are cashing in. All of these events are an opportunity to sell merchandise and push the brand. The days of a Rolling Stone baseball cap are over. Taylor Swift has three different perfumes to her name; Rita Ora, who has recorded just one album, has polka dot shorts, necklaces and an entire range of Rimmel London nail varnish in her stable of merchandise. As one music agent says: “For a lot of these pop acts, the music is just another piece in their product range.” And no area is off limits. Pharrell Williams and Daft Punk not only spawned 2013’s biggest single, Get Lucky, but also a brand of Get Lucky condoms. According to PRS for Music, the industry association that helps collect royalty payments, British writers and artists earned $1.09 billion from royalties. But on top of that, they earned $178 million in 2012 from “ancillary brand revenues”. This jargon includes sponsorship of a venue, concert or tour, with the artists taking a cut. Indeed, Rihanna’s latest tour was technically known as the Budweiser Rihanna 777 Tour (the crowd reportedly failed to respond to Rihanna’s call for them to chant “Budweiser and River Island” in support of her associated brands). Artists’ “ancillary” earnings also include the endorsements they clock up, such as producer Mark Ronson and singer Katy B lending their cool to a corporate brand like Coca-Cola. For that, they will usually be compensated for both the use of their music and of their image. The deals add up: from Lana Del Rey fronting adverts for H&amp;M, to the likes of Jessie J who has got into bed with VitaminWater. (And this from the girl who sang “It’s not about the money, money, money”.) PRS does not, however, track the pay cheques about which stars are possibly the most opaque: personal appearances. It is no secret that pop stars can cash in when they are invited to perform at the birthday party of some Russian oligarch or Saudi princess – Lakshmi Mittal paid Kylie Minogue an estimated £315,000 to sing for half an hour at the wedding of his daughter. Jay-Z and Beyoncé each charge £1 million a night. What is more surprising is when celebrities are paid just to turn up: not to sing or present an award, but just to be seen at the launch of a product or the opening of a new nightclub, as Lily Allen spelled out. Yusef Mohamed, director of Big Bang, one of the many agencies that specialize in placing celebrities at events, says: “Many of these celebrities are very busy. Turning up to these things can take a lot of the artist’s time – they are not going to go to them unless someone is paying them.” And how they pay. The fees start at about $3,400 for the most Z-list of celebrities, all the way up to $340,000 or more for a proper star. Mark Borkowski, the PR man who represents celebrities as well as brands, notes: “This has been going on for some time, particularly in the luxury fashion world, where budgets are high.” Sometimes, of course, tempers fray. The designer Nicole Farhi caused ructions two years ago when she said she was fed up with stars demanding to be paid to sit in the front row of fashion shows and refused to pay. An A-lister such as Rihanna, it is understood, charges $102,000 to be at a show. Allen herself back in 2007 was open about how the fashion industry bent over backwards to butter up music stars, claiming that after an Yves Saint Laurent show she was taken to the flagship store and told to help herself, before emerging with $8,500 worth of dresses, handbags and accessories. These personal appearances have to be managed with caution, however. “You have to be very, very careful,” Borkowski says. “If you become a hired hand, and are seen at the shaking of every stick, your ubiquity will destroy your credibility.” And rivals for the work will be snapping at your heels. The celebrity market is becoming “saturated”, Mohamed warns, thanks to the sheer number of talent and reality shows, which have created an army of people looking to cash in on their fame. For some, the old ways still remain the best. One music agent says: “I get these offers coming in quite often – and they are fine for a pop act, who have only a few years to milk it for all it is worth. “But for a proper music star, you can forget it. Their fans would never forgive them.” QUIZ: HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE EUROVISION SONG CONTEST?  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorVenezuelan artist Cristobal Ochoa (R) and his performance partner Jean-Paul Fowler promote the Artist Open Houses part of the Brighton Festival with street art performance "Los conos de madre" ("mother's cones"), on the seafront in Brighton May 6, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Here Comes Alibaba. China's mega online retailer Alibaba filed its first IPO documents on Tuesday afternoon. In the filing, we learned that the company had $6.5 billion in sales during the nine months ending March 31, 2013. Net income during the period was $2.9 billion. Founder Jack Ma owns 8.9% of the company. Credit Suisse is the lead underwriter, along with Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, and Citigroup. The company did not identify how much it planned to raise, what its ticker would be, and on which exchange it would list. Biggest IPO Ever? The company did not disclose how much it planned on raising. However, Renaissance Capital believes the final amount could be big. "We estimate the deal could raise as much as $20 billion," said Renaissance. "If it does, Alibaba would be the world's largest IPO ever, above ABC Bank's $19.2 billion IPO (excluding greenshoe option) in July 2010." Disney Unfrozen. Disney blew away Q1 expectations, earning $1.11 per share during the quarter. Analysts were looking for $0.95. Studio entertainment revenues surged 35% year-over-year thanks to some huge blockbuster hits. "The increase in domestic home entertainment was due to higher unit sales, which reflected the success of Frozen and Thor: The Dark World in the current quarter compared to Wreck-It Ralph and no comparable Marvel title in the prior-year quarter," they said. "Higher international theatrical results reflected the strength of Frozen in the current quarter compared to Wreck-It Ralph and Oz The Great And Powerful in the prior-year quarter." Whole Foods Crashing. Shares of the premium grocery chain are down over 15% in pre-market trading. Tuesday afternoon, we learned Q2 earnings came in at $0.38 per share, missing analysts' estimates for $0.41. Comparable store sales climbed by just 4.5% versus expectations for a 5.4% increase. Among other things, management blamed "a negative impact of approximately 50 basis points from Easter shifting from the second quarter last year to the third quarter this year." Groupon Discount. Groupon shares are falling after the coupon companies Q1 earnings announcement. The company reported an adjust loss of $0.01 per share, which was narrower than the $0.03 expect. Revenue was also stronger than expected. "The company guided Q2 Adj. EBITDA below consensus, and local deal billings growth disappointed in both North America and EMEA," noted Morgan Stanley's Stephen Shin. "Local billings growth of 1% in North America and EMEA missed our estimate (8% and 15%, respectively)... While the company noted that it expected material improvement in North America local in the 2H of 2014 with billings growing by double-digits, Q2 local billings are trending similar to Q1." Dotcom Meltdown. Deals website Zulily is down 17% after announcing disappointing Q1 financial results. TripAdvisor initially crashed by over 15% yesterday afternoon in the wake of its earnings announcement. But shares of TRIP have since turned around and are actually in the green. All of this volatility is sure to attract attention, especially after yesterday's 17% drop in Twitter shares. Thailand PM Out. Thailand's Constitutional Court removed Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra after it found her guilty of abusing power when she removed the National Security Council secretary-general. "The risk of head-on confrontations over the coming days are high, with both government supporters and protesters threatening to stage large-scale rallies," warned Capital Economics' Krystal Tan. "The toll that the political upheaval is taking on the economy is also clearly apparent." Markets Flat, But Japan Slammed. U.S. stock market futures are basically flat ahead of the opening bell. Britain's FTSE, France's CAC 40, and Germany's DAX are modestly lower. The Nikkei fell a whopping 2.9% overnight as the country continues to report disappointing data after a recent tax hike. Janet Yellen Speaks. Federal Reserve Chair Yellen will testify on the economy before the Joint Economic Committee at 10:00 a.m. ET. From Credit Suisse: "We expect her to describe recent improvements in the economic data, in keeping with the FOMC observation that growth has picked up. But central to her message likely will be the need for continued accommodation in order to promote further job creation, which would be in line with her March 31 address in Chicago... Yellen may also reprise an important theme from her April 16 speech before the Economic Club of New York in which she described the Fed’s reaction function in Taylor Rule-like terms, re-establishing the notion that the FOMC will respond in a systematic way to deviations from the baseline forecast of inflation approaching 2% and continued progress toward full employment." Light Economic Data. At 3:00 p.m. ET today, the Federal Reserve will publish its latest monthly report on consumer credit. Economists estimate balances increased by $15.5 billion in March. "As has been the case in recent years, we expect this to be driven largely by the nonrevolving component, though we do expect a modest boost from revolving credit growth as well," said Barclays economists. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoA shopper rides an escalator past Nintendo advertisements at an electronics retail store in Tokyo January 20, 2014.Japanese videogame giant Nintendo said Wednesday it logged a $229 million loss for its fiscal year to March as sales of its Wii U console disappointed. The company said its net loss came in at 23.2 billion yen ($229 million) -- reversing a net profit of 7.1 billion yen a year ago -- on sales of 571.7 billion yen, which were down 10.0 percent on the year. Nintendo had previously warned it was on track for an annual loss, reversing an earlier 55 billion yen net profit forecast, as sales for the Wii U came in way below expectations over the crucial holiday sales period. It said it moved 2.72 million Wii U consoles globally over the 12 months through March, less than a third of its earlier prediction for 9.0 million and dealing a blow to hopes it would match the blockbuster success of the original Wii. Sales were "not as high as expected", the firm said, adding that price cuts and slower sales of the console's high-margin software weighed on results. The maker of the Donkey Kong and Pokemon franchises has fallen on hard times in recent years, piling up losses as rivals Sony and Microsoft outpaced it in console sales, while all three companies fight off a trend toward cheap -- or sometimes free -- downloadable games for smartphones and other mobile devices. Nintendo has previously blamed weak earnings partly on high development and marketing costs for the Wii U, which was launched in late 2012, although sales of its 3DS handheld console and related game titles fared better. It cut prices on both consoles to boost sales. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuGroup Chief Executive of HSBC Holdings PLC Stuart Gulliver reacts during the Asia-Global Dialogue forum in Hong Kong December 5, 2013.LONDON (Reuters) - HSBC's &lt;HSBA.L&gt; first quarter profits fell 20 percent from a year ago to $6.8 billion as revenue dipped at its investment bank, while last year's earnings were swelled by asset sales. HSBC, which is Europe's biggest bank but makes most of its profits in Asia, said it had continued to experience "muted customer activity" in April. Most investment banks have seen income drop in the first quarter after a grim start to the year for bond and interest rate trading, and HSBC said profits at its global banking and markets arm fell by a fifth from a year ago. But it said it won market share in several areas, including equity and debt capital markets and advisory. Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver has said he is in the second phase of a turnaround aimed at making his bank less complex, more nimble and efficient and able to deliver better returns and dividends for shareholders. HSBC's cost efficiency ratio was 55.7 percent in the first quarter, close to its target of mid-50s, but its return on equity slipped to 11.7 percent, below its 12-15 percent target. HSBC said it cut operating costs by 2 percent to $8.8 billion in the first quarter, but excluding one-off items expenses rose 2 percent. The bank has axed more than 40,000 jobs and sold or closed 60 businesses over the past three years to cut costs, but said it added 1,100 jobs in the first quarter, mainly due to beefing up compliance and adding staff where it sees growth potential. HSBC reported a pretax profit of $6.8 billion, down from $8.4 billion a year ago but just above the average forecast of $6.6 billion from 13 analysts polled by the company. Underlying profits, stripping out gains from disposals and movement in the value of its own debt, was $6.6 billion, down 13 percent from a year ago. (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Matt Scuffham) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingMicrosoft founder Bill Gates reacts as he plays table tennis at a Berkshire Hathaway sponsored reception in Omaha, Nebraska May 4, 2014 as part of the company annual meeting weekend.The world’s first trillionaire could emerge within just 25 years, financial forecasters have claimed. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder and richest person on Earth, is expected by many to be the first to reach trillionaire status. If the world’s greatest fortunes continue to grow at their current rate, boosted by the rapid wealth creation in emerging markets such as India and China then Gates or one of the planet’s super-rich elite could have a trillion dollars to their name by 2039, according to some predictions. Others, such as investment bank Credit Suisse, believe there will be 11 trillionaires within just two generations. “Two generations ahead, future extrapolation of current wealth growth rates yields almost a billion millionaires, equivalent to 20 per cent of the total adult population,” the bank wrote in its annual Global Wealth Report last year. “If this scenario unfolds, then billionaires will be commonplace, and there is likely to be a few trillionaires too, eleven according to our best estimate.” A trillion dollars is a million million or $1,000,000,000,000 (£590,000 million), the equivalent of $140 for every person on the planet. It is enough money to buy up every last inch of property in central London at today’s prices, according to The Times . Bill Gates, 58, currently the richest man on Earth with a fortune of £72 billion, is widely expected to be the world’s first trillionaire. If the US national wealth carries on growing at its current rate and the richest few continue to increase their share of it in an increasingly polarised economy, Mr Gates will claim the title of world’s first trillionaire in his old age. The share of America’s national wealth held by the country’s 400 richest individuals has more than tripled from less than one per cent to three per cent since the Forbes 400 list was launched in 1982. American tax lawyer Bob Lord, who writes for Inequality.org, believes the growing concentration of world wealth will lead to a trillionaire in just a quarter of a century. “We're sliding back to Gilded Age levels of wealth concentration,” he said. “My guess is 2039 is the most likely time frame to cross that threshold.” When Forbes began tracking the wealth of the richest 400 Americans, those with $75 million could make it onto the low end of the list. Now at least $1 billion is needed. Other contenders for the world’s first trillionaire include Carlos Slim, the Mexican telecoms mogul and legendary US investor Warren Buffett. But there are some that doubt the 25-year predictions and believe it may take few generations for another Gates-style entrepreneur to take the title. Oliver Williams, of the London-based consultants Wealth Insight, told The Times: “You can’t be exact on when we will see the first trillionaire, and it is ‘when’ not ‘if’, but it is doubtful that it will be within 25 years; double that estimate would be more likely. “The first trillionaire will be an inventor, someone who creates something world-changing, like Bill Gates did with the PC. “It might be a solution to a global problem, such as the lack of fresh water, or something the world didn’t know we needed, like Facebook.” Mr Williams believes the world’s first trillionaire would almost certainly be based in the US, where wealth accumulation is most acute. Others argue they may come from a fast-growing economy such as India.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeChairman and Chief Executive of Alibaba Group Jack Ma speaks at a news conference in Beijing, in this file picture taken January 19, 2011.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd may be making its debut on Wall Street later this summer, but it's certainly no stranger to the investors of Silicon Valley. In the past 18 months, the Chinese e-commerce giant has burrowed its way into the Valley's exclusive investment circles, snapping up sizeable stakes and board seats in fast-growing startups that could provide strategic advantages for when, not if, the company challenges Amazon.com Inc or eBay Inc on their home turf. A U.S. investment team headed by cable magnate John Malone's former dealmaker, Michael Zeisser, targets stakes in e-commerce, mobile and logistics-focused companies which combine online and offline operations, people familiar with the U.S. operations said. Alibaba's vision for the world's largest consumer market has been the subject of intense industry speculation. Silicon Valley insiders who have held discussions with the company, which handles more online transactions than Amazon and eBay combined, say its U.S. deals are central to its strategy of becoming the world's dominant e-tailer. The growing pool of investments give Alibaba a glimpse into a swathe of Silicon Valley's cutting-edge technologies; they yield insights into an unfamiliar market; and they help build a web of alliances and connections, industry insiders say. "They want the optionality to see if a technology or trend takes off in the U.S., or to see if it's applicable to bring back home," said Hany Nada, a founding partner of GGV Capital, a venture capital firm that invested in Alibaba in 2003. Alibaba investments may also help in its inevitable landing on U.S. soil, whenever that may be, he said: "They want them to soften the beach." For instance, Alibaba made a $202 million investment for a 39 percent stake in 2-day shipping service Shoprunner, in October. The membership-based shipping plan is a rival to Amazon Prime that works with dozens of U.S. retailers. Alibaba's intention was to learn about U.S. online shopping, the country's distribution infrastructure, and potentially build relationships with retailers without exposing itself directly to the famously ruthless Seattle giant, a Shoprunner executive said. "They can't grow in China forever," said Fiona Dias, chief strategy officer at Shoprunner. "They're certainly not going to be invited to play in Amazon or eBay's sandbox," she said. "But in an indirect way they can learn and observe from hundreds of large retailers." Alibaba's shopping spree has picked up pace in the past year, and broadened into other areas such as mobile. Its investments have included luxury e-commerce site 1stDibs; a 20 percent stake in mobile messaging app Tango, for which it has paid $217 million; and ridesharing firm Lyft. By acquiring minority stakes, Alibaba's playbook has differed from what's typical of large tech firms like Google or Facebook, which prefer to buy startups outright. "They want to have an early look at what's happening in innovation," said one VC investor in Lyft. "I don't think these investments move the needle for them financially." Mitch Lasky, a partner at Benchmark Capital who has co-invested with Chinese giant Tencent Holdings and has held conversations with Alibaba, noted that Chinese companies often take 10 to 30 percent stakes in other firms, even marginally competitive ones, to build a "network of alliances." It's "unusual for us but it's not unusual for them...to create a network of strategic bonds," Lasky said. Then there's also a political element: Chinese companies tend to be sensitive to the potential for a public or regulatory backlash that could complicate cross-border acquisitions. "They are concerned about the optics of Chinese companies of buying American companies outright," Lasky said. "There's a political cost, even if it's unspoken." Alibaba has closely guarded its ambitions for the United States and executives have privately played down suggestions it would take Amazon head-on. But there's little question that investments in the United States are a high priority, people familiar with the company say. In late 2012, executive vice-chairman and IPO architect Joe Tsai flew to California to discuss an investment in Quixey, a startup that makes a search engine for mobile apps, said Quixey founder Tomer Kagan. Kagan accepted funding within 30 days of first meeting Alibaba representatives. In March, Tsai told Reuters the IPO gives Alibaba the financial muscle to fund more acquisitions with stock. "Having a liquid currency is very, very helpful," Tsai said in an interview. "We'll be sticking very close to our knitting, staying very true to our core business, e-commerce." Tsai's eyes and ears in California are Zeisser, who heads Alibaba's U.S. investments group, and Peter Stern, a former Credit Suisse banker. The U.S. investment team, formed in October, initially worked out of Alibaba's Santa Clara office but is planning to open an office in downtown San Francisco. Alibaba's investments have so far emerged from a tight network of influential contacts. Jerry Yang, the Yahoo co-founder who negotiated Yahoo's investment in Alibaba in 2005, introduced Tango to Alibaba executives last year, a source close to Tango said. Fanatics and Shoprunner are both partially owned by billionaire businessman Michael Rubin, who has long known Masayoshi Son, the Softbank founder who owns a slice of Alibaba. Alibaba was introduced to Quixey through GGV Capital, a venture capital firm with a longstanding Chinese practice that invested in Alibaba in 2003, Kagan said. Quixey's Kagan believed Alibaba would give him the latitude to grow independently for years. But he pointed to UCWeb, a Chinese mobile search company in which Alibaba invested in 2009. That seemed a passive investment until last week, when the two parties unveiled a joint venture to challenge Baidu in China's $2.5 billion mobile search market. "That's the kind of five-year plays they'll make," said Kagan. "They're highly strategic, highly patient." (Reporting by Gerry Shih and Deepa Seetharaman in San Francisco and Paul Carsten in Hong Kong, editing by Edwin Chan and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA visitor takes a photo with a tablet in front of a Hewlett-Packard (HP) stand at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona(Reuters) - Hewlett-Packard Co said it plans to invest more than $1 billion over the next two years to develop and offer cloud-computing products and services. The company said it will make its OpenStack-based public cloud services available in 20 data centers over the next 18 months. OpenStack, a cloud computing project that HP co-founded, provides a free and open-source cloud computing platform for public and private cloud services. "Customer challenges today extend beyond cloud. They include how to manage, control and scale applications in a hybrid environment that spans multiple technology approaches," Martin Fink, executive vice president and chief technology officer, HP, said in a statement. HP last week inked a deal with Taiwanese contract manufacturer Foxconn Technology Group to make servers aimed at companies that provide cloud computing services. Cloud services have become increasingly popular among both cash-strapped tech startups and larger companies, which rely on computers owned and operated by the likes of Amazon and Google, instead of buying the equipment themselves. Amazon.com Inc and Google Inc recently slashed prices of most of their cloud computing services as other companies join the fray. Cisco Systems Inc laid out plans in March to offer cloud computing services, pledging to spend $1 billion over the next two years, while Microsoft Corp said it will increase its cloud storage offering for business users 40-fold. (Reporting By Ankush Sharma in Bangalore) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron Republican donor Shaun McCutcheon (2nd L) departs the U.S. Supreme Court after his McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission case argument in front of the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington October 8, 2013. The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday appeared closely divided over whether to lift restrictions on how much people can donate to political candidates and parties. The nine justices weighed a challenge by McCutcheon, an Alabama businessman, and the Republican National Committee to the overall limit on campaign contributions that donors can make to individual candidates and committees over a two-year federal election cycle. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - As the U.S. Supreme Court's nine-month term reaches a climax, nearly all of the most hotly anticipated decisions will be in high-stakes business cases. Between now and the end of June, when the court must decide all of the cases argued since October, the nine justices will issue a string of rulings on the viability of securities class action lawsuits, the legal rules for patenting software and the fate of online TV startup Aereo. Those rulings could in some ways overshadow some of the cases that touch upon social and political issues, which most often take center stage this time of year. Although the court still must decide such cases - protests outside abortion clinics and religious objections to President Barack Obama's healthcare law - none is as important as the 2012 opinion that upheld the individual mandate of the healthcare law or the one in 2013 helping to pave the way for gay marriage. "There isn't a singular blockbuster," said Pratik Shah, a lawyer with the Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &amp; Feld law firm. But he said the securities class action and software patent cases could have huge ramifications for business. In the securities case, Halliburton v. Erica P. John Fund, the court could hand a sizable setback to the securities class action plaintiffs' bar by making it harder to bring such lawsuits. The case could give corporations better defenses at the preliminary class certification stage of the litigation. The patent case, Alice Corp v. CLS Bank, could tighten up eligibility requirements for software patents, possibly curbing litigation brought by so-called "patent trolls," defined as companies that hold patents only for the purpose of suing firms seeking to develop new products. LANDMARK POTENTIAL Oral arguments, heard in March, showed justices wary of broad rulings in either case, but each still has the capacity to reshape the law in their respective areas. "They will be significant as much for how broadly they are written as to who actually wins," said Kannon Shanmugam, a lawyer at Williams &amp; Connolly. The case of Aereo, a company backed by media mogul Barry Diller's IAC/InterActiveCorp, will likely have an impact on the television industry. The online service that enables subscribers to watch broadcast TV on mobile devices and computers, is accused by TV networks of violating copyright law. A win for Aereo could spur innovation in the industry by paving the way to new, cheaper ways for consumers to watch shows. It also could threaten the estimated $3 billion in so-called retransmission fees that broadcasters get from cable and satellite TV systems. If Aereo loses, it could be forced to shut down. Although sympathetic to the networks generally, the justices signaled concern during oral argument in April that a ruling against Aereo could threaten increasingly popular cloud computing services. "There was no love lost for Aereo," said Shah, the Akin Gump lawyer. The court has yet to decide other business cases such as an industry-backed challenge to one of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's greenhouse gas regulations. An opinion is also pending in the U.S. Chamber of Commerce questioning Obama administration appointments to the National Labor Relations Board, the government agency that conducts elections for unions and investigates unfair labor practices. In addition to the Aereo and software patent cases, the court has several other intellectual property decisions to make, having heard this term the highest proportion of intellectual property cases in its history. (Editing by Howard Goller and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
Bill McBride, Calculated RiskWhen it comes to housing, we trust Bill McBride. McBride, author of the blog Calculated Risk, has been chronicling every twist and turn in the economy for years. Importantly, he has a tremendous track record. He started off years ago, warning about housing and the mortgage-industry collapse. That proved right. Then he called the bottom in housing. That proved right. These days, lots of people are talking about the housing market sputtering out as new-home sales decline, housing starts fade, and existing-home sales tank. McBride's take? Don't worry about it. The real story is all the stuff that's going right with housing. He rattles off a bunch of things. Here are the first three: 1. Existing-home sales were down 7.5% year-over-year in March. Wait, isn't that bad news? Nope — not if the decline is related to fewer distressed sales — and it is (fewer foreclosures and short sales). 2. Mortgage delinquencies are down sharply. See: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: Mortgage Serious Delinquency rate declined in March and Mortgage Monitor: Mortgage delinquency rate in March lowest since October 2007, "Only One in 10 American Borrowers Underwater."3. Mortgage credit is tight. Hey, isn't that bad news? Nope. There is only one way to go ... Basically, people continue to do two things: They pay too much attention to top-line numbers (rather than digging into the internals) and they spend too much time looking in the rearview mirror. Bearish housing and homeownership is a hot meme these days. Everyone's talking about how homeownership is a horrible idea and how everyone is going to be a renter forever. The pendulum always swings. When in doubt, listen to Bill McBride. Read his full post here &gt; FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
This is a chart of Japan's composite PMIs (which combines both services and manufacturing). It really doesn't get uglier than this. Markit One thing that's hurting Japan quite a bit is a new consumption tax that was put into place at the beginning of April. This likely caused a front-loading of consumption (people buying stuff before the tax hike hit) with the inevitable bottom falling out in the immediate periods after the tax. However even before the most recent month you can see some cooling off.  If there's no bounceback fast, Abenomics (the country's ambitious plan to jumpstart its economy) may be on life support. (Via Theodore Stanton) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNEW YORK/SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Betting on emerging markets has led to losses for many over the past year - but among big investors few got the timing of their wagers as wrong as Pacific Investment Management Co, the giant bond firm that has recently been roiled by a rupture at the top. While a lot of attention has been paid to a dramatic falling out between co-founder Bill Gross and former CEO Mohamed El-Erian, and the underperformance of and outflows from its flagship Total Return Fund, few have taken notice of the firm's failed investments in emerging markets debt. In particular, it has made made some ill-timed bets in the Brazilian, Mexican and Russian debt markets. It made substantial investments in some companies that have gone belly-up, such as Brazilian oil company OGX Petróleo e Gás Participações SA, which was controlled by Eike Batista, who only two years ago was estimated to be the world's seventh-richest man but whose business empire has now largely crumbled. Gross, El-Erian, and a Pimco spokesman declined to comment for this article. Already, investors have pulled almost $2 billion from Pimco's emerging markets debt funds during the first four months of this year, according to Morningstar data, with $639 million of that departing in April alone. By comparison, the funds bled $2 billion of net outflows for all of 2013. The missteps suggest that Pimco, which is owned by Germany's Allianz, may have been tempted given the low returns available from safer bond investments to make outsized bets in riskier markets, fund consultants said. Pimco's $1.94 trillion asset base, which gives it the ability to play a dominant role in the U.S. Treasury and other major debt markets, may not provide it with such an advantage in illiquid emerging debt markets where large investments can be difficult to exit and losses can mount when prices are plummeting. Pimco probably got caught in "a vicious circle" as wrong calls led to fund redemptions by investors that forced it to sell bonds into a volatile market, driving the prices of remaining holdings down even further, said Todd Rosenbluth, director of mutual fund research at S&amp;P Capital IQ. The problem is worse because Pimco's size means it has "to make bigger bets" to move the dial, he added. MONGOLIAN MINING Pimco's troubled debt investments in the past two years have included a Mongolian mining company, Mexican homebuilders and a Brazilian sugar and ethanol producer. The firm also had large holdings in Russia as President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Crimea and unrest in eastern Ukraine grew, triggering Western sanctions against Moscow. Pimco has said bond prices in Russia have dropped to appealing levels, while it also sees risks. "Though de-escalation of the crisis is our base case, potential miscalculations cannot be ruled out," Pimco said in first quarter investment report published on March 31. Russia was the firm's top country holding in its emerging market corporate bond portfolio at nearly 25 percent at the end of March, according to Pimco's website. Russian debt has dropped 12 percent and the rouble is down more than 8 percent so far this year. The performance stats reflect the reversals. The $10.86 billion Pimco Emerging Local Bond Fund, which invests primarily in local currency government bonds in emerging markets, declined almost 11 percent in 2013, trailing 88 percent of its peer category. This year, things have improved but it is still lagging behind 52 percent of its peers, according to Morningstar. The $1.37 billion Pimco Emerging Markets Corporate Bond Fund, which invests in fixed income securities issued by corporations in emerging markets, has also suffered - with a negative 1.89 percent return for the 12 months to April 30, versus a 0.002 percent gain in the benchmark JPMorgan Corporate Emerging Markets Bond Index Diversified, or CEMBI. Since its inception in 2009, the fund has trailed the benchmark on an annualized return basis by an average 1.55 percentage points. And the blame for at least some of the underperformance of the Total Return Fund, with its $232 billion in assets, can be traced to the impact of its 6-8 percent holding in emerging market investments over the past 12 months. The fund, which is mainly in U.S. Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, has seen a massive $55 billion outflow of money since last May. To be sure, the plunge in emerging markets has taken a bite out of the performance of funds managed by some of its biggest rivals, including top names on Wall Street, including BlackRock Inc., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. And while Pimco has gone through tougher times in the past couple of years, its longer-term investment track record for a firm of its size is unmatched. Pimco's emerging markets bond funds are also some way away from being the worst performing this year - in the first four months, its four funds in the sector were ranked 43rd, 53rd, 68th, and 81st out of 100, according to Morningstar. But such positions in the table are a far cry from the days when El-Erian's daring yet highly profitable bet on Brazilian bonds in 2002, when others had unfounded concerns about the election of a left-wing government, helped to make his and Pimco's reputation as a strong player in the sector. WOOED BY BATISTA Perhaps Pimco's biggest single misfire in emerging markets debt was the firm's investment in the bonds of Batista's OGX. Batista's fortune dropped from an estimated $30 billion in March 2012 to les than $300 million two years later, according to Forbes, mainly due to the ugly combination of a large debt burden and investments in assets that failed to produce returns. Batista's empire was already beginning to collapse even as Pimco amassed a big position in OGX bonds maturing in 2018 and 2022. Sources familiar with the situation have told Reuters that they estimate the bet got as high as $800 million at one point in May last year. Pimco declined to answer questions about the position. OGX, which in October made Latin America's largest bankruptcy filing with more than $5 billion in liabilities, has since changed its name and is now known as Óleo e Gás Participações SA. The company's bonds maturing in 2022 fell 93.7 percent in 2013, and, according to one of the sources, Pimco's losses from its OGX investment are now estimated to be more than $300 million. The timing of the OGX debt purchases by the firm was particularly perplexing, the sources said. Su Fei Koo, an emerging markets portfolio manager at DoubleLine Capital, one of Pimco's main competitors, said: "Everyone was excited about OGX around May 2011 - right before they issued bonds - and I thought to myself: 'Here's a company with no EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) and no discovery of oil," adding that she saw "no improving credit path" and therefore didn't buy the bonds. It is unclear who at Pimco made the decision to invest in OGX debt. According to Morningstar analyst Eric Jacobson, Mark Kiesel, global head of corporate bond portfolio management, and his credit team have led the way on Pimco's OGX coverage. Kiesel has recently been elevated to become one of six deputy chief investment officers under Gross in the wake of El-Erian's departure. Kiesel met with Batista one-on-one in late 2012, months before OGX debt came under severe selling pressure, and at a time when Pimco was building its investment in the bonds, a person familiar with the situation told Reuters. The results of that meeting could not be ascertained. Brigitte Posch, who was head of emerging market corporate debt investing at Pimco until last fall, would not comment for this article. She is now leading a new emerging markets debt investment team at Babson Capital Management in London. Neither would her last boss at Pimco, Michael Gomez, who is co-head of the firm's emerging markets portfolio management team. Pimco declined to make Kiesel available for comment. OGX declined to comment for this story. Efforts to reach Batista for this story were unsuccessful. The law and investment firms advising Batista, Pimco and some of the investment management companies involved in the OGX restructuring plan declined to comment. Among some of the holdings that Pimco's Emerging Markets Corporate Bond Fund had over the past year were bonds issued by coal producer Mongolian Mining Corp that have fallen 30 percent over the past year as prices of coal fell to a record low. Another reversal was in the bonds of ailing Mexican homebuilders Corporación GEO SAB (which filed for bankruptcy in March), Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB and Desarrolladora Homex SAB, which have all grappled with curbs in government subsidies for commuter-town projects and a tumble in the value of their landholdings. Their bond prices all dropped by at least 50 percent in 2013. As of the end of last year, Pimco also owned bonds from Brazilian sugar and ethanol producer Aralco SA Indústria e Comércio, which this March filed for bankruptcy after sugar prices fell to a three-year low and Brazil would not ease caps on fuel prices, hurting its ethanol business. 'LEERY OF HORSEMEAT' It is unclear how much of a role Gross and El-Erian have had in the misfires. Early last year, Gross was encouraging investors into Brazil and Mexico just before their currencies plunged. On January 16, 2013, Gross wrote in a Twitter message that the Brazilian real and Mexican peso were a better use of cash than high-yield junk bonds. Gross then followed a month-and-a-half later with another tweet: "Be leery of horsemeat &amp; currency mispricings. Yen, Pound &amp; Euro reflect weak economies. Underweight them. Buy Mex peso, Brazil real." The following month he made similar noises about Brazil and Mexico, and had a similar tale in June. Gross had changed his views by January of this year. He said at the 2014 ETF Virtual Summit in January that Brazil was no longer a major preferred emerging market for Pimco. By late April this year, though, Kiesel said in a report for clients that he was "more bullish" on Brazil after a recent trip and he sees opportunities in sovereign notes and debt from Brazilian companies, including oil producer Petrobras. (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan and Guillermo Parra-Bernal; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoGood morning! There's a lot going on. The big event overnight was the rough session for the Japanese stock market, which fell nearly 3%. This was partially follow through from the ugly US session. It also comes amid bad data from Japan, and evidence that the recent sales tax price hike has harmed the economy (surprise!). European stocks are a bit in the red right now, and US futures are basically exactly flat. Ominously, German factory orders showed a big drop in March, that was unexpected. And a court in Thailand has removed PM Yingluck Shinawatra from office over abuse of power. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New York(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; is closing the accounts of current and former foreign government officials in an attempt to avoid the compliance costs associated with them, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday. The ban by the largest U.S. bank by assets, which affects 3,500 accounts, has prompted former Colombia finance minister Jose Antonio Ocampo to accuse it of discrimination in a complaint to the consumer regulator, the report said. According to the FT article, JPMorgan said it was closing the Chase accounts and stopping the credit cards of the officials because of increased compliance costs. Banks are obliged to subject accounts of "politically exposed persons" to added scrutiny. Ocampo, an economist who was also nominated to become World Bank president, has written to the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to complain that he was a victim of discrimination, the FT report states. The ban does not apply to JPMorgan's private bank, which caters to wealthy clients, the FT quoted a person familiar with the situation as saying. Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman, could not be immediately reached for comment on the report outside regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Aman Shah in Bangalore. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
