REUTERS/Benjamin Beavanim O'Neill speaks during the Reuters Investment Outlook Summit in London December 6, 2011. Earlier this year, it was very fashionable for financial market commentators to believe that both the economic influence of so-called “emerging markets” and the case for investing in them were past their peaks. As the creator of the BRIC acronym to describe the importance of Brazil, Russia, India and China, and promoter of another acronym, MINT, to highlight the next group of influential emerging nations, Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey, I have a big interest in this issue. Perhaps not surprisingly, I didn’t support that recent fashion. A few months on, the evidence has swung my way a little, helped by the relative performance of financial markets and, most recently, the exciting Indian election. First the markets. Many commentators were worried about the consequences of both Fed “tapering”, the term for the US central bank withdrawing some of its generous liquidity, and by the impact of the slowdown in China, the largest emerging market itself. In January, many markets performed poorly and, in the case of most emerging markets, this continued a trend that started in late spring of last year with the Fed’s increasing focus on tapering. Indeed, the US equity market itself declined in the first five days of January, which historically has meant a 50-50 chance of a decline for the year as a whole. This made me believe 2014 might generally be a more challenging year. It was my contention that, for the global equity market rally to continue, it would have to involve leadership from elsewhere in the world, probably Europe and/or China and/or one of the most important emerging nations. As we move towards the five-month market, the worries about a Chinese slowdown and its global consequences persist, as do concerns over probable Fed tapering, but the consequences are not panning out the way many pessimists feared. Within the BRIC equity markets, India is up more than 15pc year to date, easily leading the others, with the main index in Brazil up a modest 2pc to 3pc, Russia down about 3pc and China’s main indices slightly in the red. As far as the MINT markets are concerned, Indonesia is vying with India for the mantle as one of the best market performances in the world; Turkey is close behind, while Mexico and Nigeria have recorded small declines. Four of the MINT and BRIC markets – Brazil, India, Indonesia and Turkey – are part of that group dubbed the “Fragile Five”, the other being South Africa, but perhaps they should have been called the “Fabulous Five” judging by their absolute and relative performances. The bond markets and currencies of most of this group have performed similarly well too. So what is behind this: is it simply that the markets misread the consequences from Fed tapering and the China slowdown, or have they been wrong about the emerging markets? I think it is probably a combination, plus a more fundamental misreading. The idea that the developed world could start a strong, sustained economic recovery and be insulated from the emerging world seemed most unlikely to me. The recovery in the developed markets has so far been a bit stop-start, with the important exception of the UK. Japan is finding Year Two of Abenomics a lot more difficult than Year One; peripheral Europe is showing some signs of stabilisation, but not much more; the US has disappointed very high expectations. All of them need powerful export markets, beyond each other, to fuel a sustained recovery – as does the UK. Without this in the bigger emerging countries, it has always seemed to me that the recovery of developed countries will be vulnerable. As for Fed tapering, it has progressed and it looks like it will continue, but under the guidance of its doveish head, Janet Yellen, the message remains that it will be some time before interest rates rise, and when they do, they might not need to go as high as first thought. Whether this is the main reason or not, US bond markets have actually rallied so far in 2014, with yields dropping that is an unexpected outcome and possibly a major reason for the better performance of emerging markets.” As for the China slowdown, people seem, if anything, to be even more worried about this than they were at the start of the year. Yet it doesn’t seem to be having the negative consequences that many feared. There are three good reasons for this. First, the softer trend in commodity prices associated with the slower Chinese economy is helpful to some economies, including some important emerging ones, such as India and Turkey. It reduces their import bills and makes the challenge of improving their external balance less onerous. Secondly, as I have argued before, the China slowdown is partly, if not greatly, a consequence of Chinese policies; we should only worry if the slowdown gets out of hand or is mismanaged. While there are plenty of challenges, in my view there is no reason for excessive concerns. Thirdly, unless you are a commodity company or a country whose exports are completely dominated by commodity exports, I don’t see the evidence of a need to worry about China. Those focused on the Chinese consumer, especially what I call the “luxury lite” consumer, are still doing well. Take BMW and Apple for example; both are beating analyst expectations, primarily because of China sales. This brings me to the so-called emerging countries themselves and, in particular, India. The size of the victory for Narendra Modi and his BJP party gives his new government the platform to deliver what he claims to have delivered consistently in his own state of Gujarat, namely 10pc growth. I met with Modi and his close advisers nearly a year ago, and, judging by the way they responded to my ideas about boosting Indian growth, it was quite clear the markets would be really excited if they were to win with a decent majority. And this is what we have. It won’t be easy, given India’s complexities, but it is possible that from 2015 onwards, Indian growth can certainly recover to more than 7pc, and I wouldn’t rule out a chance of 10pc if Modi pushes through many of the reforms he would like. It is certainly possible that India could grow by more than China in the second half of this decade. If Modi can encourage more investment and foreign direct investment, as well as supporting a stronger framework for macro-economic governance and sticking to his real passion, “maximum governance and minimum government”, then India looks like it has its best chance for more than 30 years to positively surprise – and significantly. Indonesia could be heading towards a similar point if the current favoured presidential candidate, “Jokowi” as he is known, comes to the fore. He is not a member of the oligarchical families and seems keen to introduce better governance, which is as crucial to unlocking this country’s vast potential. This is partly why their markets have done so well recently. So what about the problems faced by emerging nations? There remain plenty of those; Russia and Turkey have some big issues to confront, not to mention Nigeria. However, in each case, not all is as negative as much western commentary claims. And then, of course, there is Brazil, the World Cup host – and, in coming weeks as the tournament gets under way, I will discuss the challenges and opportunities facing them. Jim O’Neill is chairman of the City Growth Commission and visiting research fellow at the Brussels-based think-tank Bruegel FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark BlinchFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Stocks Aren't So Expensive That Valuations Alone Can End The Bull Market (BlackRock Blog) While the S&amp;P 500 hit an all time closing high this week and though U.S. stocks are no longer cheap, "equities at the broad level aren’t so stretched as to suggest that valuation alone is likely to end the bull market," writes Russ Koesterich at BlackRock. While Koesterich expects returns to be lower in the coming five years than they were in the previous five years he argues that "global valuations are neither indicative of a market top nor at a point that would suggest aggressively lowering equity allocations." "U.S. large cap valuations, for instance, as measured by the price-to-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 index, are above their long-term average, but not obscenely so." "In addition, the overall macro environment – one of low inflation, low interest rates and accelerating growth– is a favourable one for stocks and is supportive of modestly higher valuations. Historically, investors have paid more for a dollar of earnings when inflation is lower. Nor is the prospect of rising rates a significant threat, at least not at these levels. When yields are below 4.5%, as they are today and should be through at least early next year, multiples actually tend to rise along with rates." Mom And Pop Investors Are Returning To The Muni Bond Market (The Wall Street Journal) Mom and Pop investors have returned to the Muni bond market as prices have rallied, writes Aaron Kuriloff at the WSJ. Investors have put $3.1 billion into muni bonds so far this year, up from $2.96 billion in the same period last year. The muni bond market faced a serious rout in 2013 follow Detroit's bankruptcy filing and as worries about Puerto Rico's debt surged. Retail investors value muni bonds in part for their tax benefits. "I don't think the need for tax-exempt income ever went away, and there appears to be pent-up demand," John Miller of Nuveen Asset Management LLC told Kuriloff. Households Should Look To Dividends To Meet Their College-Savings Goals (Morningstar) Dividends can help toward your college savings goal more than , says Josh Peters, director of equity-income strategy at Morningstar. "Dividend-paying stocks — in addition to providing more reliable returns because a large portion of that return isn't speculative, it doesn't depend on the market price, it's just cash that's flowing into the account, and providing me with the opportunity to reinvest — dividend-paying stocks, higher-yielding stocks also have a history of outperforming the broad market over long periods of time, not any given day or week or even year, but just in our own experience," Peters said. "...But in addition to the likelihood that perhaps we can pick up a little bit of additional performance, we also get the benefit of the opportunity to reinvest the dividends. As the cash comes back to us in the form of those dividends, if stock prices go into a prolonged slump, then I'm buying cheaper stocks with higher yields, generating more income to reinvest and compound the real value of that college-savings program faster." One Professional Explains Why She Left An RIA For A Robo-Advisor (Investment News)  Megan Graf left her job with a registered investment advisor (RIA) with $50 billion in assets under management (AUM) for Future Advisor, a robo-advisor, she writes in an Investment News column. "Put yourself in my shoes: I have, at a minimum, 40 years left in the job market," she writes. "And like it or not, algorithmic investing is doing more than creating competition in the industry — it is changing investors' expectations about fees, transparency, online access and even the service relationship itself." "I knew that even if I achieved the success I sought at a traditional adviser, I would eventually face the added challenge of adapting a large, established firm to a new wave of high-net-worth investors: those who will emerge from today's mass affluent. I didn't see the necessary agility in the traditional model to scale for the next generation of clients anytime soon." Investors Shouldn't Confuse ETFs And ETNs (Vanguard)  Exchange traded funds (ETFs) and exchange-traded notes (ETNs) are not to be confused. Jim Rowley, senior investment analyst at Vanguard Investment strategy reminds us that ETNs are basically "an IOU issued by a big financial institution that promises to pay the return on that underlying strategy, but you don’t own any underlying securities, you own a note." This means they bring credit risk.  "If the banking institution that is providing that promise were to go bankrupt, you potentially have a—there’s nothing backing it other than the general assets of the financial institution," explains Joel Dickson, principal in Vanguard investment strategy group. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois Lenoir European Central Bank (ECB) President Mario DraghiThe European Central Bank is meeting next week in Frankfurt, Germany to talk over and update the world on its monetary policy. The ECB is scheduled to announce its latest monetary policy decision at 7:45 am ET on Thursday June 5.  That'll be followed by a press conference with ECB president Mario Draghi slated for 8:30 am ET.  Because growth has been sluggish and inflation has been low, market watchers will be looking for two major things from the ECB: a cut in interest rates and the signaling of an asset purchase program.  Economists at Goldman will also be looking closely at not just what Draghi says, but how he says it. Goldman recently wrote that, "it will be the tone of Mr. Draghi's communication that matter for market developments, more than the mechanics of a negative deposit facility rate." Hints From The May Meeting At its May meeting, the ECB kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.25% and its deposit facility rate unchanged at 0.0%. In his press conference following the meeting, Draghi suggested the central bank would be comfortable taking action at its June meeting if needed.   Since the ECB's May meeting, the Euro has weakened against other major currencies. Google Finance European sovereign debt has been in rally mode since the beginning of the year, and remains so ahead of next week's meeting.  Google Finance Interest Rates Are Getting Cut   Economist Anthony O'Brien and his team at Morgan Stanley expect the ECB to cut both its benchmark interest rate and deposit facility rate 15 basis points.  Economists at Goldman expect the same. At Nomura, Lewis Alexander and his team expect the ECB to cut these rates by 10 basis points. Marc Chandler, head of global currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, noted that the ECB also maintains a third marginal lending rate, currently set at 0.75%. Chandler believes there is a "moderate" likelihood the ECB cuts this rate.  Michael Martinez at Societe General sees the ECB cutting the marginal lending rate 25 basis points to 0.5%, while cutting both the benchmark and deposit facility rates 10 basis points. Asset Purchases Are A Maybe There has also been speculation surrounding the potential for the ECB to signal an asset purchase program to begin at some point this year.  Most economists see this as a somewhat unlikely development at this point. However, measuring the possibility, and probability, of an asset purchase program is on the mind of economists, and is reminiscent of speculation last year surrounding when the Federal Reserve would begin tapering its monthly asset purchases. Analysts at Capital Economics think the ECB will eventually be forced to do more.  At Nomura, Alexander put a 25% probability on the ECB announcing an asset purchase program by year-end.  The Global Currency Research Team at Morgan Stanley wrote in a May 29 note that, "should inflation remain at low levels, we do not rule out Draghi using much more aggressive measure in the months ahead. Full-scale quantitative easing or even [foreign exchange] intervention are possibilities."  Chandler recently wrote that, "the signals from policy makers seem to suggest an inclination for several measures that stop short of quantitative easing." At Societe Generale, Michael Martinez believes the ECB will signal an asset purchase program totaling EUR 25 billion per month beginning in the second half of the year.  As far as what Draghi says next week, Martinez says that the market risk is for the central bank to disappoint (emphasis ours): "We expect the ECB staff to marginally cut its growth and inflation outlook, but the ECB would give clear indications that the asset purchase programme could be expanded substantially by buying government bonds later, if the inflation outlook deteriorates. Market expectations are high, as experienced by the fall of the euro since the May press conference and the risk is that the ECB disappoints. Medium-term, ECB action will be welcome, but we have doubts on the effectiveness of any ECB action, even if the ECB contemplates a large QE programme. Indeed, structural reforms would be much more powerful to improve the fate of the European economy." Draghi's Latest Comments Last week, the ECB held its first forum on central banking in Sintra, Portugal. Among the speakers at the event were Draghi and IMF president Christine Lagarde. Draghi's speech dealt with the problems facing monetary policy in a low inflation environment. Draghi reiterated that the ECB's goal is for 2% inflation, saying, "there is no debate about [the ECB's] goal, which is to return inflation towards 2% in the medium term." Over the last year, Eurozone inflation has consistently run south of 1%. Draghi also addressed the various tools the ECB may use in response to credit conditions throughout the Eurozone, acknowledging that it could use asset purchases to reduce any a drag in the recovery due to credit supply constraints. The question is: will they? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahAn Iraqi Shi'ite shepherd watches his buffalos cool off inside a sewage pool during hot weather in the Al-Fdhiliya district of eastern Baghdad May 3, 2014.Stocks went a tiny bit higher on the final day of this shortened trading week. The Dow and S&amp;P 500 were little changed, but with a positive close, the S&amp;P 500 made another all-time closing high. The Nasdaq lost 8 points. First, the scoreboard: Top stories of the day: FREE AppDownload
Inflation has been pretty subdued since the financial crisis. This has given the Federal Reserve a lot of room to be loose and easy with monetary policy. However, inflation has definitely been picking up lately. The Fed's favorite measure of inflation is the PCE price index, which was updated with today's April personal income and spending report. According to the report, The PCE index climbed 1.6% year-over-year, while core PCE — excludes food and energy — increased by 1.4%. This is a notable acceleration from the 1.1% and 1.2%, respectively, we saw in March. "Inflation? Yes indeed, there is some," said Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "If inflation is climbing closer to the Fed’s 2% target, then that can only mean one thing: normal interest rates are out there on the horizon and you don’t need a pair of binoculars to see it coming." Here's the chart from Advisor Perspectives' Doug Short. Advisor Perspectives FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz William Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York, May 5, 2014. Activist investor Ackman said on Monday that he recommends the shares of mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac because the companies have low liquidity risk. Valeant and Bill Ackman have boosted their offer for Botox-maker Allergan. The latest offer includes $72 per share in cash and 0.83 shares of Valeant for each share of Allergan owned by Allergan shareholders. Following the announcement, shares of Valeant are up more than 3%, while Allergan is up more than 5.5%.   On May 28, Valeant raised the cash portion of its bid for Allergan by $10 to $58.30 per share. Valeant and Ackman also held a lengthy webcast outlining the merits of their deal.  Allergan has previously rejected Valeant's overtures, formally rejecting the first offer on May 12. On May 27, Allergan filed a presentation outlining its concerns regarding Valeant's business model.  Ackman and Valeant's latest offer also includes a new wrinkle involving Ackman forgoeing all cash considerations to take its part of the deal completely in Valeant stock. Valeant will host another webcast on Monday, June 2, at 8:00 am ET.  The full press release: - Cash of $72.00 per share and 0.83 Shares of Valeant stock- Contingent Value Right for DARPin of up to $25.00 per Share in Value- Pershing Square agrees to forego all cash and accept 100% of its consideration in Valeant stock using an exchange ratio determined based on yesterday's closing stock prices of AGN and VRX- Pershing Square will receive $20.75 per share less consideration than other AGN shareholders, providing substantially more value and cash for other AGN stockholders- Proposal contingent on good faith negotiations- Conference Call and webcast to discuss proposal on Monday, June 2, 2014 at 8:00 am ETLAVAL, Quebec, May 30, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. ("Valeant") (NYSE: VRX) (TSX: VRX) today announced that it is making an offer for Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) under which each Allergan share would be exchanged for $72.00 in cash and 0.83 shares of Valeant common stock, based on the fully diluted number of Allergan shares outstanding. This offer is subject to prompt good faith negotiation of a merger agreement between Valeant and Allergan. Shareholders will continue to be able to elect cash and/or Valeant stock, subject to proration. Pershing Square, Allergan's largest shareholder with a 9.7% stake, has agreed to elect only stock consideration in the transaction and exchange their Allergan shares for Valeant shares at a 1.22659 exchange ratio, based on yesterday's closing stock prices of Allergan and Valeant, and receive no cash consideration. Bill Ackman, CEO of Pershing Square said: "Early this morning, I called Mike and offered to give up $600 million of value to the other Allergan shareholders and exchange our shares for Valeant stock if Valeant were prepared to increase its offer to the other Allergan shareholders. We believe that our gesture to the other Allergan owners makes an extraordinarily strong statement about our belief in the long-term value of this highly strategic business combination. We are delighted that Valeant has agreed to step up for the benefit of all Allergan shareholders. We look forward to the Allergan board immediately entering into negotiations with Valeant and finalizing this transaction." J. Michael Pearson, Chairman and CEO of Valeant stated: "We believe our revised offer provides enormous value to both Valeant and Allergan shareholders. We strongly believe that applying Valeant's operating philosophy, strategy, and financial discipline to a broader set of durable assets will continue to create substantial returns for shareholders over the short, intermediate, and long term. We are very committed to getting this deal done, and are now modifying our offer with the assistance of Pershing Square to increase the economics for all Allergan shareholders." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsParking tickets can tell us a surprising amount about the goings on in a city. Pratt Institute statistics professor Ben Wellington writes a blog called I Quant NY in which he uses publicly available free data from the city government and other sources to analyze different aspects of life in New York City. In a recent post, he used parking ticket data made available through the city's Open Data project to get a sense of where tourists go when they visit the city. The idea is that parking tickets are a proxy for where people are going.  The data include the state of registration and the NYPD precinct for each parking ticket, making it possible to map out the spatial distribution of tickets for cars registered in various states.  I Quant NY points out that parking tickets are a very imperfect and vague approximation of tourism: "(1) it only measures drivers who get tickets and (2) it considers all New York State drivers to be “local” and (3) some people with out-of-state plates are not visitors." His first map shows the baseline case of parking tickets given to cars with New York State registrations and plates. These make up about three quarters of all parking tickets, with the rest distributed among the other states. Darker blue means a higher percentage of tickets in that precinct going to New Yorkers, and so lighter precincts have more tickets going to visitors: I Quant NY I Quant NY observed that out of state tickets are concentrated in Manhattan, and particularly areas south of Central Park. This makes sense, since this area is also the home of many of New York's biggest tourist destinations, like Times Square. New Jerseyans, the city's nearest neighbors, have the second most parking tickets. The bulk of those tickets happened in Midtown and lower Manhattan, with New Jerseyans largely avoiding the outer boroughs: iquantny.tumblr.com North Carolinans are the opposite of New Jerseyans, and are more likely to be in Upper Manhattan or the outer boroughs. The biggest shares of parking tickets from this state are in Harlem, and in the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Bedford-Stuyvesant and Brownsville: I Quant NY Californians also were more likely to get parking tickets in Brooklyn. The most tickets for Californians came in Bed-Stuy again, and in Williamsburg and Greenpoint in the northwestern part of the borough: I Quant NY Check out I Quant NY's original post for a bunch more states. Also check out their main blog for lots of other fun NYC data-driven stories. FREE AppDownload
It's no secret that college tuition and textbook inflation is just out of control. Expensive as it seems now though, the picture is only expected to get scarier, according to a new report from Michael Conrath and his team at JP Morgan Funds. This chart shows that future college costs are expected to inflate 5% per year, taking annual private college costs (for tuition, fees, room and board for a year) from $39,518 today to $90,576 in 2030 (in 2012 dollars). JP Morgan FundsFor you parents, the younger your child is, the more expensive college is likely going to be going forward. A child that's currently 18 years old will likely pay $76,979 for a four-year public college education. But for a child on the way, that cost will surge to $185,259. JP Morgan Funds Much has been made about surging medical care costs. And most people see gas prices increasing right before their eyes. But none of this compares to tuition. This chart shows that since 1983, tuition costs have risen faster than any other major household expense. JP Morgan Funds JP Morgan advisors are telling clients that putting money into a savings account won't do. In order to better prepare themselves, parents are being advised to take some risk and invest in stocks and bonds.
Philly FedLoretta MesterCLEVELAND (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cannot achieve full U.S. employment over the longer term without stabilizing prices, incoming Fed policymaker Loretta Mester said on Friday, stressing that clear communication will be key as the central bank returns to a more normal policy stance. Mester, who succeeds Sandra Pianalto as president of the Cleveland Fed on Sunday, gave a speech that was careful not to reveal her stance on monetary policy or the economic outlook. Instead she challenged Fed researchers to help the central bank better understand inflation. "We cannot have full employment over the longer run without price stability over the longer run," she said at a conference hosted by the Cleveland Fed, her first real introduction to Americans and Wall Street. "The more we understand inflation dynamics, the more we will understand how inflation will respond to changes in monetary policy," added Mester, who will immediately have a vote on the Fed's policy committee. Such findings are relevant as the Fed "returns to a more normal policy setting framework over time." Mester is currently head of research at the Philadelphia Fed whose president, Charles Plosser, is an outspoken critic of the Fed's accommodative policies. Mester, however, has not staked out such a hawkish stance. The central bank has said that, depending on inflation and the labor market, it expects to start raising interest rates a considerable time after it ends a stimulative bond-buying program, which is set to end in the fall. "I believe effective central bank communication is a crucial area of further research, especially in today's environment when monetary policymakers are relying on forward guidance on interest rates as a primary policy tool," Mester said. While Mester focused on inflation, listing six questions that loom over the Fed's understanding of prices, she said she backed the central bank's dual mandate of price stability and full employment as complementary goals. The Fed targets inflation of 2 percent. It is less specific about what level of unemployment is appropriate, though policymakers see between 5.2 percent and 5.6 percent in the long run, according to estimates. As it stands, inflation is running just above 1 percent and U.S. unemployment is 6.3 percent. "While the FOMC can choose the value of inflation it seeks to achieve over the longer run, it does not have the ability to achieve just any long-run objective for employment," said Mester, referring to the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee. "Long-run employment is determined by economic fundamentals."   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Adrees Latif/ReutersSome of the most successful execs on Wall Street — including billionaires Daniel Loeb, Paul Tudor Jones, and Ray Dalio — start their days sitting on a meditation cushion.  "Meditation, more than any other factor, has been the reason for what success I've had," says Dalio, who's been a practitioner for 42 years. He says it makes him feel like a "ninja in a fight."  Meditation trains their minds in the same way that hitting the gym trains their bodies. It's becoming so popular among the finance crowd that meditation classes at Goldman Sachs have waiting lists that are hundreds of names long, according to Bloomberg, since no one wants to get left behind on a possible competitive advantage.  Here's some of the research on those advantages:   And that's only a sampling of the staggering amount of research being done on the benefits of meditation.  To start, meditation instructor and "Real Happiness at Work" author Sharon Salzberg tells us mindfulness meditation is really just about paying attention to the sensations in your body and mind. Here are her instructions: Start doing that every morning, and you'll be a ninja in no time.   FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mark BlinchThe market has abruptly turned negative on no obvious news. The Nasdaq leading the charge lower, down 18 points (0.4%) after earlier trading nearly unchanged. The Dow is down 34 points (0.2%), and the S&amp;P 500 is down 2 points (0.1%). Earlier today, the University of Michigan consumer confidence reading fell to 81.9 for May from 84.1 in April.   Chicago PMI climbed to 65.5 in May, the best level for the manufacturing reading since October.  Personal spending for April unexpectedly fell by 0.1%, missing expectations for a 0.2% increase.  FREE AppDownload
The majority of Americans carry a small amount of cash, which BI Intelligence believes could be very good news for mobile peer-to-peer payments apps.  The data comes from telephone (landline and mobile) interviews of 1,002 adults living in the continental U.S., conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International on behalf of Bankrate.com.  For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and analysis on the payments industry, sign up for a free trial. BII FREE AppDownload
This is how things can get out of control. Wall Street firms that want to loan money to companies are increasingly allowing those companies to adjust their earnings so that they look credit-worthy enough for loans, says Bloomberg. Think of it as putting a little lipstick and rouge on a pig — but these pigs are made-up with tricky accounting. Beth MacLean, who manages $14 billion in loans at PIMCO told Bloomberg that its time for everyone to keep an eye out for “what is real versus what is accounting” gimmicks. It's no secret that, since the Federal Reserve lowered rates after the financial crisis, investors have turned to increasingly risky loans in their search for some kind of yield. Junk bonds (as no one on Wall Street likes to call them) have returned 145% since 2008, are up 45% this year, and yield an average of about 6%. The Fed, for its part, has been eyeing this specific corporate debt junk bond issue since last summer. That's when it sent letters to a bunch of Wall Street banks warning them not to finance big corporate takeover deals with a 6 times debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) ratio. Back in 2013, 27% of deals passed that threshold. During the deal boom of 2007 it was 52%. What makes 2014 especially worriesome to regulators, though, is that this flurry of deals we've seen recently is the clearing of a back log in dealmaking since the financial crisis, and the word is that it's not close to over. That means money for banks when they desperately need it. Trading, as we know, is not doing so hot, so these deals are hard to pass up. In December Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc  helped KKR finance a $1.6 billion LBO that was over the Fed's threshold (at a ratio of 6.8). Now, however, three banks have opted out of doing another similarly leveraged deal with KKR to buy landscaper ValleyCrest Companies LLC because of pressure from the Fed, says Reuters. But that doesn't mean the deal won't get done. It means that someone else will do it. In this case, that someone Jefferies, a smaller less regulated boutique firm. So maybe these risky loans won't end up on a systemically important bank's balance sheet,  but they'll still be out there. And that means companies still have an incentive to pull off some accounting shenanigans in order to meet loan standards. And when everyone's making money people want to keep the party going — especially when there's not a lot of parties going on anywhere else anyway. For banks and private equity firms making these loans, that means making credit agreements with junk bond borrowers that allow them to make accounting tweaks. One Fed associate director, Todd Vermilyea, said earlier this month that standards “have continued to deteriorate in 2014” and that we may need “stronger supervisory action.” Be careful out there. FREE AppDownload
Food52Today: Eric Asimov, New York Times columnist and coauthor of the newly published Wine with Food, introduces us to the lesser-known wine varietals he's most excited about. Give them a try -- your Pinot Noir deserves a break.  The black-and-white, Cabernet-and-Chardonnay world has faded. The 21st century has gone full color, bursting with gorgeous wines made from unfamiliar grapes that few people even knew existed 15 years ago. Yet these wines are hardly new. They are the cherished expressions of ancient wine cultures, gone global after centuries of reaching no farther from their native vineyards than the nearest cities. And because they remain somewhat obscure, these wines can be great values. Here are five grapes in particular worth seeking out. Assyrtiko comes largely from the island of Santorini in the Aegean, where the vines are trained into curlicues that hug the volcanic soil to escape the perennial wind. The wines are dry and beautifully mineral -- sort of oceanic versions of Riesling -- and go well with shellfish and other light seafood dishes. Top producers include Gaia, Sigalas, and Argyros. More: Learn how to pair wines with fish. Furmint, the great white grape of Hungary, is the key constituent in the lusciously sweet wines of Tokaji Aszu. But increasingly it is used to make distinctive dry whites that can dazzle with their panoramic fruit flavors, a little like a restrained combination of Chardonnay and Viognier. Top producers include Royal Tokaji, Kiralyudvar, Oremus, andDisznoko. More: Once you have the right bottle, master the art of pouring wine. Mencía, the leading red grape of northwestern Spain, makes wonderful red wines in the regions of Bierzo and Ribeira Sacra. Its haunting, wild fruit flavors are on full display, both in the denser, burlier wines of Bierzo and the lighter, more minerally wines of Ribeira Sacra. Top producers include Descendientes de J. Palacios, Raúl Pérez, Dominio do Bibei, Guímaro, and D. Ventura. Nerello Mascalese thrives in the foothills of Mt. Etna, the perpetually active volcano in eastern Sicily, which perhaps accounts for the nervous energy of its wines. When made carefully, they have a grace and delicacy reminiscent of red Burgundy, though with the inimitable Italian push-pull of sweet and bitter flavors. Top producers include Calabretta,Benanti, and Terre Nere.    Trousseau is one of the principal red grapes of the Jura in eastern France, a region so obscure that 10 years ago even the French hardly knew the wines. Now, certain Jura producers have achieved cult status in New York and in California, where Trousseau has captured the imagination of a few new wave winemakers. Trousseau produces paradoxical wines, pale and light-bodied, yet with intense aromas of flowers and red fruit and a firm tannic grip. Top producers include Jacques Puffeney, Jean-François Ganevat, Michel Gahier, and André et Mireille Tissot. From California, look for Arnot-Roberts and Copain. FREE AppDownload
Shoriful Chowdhury / Shutterstock.comMANHATTAN — Manhattan condo prices saw a 1.4 percent dip in April from the month before, according to a report released Friday by the search site StreetEasy. Though not a huge decline, it's the greatest monthly decrease in nearly four years, signaling that prices might have reached their peak and could begin to drop, or at least remain stable, the report says. "While sellers still have the upper hand in the marketplace, buyers may be gaining some traction in bringing prices back down to earth,” said Alan Lightfeldt, a StreetEasy data scientist. After the "ambitious and aggressive" price increases that led to a record-breaking finish to 2013 and strong start of 2014, "we may have approached the upper price limit to where buyers are willing or able to meet sellers," Lightfeldt said. The Manhattan median sales price was $1.3 million with the median price per square foot at $1,339 in April, the report found. Even if prices level off, they may still be prohibitively expensive for the majority of house hunters. There's a growing disconnect between supply and demand as the bulk of buyers are looking for lower-priced homes that are not on the market, the data show.  Nearly half of the condos on the market are in the "top tier" in terms of pricing, meaning they are listed for $1.9 million or more.  Roughly 32 percent are in the middle tier (between $895,000 and $1.9 million) and 21 percent in the bottom tier, the report shows. But the majority of searches conducted on StreetEasy — some 59 percent — were for bottom- and middle-tier-priced condos, according to data compiled for DNAinfo. The three most popular searches were for homes priced up to $500,000, up to $600,000 and up to $1 million, StreetEasy found. "It shouldn't shock or surprise anybody that sellers are going to have to adjust their prices downward, even just a little bit," Lightfeldt said. The increasingly large share of high-priced homes may indicate that those homes were unable to sell as quickly as others, he noted. FREE AppDownload
A blogger has compiled a bunch of Google Street View images to demonstrate how some of Detroit's neighborhoods have continued to deteriorate since the housing crisis.  Alex Alsup from Loveland Technologies published the astonishing images on his Tumblr called "goobingdetroit." They show how drastically the bankrupt city's streets have changed from 2008 to 2009 to 2011 to 2013.   Check out the photos:  14688 Hazelridge Street (2008)http://goobingdetroit.tumblr.com/14688 Hazelridge Street (2009)http://goobingdetroit.tumblr.com/14688 Hazelridge Street (2011)http://goobingdetroit.tumblr.com/14688 Hazelridge Street (2013)http://goobingdetroit.tumblr.com/19183 Exeter Street (2009)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 19183 Exeter Street detroit (2011)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 19183 Exeter Street detroit (2013)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 8153 Bryden Street (2009)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 8153 Bryden Street (2011)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 8153 Bryden Street (2013)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 19534 Hoyt Ave. (2008)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com19534 Hoyt Ave. (2009)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com19534 Hoyt Ave. (2011)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com 19534 Hoyt Ave. (2013)goobingdetroit.tumblr.com  See more at goobingdetroit.tumblr.com » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierThomas Piketty director of the Paris School of Economics (PSE) attends the inauguration of the school in Paris, February 22, 2007. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is siding with Thomas Piketty, the French economist whose data on inequality was recently questioned by the Financial Times.  "We are aware of the controversy over Piketty’s math (see the FT Money Supply blog), but are generally comfortable with the thrust of his analysis, having read his 577-pager, looked at his (problematic) spreadsheets, and cross-checked his data with alternative, credible sources," write BofA Merrill Lynch's Ajay Kapur. "His questionable assumptions do not detract from the power of his thesis." Kapur and his team said this in a lengthy report titled, "Piketty and Plutonomy: The revenge of inequality," outlining the impacts of plutonomists, or the super rich, on investors.  They lead by stating, "Plutonomists – the very rich – cannot be ignored." The skew toward the super-rich makes looking at averages an incomplete exercise, they argue (emphasis ours): "When wealth and income are as concentrated as they are, and expected (a la Piketty) to get even more so, examining the 'average' consumer or 'average' investor makes little sense. Examining the fat tail – the behavior of the plutonomists, rather than that of the multitudinous many – is more advantageous to investors. Plutonomists determine and dominate spending and investment decisions and their magnitudes. Any analysis that does not tease out the skewed global income and wealth distribution, but focuses on the average is flawed from the start and is incomplete, as we step into its deeper extremes." "Economic and earnings surprises are linked to their behavior," they write. These charts from the report show how among the wealthiest Americans, the biggest wealth gains have been made mostly among not just the rich, or pretty rich, but super rich. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Bank of America Merrill Lynch  Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
People are slowly realizing that Apple's new iPhone 6, expected in the fall, is going to be so much more massive than iPhone 5, iPhone 5S, and iPhone 5C were — and it's showing in the stock. Apple stock is nearly at $640 this morning. It started the year at $553 and hit a humbling low of $499 in January 2013 when people began to suggest that maybe Apple was losing its mojo: Yahoo Finance Since then, it has become clear that iPhone 6, with its rumored bigger screen, is likely to drive a massive number of phone upgrades. For years, Samsung has creamed off smartphone customers with its Galaxy S and Note models, which offer a nice big screen. Apple has been smiling through gritted teeth as its users have had to make do with a small-in-hindsight 4-inch screen. Apple has known its sales have been hurt by its small screens for years, and even produced some internal documents fretting over the issue. We showed you this chart yesterday, which says that 80% or more of current iPhone users are due for a new phone because they're using old iPhones that are near the end of their useful lives: UBS UBS believes that will drive a massive buying cycle, and Apple will sell 166 million phones this fiscal year, up from 150 million last year, according to a recent note to investors. There's only one variable, and that's whether Apple will launch a super-large 5.5-inch iPhone in addition to a 4.7-inch model. The larger screen would have it compete more squarely with Samsung's high-end phones; the smaller one still leaves it a lot smaller than a Samsung. You can see a leaked photo of the 4.7 inch iPhone 6 here.  If the 5.5-inch does happen though, it sounds like Apple may wait until early 2015 to launch it. Here's our comparison chart: Business Insider FREE AppDownload
VFAVenture for America's fellows.Numbers show that the majority of elite college graduates consider success to be landing a job in finance, consulting, or law in a thriving city like New York, San Francisco, or D.C. Venture for America founder Andrew Yang thinks this is a serious problem for the United States. Too many smart, talented young people are convinced that the only way to validate their education is by following the pack, Yang argues. That means there's not enough talent flowing to businesses that create jobs and bring capital back to cities like Detroit and Baltimore, Yang explains in his new book "Smart People Should Build Things." It tells the story of how he came to found Venture for America in 2012 as a way of recruiting top college graduates to work at startups in business-starved cities throughout the U.S. Today, VFA has 108 fellows helping startups grow in cities like Las Vegas and New Orleans. Over 100 more fellows are preparing to begin their two-year program. Yang, who's goal for the VFA is to create 100,000 jobs by 2025, created a visual summary of his book. He's allowed us to republish it here.
Mike Stobe / Getty ImagesThe New York Rangers celebrate after qualifying for their first Stanley Cup Final since 1994It's a big crossover day for sports and finance, and shares of Madison Square Garden are soaring. Madison Square Garden is the holding company that owns both the New York Rangers and New York Knicks, both of whom play their homes games at the Garden. The stock trades under the ticker 'MSG.' The main catalyst behind the 3% move in the stock, however, appears to be the sale of the Los Angeles Clippers to former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer for $2 billion. According to theflyonthewall.com, analysts at Albert Fried believe the Knicks are "intrinsically" worth 40% to 50% more than the Clippers.  After the Clippers sale last night, GAMCO CEO Mario Gabelli, said on Twitter:  Clippers for $ 2 billion...nyknicks for free when u buyMSG ....( run the numbers) And as if the sale price of the Clippers wasn't enough good news for MSG investors, last night, the Rangers beat the Montreal Canadiens 1-0 to advance to their first Stanley Cup Final since 1994.  Wall Street loves hockey, and last year we chronicled the 25 best hockey players in finance.  Happy Friday.  FREE AppDownload
via Sotheby'sThis beautiful Park City, Utah, log cabin belongs to the billionaire father of onetime presidential hopeful, Jon Huntsman. But Jon Huntsman Sr., founder of Huntsman Corp. and a major philanthropist, is having a tough time unloading the property, which first hit the market in 2009 with a $55 million asking price. He's now lowered the price on the 12-bedroom, 22,000-square-foot "chalet" to $34 million, according to The Wall Street Journal. "I went a little bit overboard when I built the thing, I have to admit," Huntsman told The WSJ. The home, which overlooks Deer Valley, is no ordinary log cabin. It sits on 60 acres of land and has an indoor pool, a dining room that seats 20, a fitness center, room for 28 cars, and a library. Meredith Galante contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
APConsumer confidence unexpectedly fell in May, reports the University of Michigan. According to the results of their latest survey, their sentiment index fell to 81.9 in from a from 84.1 in April. Economists were looking for an 82.5 print. The economic conditions subindex fell to 94.5 from 98.7 and the outlook index slipped to 73.7 from 74.7. "Expectations of real income and labor markets improved, however, as the percentage of consumers expecting faster increases in wages than in prices climbed to 17% (previous: 15%), and the percentage of respondents looking for lower unemployment in the coming year jumped to 28% (previous: 21%)," noted Barclays' Cooper Howes. "The latter in particular is at its strongest level since November 2012 and would be in line with our expectations of a continued drop in the unemployment rate through the end of this year." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jerry Lai-USA TODAY SportsChicago PMI climbed to 65.5 in May, the highest level since October.  This beat expectations for a fall to 61 and is up from 63 in April. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. "The Barometer’s faster expansion was helped by a return to normality following the adverse weather conditions of Q1, with companies playing catch-up to make up for lost output," according to the press release. "This was clear from the large spike in Order Backlogs to a three year high, as companies faced a double whammy of strong new demand as well as having to shift existing orders."  New orders saw a modest increase, but production dipped. Meanwhile, prices paid saw the biggest monthly gain in almost five years. "We’ve had false dawns before, but the long run of strength in the survey, coupled with other more positive economic data, suggests growth is becoming more entrenched," said Philip Uglow, chief economist at MNI Indicators. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote that the rise in Chicago PMI, along with the rise in Milwaukee PMI, at its highest level since April 2011, and other regional reports like Philly Fed have been strong in May. This should see the ISM get a slight bump. Here's a look at the trajectory of the ISM-Chicago business barometer. ISM Chicago FREE AppDownload
New Yorkers are more likely to work in its stock and commodity exchanges, while citizens of the state of Washington are more likely to work in the fishing industry than Americans overall. Business Insider put together the following map, showing for each state the industry with the most outsize share of employment, relative to the national baseline. (We'll explain what that means below.) The data comes from the Census Bureau's just-released 2012 County Business Patterns, an incredibly comprehensive collection of information on the number and size of businesses in the U.S. The map shows the industries that have most disproportionate number of employees in each state, as explained in detail below. Here's each state's most distinctive industry: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau These are not the largest industries in each state, but instead industries that have a disproportionately large share of employment, compared to the national norm. For example, in West Virginia, there were 24,075 people employed by the coal mining industry, out of 579,583 total employed. So, about 415 out of every 10,000 jobs in West Virginia were in this industry. Meanwhile, in the U.S. as a whole, there were 89,367 people in the coal mining industry out of 115,938,468 total employed people, so for the U.S., only 7.7 out of every 10,000 jobs are in the coal mining industry. The location quotient for the coal mining industry in West Virginia is defined as the ratio of those two rates: 415/7.7, which gives about 53.9. In other words, there are about 53.9 times as many jobs in the coal mining industry per 10,000 total jobs in West Virginia than there are in the United States overall. The map shows the industry (adapted from 4-digit NAICS codes for the census data lovers out there) with the highest location quotient in each state.
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Miguel VidalThe April personal income and spending numbers are out, and they're mixed. Spending unexpectedly fell by 0.1%, missing estimates for a 0.2% gain. "Spending on goods fell in line with the retail sales numbers, which were hugely distorted by the late Easter," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdwon. "Expect a clear May rebound." Income climbed by 0.3%, which was right in line with expectations. Because income outpaced spending, the personal saving rate climbed to 4.0% from 3.6% a month ago. Core PCE, the Fed's favorite measure of inflation, increased by 0.2% month-over-month in April or 1.4% year-over-year. This was right in line with expectations. Here's a breakdown of what moved up and down during the measuring period. BEA FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji Students (in white) who survived the Sewol ferry disaster pay tribute to victims of the sunken passenger ship, after being discharged from a hospital at the official memorial altar in Ansan April 30, 2014.New economic data from Korea reveals that everyone was not ready to just go on after the Sewol ferry tragedy. "The consumer sentiment index declined rather sharply in May, from 108 to 105, the lowest level since September last year," noted Societe Generale's Suktae Oh. "We think that this decline was clearly caused by the Sewol disaster." On April 16, the Sewol sank off the southwest coast of South Korea. Just 172 of 476 passengers were rescued. Most of those on board were students. Hard measures of economic activity were also sluggish or negative during the most recent reporting period. Retail sales fell by 1.7% month-over-month in April. Industrial production climbed by just 0.1% month-over-month, but fell 2.6% year-over-year. The good news for the economy is that this is likely to be short term. However, Oh does not rule out the possibility that it could affect monetary policy (emphasis added): ...we believe that these negative impacts will be short lived , perhaps only impacting Q2 GDP, as momentum on the domestic demand recovery will continue to be supported by factors like labour market strength and accommodative monetary policy. Although we should carefully monitor the data for a few months, we don’t think that the negative impacts from the Sewol disaster will change the direction of monetary and fiscal policy. In other words, we don’t expect a BoK rate cut or a further fiscal stimulus package via a supplementary budget purely based on the negative impacts of the Sewol disaster. If anything, these negative impacts may merely put off the timing of the next BoK rate hike for a few months. But Oh reiterates that a delay in monetary tightening is unlikely. "Although some policymakers expressed concern about these negative impacts, we believe that they are temporary and will not change the direction of macroeconomic policy," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pilar OlivaresGood morning! Here's what you need to know. U.S. seeks $10 billion penalty from BNP Paribas. The U.S. Justice Department is looking for over $10 billion from the French bank to settle federal and state allegations that it evaded U.S. sanctions on Iran and other countries for years, according to Reuters. This could be the largest criminal penalty in the U.S., bigger than BP’s $4 billion settlement. Japanese inflation rises. Core consumer prices in Japan climbed at the quickest pace since February 1991. CPI was up 3.2% year-over-year in April, compared with a 1.3% rise in March. The rise in national sales tax is expected to have contributed to the price gain. Siemens announces massive job cuts. German company Siemens will see 11,600 jobs affected by a restructuring. CEO Joe Kaeser announced the plan earlier in May. "For now, Mr Kaeser has only said how many positions are affected by the organizational restructuring," spokesman Alexander Becker said in an email to Reuters. "But removing jobs in one area does not necessarily have to mean job cuts." UK home prices and consumer confidence. Home prices climbed 0.5% in England and Wales, according to Hometrack Ltd, compared with a 0.6% rise the previous month. Meanwhile, consumer sentiment climbed to a nine-year high of 0, from -3 the previous month, according to GfK NOP. Google offers Europeans ‘Right to be Forgotten.’ Google unveiled a site on Friday that lets European residents list web addresses that they want removed from search results involving their name. This comes after a European court ruled that residents can ask to have information that infringes on their right to privacy or information that is irrelevant removed from the internet. Steve Ballmer buys LA Clippers. Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer has won the bidding for the Los Angeles Clippers for $2 billion. This comes after former owner Donald Sterling was banned from the NBA for life. Formal campaign for Scottish independence begins. The countdown has started for a Scottish secession from the United Kingdom, according to Reuters. Polls however currently show that Scots are unlikely to vote for such a move. Personal income and Outlays. At 8:30 a.m. ET we get personal income and outlays for April. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for personal income to rise 0.3% month-over-month, compared to a 0.5% rise in March. Consumer spending is expected to rise 0.2% on the month, compared to a 0.9% rise MoM rise in March. Chicago PMI and consumer sentiment. At 9:45 a.m. ET we get Chicago PMI for May. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for Chicago PMI's business barometer index to fall to 61, from 63. Meanwhile, the UMich consumer sentiment is out at 9:55 a.m. ET and is expected to tick up to 82.5 in May, from 81.8 the previous month. Markets. Asian markets were mostly lower in overnight trading, with the Nikkei down 0.3% and the Jakarta Composite down 1.8%. Europe is mostly flat and U.S. futures are modestly lower. FREE AppDownload
Turns out the book and movie may be an economic fairy tale about America in the late 1800s – and gold. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Julien MuguetBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent BonnafePARIS/LONDON (Reuters) - Shares in France's biggest bank BNP Paribas fell sharply on Friday on concerns a possible U.S. fine for alleged sanctions-busting could be big enough to restrict its dividends and force it to raise money to boost its capital. France's central bank said it was following the case "with the utmost attention" after a report in the Wall Street Journal said the U.S. Justice Department wanted $10 billion from the bank - double the amount which had been previously reported. BNP declined to comment on the report. Shares in BNP dropped as much as 6 percent on Friday to their lowest in more than eight months, slashing almost $5 billion off the bank's stock market value. The decline took its loss to 18 percent since Feb. 13, when the bank first took a 1.1 billion euro ($1.5 billion) provision for a potential sanctions fine as part of a total litigation provision of 2.7 billion euros. "We don't dare accumulate more (shares) at this stage," said Yohan Salleron, fund manager at Mandarine Gestion in Paris, who cut his exposure to the bank at the start of the year. Analysts at Citigroup noted a fine of the magnitude reported would cut BNP Paribas' capital ratio to below 10 percent - a level seen as key to staying out the danger zone under tighter post-financial crisis guidelines. The latest round of European Union "stress tests" of banks' financial health are under way with results due in October. "This is not good news as we approach the stress tests, which BNP cannot afford to fail. A capital increase may very well be a solution," said Salleron. "Potentially the bank may not pay a dividend for the next two years ... There is a very real reputation risk here. It could spook certain counterparties into staying away from BNP," Salleron added. The U.S. Justice Department's investigation is a criminal probe into allegations that the French bank evaded U.S. sanctions against Iran and other countries for years.              COMPLIANCE FAILINGS The newspaper report said the final settlement could be less than $10 billion. Still, the multibillion dollar figure would put the fine among the largest penalties imposed on a bank and is far higher than what BNP has provisioned for. HSBC HSBA.L was fined $1.9 billion in December 2012 for compliance failings in Mexico, which U.S. prosecutors said allowed drug cartels to launder money, and for enabling clients to avoid U.S. sanctions on dealings with countries such as Iran, Libya, Sudan, Myanmar and Cuba. U.S. regulators were criticised after that fine for being too lenient on HSBC. Investors also fear BNP could face being excluded from activities in the United States should it fail to accept a hefty fine and want to see a quick settlement to avoid continuing uncertainty. France's government has said little about the issue since early this year when the issue first came to a head. President Francois Hollande was sharply critical of banks and their part in the financial crisis ahead of taking power in 2012, calling the world of finance his "main adversary". An official of Prime Minister Manuel Valls' office said it was being kept informed but the issue was "a matter between a private business and U.S. justice". However, since Credit Suisse agreed to pay more than $2.5 billion for helping Americans avoid taxes, French central bank chief Christian Noyer has expressed some concerns about U.S. prosecutors' pursuit of European banks. A week ago Noyer, also a member the European Central Bank's governing council, said: "Obviously we are very attentive towards risks related to what could be a development in American jurisprudence." A central bank spokeswoman said on Friday in response to a query about the latest reports: "The Bank of France has no comment to make for now since negotiations are still in progress. The governor of the Bank of France is following this case with the utmost attention." The finance ministry and the office of Hollande also declined to comment. The bank's stock was down 5.2 percent at 49.88 euros by 0918 GMT.               (Additional reporting by Jean-Baptiste Vey and Brian Love, with Sudip Kar-Gupta and Steve Slater in London; Writing by Andrew Callus; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a receptionist on the phone in the Capsule Hotel "Air Express" in Moscow's Sheremetyevo airportSHANGHAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese software companies such as Neusoft Corp and China National Software &amp; Service Co Ltd (ChinaSoft) are picking up sales and expanding their marketing as China trades cyber spying accusations with the United States. For Neusoft, one of China's biggest software solutions providers, that includes selling more networking products and information security software to government and state-owned clients, while introducing higher-value integrated hardware and software packages and consulting services. "It's understandable for a country to strengthen its information security and cyber security while maintaining its independence and control," Lu Zhaoxia, senior vice president of Neusoft told Reuters. "In the U.S. and Japan, core systems are all domestic." Based in the northeastern city of Shenyang, Neusoft's clients include some of China's biggest state-owned conglomerates such as State Grid Corp of China [STGRD.UL] and the country's three big telecom operators. The latest row between Beijing and Washington has brightened the outlook for Chinese software firms, which have already seen improved sales and share prices since U.S. spying revelations a year ago by Edward Snowden, a former U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) contractor. Snowden also claimed the NSA hacked into critical network infrastructure at universities in China and Hong Kong. Neusoft shares have risen 15 percent to 2-month highs since May 19 when the U.S. Justice Department charged five Chinese military officers, accusing them of hacking American companies to steal trade secrets. While Lu emphasized Neusoft's commitment to innovation – the firm employs 20,000 workers and over the last 5 years has nearly doubled revenue to 7.5 billion yuan ($1.2 billion), even as profit margins narrowed sharply – the company's stock price has risen around 60 percent since Snowden's revelations last May. Insigma Technology Co Ltd, Beijing Teamsun Technology Co Ltd and Inspur Software Co Ltd share prices have also spiked higher in the last week, while shares in Shenzhen Kingdom Technology Co Ltd, Yonyou Software Co Ltd and DHC Software Co Ltd have soared 200-300 percent in the past year. "Relevant government policies are definitely positive for the development of our company," said Gao Han, an investor relations official at DHC Software, which sells its software and services to big and mid-sized state firms, including PetroChina, Sinopec and State Grid. The U.S. government indictment has sparked outrage in China and added urgency to Beijing's efforts to promote the development of local information technology companies. Chinese media have called the U.S. "a high-level hooligan", while officials have accused Washington of applying "double standards" on issues of cyber spying. "The U.S. side is not qualified to finger point at others while its own notorious misbehavior stands uncorrected," Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said on Thursday. Beijing is emphasizing the importance of network security, particularly for its energy, transport and finance sectors. That effort intensified following Snowden's revelations, just as U.S. technology firms began reporting a drop in their China sales. In August, the National Development and Reform Commission, China's top economic planning body, set out cyber security standards for financial institutions, cloud computing and big data, information system secrecy management and industrial controls. And last week, China said it will investigate providers of important IT products and services to protect "national security" and "economic and social development." Central government offices have also this year been banned from using Windows 8, Microsoft Corp's latest operating system, in new computers. "The nation's information security could come under direct threat if the software we use was implemented with backdoor viruses and the like," Mian Wei, a minister at the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), was quoted as saying by the official China Daily newspaper on Friday. "Our job is to make sure such things do not happen."   MORE LOCAL SOURCING At least four domestic software and hardware makers, including Neusoft and ChinaSoft, have received a "top-tier" rating from the MIIT, allowing them to provide services to government agencies that handle top secret information. "We have used (in the past) IBM, Oracle and other foreign products and networks," said Lin Shanshan, an investor relations officer at ChinaSoft, which is a subsidiary of China Electronics Corp [CELEC.UL], the central government conglomerate that controls 13 listed companies. "In future, we'll be using more China software for domestically manufactured networks." ChinaSoft, whose customers include the State Tobacco Administration, Environmental Protection Agency and Meteorological Bureau, is rolling out new cloud products to complement its firmware, security software and operating systems. "National policy is a bellwether," said ChinaSoft's Lin. "The government is vigorously promoting cloud applications, and we'll certainly need to keep up with this opportunity." At Neusoft, Lu Zhaoxia says that even as innovation has helped the company expand at home, government policies haven't hurt either, as China's use of online and mobile services become increasingly important and U.S. tech services providers remain suspect. "For individuals, the state, businesses, data protection has become an urgent issue," Lu said. ($1 = 6.2399 Chinese Yuan)   (Additional reporting by Beijing newsroom; Writing by Kazunori Takada; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Every major central bank, except the European Central Bank, has been printing money. And all indications are that Europe is ready to combat low inflation and anemic credit growth through some combination of policies such as negative interest rates, another long-term refinancing operation facility, or even direct quantitative easing. Europe may well turn on liquidity just as the U.S. Federal Reserve is withdrawing it by tapering the pace of its asset purchases. All these fears of a major crisis have spurred a flight to quality to U.S. Treasuries, which has been partly responsible for the recent bond market rally. With many investors fearful, the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke out of its tight trading range in recent days, closing at 2.45 percent on Thursday -- its lowest yield since June of last year. Rates could now be headed to 2.2 percent or lower, just as the outlook for the U.S. economy is starting to brighten. Recent U.S. economic data suggests the underlying strength of the American economy. While first-quarter U.S. gross domestic product growth was -1 percent, the first negative reading in three years, details in the report revealed strong consumer demand. Consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, grew at 3.1 percent. With the terrible, weather-induced first-quarter weakness behind us, lower interest rates should bolster housing and spur faster U.S. economic growth. In Europe, economic confidence has reached levels not seen since 2011 and economic growth is modestly improving. All of this means that a huge swath of the global economy is now growing, which should benefit struggling economies, as noted in the chart below. While structural problems in the world’s major economies are not going away, for the foreseeable future these problems should not stop the global economic expansion. It’s worth repeating my mantra of recent weeks -- 2014 looks like the year to disregard that well-known trading adage “sell in May and go away.” Chart of the Week U.S. and European economic data have been on an improving trend, helping to bolster the outlook for the global economy. As output accelerates in advanced economies, countries around the world should benefit from increasing demand for manufacturing inputs. With the investment cycle turning in the United States and Europe, global trade should accelerate in the near term, helping kick-start growth in some struggling emerging market economies. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
From the public Facebook page for Beast the dog.Facebook billionaire Mark Zuckerberg put out word that he and his wife Priscilla Chan are pumping $120 million into San Francisco Bay Area schools. Distribution of the money will be spread over five years, with initial grants going toward initiatives for providing computers and Internet access in public schools as well as training teachers and enlisting parents in efforts to keep students on track. "The Bay Area is one of the most prosperous places in the world, but there so many schools here that don't have the resources they need," Zuckerberg said in a post on his Facebook page late Thursday. "Improving public education in our country and our community is something Priscilla and I really care about, and we want to change this." Part of the focus for grant money from his Startup: Education fund will be to start new district and charter schools that provide high quality education. About four years ago Zuckerberg channeled $100 million to improve schools in the New Jersey city of Newark. He noted in his post that much of the work started in Newark is still in progress. "The investments we've made are a drop in the bucket compared to the challenges schools face," Zuckerberg said. "But we've seen that targeted investments can be catalysts for much bigger changes in communities." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
This is a pretty interesting data point.  Jason Zweig at the WSJ notes: “Nasdaq up so much in past year, it has “only” 18.8% more to rise in order to reach its all-time high … set more than 14 years ago” Well, what else peaked 14 years ago and is near record highs?  The number of IPOs with negative earnings: Pragmatic Capitalism I’ll just let you chew on that. FREE AppDownload
Take GNP growth as just one example that is representative of numerous other indicators.  Since the cyclical economic trough in June 2009 the average annualized quarterly growth in GDP has been about 2.2%, a “new normal” that investors have taken for granted as being just a precursor to more robust growth of, say, 3% or 4%.  What many forget, however, is that the average quarterly post-war growth has averaged about 3.2%----and this includes all years, including recession. During expansionary periods, however, GDP has averaged 4.2% quarterly over the ten post-war cycles.  So far, in the current cycle, now approaching five years, this average has been exceeded in only one of 19 quarters.  Furthermore, the entire rise in GDP since the last peak in the 4th quarter of 2007 has amounted to only 6%, a far cry from the growth rate experienced five years after prior peaks.  We note other key economic indicators indicate the same pattern of significantly below-average growth. It seems to us that the slow growth pattern is beginning to seep into the market’s consciousness. While the S&amp;P 500 and Dow have made new historical highs, indications of market deterioration continue to persist.  Market volume this week has been more reminiscent of the period between Christmas and New Year’s rather than anything close to normal.  New highs today were only 200, compared to the average of 600 a number of months ago. Defensive stocks have been strongest while smaller more speculative stocks have lagged.  The Nasdaq and Russell 2000 remain well below their tops.  The VIX measurement of volatility is at 7-year lows.  Investor’s Intelligence Survey bulls are at 58%, compared to a bearish 17%, figures that are quite extreme compared to the historical average.  A large majority of current IPOs are companies that are running a deficit, reminiscent of late 1999 and early 2000.  In addition, both long-term bonds and gold do not act as if economic growth was about to accelerate anytime soon. Therefore, despite the new highs, it seems to us that the stock market is running out of steam.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Romeo RanocoStock brokers monitor trading at the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) in Manila's Makati financial district.European markets are basically flat. Britain's FTS 100 is flat. France's CAC 40 is down 0.4%. Germany's DAX is up 0.1%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.4%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.4%. French stocks are being led lower by BNP Paribas. According the WSJ, the Justice Department is seeking up to $10 billion in penalties from the French bank for evading sanctions against Iran and other countries. Shares are down by 5%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.3%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.3%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed down 0.4%. U.S. futures aren't doing much ahead of Friday's trading session. Dow futures are down by 2 points. Here's a preview of the upcoming econ reports via the Monday Scouting Report: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzA man enters the office building of Siemens AG in Berlin September 30, 2013. (MUNICH (Reuters) - German conglomerate Siemens &lt;SIEGn.DE&gt; confirmed on Friday that some 11,600 jobs would be affected by a restructuring unveiled by Chief Executive Joe Kaeser earlier this month, but said not all of these positions would necessarily be cut. In an emailed statement, a Siemens spokesman acknowledged that Kaeser had made clear at a conference in New York on Thursday that the end of the company's sector-based structure would affect 7,600 jobs worldwide. An additional 4,000 would be affected by the abolition of country clusters. "For now, Mr Kaeser has only said how many positions are affected by the organizational restructuring," the email from spokesman Alexander Becker said. "But removing jobs in one area does not necessarily have to mean job cuts."   (Reporting by Noah Barkin and Jens Hack; Editing by Arno Schuetze) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSNEW YORK (Reuters) - When Lorillard Inc bought the blu eCigs brand two years ago, the electronic cigarette had a 10 percent share of a tiny U.S. market, generating about $50 million in sales. It was available in only 12,000 retail outlets and over the Internet. Today, the U.S. tobacco company’s marketing and distribution muscle, including its use of frequent TV commercials and concert sponsorships, has taken blu into 149,000 outlets and driven its U.S. market share to about 47 percent. Annual sales have quadrupled to more than $200 million. The turbo-charged growth means that blu and Lorillard's British SKYCIG e-cigarette brand may be the assets with the sweetest potential for Reynolds American Inc as it holds talks over a deal to acquire its U.S. rival. Both brands would complement Reynolds' new Vuse e-cigarettes brand, due to go national this summer, and vault the combined company into an undisputed leadership position in the young market. And the gains in e-cigarette sales may have only just begun. Some Wall Street analysts see e-cigarettes and other “vapor products” overtaking traditional tobacco sales within six years. "Acquisition of Lorillard would give Reynolds a distinct advantage in the e-cig market," said Steve Marascia, Director of Research at Capitol Securities Management. Reuters reported last week that the companies were in late- stage talks that would combine the second and third-largest U.S. tobacco companies, according to people familiar with the matter. A combination of Lorillard and Reynolds, which is 42 percent owned by British American Tobacco, would create a formidable rival to Altria Group Inc, which owns the Marlboro brand and controls about 50 percent of the traditional cigarette market in the U.S. E-cigarettes are slim, reusable, metal tube devices containing nicotine-laced liquids that come in exotic flavors. When users puff, the nicotine is heated and released as a vapor containing no tar, unlike conventional cigarette smoke. Taking the lead position in e-cigarettes is appealing but given the market’s nascent nature, it is not a sure bet. New brands could easily grab market share, and there have been signs that other vaping products, including larger "tank"-based devices, may be gaining popularity. These products are typically less expensive to use, and can provide a stronger nicotine delivery. "I think it's more of a hedge," said Morningstar analyst Philip Gorham in reference to the e-cigarettes part of any Lorillard acquisition. "But if e-cigs take off, it will be the future, and they'll be glad they invested."  MORE THAN MENTHOL Lorillard's popular Newport menthol cigarette brand, whose sales have held steady even as cigarette smoking in the United States has declined, is likely to be the immediate driver of any deal. Newport accounts for 37 percent of the U.S. menthol market and 12.5 percent of overall cigarette sales. U.S. sales of conventional cigarettes are forecast to drop to $15.3 billion in 2023 from $28.3 billion in 2013, according to a recent report from Wells Fargo Securities. In contrast, it sees revenue from e-cigarettes and other vapor devices growing to $24 billion by 2023 from $1.5 billion last year. Altria is also getting into the game, though it only introduced its MarkTen brand in August 2013 in Indiana. It plans a nationwide rollout next month. Lorillard bought blu two years ago from founder Jason Healy and his investors for $135 million. A year later, it paid $49 million for SKYCIG, now the leading e-cigarette in Britain. The deals were part of a strategy by Lorillard CEO Murray Kessler to expand its offerings beyond conventional cigarettes. Formerly at Altria, he helped build that company's Skoal and Copenhagen into two of the best-selling smokeless, or chewing tobacco, brands. Morningstar analyst Gorham estimates blu is currently worth $500 million to $1 billion, though it may account for a higher number in any deal for Lorillard, whose overall market value is currently about $22 billion. "Because Big Tobacco really wants a piece of the action, I could be low-balling it," he said. Since the vapor market is still in its early stages, it is difficult to anticipate how it may evolve. Regulatory changes could have a big impact. In April, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued proposed rules that would ban sale of e-cigarettes to anyone under 18 and require companies to list ingredients. But the rules so far would not restrict flavored products, online sales or advertising. The big tobacco companies are expected to be in a much better position than their dozens of smaller rivals to handle any new oversight thanks to their long experience dealing with regulators and battling anti-tobacco lawsuits. They may also have an upper hand in assuring quality control as the industry comes under stepped-up scrutiny after recent horror stories about the dangers of accidental poisoning from some ingredients on the market.   "The big three tobacco guys will be the big three e-cigarette companies because of their resources, relationship with distributors and ability to comply with the FDA faster than competitors," RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst Nik Modi said, referring to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.   (Reporting By Jilian Mincer; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's core consumer prices jumped 3.2 percent in April from a year earlier, government data showed on Friday, the fastest gain since February 1991 as an increase in Japan's national sales tax boosted prices across the board. The increase in the core consumer price index, which excludes volatile fresh food prices but includes oil products, compared with economists' median estimate for a 3.1 percent rise, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications said. That followed a 1.3 percent increase in March, posting the 11th straight month of annual gains. The Bank of Japan estimates that the sales tax hike - to 8 percent from 5 percent that took effect on April 1 - will add 1.7 percentage points to Japan's annual consumer inflation in April, and 2.0 points from the following month. The internal affairs ministry does not provide official estimates. The so-called core-core inflation index, which excludes food and energy prices and is similar to the core index used in the United States, rose 2.3 percent in April from a year earlier, the fastest annual gain since December 1997. Core consumer prices in Tokyo, available a month before the nationwide data and seen as a leading indicator of nationwide inflation, rose 2.8 percent in May from a year earlier, posting the quickest rise since April 1992.   (Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim) FREE AppDownload
India’s growing tech scene now has access to a huge pile of money. Venture-money heavyweight Seqouia Capital raised $530 million for its fourth India-focused fund. The Menlo Park, Calif.-based venture capital firm said VCs will also be looking to invest in companies located outside India in the Southeast Asia region, according to media reports. Seqouia invests primarily in early stage startups, and it was an early backer of Google. The new fund brings the firm’s total amount raised for deals in India and the surrounding region to $2 billion, a hefty sum even by American standards. The fund will be focus mainly on technology, health care, and consumer-oriented business for companies at from seed to growth levels. Seqouia is one of the Valley’s oldest VC firms and was established in 1972. It has had a steady stream of hits going back to Apple and the founding of Oracle. It has also invested in Airbnb, YouTube, Instagram and WhatsApp, which Facebook recently bought for $19 billion in cash and stock. A Sequoia press release put it this way: “Sequoia Capital has now been investing in India for 8 years and has invested in over 75 companies.  Many of these companies are category leaders. These include Capillary Technologies, Druva, Just Dial, Micromax, Mu Sigma, Pine Labs, Prataap Snacks, Quickheal, SCIO Analytics, Star Health, Stovekraft, Truecaller, UnitedLex, Vasan, Vini Cosmetics, Via and Zomato.” Although India’s startup scene is humming, barriers remain, including easy access to capital. India, which has a population of 1.2 billion, second behind China, is already home to established IT heavy hitters Slideshare, Zoho, and e-commerce giant Flipkart. While the U.S. and India have long had a complex and sometimes difficult relationship, the recent election of Narendra Modi may change all that, as he was ushered into office on a platform of economic reform. This article originally appeared at VentureBeat.  Copyright 2014. Follow VentureBeat on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
