Business conditions fell sharply in February, unwinding half of Australia’s post-election gains. NAB’s monthly business conditions index fell back to zero from +5, which was the near-three-year high recorded in January and the long-run average of the series. Trading, employment conditions and profitability sub-indices all deteriorated during the month. Trading conditions in the manufacturing sector were particularly weak, falling 15 points after a sharp rise last month. Wholesale activity was also weak, at -10 points in February, which NAB said could indicate more weak business conditions ahead. From NAB’s report today: NAB Confidence remained positive across all states, further widening a yawning gap between sentiment and reality. From NAB: Confidence has managed to remain resilient despite volatility (and presently weak) business conditions. Soft forward orders and headwinds from weak business investment and a deteriorating labour market may make it difficult for firms to maintain their optimistic outlook – particularly in light of growing global uncertainties. There are, however, a handful of bright spots emerging, particularly in the construction sector. Confidence is now positive for most industries, including wholesale (a bellwether industry), although transport &amp; utilities and mining are both negative – significant given the importance of mining to the Australian economy. NAB NAB is expecting the RBA to cut rates again late this calendar year, while unemployment rises to 6.5% and stays “higher for longer”. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri MaltsevSummary: There is more than one way to measure growth in corporate America. The preferred measure is net income, which is informally referred to as the bottom line. "At first look growth in US net income last year looks remarkably good," wrote Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne. "With nearly all S&amp;P 500 names having reported year-end figures, net income grew 14% last year or 12.8% on an ex- financial basis. This is fairly impressive growth given the lacklustre economic backdrop." If you haven't already sensed from his tone, Lapthorne is about to get a whole lot more skeptical. "So should we be celebrating?" he asked rhetorically. "Well we’re not so sure, as the source of this growth is not a robust improvement in operating cash flow but to be found in the large goodwill write-downs of 2012." Before we get to what he's talking about, we need to talk about some accounting matters. Net income is not without its issues. For example, net income could get distorted by a variety of nonrecurring or one-time items that aren't part of an company's ongoing business. These items include asset write-down, gains on asset sales, or restructuring charges. This is why analysts look to other measures of growth. Here are a few: Proforma net income: This is sometimes referred to as adjusted net income. It's net income excluding nonrecurring items like those mentioned above. It arguably captures a company's underlying earnings growth. Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT): Interest and tax expenses largely reflect a company's capital structure and ability to take advantage of tax codes, both domestic and foreign. While they reveal things very important to a company's financial performance, they don't say a whole lot about operating performance. This is why analysts look at EBIT, which is sometimes referred to as operating earnings. Cash flow: Net income is reported on a company's income statement, which utilizes a many accounting smoothing tricks, which are intended to reduce noise between reporting periods. Cash flow, which appears on the cash flow statement, is the actual money moving in and out of a company when it moves in and out of a company. Cash flow is not too dissimilar from income. In theory, cash flows and income (or loss) will equal each other in the long-run. Sales: Some companies, particularly younger growth companies, are losing money. This is not because they are doomed for bankruptcy. Rather, new companies just tend to lose money as their sales are still reaching a level where the scale offsets costs and expenses. Because there is no net income to look at, analysts will often look to sales. In a new note to clients, Lapthorne lines up growth in net income, proforma net income, EBIT, cash flow, and sales. As you can see in the chart below, one is not like the others. "Reported net income is quite clearly the outlier, with other measures registering growth of between 2-4%." Societe Generale What's behind that big jump in net income? "Looking behind these headline numbers we see that the biggest increase in reported net income in 2013 came from Hewlett Packard," noted Lapthorne. "This improvement was courtesy of the large 2012 $19bn goodwill write-down (from the EDS and Autonomy acquisitions) dropping out of the 2013 figures. Indeed if we compare the biggest positive contributors to reported net income the list is very much different to the pro-forma net income figures. The top 10 biggest positive net income contributions are dominated by companies affected by write-downs in 2012." In short, net income growth in 2013 was mostly noise. So what's the upshot of all this? "In our view this disappointing growth will have economic consequences, especially versus a consensus that signals that corporates are seeing a meaningful improvement in earnings," wrote Lapthorne. "As we have explained in prior reports, the knee jerk reaction to disappointing cash flow growth is to rein in expenditure; as we show below this now appears to be the case." This is troubling as many of the more bullish economists are basing their forecasts for GDP growth on the assumption capital expenditure activity accelerates. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Sorry. We're not going back to the old normal. At least that's according to Morgan Stanley. In a new note, economist Vincent Reinhart estimates that the economy's potential growth rate is now around 2% (down from 2.5%) and that 6% is probably what represents "full employment." The Fed will have to acknowledge there's less "slack" in the system than they thought.  This chart shows the new impaired trend. Morgan Stanley So what's behind the new slow potential growth rate for the U.S. economy? Reinhart identifies two big trends. One is declining Labor Force Participation Rate, a trend which started well before the recent slump. And the other is declining productivity. Fewer laborers and less productivity make it hard to keep up the same growth pace. These two charts tell the story of declining Labor Force Participation and declining productivity. Morgan StanleyLabor Force Participation Morgan StanleyOutput Per Hour Again, the big ramifications here are probably for the Fed, which may get unwanted levels of inflation faster than they want or expect. Bigger picture is that this is something that a lot of folks are talking about right now: The end of extensive slack in the economy.  Just as an example, this is a chart from a new chartbook from Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok, who spends a lot of time look at wage inflation trends. Deutsche Bank   FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Brian Belski: 3 Reasons Investors Should Pick Value Over Growth Strategies (BMO Capital Markets)  Many investors believe growth strategies, which consider the future growth of the company, are likely to do well. But Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets thinks value strategies, which unlike growth strategies look at the current value of the company, will outperform. He points to 3 key reasons for this. 1. Improving earnings growth benefits value, not growth stocks - "Our work shows that value strategies work best during periods of recovering earnings growth, not the other way around. Indeed, overall earnings growth has rebounded sharply in recent quarters and longer-term projections remain at healthy and improving levels."2. Valuations are high and this benefits value investing - "When most stocks are more expensive investors should be seeking lower-cost alternatives. …Based on data since 1978, we found that value incrementally outperforms growth, on average, for up to a year following an above-average S&amp;P 500 P/E level."3. Their market outlook supports value strategies - Belski has a 1,900 year-end target on the S&amp;P 500. "Recent economic and earnings trends are putting upward pressure on our target models," he writes. "In particular, both earnings and economic growth are expected to show incremental improvement throughout 2014. According to our work, this type of environment sets up very well for value investing." "We would urge investors to revisit value strategies not only because historical performance patterns favor them, but also because recent fundamental trends suggest that value is better positioned than growth," he writes. Why Baby Boomers Aren't Prepared For Retirement (Business Insider) John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer told Business Insider that the one thing no one talks about is that baby boomers are not ready for retirement. Stoltzfus gave Business Insider's Steven Perlberg, 11 reasons that doesn't think they're prepared. We highlighted a few.  1. "The wholesale demise or dismantling of traditional defined benefit pension programs by corporations looking to cut expenses and liabilities that has occurred in the last 10 to 15 years."2. The underuse of 401(k) plans by participants and those who fail to enroll. 3. The tendency to ignore asset allocation and long-term planning when allocating money within 401(k) plans.4. "Potential for increasingly later age requirements ahead to get full social security benefits as Washington lawmakers work to preserve the program for Boomers and generations that follow."5. Taking early distributions from 401(k)s for non-emergencies. 54% Of Advisors Say They Have Not Implemented Workflows Critical To Making Advisory Firms Efficient (SEI) In order to work more efficiently advisors often automate workflow processes (i.e. use technology to help them with basic tasks) within their customer relationship management (CRM). But a study by SEI shows that 54% of advisors have not adopted workflow processes. 58% of advisors that have workflows in place said they rely on "memory, post-it notes, to-do lists, or traveling checklists to implement tasks." "Workflows not only provide a roadmap for how to deliver a consistent client experience, but the non-client facing activities can be orchestrated – from CRM through financial planning and proposal generation, all the way through the advisor’s custodial platform," said Spenser Segal, CEO, ActiFi in a press release. Cantor Fitzgerald Continues Its Hiring Spree (WealthManagement.com)  Cantor Fitzgerald has hired  Jeff Schulte and Jim Hiles from Mariner Wealth Advisors, reports Diana Britton at WealthManagement.com. Cantor Fitzgerald has been on a hiring spree, and this was their fourth acquisition in the last five months. "What our focus was, and still is, is to provide that same high-quality touch, the same quality institutional-style services, but now to expand those services to private clients," Stan Gregor, CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald Wealth Partners told Britton. Corporate Insider Selling Is Cooling Off (Goldman Sachs) Investors often watch for how insiders trade on a stock because employees are expected to have better information on their companies than outsiders. "Corporate insider activity is generally in line with historical averages," noted Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in  a new note to clients. "Insider sales rose in late 2012 as S&amp;P 500 reached its previous peak but has since receded. Purchase activity, while relatively minuscule in volume, is higher than at any point in the past decade outside of the financial crisis, suggesting managements and other corporate insiders expect further upside." This pattern raises questions about the quality of information one can draw from watching such trades.  Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
There is some good news: U.S. manufacturing activity picked up smartly in February after a steep decline the previous month. The latest jobs report showed that non-farm payrolls grew by 175,000 in February, a modest step up from the 129,000 revised figure for January and December’s dismal 84,000 number. In January, new-home sales hit their highest point since 2008. But that’s been the only positive data out of the housing market this year, and Credit Suisse’s homebuilders analyst Dan Oppenheim says the spectacular 10 percent gain will probably be revised lower next month. The 100-point homebuilder confidence index fell 10 points in February, and both existing-home sales and single-family housing starts fell to their lowest levels since the summer of 2012. The most troubling developments: The first two unemployment reports of the year showed lower-than-expected job growth in both December and January. Topping it all off, the U.S. GDP growth estimate for the fourth quarter of 2013 has been revised down from 3.2 percent to 2.4 percent, largely due to weak consumer spending. “Having pored over a lot of this data, I don’t see a lot of silver linings,” Credit Suisse Head of U.S. Macro Product Research Carl Lantz said on a recent call with investors. Credit Suisse’s economists have since revised their first quarter GDP growth estimate by a full percentage point to 1.6 percent. But they have not given up hope on the U.S. economy for the rest of the year. “We’ve just lost a quarter,” Lantz said. “I don’t think this changes the story for 2014.” It would be tempting to blame the relentlessly frigid weather along the East Coast and in the Midwest for the disappointing numbers. And it’s not difficult to believe that a 17 percent drop in housing starts in the Midwest last month had something to do with the area’s ceaseless snowstorms. But the weather didn’t cause all the problems: The Western U.S., where the weather has been warmer than average, experienced the sharpest decline in existing-home sales of any region at 7.3 percent. Retail sales were also down 0.4 percent in January. Even online shopping, which shouldn’t be affected by inclement weather, was down slightly. While it would also be convenient to attribute weaker-than-expected jobs data to the snowstorms, Credit Suisse economists point out that workers have to miss an entire pay period, not just a snow day or two, to go uncounted in the payroll survey. Credit Suisse believes the business cycle has more to answer for than the seasons. “The bulk of the slowing is probably more a reflection of normal cyclicality around a steady trend,” Lantz said in a recent note, “Weathering the Soft Patch.” For one thing, an inventory buildup that boosted GDP in the last half of 2013 is likely unwinding now, Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists noted in the bank’s most recent quarterly survey of the global economy, entitled “Speeding Up to Average.” The housing slowdown probably also owes something to both higher mortgage rates and a shrinking number of borrowers who meet the stricter loan requirements many lenders have implemented since the financial crisis. Still, Lantz thinks the underlying upward trend remains in place, and that if history is any gauge, things should pick up over the next two months. Economic data have taken a temporary turn for the worse several times since the Great Recession, including twice in 2013. On average, the dips have lasted 3.25 months. This time around, two full months have gone by, and Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists believe U.S. economic data could pick up before the end of April. The latest jobs report bolsters the notion that the slowdown will reverse itself. “While February wasn’t red-hot, the jobs figures provide a measure of reassurance following the woeful December and January reports,” Credit Suisse U.S. economist Jay Feldman wrote in a report called “Breaking News: U.S. Employment.” “Labor market progress remains patchy, but has not stalled out. The recent weakness appears more in the spirit of a typical soft patch rather than something more cyclically worrisome.” Credit Suisse, The FinancialistThe bank’s forecast for the global economy follows a similar trajectory to that of the U.S. – it’s slowing now, but should speed up again soon. The slowdown can be seen in the Credit Suisse Basic Materials Index, which tracks everything from oil demand in China and the U.S. to prices of basic commodities such as coal and copper to measure industrial production. In a note this month entitled “In Negative Territory,” Credit Suisse economists released the preliminary estimate for February, and it was negative for the second month in a row at -1.07 – a reading below zero indicates growth below the long-term average. January’s reading was also revised down from -0.35 to -1.44. As with the U.S. data, bad weather probably played some role in the industrial production reversal, particularly in the index’s shipping and transportation measures, such as U.S. trucking volumes. But it can’t explain everything. “[The] 2014 profile will be much flatter than previously expected,” the economists wrote. “[Industrial] production growth will hover around 4-4.5 percent in the first half of the year before accelerating slightly in the summer toward 5 percent.” So, the U.S. – and, by extension, the world – is experiencing a lost quarter, although it doesn’t look to be a lost year – yet. That might explain why financial markets have so far taken the bad news in their stride. At the beginning of February, the S&amp;P 500 was already down 4.9percentfor the year, as weak Chinese manufacturing numbers and lackluster U.S. data spooked investors. But the index has since recovered its gains and then some – at 1,874 as of Mar. 6, it was up 2.3percentsince the start of the year. What’s more, ten-year Treasury yields have hovered around the 2.7 percent range over the last month, despite the fact that bad economic news tends to push up the price of 10-year notes. With any luck, spring should remove weather as a confounding variable in U.S. economic data, and that’s when it should start to become clearer whether the lost quarter was a speed bump or the start of a lengthy slowdown. The answer matters: the markets won’t be happy if it’s the latter. FREE AppDownload
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderBitcoin vending machines — ones that allow you to both withdraw cash from your Bitcoin account, and/or upload cash into your Bitcoin wallet — have been getting a lot of attention, especially as SXSW rolls on. Our Steve Kovach just live Tweeted what it was like to use one. He was sorta neutral.  Meanwhile a recent Tweet from The Verge's Adrian Jefferies alerted us to something we hadn't really noticed: these machines are actually kind of expensive. She was able to purchase Bitcoin from the machine at $689/coin, about $50 above market rate (she only bought $1 worth). Just bought some BTC with cash at the Bitcoin ATM at #SXSW14. pic.twitter.com/AOvXPxVmnj We confirmed that the average transaction fee is 3-5% of the withdrawal amount.  The one in Vancouver actually costs 7%. Wired's Bob McMillan actually did a story about how the owner had to hire a minder to ward off live dudes who'd trade their Bitcoin for next to nothing who'd taken up residence next to the machine. There is another Bitcoin vending machine in Albuquerque that does not appear to charge a fee — but it's one-way: Users can only insert cash into their virtual wallet. Robocoin CEO Jordan Kelley told us this is actually cheaper than the fees on LocalBitcoin.com, which charge .0001-.0004 BTC, and much cheaper than the rate for a normal MoneyGram or Western Union remittance, which can climb up to 13%. Kelley says you're paying for peace of mind. "We are more secure and more compliant, than meeting a guy at Starbucks," he told us. But it seems like all but the most ardent Bitcoin evangelist would be willing to throw down that much. FREE AppDownload
AUSTIN, Texas — If you want an instant way to turn your bitcoins into cash or vice versa, a Bitcoin ATM is one of your best bets. The Bitcoin ATM syncs with your Bitcoin wallet, letting you instantly transfer your cash to bitcoins or withdraw your bitcoins as cash.  We got to check out one of the devices at the South By Southwest Interactive conference. It was run by an independent Bitcoin agent named Mike Piri. Piri owns a company called My Local Bitcoin ATM and runs two of the machines in Austin. He takes a small fee (in Bitcoin, of course) of each transaction people make. The device itself is made by a company called Robocoin, which sells the ATMs to people for a whopping $25,000. Piri has one of his machines in a local bar here in Austin and another in a coffee shop. (He took the one out of the coffee shop this week so he could show it off at the conference.) Here's how it works: Steve Kovach/Business Insider Steve Kovach/Business Insider Steve Kovach/Business Insider Steve Kovach/Business Insider Steve Kovach/Business Insider Steve Kovach/Business Insider Steve Kovach/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Robert GalbraithSome of the folks who wrote letters to the FTC demanding an investigation of Herbalife don't remember the writing letters, according to an investigation by the New York Times' Michael Schmidt, Eric Lipton and Alexandra Stevenson. The New York Times published an extensive report about hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's war against Herbalife, a multi-level marketing nutrition company he believes is a "pyramid scheme." Part of Ackman's strategy is lobbying in order to bring about an investigation that shut down Herbalife. One way Ackman's team has been doing this is organizing letter-writing campaigns, the report said.  In regards to the letters, the Times points out that the language in many of them is so similar that it makes it clear they were written as part of a coordinated lobbying effort.  The New York Times posted a cache of more than a hundred documents, including some of the letters. The Times was able to get in touch with some of the authors and the letters look pretty bad after they admitted that they didn't remember writing a letter.  Here are two examples:  The author of the letter below is a Puerto Rican hairstylist from Connecticut. Israel Alvarez didn't really know what Herbalife was when the New York Times asked him about it. He said it was "a vitamin, and a food thing."   NYTimes  Cesar Jara, who runs a car repair shop, didn't even know what his letter to the FTC said. "What did the letter say, that I used Herbalife and I am happy with it or not happy with it?" he asked the Times.     NYTimes Other folks with similar letters didn't respond to the NYTimes request for comment, the report said. So far, Ackman has suffered about $500 million in paper losses on his bet. Still, he has maintained that he will take his Herbalife short "to the end of the earth."  Read the rest of the documents here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBeach of Koreiz townlet in Ukraine.Stocks pulled back a tiny bit from their all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
    Back when he was still running Netscape in the 1990s, Marc Andreessen hired an executive named Ben Horowitz. After Microsoft announced that it would bundle its browser with Windows 95, Andreessen, Horowitz, and another guy named Mike Homer spent months coming up with a counter-move. The plan, according to Horowitz's new book: "If they were going to give our products away, then we were going to offer a dirt-cheap, open alternative to the highly expensive and proprietary Microsoft BackOffice product line." The launch date for Netscape's new products would be March 5, 1996. But then, two weeks before that date, a publication called Computer Reseller News published an interview with Andreessen in which he spilled all the secret plans. Horowitz was mad. He sent an email to Andreessen that said, "I guess we're not going to wait until the 5th to launch the strategy." Andreessen's response was nuclear. "Apparently you do not understand how serious the situation is," he wrote. "We are getting killed killed killed out there. Our current product is radically worse than the competition. We've had nothing to say for months. As a result, we've lost over $3 billion in market capitalization. We are now in danger of losing the entire company and it's all server product management's fault." "Next time," Andreessen concluded, "do the f---ing interview yourself." He signed off: "F--- you, Marc." You might imagine that Horowitz responded to that email the way most people would: by quitting Netscape and never working with Andreessen again. Nope. In fact, Horowitz would go on to become CEO of Andreessen's second company, Loudcloud, which eventually became Opsware and sold to Hewlett Packard for $1.65 billion. Now Horowitz and Andreessen are working together again as partners in a venture capital firm. It's called: Andreessen Horowitz. We had Horowitz in the office the other day to talk about his new book, "The Hard Thing About Hard Things." We asked him how his relationship with Andreessen surived that email. Watch the clip to hear his answer. Produced by Justin Gmoser Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Credit: Maddy TaliasKevin RooseFox TV Studios has purchased the rights to Kevin Roose's new book "Young Money: Inside the Hidden World of Wall Street's Post Crash Recruits," a source familiar with the matter told Business Insider. Roose, a business and technology writer for New York Magazine, followed eight young bankers and traders and documented their travails — the 100-hour workweeks, all-nighters, parties, and Occupy Wall Street-esque moral dilemmas. Alfredo Barrios Jr., known most for his work on "Burn Notice" and "Law &amp; Order," will be the show's writer, according to our source. Fox Television Studios' Vice President of Programming Matt Loze, also of "Burn Notice," will be the point executive. Alan Gasmer and Peter Jaysen, who have previously worked on "Dateline NBC," will produce. The book has been everywhere lately — it's a New York Times best seller — and Roose just made an appearance on The Daily Show. There seems to be a renewed appetite for Wall Street on the screen, from Martin Scorsese's pump-and-dump blockbuster "The Wolf of Wall Street" to Frontline's exposé of embattled hedge funder Steve Cohen. But this new show would presumably focus on the smaller cogs in the financial machine — stress-ridden first and second-year analysts. Deadline Hollywood first reported the news. "I'm thrilled," Roose told BI. FREE AppDownload
Anecdotes, like those collected in the Federal Reserve's Beige book, offer a pretty crude glimpse into what's going on in the economy. However, they're far from scientific. For example, the Beige book hasn't been very helpful in revealing the true slack in the labor market, which economists have been monitoring for signs of wage pressure. If the labor market is tight, then wages should rise, and ultimately inflation should pick up in the economy. "The Fed’s Beige book has been highlighting skill shortages since 2010, even as it confirms no broad-based wage pressure," noted Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ethan Harris in December. In other words, the Beige book has been sending a false signal regarding labor market tightness. After reading the most recent Beige book, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg tallied the references to "labor shortages" in books going back to mid-2007, which was before the last recession began. It's hard to discern any real trend here. Maybe the Fed's Beige book editors can explain. If anything, all we know is that there will always be an employer somewhere complaining about not being able to find good workers.  Gluskin Sheff FREE AppDownload
Controversial mathematician Stephen Wolfram is about to release a programming language with the goal of being able to quickly do just about any calculation or visualization on just about any kind of data a person could want. Wolfram, creator of the widely used mathematical software Mathematica and the "computational knowledge engine" Wolfram|Alpha, has announced the forthcoming release of the Wolfram Language, the underlying programming language powering those two pieces of software. Wolfram describes and demos the language in a video posted late last month:  The language release aims to combine a vast array of computational and visualization algorithms at the heart of Mathematica with the databases and natural language processing that power Wolfram Alpha. As Wolfram puts it, it is intended to be a "knowledge-based programming language." The language also aims to be flexible enough for either complete beginners or expert developers to be able to quickly create programs to analyze data and solve problems. The algorithms implemented by the language vary from mathematical functions like algebraic expansions and derivatives to financial computations like finding the future value of an investment, to many more. These algorithms are coupled with databases curated by Wolfram Research including financial data, socioeconomic statistics, and various facts about people and places. Wolfram Research/ YouTubeThe language also is set to have some impressive data visualization methods included as well. To the left is an image from the video, showing the web of hyperlinks connected to Wolfram's home page, as visualized by the language. Wolfram has described the language as "knowing things about the world," and this kind of statement has stirred up some controversy. David Auerbach at Slate questions whether or not the incorporation of a huge database of algorithms and real-world data actually makes a language closer to understanding the world in the way a human does.  This gets into a debate over the nature of artificial and human intelligence that has gone on since at least the beginning of the computer era. Whether or not the Wolfram Language represents a leap forward in the development of AI, it will probably be an excellent tool for anyone interested in computation and data, just as Mathematica and Wolfram|Alpha have been and continue to be.   FREE AppDownload
W.R.KThe Reworked ShirtIf a dress shirt feels like a t-shirt, but looks like a dress shirt, will you still feel like you're at work when you wear it? Enter the Reworked shirt — a new piece from men's clothing line, W.R.K hitting stores in June that is meant to make your forget what a dress shirt used to feel like. The Reworked shirt comes from a philosophy. W.R.K designer Matteo Gottardi creates clothes that are part wardrobe staple, part life hack. From jackets to pants, every item is meant to look good, feel good, and serve a purpose. Gottardi explained: "The idea here is that they can get a great blazer, look good in it, and when their buddies say 'hey did you get a new blazer', they can say 'yeah, check out this sleeve, it doesn't have a seam. Or, check out this pocket, did you see there was a pocket there?'" Here's Gottardi's design logic (take the dress shirt for example): When a man wears a dress shirt how does he actually wear it? If he's at work it's often with a blazer over it. Yes? Well then the sleeves can be softer, less starchy. A man, you see, needs to move his elbows freely. The fabric can be more structured around the wrist, and around the collar. The back (where a man sits) should be soft. The front — which the world sees — should be more structured. It makes a man look more structured. And that's how a t-shirt that feels like a dress shirt is born. Gottardi, 31, studied at NYU's Stern School of Business and started his own line shortly after that. Now, beyond designing for W.R.K, he is also what the Wall Street Journal called a "ghost designer." He is the secret force behind menswear brands like Vince Camuto and Joseph Abboud which he designs through his creative studio the WRKSHOP. The guy basically doesn't sleep. He can't. He's got to work on the mission. "We look at a world now where if a man goes into a store and sees a blazer that is... too 'fashionable' or too expressive, all the sudden they question their own masculinity," said Gottardi. "They question whether this really fits into their lifestyle." That shouldn't be. An article of clothing should fit seamlessly on a man's body and into a man's life. To achieve that, W.R.K draws inspiration from the Italian military, the WWII British motor corp, naval officers — men that have done things. "At the end of the day a man will never neglect a product that brings more of a purpose or functionality to his life," said Gottardi. "It relates back to our genetics... it's like when we look at a car. The car could be pink but if its got the right engine in there and it makes the right sound, it's our car. Hell, if we have to we'll spray paint it, at the end of the day we love that car.... In order to get men to start dressing up, we need to show them the purpose of the product. We need to show them that the product has value besides the price tag or the logo that's printed on it." You can pick up the Reworked Shirt exclusively at Nordstrom (in stores and online) along with the full W.R.K collection which is also available at — Neiman Marcus (in stores and online), Saks Fifth Avenue (in stores and online),Scoop NYC (in stores and online) and Amazon.com. And in case you need more of an example of how W.R.K works, check out the jacket below (The W.R.K Hyde Coat)  and then scroll down to see how the pockets multiply. W.R.K  Open it and BAM! All the pockets. W.R.K FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Lefteris PitarakisLast Friday, Ben Judah wrote  a scathing indictment of London as a town now thriving on "Russian oligarchs and Qatari princes," and that Britain's youth are now "oligarchs' valets." The idea of "dirty" Russian money being pumped through London is hardly new.  And the Shard has previously been called out for being an ode to the wealthy. But Judah's piece has rubbed a lot of folks the wrong way. Allister Heath at City AM slammed the piece for its inaccuracies. He pointed out that the Shard is quite unlike Judah said: "The flats haven’t been sold yet. There are no rich owners and no prostitutes. There are no derivatives traders – the only financial firm that has moved in is Duff and Phelps, which provides various corporate advisory, valuation and restructuring services." In fact he drills through a bunch of factual errors that's definitely worth a read. Sean Thomas at The Telegraph called the article "rhapsodically stupid." His main issue with the piece rests on Judah's claim that "Britain is ready to betray the United States to protect the City of London’s hold on dirty Russian money." Here's one from the Financial Times titled 'In Defence of London'. But there are those who argue that the crux of Judah's argument isn't wrong. An editorial at Spear's points out that there are "building-brick-facts" and "decorative facts" and its the latter that Judah got wrong. "Judah's actual argument is, contrarily, dead on the money (so to speak)," they write. From Spear's: "This argument is, well, unarguable: one of Britain's chief industries is financial services. They bring £80 billion to London each year. Spear's has been reporting on London's new service class since we started - and there's nothing wrong with that: we're good at it and it brings wealth to Britain. …What's happening is that people who dislike the truth of Judah's argument are picking away at the decorative details, not the real argument. If Allister Heath, Sean Thomas or anyone else wants to challenge that, I'm sure we'd all be happy to hear it. But they can't, because Judah is right: banks, not tanks." Make of this kerfuffle what you will. Note: We corrected the piece to reflect Sean Thomas' piece appeared in The Telegraph. FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderAtlantic City's Water Club is nothing if not deserving of its name. Fountains abound, along with pools, spas, and saunas all within a heavy tropical atmosphere. It feels like a resort, with guests enjoying palm trees poolside without ever leaving the building. But there are parts of the Water Club — a high-end property attached to the behemoth Borgata Hotel &amp; Casino — that most visitors will never see. The hotel's high-roller suites, called residences, are tucked neatly away on their own private floor, far above the pools and restaurants enjoyed by guests. Up in the residences, there is a massive, private hot tub, 24-hour butler service, and a kitchen that serves meals delivered from any of the hotel's gourmet restaurants. The only thing residence guests must leave their rooms for is the casino floor, because that's why they're here at the Water Club in the first place. The residences cannot be rented for any price and are given free of charge to the casino's biggest spenders. That exclusivity is not a joke: The largest headliners to perform at the hotel will stay a couple floors below the Residences in beautiful, but far less well appointed rooms of their own.
There are at least four Bitcoin ATMs in operation at SXSW this year — one at a bar, one at a coffee shop, one at a gun certification school, and a final one that will be pretty much everywhere else as it rolls around on wheels: Robocoin Meet the Robocoin Rover, pictured in its trailer above. The trailer houses a Robocoin ATM that will enable SXSW-goers to turn cash into Bitcoin and vice-versa. (While Robocoin manufactures the devices, they are independently owned and operated. This particular one is managed by Coinvault ATM.) Robocoin Robocoin Robocoin  FREE AppDownload
Jeff J Mitchell/Getty ImagesMorgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs have foregone millions in fees to juice their rankings on league tables of most prominent investment banks, Bloomberg Businessweek's David Welch reports. (spotted by Felix Salmon) The most recent example was the blockbuster merger between Forest Laboratories and Actavis, a deal worth $25 billion. Neither bank was involved in transaction, although both banks had previously done business with Forest. They enjoyed so-called "tail" clauses included in their previous contracts, which would pay out fees if a deal was ever realized, even if they weren't involved in it. But the banks instead decided that being able to claim credit on a deal in which neither was involved, thus boosting their status on rankings of biggest banking players — was worth more than the fees themselves. Welch: The trade highlights the importance of league tables to investment banks -- which use them to pitch for new business -- and the lengths to which banks will go to climb the rankings. Firms also agree to provide financing or other services to get credit on deals they played almost no role in. The Forest deal helped Morgan Stanley solidify its position as the top M&amp;A adviser this year, in both Bloomberg’s and Dealogic’s rankings. Welch further explains, "The campaign to be included as an adviser is typical of the competition among investment banks in high-stakes takeovers. Firms sometimes try to get on a deal just before or after an announcement." Click here to read the full story on Bloomberg.com »  FREE AppDownload
Share of major fuel cell companies are all ripping today. Ballard Power, Plug Power, Fuel Cell Energy, and Hydrogenics are all surging as the fuel cell — the hydrogen-powered technology that came into vogue with investors in the late 90s — has a renaissance. Fuel cell companies have reported stellar earnings lately. Plug Power, for instance, now has contracts to use its units on forklifts with Wal-Mart, BMW, FedEx, and Lowe's. These are companies that basically have been dormant for some time, but investors can't get enough of them now. And, because some of these stocks went ripping during 1999, it's making people nervous this is a sign this market is reaching bubble status. Check it out: Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Mugshot via The Smoking GunUPDATE: PonziCoin organizer Vort says the gambling site was hacked, and has begun refunding users, who are in turn confirming getting their deposits back.  He will be shutting down the site indefinitely. Earlier, users of the online gaming site began complaining that Vort had run off with their money See below for details. Here's Vort's full statement: Guys, I'm terribly sorry I noticed the site was compromised last night with users being able to query the DB and what appears to be able to use my PHP RPC library to directly reach my local bitcoin instance. All deposits have been refunded...I am trying to nail down exactly what happened and I will post as much here later today. Initially it is looking like some of the code was available externally via HTTP requests. I'm tracking down which were successful and what the consequences of that are.Needless to say PonziCoin will no longer be taking deposits.Apologies again for the gigantic cock up. EARLIER: People are beginning to worry that a site called PonziCoin might be a scam. (via reddit user BookStoreProwler). The premise of the site is simple: In a series of games, players would make bets according to the minimum and maximum investment limits. As more players made bets, older ones would be repaid at 120% of what they put in. The more players who invested, the quicker and more payouts were made. If there was no payout for 1 hour, the game would be reset, with all deposits lost. There had been six previous "rounds" of what amounted to a form of gambling — and winners had actually been paid out. But last night, PonziCoin organizer Vortuarackne posted a new set of rules to the game: The max deposit was raised to a full Bitcoin (more than $600),  the final depositor in the round would be paid out at 200%, and it woudl be from Vort's own wallet. "We need to get this party started again - it's slowed down too much!" he said. The round began — and five minutes later it was over.  And there was no payout.  You can see the panicked posts starting to flood the forum: Bitcointalk By one estimate, the PonziCoin creator or creators took home about $7,000. Not an enormous amount, but a decent chunk for practically no effort. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Shanghai Composite fell nearly 3% on Monday and the yuan continued its decline. This comes on the back of some disappointing economic data from China.  First, we saw Chinese exports in February unexpectedly plunge 18.1% year-over-year. Economists have warned about the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday on exports in the Jan-Feb period, which often causes exporters to front load into January. This time around, the export numbers were also distorted by fake trade data which inflated last year's export figures, creating a higher base effect. That being said, some economists emphasized that external demand still looks soft.  Societe Generale's Wei Yao thinks the correction we saw in February is finally bringing the year-to-date data in line with what we're seeing out of Korea and Taiwan, indicating a "weakened momentum of global demand entering 2014." "Even if excluding exports to Hong Kong (-20.9% yoy) from calculation so as to adjust for the over-invoicing problem last year, export growth would still have been a meager 2.4%," she writes. Meanwhile, Jian Chang and Jerry Peng at Barclays point out  that the export orders sub-index of the PMI report has been down for three straight months. Second, we saw credit data deteriorate in February. New bank loans fell to 645 billion yuan in February, from 1.32 trillion yuan the previous month. It was also below expectations for 730 billion yuan.  Total social financing fell to 939 billion yuan, from 2.58 trillion yuan the previous month, missing expectations for 1.31 trillion yuan.  Societe Generale's Yao has previously warned that the government's efforts to "engineer a deleveraging could lead to a hard landing in China, if the policy response is misjudged." That being said, some economists like Bank of America's Ting Lu expect this data to pick up in March. Third, Chinese consumer prices were up just 2% year-over-year, slowing from 2.5% increase in January. Meanwhile producer prices were down 2%, accelerating from last month's 1.6% decline.   While cooling inflation does give the People's Bank of China room to ease liquidity, some are worried about a deflationary threat considering producer prices have been down for two years. We have previously pointed out that while some economists see this as an indicator of "the deflationary excess capacity in the system," others think it is a sign of weak domestic demand. Finally, there's the default of the 11 Chaori bond, the first-ever domestic bond default in China. While this news was expected, it only adds to concerns surrounding Chinese growth. While the default is a good thing in that it will help better price bonds and other debt products, many are worried about the short-term implications. This suggests that China is not going to back-stop financial products that are about to default.  "If a default indeed occurs (especially on principal), we believe that the market will have reached the Bear Stearns stage (when the market started to seriously re-assess subprime debt risk)," wrote Bank of America's David Cui in a note to clients.  "We doubt that the financial system in China will experience a liquidity crunch immediately because of this default but we think the chain reaction will probably start." Barclays' Jian Chang and Serena Zhou think the systemic risk from the default is small but "expect more but selective defaults, more risks to be exposed, and greater financial market volatilities this year."  Again, it's not the idea that a financial collapse is imminent, but that the cogs are now in motion. That's a lot of news for markets to digest, and data in March should provide a slightly clearer picture. For now concerns are mounting about China's ability to reach its 7.5% growth target. Note: We corrected piece to reflect credit growth slowdown numbers were for February, not January. FREE AppDownload
Chris McGrath / GettyIn the past few years, more buyside companies are hiring analysts straight out of college, or without 2 full years of ibanking experience. If you are in one of these positions, the 6 tips below might be able to help you. My own experience is more in public markets, so it might not apply as well to people who are in private market/venture capital. 1. Be slow but steady in forming your view. Granted, if you are in an investment role, then you are hired to have a view. However, one of the very common mistakes I've seen around me (and in myself as well) is when very junior analysts try to come up with a very comprehensive view FAST. I don't mean that you shouldn't try to do you work fast--everyone loves a junior who can do their model/analysis/what have you as fast as they can manage. However, it is not a good idea to try to force a fast speed on forming your view. In most investment instruments, you need a certain amount of experience and "investment maturity" to know the big picture questions (where is the US economy going, how will asset allocation flow look like next year, what's the most likely scenario next year), how the market is going to react to certain information, and which driver in your thesis is the more important one. To know a company/bond well is easier to manage than any of the above; thus, if you have one year of experience following your coverage closely, you should be able to do that. However, to have an investment view is more complex, and it requires the more experience-based knowledge mentioned above. I've often seen junior analysts forcing themselves to reach a very comprehensive view when they are not ready to answer any of the above. This is actually a bad thing for their own investment analysis because they are jamming many pieces puzzle into one piece; often, they don't have enough experience and time to reflect on what their implicit assumptions are, and it makes them slower to realize what are the mistakes that they can make in their analysis. Part of this is due to culture, most teams will want you to have a view. However, I think most teams are also understanding enough if you are less experienced--they won't force you to come up with the whole picture (I mean, that's what your seniors are for). A good way to mitigate this for someone who has just started is to parse out your views for different scenarios. Instead of thinking to yourself:" I think interest rates will go up and therefore my real estate company will suffer because of higher borrowing cost", try: "In the case interest rates go up, my company might experience this; in the case interest rates don't go up because Fed changed its mind on tapering, my company might experience that, etc etc.". Always parse out your own assumptions at the beginning--you don't have enough experience to have a good handle on macro views yet, therefore, make sure you know which part of your analysis rest on certain macro/market-based assumptions you made. Which leads to the 2nd point ... 2. As a thought experiment, train yourself to think about macro For most investors, the macroeconomic environment plays an important role in their investment analysis. At the places that I've seen or heard of, these decisions are made by the senior members of the team, which makes sense--not because seniority makes you smarter, but rather that those people have seen more of a "history" of the market, and their thinking can benefit from that knowledge more than yours can. However, if you want to progress in this line of work, you need to think about the big picture, in addition to the specific coverage that you work on. You shouldn't expect your macro views to be taken up by your team yet, but it's always a good practice for yourself. Think about: US data, European data, manufacturing survey data, commodity prices--what are the drivers of money flow in this world, and how does that affect your coverage? Try to think about the data instead of the ready-made analysis on these data that you get from sell-side emails, this will help you form a stronger impression of what's happening. 3. Track your activity/time spent at work If you are a junior, chances are there are things you do at work that you can do more efficiently. Most people in investment roles don't try to waste time--after all, it's competitive enough without having ourselves as one of our enemies. However, you'd be surprised at how much improvement you can make. One thing that might help you is to track your activity at work, and see how much time you spend on each task. Are you spending a lot of time reading? Most of us have to do that, but can you do it more efficiently? Can you try to read the first line and last line of each paragraph and see if you can still come away with the crucial information? Can you make notes as you read to increase the ratio of things you remember? It's often difficult to keep track of everything when things get hectic, but I do recommend doing this (especially for people who are just starting) to see what kind of work-place habits you can work on to help yourself. 4. Don't be afraid of chaos On average, buyside jobs are more stable than sellside jobs. Most people stay for a few years, and internal promotions to real money-management roles (PM) are common. However, if you happen to end up at a place with a high turn-over ratio, then don't worry too much about it either. For one, if you are junior, you can always transition to somewhere else with a better cultural fit for you after you learn the preliminary skills. And two, a high turn-over rate means that you get more people to observe and learn from. Much of investing is about how a person thinks, and the more senior people you can observe in the early stage of your career, the better. It generally takes about 6 months for analysts to understand their senior's style; some of them might fit you better than others, but it is always good to have the extra knowledge. The only time when chaos is bad is when a person's own thinking is chaotic. If you are working for someone whose own thought process is chaotic, then be careful! You want to make sure that you are open-minded about their process, but at the same time, it's important to form good thinking habits when you are young, and a chaotic thought process might not be good for generating persistent returns. Read the full story at Wall Street Oasis&gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It's hard to get a sense of what a food shortage is like unless you've lived through one, but this tidbit from Venezuela serves as a chilling illustration. The lines to get into government supermarkets are so long that people mark their arms with their place in line. It's not a permanent tattoo — just a pen — but the point is to make sure that the long lines stay as orderly as possible. It looks like this: The Road to Serfdom game in Venezuela just got real -- human tattooing for food privileges pic.twitter.com/ceKJycftOK And that's if the market even has those items. People also have numbers on their ID cards, which decide which days they can even get in line to shop at supermarkets like San Cristobal's Bicentenario, according to AFP. Protests taking place all over the country aren't helping either. Demonstrators have been building barricades, which are slowing the flow of goods from place to place. From AFP: Armando Mirando, vice president of the Tachira State Bakeries Association, told AFP that San Cristobal could run out of bread by Tuesday... "We already had shortages before and now nothing is arriving," Mirando said after addressing a "peace conference" organized by the government to end the protests but shunned by the opposition as a sham. Most shops and restaurants are closed in the city of 260,000 people. On Friday, Maduro got on TV and said that smuggling food into the country is more profitable than selling cocaine. If you had to stand in this line (in San Crisobal) you would understand why. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, February 27, 2014. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called on Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade.  FREE AppDownload
In the wake of California resident Dorian Nakamoto's denial that he invented Bitcoin, some have voiced concerns about his exposure to possibly undue media scrutiny.  Add Nassim Taleb to that list. In a new series of Tweets, Taleb, the best-selling author of books about how he thinks markets and society work, goes after Newsweek reporter Leah McGrath Goodman, the author of the piece alleging Nakamoto invented the digital currency; and journalism in general, using his signature lexicon about probability and skin in the game. He's really angry:  Violation of Nakamoto's privacy by Goodman @truth_eater shd be reciprocal: journos should also have their privacy in jeopardy #skininthegame Aside from cluelessness about "forensics", Goodman's treatment of Nakamoto marks the conflation of reporting with voyeurism @truth_eater Can't figure out why I am so upset abt Nakamoto's privacy. Centuries of legal evolution based of burden of evidence. Sympathy for the man. .@felixsalmon ETHICS: If .1% probability of error/harming yourself, you wouldn't take the risk. Why did she harm Nakamoto? #skininthegame @SpireSec @felixsalmon Severe invasion of privacy even if she is right. Unlike artists/polititicians he did not ask to have a public life. .@truth_eater @SpireSec @felixsalmon Ms Goodman, there is something despicable about you and your profession. Voyeurism is not journalism. .@truth_eater @SpireSec @felixsalmon Your profession of violating people's privacy for profit? You call that journalism or voyeurism? FREE AppDownload
We came across this adorable photo of Fox Business Network Senior Correspondent Charlie Gasparino that was taken when he was five years-old.  The future Wall Street reporter, who was rocking some black socks, already looked ready to hunt down a scoop. Then again, this picture was taken in Bronx, where Gasparino spent some of his childhood, so you have to have a little attitude. Enjoy! Facebook    Here's what Gasparino looks like now:  Fox BusinessCharlie Gasparino FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Christian HartmannIt's no great secret that America is getting older. But John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, says the retirement investment landscape is worse than people think. "No one wants to talk about just how unprepared the Baby Boomer generation is for the years when they will no longer be able to work," Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus told Business Insider in a recent interview. Now he's laying out reasoning. Here's Stoltzfus' 11 reasons to be concerned about this aging demographic: "All 11 of these points add up to a veritable recipe for trouble for a generation as well as for the society and generations that will have to support those unprepared for 'the long haul' ahead once they can no longer work," he concludes.   FREE AppDownload
Handelsbanken Capital Markets/Martin EnlundA big battle is brewing inside the Federal Reserve, says Martin Enlund, a strategist at Handelsbanken Capital Markets, in a new presentation. The debate centers on the Fed's inflation target, which has taken on increasing importance in recent communications from the central bank as the unemployment rate has continued to fall while inflation has failed to rise. One camp, personified by Chicago Fed President Charlie Evans, wants to consider overshooting the 2% inflation target in order to return the labor market back to full health sooner rather than later. Recent comments from San Francisco Fed President John Williams, on the other hand — who recently discussed the "risk of overshooting" — are perhaps indicative of another camp, one that wants to hit the target from below. Markets have a lot at stake depending on the outcome of this debate. Thanks to Martin Enlund and Handelsbanken Capital Markets for allowing us to feature this presentation.
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a building where Mt. Gox is housed in Tokyo(Reuters) - Mt. Gox, once the world's largest bitcoin exchange, filed for U.S. Bankruptcy in Dallas late Sunday, a move that will temporarily put U.S. legal action on hold against the Japanese company. The company said without U.S. bankruptcy protection it would spend substantial funds defending itself against a U.S. lawsuit seeking class action status that was filed in Chicago federal court. Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy in Japan in February after it said it may have lost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
There are numerous reasons why corporate insiders buy and sell shares of the company where they work. However, outsiders often track this insider trading activity because these employees are thought to have better information about their companies than outsiders. For example, if selling activity slows and/or buying picks up, then one might assume the outlook for the company is improving. "Corporate insider activity is generally in line with historical averages," noted Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in  a new note to clients. "Insider sales rose in late 2012 as S&amp;P 500 reached its previous peak but has since receded. Purchase activity, while relatively minuscule in volume, is higher than at any point in the past decade outside of the financial crisis, suggesting managements and other corporate insiders expect further upside." As you can see from the chart, the information derived from insider trading activity isn't great.  For much of the current bull market, selling actually accelerated. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Stock markets around the world are headed lower to begin the trading week. In the United States, the S&amp;P 500 index is trading around 1868, down 0.5%. During Friday's session, the index hit an all-time high of 1883.57. The German DAX is leading European indices lower, down 1.2%. Asian markets closed lower overnight as well. The U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen are strengthening against most major currencies around the world. With no new economic data released in the United States this morning, disappointing data out of China and Japan over the weekend seem to be setting the tone. Treasuries seem to be getting a bit of a lift as equity markets show weakness — the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is 2.78%, one basis point below Friday's closing levels. On Friday, Treasuries sold off following the release of better-than-expected U.S. jobs data, causing 10-year yields to rise 5 basis points. "We continue to draw a distinction between U.S. rates backing up driven by geopolitical optimism and equity bounces, versus rates backing up when the Fed is viewed as being forced to react to incoming data," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "In the first instance, the dominant force is the risk-on mood of markets, and that remains USD-negative. When U.S. rates back up because of fear that the Fed is back in town, that is more risk-off than risk-on globally and USD appreciates against most currencies in EM and G10." The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA man holds a basket with mannequins wearing masks, similar to the ones used by members of the female punk band Pussy Riot, during the "March of Millions" protest rally in Moscow, September 15, 2012. Russia has been all over the headlines recently. Earlier this year, it was for the Sochi Winter Olympics. More recently, it's because president Vladimir Putin has been flexing his muscles again, this time in Ukraine. As the world's eighth largest economy Russia can't be ignored. The sheer scale of its pipelines, for instance, its stockpile of highly enriched uranium, or its population decline are mind-boggling. We put together some key facts about Russia. FREE AppDownload
claudio zaccherini / Shutterstock.comKowloon, Hong KongA secretive 24-year old woman from Hong Kong recently took the title of world's youngest billionaire, according to Forbes' latest data, displacing 29-year old Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz. She's so under-the-radar, Forbes and other publications have failed to find a verifiable photo of her. But thanks to public business records, they know her name: Perenna Kei. Unlike Moskovitz and many of the other young billionaires on Forbes' list, Kei's wealth was inherited, not self-made. Her father, Ji Haipeng, is the chairman and CEO of Logan Property Holdings, where Kei is currently a non-executive director. The company focuses on residential property development and owns subsidiaries in mainland China. Kei's reported net worth comes out to $1.3 billion, thanks to an 85% stake in her father's company through different companies and a family trust. Her father is still listed as an interested party in her shares. Wealth intelligence firm Wealth-X estimates her liquid assets at $6.5 million, and found her listed as the sole owner of Dragon Jubilee Investments, Gao Run Holdings and Thrive Ally, all investment companies based in the British Virgin Islands. Several sources report that Kei graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics and finance from the University of London. Wealth-X puts her graduation date at August 2011, though she had been serving as director of Logan Property Holdings since May 2010. She also reportedly studied for a Diploma in Economics at the Singapore Institute of Management, according to Wealth-X. Kei's wealth reportedly increased when Logan Property Holdings was listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in December 2013. The company made some $190 million in its IPO, according to Wealth-X. Kei currently resides in Tsim Sha Tsui, a trendy neighborhood in Kowloon, Hong Kong, according to Wealth-X. She is one of 42 new female billionaires to make Forbes' 2014 list. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brian SnyderThe New York Times' Michael Schmidt, Eric Lipton and Alexandra Stevenson have a big front page story on Bill Ackman and his $1 billion bet against Herbalife. In late 2012, Ackman publicly revealed that Pershing Square had put a $1 billion short position on Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional supplements and weight loss products.   Since then, he's been leveraging his political connections to help bring down Herbalife.  The New York Times reports that Ackman's team has "helped organize protests, news conferences and letter-writing campaigns in California, Nevada, Connecticut, New York and Illinois, although several of the people who signed the letters to state and federal officials say they do not remember sending them."  From the NYT:  A wave of additional letters started to be sent to federal regulators by groups like the Hispanic Federation and the Consumer Federation. Each person contacted by The Times acknowledged in interviews that they wrote the letters after being lobbied by representatives from Pershing Square, or said they did not remember writing the letters at all. Mr. Ackman’s team also then started to make payments totaling about $130,000 to some of these groups, including the Hispanic Federation — money he said was being used to help find victims of Herbalife. The pitch by Mr. Ackman peaked in early February, when nearly 30 people affiliated with Latino advocacy and church groups, several of whom had joined the cause after being briefed by consultants hired by Mr. Ackman, flew to Washington to meet with members of Congress and the head of the F.T.C., again pressing for investigators to take action against the company. Ackman believes that Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme" that preys upon lower-income individuals, particularly from the Hispanic population. Ackman is betting that the company's share price will plummet to $0. In other words, he believes regulators, specifically the FTC, will be persuaded to shut down the company.   He has also said that any personal profits he makes from the short will go to charity.   So far, the short hasn't played out in Ackman's favor. Since revealing his short position, shares of the stock have skyrocketed and his fund has suffered about $500 million in mark-to-market losses. What's more is other fund managers, most notably Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn, have amassed significant long positions in the stock. Still, Ackman has said that he will take his Herbalife short "to the end of the earth." One way to do that is to lobby. Since Ackman's short position became public, a slew of letters calling for an investigation of Herbalife have been sent to the FTC by various consumer and Hispanic groups. Some of the letters have come from a couple members of Congress.  Both sides have the right to lobby. What's more is Herbalife's lobbying has dwarfed Pershing Square's contributions. According to Reuters' Svea Herbst-Bayliss, Herbalife spent $2 million on federal lobbying in 2013.  Read the full NYTimes investigation here » FREE AppDownload
Scott Sumner has a great observation about financial bubbles. He notes that the NASDAQ peaked in March 2000 at over 5048.62, and then by October 2002 it troughed at 1114.11. Today it's at 4336.22, which means stocks were ridiculously cheap in October 2002. As of today, it looks to me like investors were somewhat more insane in October 2002 than March 2000.  In absolute terms they might have been roughly equally wrong.  The values of 3000 and 3200 are roughly half way between the 2000 highs and 2002 lows.  But it’s percentage differences that matter in investment.  If you can’t see that, consider this example.  You are looking out the window at a new Mercedes parked at the curb.  You comment that the car probably cost $80,000 new, and your friend says he’d estimate it was about $1000 new.  If the actual value was $40,000, who would have made the more reasonable guess?  And yet who was closer in absolute terms? I believe humans tend to notice absurdly over-priced assets more readily than absurdly underpriced assets.  People are more likely to talk about the fools who bought stocks when the NASDAQ was 5000, than those who foolishly sold when it was 1100 a few years later.  Or the fools that bought Vegas property in 2006, not those who sold London property in 1994.  Or those who bought Bitcoins at $1000, not those who sold Bitcoins when they were $5.  You might say that sometimes people might have to sell, but they never have to buy a particular asset.  That’s true.  But even people who sell and then reinvest in something else seem to get a pass.  It’s the buyers who pay too much who are mocked. Read Sumner's whole post &gt; FREE AppDownload
Dave Carlson is running one of the largest Bitcoin mining operations there is. He's set up an army of number-crunching computers in two warehouses at an undisclosed location in Washington State. The computers generate a ton of heat and burn through electricity, but Carlson says he's generating $8 million worth of Bitcoin per month! He invited KOMO News, a local Seattle station, to come check it out. You can see he's got quite the setup: Screenshot Carlson's space is filled with computer boards, each housing several chips that do the actual Bitcoin "mining." Screenshot  Check out the video below for a more in-depth walkthrough of Carlson's space. If you need a primer on what Bitcoin is, watch the video from the beginning. If you want to get right to the unbelievable mining setup, jump to three minutes and ten seconds in.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/movieclipsValue investor Seth Klarman, the founder of Boston-based hedge fund Baupost Group, thinks this market looks like the 1998 Jim Carrey movie "The Truman Show." In the film, Carrey's Truman Burbank lives a peaceful suburban life, but his world collapses upon realizing he's the star character in a massively popular reality show. His entire life — from his father's death to convenient product placements — has been orchestrated by the show's creator, Christof (played by Ed Harris). "As Truman starts to unravel the truth, his anger erupts and chaos ensues," Klarman writes to clients in his latest letter. In Klarman's telling, Ben Bernanke and Mario Draghi play the "creators" who have "manufactured a similarly idyllic, if artificial, environment for today’s investors." Check out an excerpt from the rather bearish letter (via ZeroHedge): But there is one fly in the ointment: in Bernanke’s production, all the Trumans – the economists, fund managers, traders, market pundits – know at some level that the environment in which they operate is not what it seems on the surface. The Fed and the Treasury openly discuss the aim of their policies: to manipulate financial markets higher and to generate reported economic “growth” and a “wealth effect.” Inside the giant Plexiglas dome of modern capital markets, just about everyone is happy, the few doubters are mocked and jeered, bad news is increasingly ignored, and markets go asymptotic. The longer QE continues, the more bloated the Fed balance sheet and the greater the risk from any unwinding. The artificiality of today’s markets is pure Truman Show. According to the Wall Street Journal (12/20/13), the Federal Reserve purchased about 90% of all the eligible mortgage bonds issued in November. ...Every Truman under Bernanke’s dome knows the environment is phony. But the zeitgeist so so damn pleasant, the days so resplendent, the mood so euphoric, the returns so irresistible, that no one wants it to end, and no one wants to exit the dome until they’re sure everyone else won’t stay on forever. A marketplace of knowing Trumans seems even more unstable than the movie sound stage character slowly awakening to reality. Can the clued-in Trumans be counted on to maintain their complicity or will they go off-script? Will Fed actions reliably be met with the desired response? Will the program remain popular? Could “The Truman Show” be running out of material? After all, even Seinfeld ended. "When the show ends, those self-deluded Trumans will be mad as hell and probably broke as well," Klarman concludes. "Hopefully there will be no sequels." Read the full letter at ZeroHedge » FREE AppDownload
This weekend I wrote about how the crazy action in the fuel cell stocks is reminiscent of the late 90s boom. When people start to get really optimistic, they start piling into these speculative world-changing companies indiscriminately (fuel cells theoretically could replace the internal combustion engine one day). Anyway, in my piece I mentioned three companies from back in the day that speculators loved: Plug Power (PLUG), Fuel Cell Energy (FCEL) and Ballard Power (BLDP).  And look at them all this morning. All going crazy. Yahoo Finace FREE AppDownload
For the last several weeks, a firestorm has been raging between eBay and activist investor Carl Icahn, who has been blasting the company's CEO and its board members, particularly the famed Silicon Valley investor Marc Andreessen.  In his letters, Icahn has also been making two demands: That PayPal spin-off from eBay and that two of his employees join the company's board.  Not only has CEO John Donahoe staunchly insisted that the two company's will not split, but today eBay rejected both of Icahn's board member nominees in its preliminary proxy statement for its annual meeting.  eBay's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee recommended Scott Cook to serve as a board member again. In his letters, Icahn had insisted multiple times that Cook, co-founder of Intuit, shouldn't be on the board, because Intuit is a long-term competitor of PayPal.  eBay's other board nominees are Elevation co-founder Fred Anderson, former CEO of Agilent Technologies Edward Barnholt, and John Donahoe, eBay's president and CEO.  In his latest letter to the eBay's board this morning, Icahn writes that Donahoe has cost shareholders $4 billion because of his incompetence.  eBay responded by accusing Icahn of a "false and misleading" attack: John Donahoe has delivered astounding results for eBay shareholders since he became CEO in 2008.  In the five years since John’s first analyst day, eBay’s stock price has increased more than 460%, significantly outpacing both the Nasdaq and the overall market.  John’s track record of success at eBay, driving the company’s turnaround and growth, is well documented. Yet in pursuit of his own profit motives, Carl Icahn has made another unsubstantiated attack on John. Just like his previous ones, this attack is false and misleading and has already been utterly discredited by the facts. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
(from my colleague Dr. Win Thin) The Crimean crisis threatens to escalate again this week. Russian forces in Crimea have been increased and they are consolidating their control of Crimea. This involves neutralizing Ukrainian bases in Crimea and getting control of communication and transportation, as well as securing borders. After the Crimean Parliament last week approved re-joining Russia, it will be presented as a referendum to the people of Crimea this weekend. The annexation of Crimea by Russia represents an important escalation of the crisis. The ruble and Russian stocks are likely to remain under pressure. Hungary reports February CPI on Tuesday and is expected to rise 0.4% y/y vs. flat in January. It reports January trade on Wednesday. The central bank minutes showed a 7-2 vote to cut 15 bp to 2.7% at it last meeting, with the 2 dissents voting for no change. It also said that a more detailed interest rate outlook would be given after the CPI data. Next policy meeting is March 25, with consensus for 10 bp cut to 2.6%. For EUR/HUF, support seen near 310 and then 305, while resistance seen near 315 and then 320. Israel reports February trade and Q4 current account on Tuesday. On Friday, it reports February CPI and is expected to ease to 1.3% y/y. Central bank minutes from the last meeting show a 4-1 vote for the surprise 25 bp cut that was due to lower than expected inflation (January CPI inflation 1.4% y/y). The one dissent was in favor of no move. We think the strong shekel will be a major factor going forward, as policymakers are likely unhappy with USD/ILS making new lows near 3.45. It's worth noting that Israel policy rate troughed at 0.5% back in 2009, so there's not much more room to go here at 0.75%. Support seen near 3.45 and then 3.40, while resistance seen near 3.50 and then 3.55. Brazil reports January IP on Tuesday and is expected at -3.4% y/y vs. -2.3% in December. It reports February IPCA inflation on Wednesday and is expected at 5.64% y/y vs. 5.59% in January. January retail sales come out Thursday, expected at 4.8% y/y vs. 4.0% in December. Inflation readings at the producer and wholesale level are starting to tick up, and so the central bank will have to remain vigilant at the consumer level. Indeed, we think there is potential for one last 25 bp hike at the April 2 meeting to 11%. Given the weak state of the economy, we do not think policymakers have an appetite for any more tightening, especially with the real remaining fairly firm. For USD/BRL, support seen near 2.30, while resistance seen near 2.35 and then 2.40. Bank of Thailand meets Wednesday and is expected to cut rates 25 bp to 2.0%. February CPI came in a bit higher than expected at 1.96% y/y vs. 1.93% in January, while core ticked up to 1.2% y/y from 1% previously. However, the economy continues to suffer from the political paralysis as IP, exports, and private consumption are still contracting y/y in early 2014. Indeed, imports are contracting even faster than exports so the trade balance has improved. Further easing is justified this year. The last move was a 25 bp cut to 2.25% back in November. For USD/THB, support seen near 32.25 and then 32.00, while resistance seen near 32.50 and then 33.00. South Africa reports Q4 current account on Wednesday and is expected at -5.4% of GDP vs. -6.8% in Q3. The trade deficit narrowed sharply in Q4, so there is risk of an even better current account reading. However, January trade deficit was reported at double the entire Q4 deficit, so the external accounts are likely to remain an issue in 2014. South Africa then reports January manufacturing production on Thursday, expected at 1.9% y/y vs. 2.5% in December. February PMI just popped back above 50 to 51.7, pointing to some potential manufacturing firmness ahead. Overall, though, we expect a continued mix of sluggish growth, elevated price pressures, and ongoing external deficits in 2014. If the rand remains relatively stable, we do not think that the SARB will be in any rush to hike again. For USD/ZAR, support seen near 10.60 and then 10.50, while resistance seen near 10.75 and then 11.00. Turkey reports January current account on Wednesday and is expected at -$5.3 bln vs. -$8.3 bln in December. The January trade deficit was smaller than expected and narrowed from December, so an improved current account seems likely too. Still, we do not think the external accounts have turned the corner yet, while inflation remains uncomfortably high. With political tensions likely to pick up ahead of local elections this month, we think there is scope for the lira to underperform over the near term. For USD/TRY, support seen near 2.20 while resistance seen near 2.25 and then 2.30. India reports February IP and CPI on Wednesday. The former is seen at -1.0% y/y vs. -0.6% previously, while the latter is seen at 8.3% y/y vs. 8.8% previously. February WPI comes out on Friday and is expected at 4.9% y/y vs. 5.05% previously. Price pressures are easing, and should allow the RBI to remain on hold now. Like Bank Indonesia, RBI delivered some hawkish surprises in 2013, which allowed the currency to start outperforming after a period of underperformance. INR is the second best EM performer vs. USD, up 1.5% YTD. Growth is still an issue, however. Polls continue to suggest a BJP victory in May general elections, but we do not think this is bullish if it has to rule in a coalition, which appears likely for now. For USD/INR, support seen near 60 and then 59, while resistance seen near 62 and then 63. Bank of Korea meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 2.5%. February CPI was slightly lower than expected, rising 1.0% y/y. Despite sluggish growth and low price pressures, the BOK has remained on hold since May 2013, when it last cut rates 25 bp. Korean exporters won’t be happy with recent moves in JPY/KRW, which has now headed back towards 10 after moving towards the 11 area in January. BOK is likely to intervene in USD/KRW to slow the move down. For USD/KRW, support seen near 1060 and then 1050, while resistance seen near 1080 and then 1090. Bank Indonesia meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 7.5%. Price pressures continue to ease, as February CPI came in at 7.75% y/y vs. expected 7.94% y/y and 8.22% in January. Bank Indonesia may not have to hike any more, after it delivered several hawkish surprises last year and regained market confidence in the rupiah. Indeed, IDR is the top EM performer, up 7% YTD vs. USD. Last move was a 25 bp hike to 7.5% in November. USD/IDR broke below support near 11500.  11345 is the 62% retracement objective of the October-December rise, and break would target the October low near 10765. Support seen near 11000, while resistance seen near 11750 and then 12000. China data deluge continues Thursday with February retail sales and IP. Over the weekend, February trade, new loans, and CPI/PPI were reported. The data played on fears that the yuan is overvalued and that the economic slowdown is getting more pronounced. Besides the slowdown in lending, the gap between new yuan loans and aggregate financing suggest a shadow banking squeeze is under way. USD/CNY continues to see outsized moves, with little predictability regarding direction and magnitude.  We continue to believe this is what policymakers want to see, but in light of the weak data, there appears to be greater risk for further CNY weakness.  Perhaps the level to watch in the dollar-yuan exchange rate is CNY6.15. This is level of the yuan that some highly leveraged financial products begin incurring losses, according to reports. Although the dollar has traded above there on an intra-day basis this year, it has not closed above it since last May. Chile central bank meets Thursday and is expected to cut rates 25 bp to 4.0%. The central bank has highlighted potential for further easing given the slowing economy, and the data continue to slow. Copper fell nearly 4% on Friday and has dropped another 1% today, weighing on the peso and pushing USD/CLP to new highs for this move. There is a risk that the weak currency and higher inflation (February CPI rose a higher than expected 3.2% y/y) could keep the bank cautious now, waiting instead until next month to cut. Support seen near 560 and then 550, while resistance seen near 570 and then 600. Peru central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 4.0%. The economy is at risk of further slowing, but inflation remains a bit too high to ease just yet. CPI jumped 3.8% y/y in February, up from 3.1% in January and well above the 1-3% target range. However, we see a dovish bias developing as the year progresses. For USD/PEN, support seen near 2.80 while resistance seen near 2.83. Czech Republic reports January IP, construction, and retail sales on Friday, as well as Q4 current account. Earlier today, February CPI came in steady at 0.2% y/y. Governor Singer said last week that the CZK floor could be extended as inflation remains subdued, which suggests the bank is in no hurry to remove stimulus despite some modest improvement in the economy.  In the past, officials have said the floor would likely remain in place through 2014. Singer added that the bank would rather extend the duration of the floor in response to unfavorable developments, rather than change the level of the floor. For EUR/CZK, support seen near 27.30 and then at the 27.00 floor, while resistance seen near 27.50. Poland reports February CPI on Friday and is expected to rise 0.8% y/y vs. 0.7% in January. After leaving rates steady last week at 2.5% (as expected), the central bank cut its CPI forecasts for 2014 and 2015 and, more importantly, said interest rates would stay unchanged until at least end-Q3. Before, many officials had seen steady rates until mid-year. We had always thought mid-year was too soon and continue to see rates steady until year-end, but let's see how data come in. Polish officials have expressed concern about headwinds coming from the Ukrainian crisis, which seems likely to continue for some time yet. For EUR/PLN, support seen near 4.20 and then 4.18, while resistance seen near 4.2250 and then 4.25. FREE AppDownload
Coffee prices are up 3% this morning and 84% over the past three months, more than any other commodity. The reason: a persistent drought in Brazil. A snap Reuters poll of 20 analysts, traders, and producers Friday showed Brazil's coffee crop will now shrink by 10%.  The world is now likely to see its first coffee deficit in five years, according to The Age. Here's the chart: Investing.com FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsSbarro has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The embattled pizza chain is in the process of closing 155 restaurants in an attempt to become more profitable. Sbarro has $140 million in debt, according to The Wall Street Journal.  The closures were all company-owned stores in North America, not franchises, according to Bloomberg.  Sbarro has more than 800 stores total.  The pizza chain most commonly seen in mall food courts is still trying to recover from its 2011 bankruptcy. Slowing mall traffic has contributed to its decline.  FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   Will Wei, Business Insider Business Insider is looking for a Graphic Design Intern to assist the newsroom's graphic designer. Projects would range from basic Photoshop requests to more creative assignments such as maps, charts and infographics. As an intern here, you'll gain valuable experience collaborating with journalists in a fast-paced and fun work environment. Other perks at BI include never having to fetch coffee, helping yourself to free snacks, and taking ping pong breaks. Qualifications The ideal intern will be a super creative team player with amazing attention to detail. Other desired skills include: To Apply Please send your resume and link to your design website to internship@businessinsider.com. Feel free to include any social media links, as well. Please note: This internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office a minimum of three days a week, preferably full-time at 40 hours a week. FREE AppDownload
CNBCAswath DamodaranValuation expert and NYU professor Aswath Damodaran finally waded into Bitcoin territory in his latest blog post to rule on the cryptocurrency's staying power and pricing. Damodaran looked at "three determinants of a currency's price/power: the trust you have in its issuing entity, its acceptance in transactions and how securely you can store and save it, while generating a fair rate of return while doing so." 1. Trust in the issuing authority How much "trust" do people really have in the Federal Reserve? The ECB? For Bitcoin, Damodaran's key question is, "Are there some computer algorithms that you trust more than some central bankers?" Bitcoin's key appeal is that it doesn't have a central authority, but that means that its staying power will be tethered to "how impervious its source algorithm is to mischief," according to Damodaran. 2. Acceptance in transactions "Since the defining role for a currency is that it can be used in transactions, the price of a currency will depend upon how widely it is accepted in transactions for goods and services," Damodaran writes. As it stands now, "Bitcoin is a currency, but one that is currently accepted only in a small subset of transactions and used by only a few," he writes. "Whether it or any other digital currency will be widely accepted will depend in large part on how its advocates package and market it. If the emphasis is on convenience, low cost and transaction speed, it has the potential for much wider acceptance, especially if it is made simpler to understand and not oversold. If the focus is on privacy, security and anonymity, I am afraid that the dark side will win out and it will become the currency of the paranoid and illegal, with all of the associated costs and benefits." 3. Security and rate of return "The final measure of a currency's strength and durability is how easily you can convert it into other currencies, how securely you can store and save it and and whether you are compensated while you hold it," writes Damodaran. Citing the MtGox bankruptcy, Damodaran says current Bitcoin exchanges do not provide depositors proper protection against themselves or possible hacks. "While it may conflict with the vision of some Bitcoin revolutionaries, the Bitcoin economy may need a banking system of its own that is regulated and perhaps even insured by a centralized entity," he concludes. Comparison Damodaran provides a chart to put digital currencies in context. He uses three paper currencies, gold, and Bitcoin. Check it out: Aswath DamodaranBased on his chart, Damodaran favors the U.S. dollar over the yuan, but the yuan over the peso. He likes the dollar over gold but "it is a closer call that it was five years ago." He'd take gold over the yuan, but the yuan over Bitcoin.  "If you are a Bitcoin enthusiast, the pathway to its success requires three developments: the computer algorithm underlying the currency has to stay transparent, robust and protected, the usage of Bitcoins has to spread beyond the narrow band of enthusiasts to the broader marketplace and the infrastructure for securing, transporting and saving Bitcoins has to be strengthened," he writes. Read Damodaran's full post here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnCarl Icahn has released another open letter concerning eBay. Icahn has been releasing open shareholder letters regarding eBay since last month. In these letters, he's been slamming some of the e-commerce giant's board members and its CEO. This time the billionaire activist investor writes that he believes eBay's CEO has cost shareholders $4 billion because of his "incompetence." Here's the letter:  CARL ICAHN ON EBAY: “WE BELIEVE BASED ON EVIDENCE WE HAVE NEWLY UNCOVERED THAT DONAHOE’S INEXCUSABLE INCOMPETENCE COST EBAY STOCKHOLDERS OVER $4 BILLION.  READ OUR LATEST LETTER AND YOU BE THE JUDGE.” New York, New York, March 10, 2014 – Today Carl C. Icahn released the following open letter to stockholders of eBay Inc.: We believe, based on our review of the evidence currently available in the public domain, including eBay’s own statements, that the following assertions are indisputable. Stockholders: you be the judge. <U+25AA>         eBay CEO John Donahoe oversaw a premature sale of Skype at a diminished price that resulted in eBay stockholders losing over $4 billion as compared to the sale of Skype to Microsoft 18 months later. <U+25AA>         Who can doubt that if eBay were a private company, Donahoe would be fired when the facts were disclosed to the owners? But sadly at many of our public companies, such as eBay, there is a lack of accountability, and transgressions by management are swept under the rug by crony boards. If middle management makes a costly error, they pay the price; if the CEO makes one, too often the “old boy” board covers it up and gives him a bonus. <U+25AA>         In 2009, Donahoe decided to sell Skype in, according to eBay, “a competitive process with multiple bidders including several financial and strategic buyers.”[1] We are not sure whether there actually were “multiple bidders” as eBay originally stated or whether eBay merely “contact[ed] multiple financial and strategic buyers”[2] as they now claim.  Regardless, Microsoft clearly was interested in buying Skype but “walked away” because of concerns over technology licensing litigation between eBay and Skype’s founders. <U+25AA>         In litigation documents[3] that we have just uncovered, Skype’s founders alleged that John Donahoe and eBay director Marc Andreessen’s investor group received information from Mike Volpi, an associate of Skype’s founders, that there could be a workaround of the technology that was the subject of the licensing dispute between eBay and Skype’s founders and that was reportedly the cause of Microsoft “walking away.” <U+25AA>         With the apparent benefit of this information, Andreessen’s investor group purchased a controlling interest in Skype from eBay for $1.9 billion.  The Andreessen investor group then quickly settled the licensing litigation with Skype’s founders, and flipped Skype to Microsoft for $8.5 billion – tripling their money in only 18 months.  The obvious unanswered question is: why didn’t Donahoe, who allegedly also had the information that would be key to reaching a settlement with Skype’s founders, settle it for eBay and sell Skype directly to Microsoft, thereby keeping the extra $4 billion for eBay stockholders? <U+25AA>         To make matters even more embarrassing for Donahoe, Marc Andreessen boasted upon the announcement of the sale to Microsoft that his group’s risks in buying Skype had always been less than they had appeared.  He said that he “knew that for Microsoft and a number of other companies Skype would be an obvious thing to buy” and that he “[would] always have the fall-back of selling to strategic buyers.”[4]  Obviously, the same logic should also have applied to Donahoe.  Therefore, why did he sell Skype to the Andreessen investor group instead of keeping the $4 billion for stockholders (it would have been interesting to see Donahoe’s face when Andreessen actually boasted about his windfall)?  The board and Donahoe, in typical PR speech, have swept this $4 billion fiasco under the rug and have actually boasted about their success in executing this transaction between eBay and the Andreessen investor group.  However, Joe Nocera of the New York Times does not appear to have been fooled by eBay’s PR machine.  At the time of the sale to Andreessen’s group, he wrote: “And so, the mystery of the Skype deal: why were the winning bidders willing to pay so high a price for a company whose very existence could be threatened by this lawsuit? One possibility is that they have nerves of steel. The other is that they know something nobody else does.”[5] <U+25AA>         Amazingly, Donahoe chose to sell a controlling interest in Skype to Andreessen’s investor group, allowing them to reap billions at the expense of eBay and its stockholders, rather than cleaning up the licensing issues and then pursuing a more lucrative exit, such as an IPO or a sale to a strategic buyer. <U+25AA>         Any first year student in finance would understand that if you want to sell a company and you have a party that wishes to buy but is concerned about technology licensing issues, you fix the issues and then you sell. It’s even more absurd not to do so when you know there is a potential solution. I believe that all stockholders must consider whether Donahoe is either incompetent or negligent or, perhaps even worse, was simply taking the easy path of bowing to the wishes of a respected and powerful board member.  At any rate, this failure cost eBay stockholders over $4 billion. <U+25AA>         I have been so successful with companies over the years because I have brought in the right CEO. Sometimes convincing boards to make changes takes years, but when change ultimately comes the results are often startlingly good. In just the last year, simply examine our successes at Forest Laboratories and Chesapeake Energy etc. We believe that at the very least, eBay stockholders must send Donahoe and the board a message that we are very unhappy with the current situation at eBay.  In addition to the egregious issues surrounding the Skype situation, it should also be noted that in just the past year eBay has underperformed its peers.  Indeed, from January 1, 2013 through our initial involvement on January 10, 2014, Amazon, Visa and MasterCard returned 60%, 48% and 73%, respectively, while eBay stock returned only 2%. <U+25AA>         In our opinion, eBay and PayPal should immediately be separated.  It is my firm belief that if this occurred, there would be a number of bidders willing to pay a large premium for an independent PayPal.  However, on the other hand, I fear that if left under the management of eBay it will “wither” (as Elon Musk said). I believe that if it is left as a division of eBay, PayPal may well go the way of other former technology greats such as Blackberry, Dell, Eastman Kodak, Polaroid, Nintendo, Xerox, Sony, Palm, and AOL – the same way that Motorola Mobility may have gone had we not been able to convince Motorola’s board to bring in a new CEO and separate the companies – ultimately resulting in a sale to Google. <U+25AA>         Sadly in our opinion and the opinion of others eBay does not have years to wait.  PayPal is a great company, but it is going to war against strong adversaries such as Google, Apple, Visa, etc. To win a war, you need to have great generals that have proven their competence and loyalty.  Unfortunately, it is obvious to us that this is lacking at eBay and PayPal.  PayPal must be separated NOW so that great management can be attracted – management that can make the right decision and know when to sell at the right time, not the worst time.   CONCLUSION   The true owners of eBay cannot and should not tolerate any longer the behavior exhibited by CEO John Donahoe and the board as detailed above.  We believe that eBay is the quintessential example of what is wrong with corporate governance at many of our public corporations and why the system is dysfunctional. If we, as stockholders, do not send a clear message to the eBay board that we will no longer tolerate the internecine relationships that have come to be accepted as commonplace at eBay, and perhaps more importantly, if we continue to follow the advice of Donahoe, even in light of the transgressions regarding Skype as well as the other failures outlined above, and allow him to continue to lead both eBay and PayPal, and if PayPal fails (as Elon Musk and others far more knowledgeable than me have warned), then investors that own shares in the institutions and funds that control the voting of eBay stock will have every right to cast the blame on everyone who failed to vote for change at eBay.   THE TIME HAS COME TO SEND THE EBAY BOARD A MESSAGE THAT THERE WILL NO LONGER BE BUSINESS AS USUAL AT EBAY!   VOTE FOR OUR PRECATORY PROPOSAL AND FOR OUR DIRECTOR NOMINEES.   Sincerely, Carl C. Icahn FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 is up an impressive 180% since the current bull market began in March 2009. This was three months before the end of the recession. It's not unusual for bull markets to last five years or more. But the current run has been particularly strong. "The current market expansion is the strongest bull to have run since 1960," noted Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. "It<U+201F>s not just that it had the strongest start out of the gate (i.e., the most robust rebound after hitting bottom on March 9th 2009), we<U+201F>d also note that its run since the start of year 3 has featured a steeper ascent than past bulls at this stage in the long cycle." Oppenheimer FREE AppDownload
How the rich and famous start their day. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Wikimedia CommonsMcDonald's comparable store sales fell 0.3% in February, which was worse than the 0.1% decline expected. U.S. comparable store sales fell 1.4% (-0.6% estimated); Europe sales fell 0.6% (-0.1% estimated); and Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa fell 2.6% (-1.1% estimated). "We are diligently focused on strengthening our performance, however our relatively flat year-to-date global comparable sales will pressure margins in the first quarter," said CFO Pete Bensen.  "Looking ahead, we believe that we are taking the right actions to more clearly align with our customers' needs and build momentum to drive long-term profitable growth." McDonald's Mighty Wings has been among the company's biggest product flops. Bloomberg Businessweek has reported that the company is selling the wings at a sharp discount to clear out the inventory. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe Fed released its quarterly Flow of Funds report last Thursday. It showed that the market value of all equities traded in the US soared to a record $34.7 trillion at the end of last year, up a whopping $20.9 trillion since the start of the bull market during Q1-2009. Total stock market capitalization as a ratio of nominal GDP rose to 1.25 at the end of last year, exceeding the previous 2007 peak of 1.12 and the highest since Q3-2000. The price-to-sales ratio of the S&amp;P 500 rose to 1.54 at the end of last year to the highest reading since Q1-2002. Tobin’s Q is another valuation metric that can be calculated using data in the Flow of Funds report. It is the ratio of the market value of equities to the net worth at market value of nonfinancial corporations. I adjust it by dividing it by the average ratio since the start of the data. It was 1.44 at the end of last year, the highest since Q2-2001. Dr. Ed's Blog  Today's Morning Briefing: Hillary’s Department. (1) Natural gas and diplomacy. (2) Putin helping to resolve a debate in US. (3) Thank goodness for Texas and N. Dakota. (4) Fisher’s irrationally exuberant ghosts. (5) Fed data show elevated valuation multiples. (6) Janet may soon start singing Britney’s “Oops” song. (7) YRI Earned Income Proxy at another record high. (8) Real hourly wage rate at record high. (9) Long-term unemployment remains high. (10) Yellen &amp; Dudley continue to accentuate the negatives. (11) Monetary policy likely to remain ultra-easy and bullish for stocks. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge SilvaAn anti-government protester sets up a barricade next to a burning kiosk during a protest at Altamira square in Caracas March 9, 2014. Latin American foreign ministers will meet next week to discuss the unrest in Venezuela that has left at least 20 dead and convulsed the South American OPEC nation, diplomatic sources said on Friday. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Chinese exports tumble. Chinese exports fell 18.1% from a year earlier in February after logging a 10.6% gain in January. Imports rose 10% from a year earlier in February, causing China to report the first monthly trade deficit since March 2013. The weakness likely owes to the Lunar New Year holiday and inflated trade invoicing, which obscures the data. "Despite our belief that the actual trade situation is better than official data suggests, the disappointing February trade data is negative for the Chinese yuan (CNY) and the GDP growth outlook for Q1 2014," say economists at Standard Chartered. Chinese inflation disappoints. China's consumer price index rose 2.0% from a year earlier in February, slowing from January's 2.5% year-over-year pace of growth and missing market economists' consensus forecasts for a 2.1% rise. China's producer price index, meanwhile, fell 2.0% from a year earlier, marking an accelerated decline from January's 1.6% year-over-year drop and missing forecasts for a 1.9% decline. Copper falls. Copper futures slid more than 4% overnight in reaction to the news out of China. However, the metal has since rebounded and futures are trading near $3.03 a pound, down only 1.8%. Quiet markets. Futures point to a quiet open to begin the week in North American trading. S&amp;P 500 and U.S. Treasury note futures are little changed from Friday's close, and the U.S. dollar is flat against the euro and the yen. European indices are mostly higher with the exception of Germany's DAX. Overnight, the Japanese Nikkei 225 fell 1.0%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 1.8%, and the Shanghai Composite fell 2.9%. Japan GDP growth revised down. Revised GDP data suggest Japan's economy expanded only 0.7% at an annualized pace in the fourth quarter of 2013, down from the previous 1.0% estimate. Downward revisions to business investment growth (to 3.0% from 5.3%) and consumer spending (to 1.6% from 2.0%) were the main drags on the headline number. Record Japanese deficits. Japan also announced a record current account deficit in January of ¥1.589 trillion. The deterioration in the current account owed largely to the trade deficit, which widened to ¥2.345 trillion fom ¥1.047 trillion. "Rush demands before the consumption tax increase next April are pushing imports up and resulting in the deterioration of the balance of payments," says Osamu Takashima, a Citi strategist who believes the widening deficits are supportive of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen. Euro zone investor confidence hits 35-month high. A survey of euro zone investor confidence conducted by market research firm Sentix revealed the highest confidence in 35 months. The report's headline index advanced to 13.9 in March from February's 13.3 reading. Still, market economists were looking for a slightly more sanguine take — the consensus forecast was that the index would rise to 14.0 this month. Cross-border lending contracts. The latest data from the Bank for International Sentiments revealed a continuing decline in cross-border bank lending in the third quarter of 2013. "International banking activity was characterised by lower credit to both banks and non-banks in the third quarter of 2013, mirroring developments in the previous quarter," said the BIS in its Quarterly Review published Sunday. "Cross-border claims on banks fell by $466 billion (2.7%). Inter-office positions accounted for most of this contraction, continuing the steady decline that began in late 2011. The retreat in cross-border interbank activity was most pronounced for claims on banks in the euro area ($205 billion or 4.2%), United Kingdom ($250 billion or 7.8%) and offshore centres ($35 billion or 1.7%)." Russia tightens its grip on Ukraine. Pro-Russian military forces tightened their grip on Ukraine's Crimea region over the weekend, seizing an airfield and turning back international watchdogs who tried to enter the region. "Ukraine remains very much a potential dampener of market risk appetite and, by extension, a trigger for safe haven flow," write Rabobank interest rate strategists in a note to clients this morning. "For now, though, the market looks to still be adopting a sanguine approach to the ongoing Ukrainian debacle as evidenced by the dip in oil prices (softer Chinese exports informing the market rather than any possible concern over possible disruption to the transit of European energy imports across Ukraine)." ECB not happy with euro strength. ECB Governing Council Member and Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer said this morning that the ECB is not happy with the euro's recent strength. "It’s a very important input in the economic development and inflation development," Noyer said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Manus Cranny in Paris. "When the euro tends to strengthen, it creates additional downward pressure on the economy and inflation, which in both cases isn’t warranted. So we’re not happy at the moment." The Governing Council declined to announce any new policy action at the conclusion of its monthly meeting last week, and the euro is little changed on Noyer's comments. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSRussian dealers trade during a morning session at Moscow's International Currency Exchange ( MICEX) July 14, 1998.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a quick roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good morning!   US Futures are starting slightly weaker, as we are a week away from the Crimera vote, and China’s Trade data comes in terrible over the weekend.   European shares are mixed, with the DAX still under pressure in decent volume, following Friday’s weakness.    This is despite a upshot in EU Fins, gaining 1.5% in decent trade.   Shanghai and Hong Kong had led Asian markets lower after Chinese exports slumped sharply, although being distorted on the New Years Holiday - China’s CSI 300 Index fell 3.3% to it’s lowest close in 5 years.   The Nikkei lost 1%, despite their GDP coming in lighter than expected, weakening the Yen near 1M lows against the $.  Nikkei futures are up 40bp early this AM.   Aussie markets lost 1%, as Mining was the worst-performing sector after the spot price for iron ore hit an eight month low, and Shanghai copper futures plunged to the lowest level since September 2009.   Globally, Banks remain strong outperformers, while Mining and Materials shares are solidly in the red.   The 10YY is higher, after bouncing off the 100dma overnight, and now getting upside 50dma.   The € is under some pressure, and the DXY is jumping after last week’s smackdown – but remains under the key “80” level.   With the stronger $, we have a headwind for commodities – and many are under sharp pressure due to the Chinese trade data – Copper is off another 2% (Credit fears – Collateral selling), and WTI is off 1.5%.  Brent is slightly better as unrest continues in Libya and Syria, but still off 1%.  We have continued rhetoric on Ukraine, with Germany saying the Crimera vote will not be recognized, and Russia asserting further control in the region – Russian CDS is up 8% this AM, the biggest sovereign mover on my board.   We have a quiet schedule today, with EU Fin Min meeting in Brussels, a decent size POMO at 11, World Agricultural Supply &amp; Demand Estimates at 12, and Fed's Evans speaking at 12:40. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/SvadilfariUS fruit supplier Chiquita has bought Irish rival Fyffes, creating the world's largest banana company. The pair of fruit distributors has struck a stock-for-stock deal which will give Chiquita and Fyffes shareholders 50.7pc and 49.3pc of the new company respectively. US-headquartered Chiquita and Dublin-based Fyffes said their boards voted unanimously in favour of the deal, in a joint announcement on Monday morning. Both the Chiquita and Fyffes brands will continue, they said. The new company, ChiquitaFyffes, will be worth around $1bn (£600m). It will be listed in New York but based in Dublin. The pair said they hoped the merger would create $40m in pre-tax savings by the end of 2016. Chiquita shareholders will get one share of the new company for each share held. Fyffes investors will get 0.1567 of a share in the new group for each existing share, which values it at a premium of 38pc over its Friday's closing price. David McCann, executive chairman of Fyffes, will become the new company's chief executive, while Ed Lonergan, Chiquita's boss, will become chairman. Chiquita is the larger of the two companies, valued at $507.7m (£303.7m) at Friday's closing price. This compares with Fyffe whose market capitalization stands at €264.7m (£220m). Mr McCann hailed the deal as "transformative", while Mr Lonergan dubbed it a "milestone transaction". "We know Fyffes well and our shared heritage will help to ensure a smooth integration as we work to bring best practices across geographies and business units to achieve substantial operating efficiencies," added Mr Lonergan. Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo Securities acted as financial advisers for Chiquita and its board and Lazard for Fyffes. Fyffes shares climbed 29pc in early trading.  FREE AppDownload
Exactly 5 years ago today, the late great CNBC host Mark Haines perfectly called the stock market bottom. This clip (via Carl Quintanilla) is a reminder of what a great combo Mark Haines and Erin Burnett were.  FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesHere's an interesting nugget from Goldman's David Kostin, from his Weekly Kickstart note: Conversations with clients this week revealed that many investors are also weighing mixed feelings about valuation and the potential for growth. In last week’s Kickstart we discussed the strong recent performance but poor historical returns of stoc ks with very high expected long-term earnings growth. This week we continue the conversation. The recent rise in price and valuation of many growth stocks has led investors to ask: “When does the party end?” Growth companies such as Facebook, Yelp, and Alexion Pharmaceuticals have returned more than 30% YTD and trade at high valuations that imply market expectations for strong future growth. With the market at full valuation many investors wonder what amount of growth is necessary to sustain the lofty valuations and fulfill the expectations embedded in premium multiples. To answer the question we analyzed the historical performance of stocks across the Russell 3000, examining EV/sales ratios in order to include smaller growth companies. The note goes on to point out that companies with very high Enterprise Value/Sales ratios rarely rally for long unless revenue growth is truly exceptional. Bigger picture, more and more people are starting to think the rally feels "late stage-y." But then, people have been talking about the party being over from virtually day 1 of the bull market. FREE AppDownload
The following data is calculated from the Fed's Flow of Funds data (released last week) and the BEA supplement data on single family structure investment. This is an aggregate number, and is a combination of homeowners extracting equity - hence the name "MEW", but there is little MEW right now - and normal principal payments and debt cancellation.For Q4 2013, the Net Equity Extraction was minus $46 billion, or a negative 1.5% of Disposable Personal Income (DPI).   Click on graph for larger image. Calculated RiskThis graph shows the net equity extraction, or mortgage equity withdrawal (MEW), results, using the Flow of Funds (and BEA data) compared to the Kennedy-Greenspan method. There are smaller seasonal swings right now, perhaps because there is a little actual MEW (this is heavily impacted by debt cancellation right now).The Fed's Flow of Funds report showed that the amount of mortgage debt outstanding decreased by $10.8 billion in Q4. Compared to recent years, this was a small decrease in mortgage debt and following Q3 when mortgage debt increased for the first time since Q1 2008 The Flow of Funds report also showed that Mortgage debt has declined by over $1.3 trillion since the peak. This decline is mostly because of debt cancellation per foreclosures and short sales, and some from modifications. There has also been some reduction in mortgage debt as homeowners paid down their mortgages so they could refinance. With residential investment increasing, and a slower rate of debt cancellation, it is possible that MEW will turn positive again soon.For reference:Dr. James Kennedy also has a simple method for calculating equity extraction: "A Simple Method for Estimating Gross Equity Extracted from Housing Wealth". Here is a companion spread sheet (the above uses my simple method).For those interested in the last Kennedy data included in the graph, the spreadsheet from the Fed is available here. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (AP) — Japan racked up a record current account deficit in January, and lowered its growth estimate for the October-December quarter Monday in the latest sign of hardships for the world's third-largest economy. Japan's current account deficit totaled 1.589 trillion yen ($15 billion), the biggest for January since comparable records began in 1985, according to the Finance Ministry. The Cabinet Office revised its real gross domestic product growth to an annual pace of 0.7 percent, lower than its initial 1.0 percent. It said that both private and public demand was lower than it had estimated last month, including lower levels for private consumption and public investment. The government has encouraged a weak yen to help exports, a boon to multinational companies such Toyota Motor Corp. But a cheap yen makes imports more expensive at a time when dependence on imported oil and natural gas has risen since the March 2011 nuclear disaster. Reactors dotting the nation's coastline have been shut down for safety fears, but the government wants to restart some of them. Before the disaster, nuclear energy provided 30 percent of Japan's energy needs. A giant tsunami on March 11, 2011, destroyed backup generators at Fukushima Dai-ichi plant, setting off multiple meltdowns and explosions, in the worst nuclear catastrophe since Chernobyl in the Soviet Union in 1986. __ Follow Yuri Kageyama on Twitter at twitter.com/yurikageyama Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (AP) — The most dangerous parts of a flight are takeoff and landing. Rarely do incidents happen when a plane is cruising seven miles (11 kilometers) above the Earth. So the disappearance of a Malaysia Airlines jet well into its flight Saturday morning over the South China Sea has led aviation experts to assume that whatever happened was quick and left the pilots no time to place a distress call. It could take investigators months, if not years, to determine what happened to the Boeing 777 flying from Malaysia's largest city of Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. "At this early stage, we're focusing on the facts that we don't know," said Todd Curtis, a former safety engineer with Boeing who worked on its 777 wide-body jets and is now director of the Airsafe.com Foundation. Military radar indicates that the missing Boeing 777 jet may have turned back before vanishing, Malaysia's air force chief said Sunday as authorities were investigating up to four passengers with suspicious identifications. The revelations add to the mystery surrounding the final minutes of the flight. Air force chief Rodzali Daud didn't say which direction the plane veered when it apparently went off course, or how long it flew in that direction, Some of the information it had was also corroborated by civilian radar, he said. If the information about the U-turn is accurate, that lessens the probability that the plane suffered a catastrophic explosion but raises further questions about why the pilots didn't signal for help. If there was a minor mechanical failure — or even something more serious like the shutdown of both of the plane's engines — the pilots likely would have had time to radio for help. The lack of a call "suggests something very sudden and very violent happened," said William Waldock, who teaches accident investigation at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Arizona. It's possible that there was either an abrupt breakup of the plane or something that led it into a quick, steep dive. Some experts even suggested an act of terrorism or a pilot purposely crashing the jet. "Either you had a catastrophic event that tore the airplane apart, or you had a criminal act," said Scott Hamilton, managing director of aviation consultancy Leeham Co. "It was so quick and they didn't radio." No matter how unlikely a scenario, it's too early to rule out any possibilities, experts warn. The best clues will come with the recovery of the flight data and voice recorders and an examination of the wreckage. U.S. investigators from the FBI, the National Transportation Safety Board and the Federal Aviation Administration and experts from Boeing were heading to Asia to assist in the investigation. A massive international sea search has so far turned up no confirmed trace of the jet, though Vietnamese authorities said late Sunday that a low-flying plane had spotted a rectangular object in waters about 90 kilometers (56 miles) south of Tho Chu island, in the same area where oil slicks were spotted Saturday. The state-run Thanh Nien newspaper said, citing the deputy chief of staff of Vietnam's army that searchers had spotted what appeared to be one of the plane's doors. Airplane crashes typically occur during takeoff and the climb away from an airport, or while coming in for a landing, as in last year's fatal crash of an Asiana Airlines jet in San Francisco. Just 9 percent of fatal accidents happen when a plane is at cruising altitude, according to a statistical summary of commercial jet airplane accidents done by Boeing. Capt. John M. Cox, who spent 25 years flying for US Airways and is now CEO of Safety Operating Systems, said that whatever happened to the Malaysia Airlines jet, it occurred quickly. The problem had to be big enough, he said, to stop the plane's transponder from broadcasting its location, although the transponder can be purposely shut off from the cockpit. One of the first indicators of what happened will be the size of the debris field. If it is large and spread out over tens of miles, then the plane likely broke apart at a high elevation. That could signal a bomb or a massive airframe failure. If it is a smaller field, the plane probably fell from 35,000 feet (10,500 meters) intact, breaking up upon contact with the water. "We know the airplane is down. Beyond that, we don't know a whole lot," Cox said. The Boeing 777 has one of the best safety records in aviation history. It first carried passengers in June 1995 and went 18 years without a fatal accident. That streak came to an end with the July 2013 Asiana crash. Three of the 307 people aboard that flight died. Saturday's Malaysia Airlines flight carrying 239 passengers and crew would only be the second fatal incident for the aircraft type. "It's one of the most reliable airplanes ever built," said John Goglia, a former member of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board. Some of the possible causes for the plane disappearing include: — A CATASTROPHIC STRUCTURAL FAILURE. Most aircraft are made of aluminum which is susceptible to corrosion over time, especially in areas of high humidity. But given the plane's long history and impressive safety record, experts suggest that a failure of the airframe, or the plane's Rolls-Royce Trent 800 engines, is unlikely. More of a threat to the plane's integrity is the constant pressurization and depressurization of the cabin for takeoff and landing. In April 2011, a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737 made an emergency landing shortly after takeoff from Phoenix after the plane's fuselage ruptured, causing a 5-foot (1.5-meter) tear. The plane, with 118 people on board, landed safely. But such a rupture is less likely in this case. Airlines fly the 777 on longer distances, with many fewer takeoffs and landings, putting less stress on the airframe. "It's not like this was Southwest Airlines doing 10 flights a day," Hamilton said. "There's nothing to suggest there would be any fatigue issues." — BAD WEATHER. Planes are designed to fly through most severe storms. However, in June 2009, an Air France flight from Rio de Janeiro to Paris crashed during a bad storm over the Atlantic Ocean. Ice built up on the Airbus A330's airspeed indicators, giving false readings. That, and bad decisions by the pilots, led the plane into a stall causing it to plummet into the sea. All 228 passengers and crew aboard died. The pilots never radioed for help. In the case of Saturday's Malaysia Airlines flight, all indications show that there were clear skies. — PILOT DISORIENTATION. Curtis said that the pilots could have taken the plane off autopilot and somehow went off course and didn't realize it until it was too late. The plane could have flown for another five or six hours from its point of last contact, putting it up to 3,000 miles (4,800 kilometers) away. This is unlikely given that the plane probably would have been picked up by radar somewhere. But it's too early to eliminate it as a possibility. — FAILURE OF BOTH ENGINES. In January 2008, a British Airways 777 crashed about 1,000 feet (300 meters) short of the runway at London's Heathrow Airport. As the plane was coming in to land, the engines lost thrust because of ice buildup in the fuel system. There were no fatalities. Loss of both engines is possible in this case, but Hamilton said the plane could glide for up to 20 minutes, giving pilots plenty of time to make an emergency call. When a US Airways A320 lost both of its engines in January 2009 after taking off from LaGuardia Airport in New York it was at a much lower elevation. But Capt. Chesley B. "Sully" Sullenberger still had plenty of communications with air traffic controllers before ending the six-minute flight in the Hudson River. — A BOMB. Several planes have been brought down including Pan Am Flight 103 between London and New York in December 1988. There was also an Air India flight in June 1985 between Montreal and London and a plane in September 1989 flown by French airline Union des Transports Aériens which blew up over the Sahara. — HIJACKING. A traditional hijacking seems unlikely given that a plane's captors typically land at an airport and have some type of demand. But a 9/11-like hijacking is possible, with terrorists forcing the plane into the ocean. — PILOT SUICIDE. There were two large jet crashes in the late 1990s — a SilkAir flight and an EgyptAir flight— that are believed to have been caused by pilots deliberately crashing the planes. Government crash investigators never formally declared the crashes suicides but both are widely acknowledged by crash experts to have been caused by deliberate pilot actions. — ACCIDENTAL SHOOT-DOWN. There have been incidents when a country's military unintentionally shot down civilian aircraft. In July 1988, the United States Navy missile cruiser USS Vincennes accidently shot down an Iran Air flight, killing all 290 passengers and crew. In September 1983, a Korean Air Lines flight was shot down by a Russian fighter jet. __ AP writer Joan Lowy contributed from Washington. __ Scott Mayerowitz can be reached at http://twitter.com/GlobeTrotScott. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
China’s corporate sector has been hit with escalating credit problems. Here is the latest: 1. Shanghai Chaori Energy Science and Technology is about to miss a coupon payment on its bond (see story). 2. As a result, Suining Chuanzhong Economic Technology Development and 2 other companies scrapped their bond offerings – demand for new issue corporate bonds has dried up. 3. Secondary corporate bond trading has also slowed materially. This is fairly new for China since it has never really experienced large scale credit problems in its nascent bond markets. 4. There are indications that banks are cutting back lending as a result. In particular lines have been cut to natural resource wholesalers, traders, and importers (iron ore, steel, cement, etc.). These borrowers in turn are forced to sell inventory that is ofren used as collateral for these loans. Inventory sales depress prices of some of the raw materials, generating further losses for these businesses. This is compounded by the nation’s slack industrial demand, with steel mills now running at 50-70% of capacity. Barchart 5. With banks cutting back on lending, demand for interbank funding fell materially, sharply lowering China’s money market rates. Both 7-day repo and the 1-week SHIBOR are at lows not seen in quite some time. While lower money market rates are good for banks, at this point there is ample liquidity in the system with far less demand. ChinaMoney7-day repo rate SoberLook1-week SHIBOR These developments are quite negative for China’s economy. Confidence in the nation’s credit markets – both bank lending and corporate bonds – has taken a hit. It remains unclear however just how pervasive these problems could become – some think this is just the tip of the iceberg (see story). FREE AppDownload
The big story in global markets today is the big selloff in China, which has echoed into other markets. A key culprit is the weak export data — data that's so bad people might be inclined to think it's all a statistical fluke. Here's the big-picture chart, via Morgan Stanley. You can see the huge dropoff in the bue line, and you can see how the trade balance bar printed a rare and huge negative number. Morgan Stanley But not everyone is giving the decline much credence. Mamta Badkar explained yesterday that some of the distortions include issues related to the Luna New Year, as well as last year's "over-invoicing" which is a way that companies and their trading partners circumvented capital controls to get cash into the country. Still it's a heart-stopping chart, and it's making waves in the market. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeA Chinese military band conductor prepares to perform before the opening ceremony of the National People's Congress.The big market story of the day? It was a brutal session in China. Over the weekend, a bunch of bad economic data came out, including an exceptionally weak export number. That led to a swift market reaction in China. The Shanghai Composite, which is already having a fairly rough year, lost 2.86%. Copper tanked 1.5%. Copper tends to be sensitive to Chinese industrial demand and is having a horrible year. The Chinese Yuan continues to slide, and is now at its lowest level since late last year. Meanwhile, the ripples were felt across Asia, with Hong Kong losing 1.7%, Korea down 1%, Japan off 1%, and Australia off 0.9%. FREE AppDownload
