Alexander Zemlianichenko/APIgor Sechin, CEO RosneftIn the New York and London markets brokers and bankers explain that they are being discreetly called by US Treasury officials with this message: buying Russian equity or debt paper is legal, but in the event there is a new round of sanctions, it will be illegal to re-sell them, so there can be no profit in Russian assets. The market is calling this campaign “stealth sanctions”. It is an attack on the international market for Russian corporations, and on the international currency and security clearance systems on which the market depends. According to the highest UK and European courts — reported here on March 25 — the type of formal sanctions which the US and the EU have already introduced are likely to be found illegal, if they are challenged in court. Stealth sanctions are more difficult to substantiate in court -– and also financially much more damaging. Until now, there has been no Russian retaliation for the sanctions, and no litigation.Yesterday, Igor Sechin, chief executive of Rosneft, said in a television interview with a New York network: “The sanctions have been discussed a lot and I would like us to abstain from this discussion because the more we talk about the sanctions, the more important they seem. I am trying to put myself in the shoes of those people who introduce sanctions and I believe that there should be some purpose of the sanctions and some justification of them.” The reference to purpose and justification is also a discreet reference to the court judgements in London and Strasbourg. “I cannot understand any justification or basis for taking the sanctions. I don’t think that my active cooperation with the American companies that is aimed at ensuring mutual profit could be a basis for sanctions…serious people should not take any serious decisions under pressure.” The American interviewer missed the hint; he didn’t know of the court judgements against sanctions. He repeated his question. “Do you fear that your cooperation with American companies will be threatened by a next round of sanctions, which has been talked about it will affect technology and the energy sector and it would hurt your relationships with your American partners?” Sechin (above left) replied: “When I started answering your question on sanctions I said it would be better for us not to discuss this issue. Now you are trying to develop this topic. By doing this, you are trying to give more significance to the sanctions.” The interviewer missed altogether the significance of Sechin’s warning, as he went on. “There’s another principle that seems very important to us, and that requires the attention from the entire oil industry and this is the guarantee of honoring the contractual obligations by all parties. We think this is a critical thing and especially now because the political risks are aggravating this year. We think that the power industry, as well as the food industry, are so sensitive that taking some political decisions and sanctions with regard to these particular industries are counter-productive and they are incurring significant damage to both consumers and producers. And therefore we suggested to our colleagues that we should include various political sanctions among force majeure. Because previously the force majeure circumstances did not include potential political sanctions. And it is very important because it would give the company a tool not to write off the money as losses.” That is the first official Russian warning that if the US keeps up the sanctions pressure, major Russian corporations will retaliate. Sechin’s spokesman at Rosneft declines to say whether Rosneft is prepared to go into international court to attack the legality of US sanctions, and seek injunctions, as well as the threat of damages, for those who accept the US Treasury demands outside US jurisdiction. Sechin’s warning contains a threat that is more immediate and direct than litigation. It’s a price hike for buyers of Rosneft oil, and for the banks preparing to refinance $20 billion in Rosneft debt. Since Sechin says he is already writing into Rosneft contracts an expanded proviso for force majeure, he is proposing to add a premium for US Treasury risk into Rosneft’s pricing. That’s what is meant by “a tool not to write off the money as losses.” The US attempt to attempt to exercise jurisdiction beyond its borders was also, discreetly, slapped down. “There’s another thing that requires discussion, this is the improvement of the arbitration system. And because if the country where the arbitration court is located during the political sanctions, it is not likely that the arbitration would be objective. And so the special attention to fulfil a contractual obligation is a key to the operations of the oil industry. Because I should mention that the investment cycles in the oil industry are much longer than election cycles. And this determines our responsibility. And in any case, we need to ensure the fulfillment of contractual applications. And I think that this is a key thing and our colleagues understand it. And the forum once again proved the high level of trust that high corporate culture and the existence of what I would call, a corporate club.” Sechin’s carefully prepared warning slipped past CNBC’s grasp. It hasn’t been detected by the Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, or the Financial Times – all of them editorially backing the sanctions campaign. An international company source observes that Sechin’s declaration of force majeure hasn’t escaped the attention of the US oil majors. “He’s putting Exxon under pressure,” the source said. “We will try to demonstrate our efficiency in our activities,” Sechin added, “including the work of American companies. In my opinion, this is the only option of good response to this type of actions.” An international banker warns that the US stealth sanctions over Ukraine are now doing damage globally, and not just to Russian corporate targets. “The extension of jurisdiction to other countries, the threats, the whispering – all these things are adding sharply to the cost of trade risk and of bank financing for trade everywhere, as well as corporate refinancing. The US Treasury is signaling the beginning of the end of globalization.” This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
An iPhone is a much larger expense in some countries other than the U.S. Here we break down how many hours it would take factory workers in 11 countries around the world to work in order to afford an iPhone 5S.   Produced by Sara Silverstein and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP Photo/Ted S. WarrenWorking at Starbucks has more perks than the average hourly job.  The company just announced it will cover college tuition costs through an online program at Arizona State University. Starbucks also offers health benefits to employees who work more than 20 hours a week.  But getting a job at Starbucks is staggeringly difficult.  "Last fiscal year we had 4 million applications and hired 50,000 people in the U.S. for hourly retail positions," a spokesman told Business Insider. That means Starbucks accepts just over 1% of its applicants. Starbucks might receive even more applications following the announcement it will pay for college tuition, Starbucks book author and blogger Melody Overton said.  "The typical age of a barista seems to be about 19 to 24, and that is the age where people are thinking heavily about their education," she said. Once people get hired at Starbucks they tend to keep the job, she said.  "From what I can see, turnover is lower than any other similarly situated industries," Overton said.  FREE AppDownload
APDonald Trump attacked the city of New York in an op-ed Saturday for offering a large cash settlement to the Central Park 5, young men who were jailed as teens for a brutal rape they didn't commit. "My opinion on the settlement of the Central Park Jogger case is that it’s a disgrace," Trump wrote in a New York Daily News op-ed that also called the deal "ridiculous." The $40 million settlement was a long time coming for the five men, who were pressured to confess to the notorious 1989 rape and vicious beating of the so-called Central Park Jogger. The convicted men spent between five and 13 years behind bars before an unrelated man named Matias Reyes confessed in 2002 that he was the rapist and that he acted alone. Reyes' DNA was linked to the crime scene. In his op-ed, Trump implies that the Central Park 5 somehow had a false conviction coming to them and had pulled a fast one on the city. "Forty million dollars is a lot of money for the taxpayers of New York to pay when we are already the highest taxed city and state in the country. The recipients must be laughing out loud at the stupidity of the city," he wrote. "Speak to the detectives on the case and try listening to the facts. These young men do not exactly have the pasts of angels." The young men he's talking about were all black and Hispanic and only between 14 and 16 years old when they were interrogated. One detective admitted lying to one of the boys by saying they'd found his fingerprints on the rape victim's clothes. The five boys were still convicted, even though their accounts of the rape were wildly inconsistent and they recanted their confessions. The city's settlement gives the men $1 million for each year they served in prison. Four of the five men — Antron McCray, Kevin Richardson, Raymond Santana Jr., and Yusef Salaam — served approximately seven years in prison. But since the fifth man, Kharey Wise, served 13 years. The approved settlement would mean the city will pay Wise more money than it has in all other wrongful conviction cases.The New York Times had an editorial today praising Mayor Bill de Blasio for moving to settle the case after his predecessor, Michael Bloomberg, spent so many years fighting the suit. Additional reporting by Corey Adwar.  FREE AppDownload
As a Korean-American, I grew up exposed to a lot of Korean culture in America. Korea's exotic spicy foods and most mannerisms don't surprise me. So, on my recent visit to Busan and Seoul, South Korea, the things that stood out really stood out. Here are a few: Business Insider / Sam RoHaeundae, BusanBusan's luxurious beach town of Haeundae is packed with residential skyscrapers like the I-Park, the Hyperion, and the Poseidon, which tower some 60 to 70 stories. At 80 stories, Zenith Tower A is the eighth-tallest residential building in the world. At 42 stories, the Trump World towers in Busan are tall but tiny relative to its neighbors. Here's a photo of the Trump towers from the 72 floor of Zenith Tower A. Business Insider / Sam RoThis delivery man was seen on one of the top floors of the extremely pricey Zenith residential towers. Other popular chains include Burger King and Outback Steakhouse. McDonald's and Subway are also visible but not as much. Business Insider / Sam RoThis German-style bakery in Seoul's Insadong district sells New York City's cronuts. It even has a custom-made sign advertising them. Business Insider / Sam RoHot dogs are sold everywhere and in all forms. Here are some crinkle-cut fries-battered corn dogs at the Insadong street market. Business Insider / Sam RoThis is a food item we've yet to see on Starbucks' U.S. menu. Business Insider / Sam RoAnd they are delicious.   Here's a special for live abalone. Business Insider / Sam RoBecause it just makes it easier when you leave. Business Insider / Sam RoOne local told me these are considered the most luxurious colors. Business Insider / Sam RoSo people don't accidentally scuff their neighbors' cars. Business Insider / Sam RoThe first word on painted on this waste bin is "uhm sheek," which means food. This is processed into biofuel and other products. Even fast-food restaurants won't let you throw out your own trash for fear of being fined. Business Insider / Sam RoIt's almost to the point of certifiable mental illness. This chicken joint is called "Chicken Syndrome." Business Insider / Sam RoThis sign for the Kim Jong-il mental hospital was seen right in the middle of Seoul's Gangnam district. It's probably not the same Kim Jong-il as North Korea's late leader. The good news for the owner is that he's managed to stay in business despite his name.    Somac is short for soju (a Korean rice liquor) and maekju (which is just Korean for beer.) Here's my uncle making a somac by pouring beer onto a shot of soju and then slamming the bottom of the glass with a spoon. You end with a beer cocktail with a creamy finish like an Irish Car Bomb. Business Insider / Sam RoBaduk is the Korean name for "Go." Business Insider / Sam RoAlso called beondegi, roasted silkworm pupae are not loved by everyone. It's certainly not the most offensive thing I have eaten. It has the consistency of soft-shell crab and tastes like how a shoe store smells. Business Insider / Sam RoKoreans are aware that their rest areas are much nicer than the fast-food courts we see along the U.S. interstate. This restaurant has a full menu of Korean dishes made to order by cooks in chef's hats. Business Insider / Sam RoThis particular rest area, between Busan and Seoul, had three bakeries, two cafes, multiple snack-food stands, and both indoor and outdoor seating. Business Insider / Sam RoIt also had multiple luxury and souvenir shops and rows and rows of free-massage chairs. Business Insider / Sam RoMassive South Korean conglomerates, called "chaebols," include Samsung, Hyundai, and LG. In the west, they're known for their personal electronic devices and automobiles. But in Korea, they own everything from apartment buildings down to roadside gas stations and convenience stores. Business Insider / Sam RoThis ad for eye, nose, and lip work was in one of Seoul's subways. Business Insider / Sam RoAs a safety precaution, cab drivers enable child safety locks on the left side so you don't accidentally walk out into traffic. There's a tremendous sense of pride in infrastructure, especially bridges. Because you're often crossing a bridge to get somewhere, small talk often involves how quickly bridges go up.  Business Insider / Sam RoWhen you go into these restaurants, they'll ask you how many orders of the house specialty you want. This particular restaurant sells only traditional cod stew, for about $9 a bowl. You can get additional parts like intestines and pancreas. Business Insider / Sam Ro Here's a group of elementary school students on a field trip to the Bank of Korea. Business Insider / Sam RoThis clothing store sells styles similar to what you'll find at a Polo/Ralph Lauren store. Business Insider / Sam RoFrisbee is Korea's Apple products reseller. Business Insider / Sam RoSkincare products. Business Insider / Sam RoThis store had nothing James Bond would wear. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Where can you get 12% yield?" Investors just took on a ton of risk to finance a new Florida passenger railway project being undertaken by Fortress Investment Group, reports Reuters' Natalie Harrison and Shankar Ramakrishnan.  The project, called All Aboard Florida, plans to use existing freight railway on the east coast of Florida to carry passengers. Reuters said the project does not yet have any cash flow and is already facing some political push back.  Fortress sold $405 million worth of debt, some of it in the form of "payment-in-kind" notes, or bonds that don't pay a bondholder anything until they mature.  These notes are deeply subordinated in the capital structure. This means that there's a long line of senior debtholders who have to get paid before these subordinated investors are considered. This is a particularly disadvantaged position in the capital structure during bankruptcies. The report quoted one banker close to the deal that asked, "Where can you get 12% yield?" The banker said, "You can move down the credit spectrum, buy longer maturities, or move into something a bit more off-the-run in a company that you like, which this deal is a good example of." Reuters noted that the bonds are selling for more than 100 cents on the dollar in the secondary market, indicating strong demand for this type of debt.  In short, investors are looking everywhere and anywhere to get a decent return on their capital in this. Some market watchers, however, will see this hunger for high risk as a sign of complacency and recklessness in the financial markets. (Reuters via @EpicureanDeal) FREE AppDownload
Investors in March fired G. Steven Burrill as the head of a $283 million venture-capital fund he ran, amid alleged fraud and misuse of capital, according to a lawsuit. The lawsuit, filed last week in state court in San Francisco, comes at a time when the Securities and Exchange Commission is taking a hard look at hidden fees at private equity funds, although the investigation has not yet touched venture-capital funds. Private equity funds tend to be larger and invest at later stages than do venture funds. The lawsuit was brought by Ann Hanham, until November a managing director at the firm, and alleges that $19.2 million in unauthorized payments were made to Burrill or his affiliates from a fund launched in 2006 called Fund III. Two Burrill colleagues, chief legal counsel Victor Hebert and Chief Financial Officer Helena Sen, knew about the transactions, the lawsuit alleges. Burrill, Sen and Hebert did not responded to email requests for comment. A spokeswoman for the firm, Marie Daghlian, characterized the issue as an "employment dispute" and declined to comment further. Hanham, who joined Burrill &amp; Co in 2000, paints a picture of a firm struggling to do well in life sciences, a hot sector in the mid-2000s that has since fallen on hard times. Just five of 25 investments in a previous fund, Fund II, were profitable, according to the suit, a small percentage for a fund that started investing in 2001. Her position at the firm, once solid, began to erode in September last year once she and two colleagues, fellow managing directors Roger Wyse and Bryant Fong, discovered the missing cash, the lawsuit alleges. They requested that Burrill return the funds, first verbally, and then in writing. "We can earn our way out of trouble," Burrill wrote to Hanham in mid September, the suit states. In early October, Burrill and Hebert acknowledged the need to reimburse the fund, but by late that month, "there was no cure in place," the lawsuit states. As Burrill also ignored requests to alert investors in the fund, Hanham, Wyse and Fong told the fund's advisory committee themselves in late October. Burrill then fired Hanham and withheld portions of her salary, shares of investments owed to her and other payments, the lawsuit said. But in March, the advisory committee fired Burrill and brought back Hanham to run the fund along with Wyse and Fong. Hanham is alleging wrongful termination, breach of contract, fraud and civil conspiracy, among other claims. While investors in venture-capital funds often complain of steep fees - generally annual management fees around 2 percent and 20 percent of any returns - outright fraud in the industry is rare. Burrill &amp; Co was founded in 1994. Over the years, it has raised $1 billion for various funds. The news of the lawsuit and firing was originally reported by Forbes. (Reporting by Sarah McBride; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014.  Here's what's on Wall Street's mind right now: Inflation is finally happening, and the Fed will end up being behind the curve. The events of the past week crystallized that above thought in the mind of economists and investors.  To step back, there were two big moments this week. 1) There was the jump in Core CPI that was the biggest since 2009. 2) And then there was the Janet Yellen press conference, in which she said that the CPI jump could be just "noise" and that the recent drop in the unemployment rate was not actually reflective of the true state of the labor market (which she regards as considerably weaker due to measures of worker discouragement). In other words, despite data showing that the Fed is getting close to hitting its economic goals, Yellen doesn't believe the numbers. But Wall Street does believe the numbers.  Hence the view that the Fed will be behind the curve. Here's Deutsche Bank, on why it's highly skeptical that the recent data is "noise." Basically the numbers we've gotten on both the inflation and unemployment side are VERY rare individually, and it's particularly rare that they would happen together. Janet Yellen dismissed the recent rise in inflation as “noisy" data. But if randomness is at play we can calculate some odds. It is ten years since American consumers have seen core prices rising faster than the current 0.3 per cent monthly rate, double the average over this period. Based on the volatility of the data there was only a 5 per cent chance of inflation being this high. For context an equivalent 1.7 sigma event would be 6 per cent annualized growth in quarterly output, or payrolls adding 500,000 jobs in one month - both occurring just once in the last decade. Ms Yellen may be interested that another similarly rare event happened in April: the unemployment rate dropping 0.4 per cent in one month. Two unlikely occurrences in two successive months - now the odds on that really are long. SocGen economist Aneta Markowska is blunt in a call she made Thursday in a research note titled Prepare For The Return Of US Inflation. The basic message is: It's happening. Prices are on the rise. The Fed’s ability to keep rates low for an extended period of time will depend critically on inflation. Inflation has been running very low, and there is a presumption that it will take years to normalize. Our bottom-up forecasts suggest that the process will be quicker, with core CPI likely to end this year at 2.3%. ... With import prices bottoming and no longer a drag on inflation, tighter domestic slack should push goods inflation higher. But the real upside is on the service side, as housing inflation heads towards new cyclical highs and healthcare costs reverse their recent weakness Wells Fargo anticipates a scenario whereby the Fed has to let the inflation side of its dual mandate run hot for awhile, because inflation is becoming so widespread. The CPI increased 0.4 percent in May and 2.1 percent from a year earlier. Consumer prices have been accelerating, particularly in the last two months. Food prices have been notably strong driving the headline number higher, but inflationary pressures are widespread, with transportation services, medical care commodities, and shelter costs all accelerating in the month. If this trend persists, the Fed may be faced with choosing a monetary policy; while one mandate, inflation, runs ahead of target and the other, full employment, falls behind. During her press conference, Chair Yellen revealed that the Fed could tolerate a continuation of loose policy in such an event. And it's not just economists who are getting angsty about the budding inflation pressures in the economy. SocGen strategist Kit Juckes said on Twitter that the rise in inflation is the No. 1 point of interest among investors he talks to in NY due to the losses they potentially face if rates rise sooner than expected. You have to understand that this is the story of the next few months. Every piece of incoming economic news will now be scrutinized as to whether it points to rising inflation, or whether Yellen was right that the recent inflationary numbers were just noise. Expect an unusual level of interest in things like the "Prices Paid" index of manufacturing reports to see if companies are seeing rising raw materials costs for their goods. And the hourly wage component of the June Jobs Report may get as much attention as the headline unemployment number. The sparks should really fly at the two-day Fed meeting on Sept. 16-17 (right as summer comes to a close), which is the next time Yellen will have a press conference. At that point, there will be plenty of fresh evidence, and Yellen will almost certainly have to give the Fed's answer about whether the acceleration (in prices, in credit, and the economy) is the real deal or whether it was yet another false hope. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Andrew H. WalkerJimmy LeeHere's something we didn't know—The most powerful dealmaker on Wall Street started his career as a bank teller. JPMorgan Chase vice chairman Jimmy Lee interned for Chemical Bank after graduating from Williams College in 1975. It was a one-year management training program. First, the bank taught their interns Accounting I, Accounting II, Corporate Finance I and II. After that, the interns were sent to bank branches for one month. "I was lucky I learned banking from the ground up. If you can learn a business from the ground up, it's just a really great way to learn."  Lee worked at the Riverdale Branch in the Bronx—the same one the Yankees baseball team uses. Lee, was being honored at Harlem RBI's annual "Bid for Kids" gala at Cipriani last night, told us that baseball legends Reggie Jackson and Chris Chambliss would come in to bank when he was there. During his internship, Lee got to try out a number of roles. "You're a teller for a day. You go through all the jobs in a branch," Lee said. Like many interns on Wall Street, Lee said he messed up.  "I did a lot of mess-ups. I made enough of them. I hardly remember," he said, adding "I think working in a branch and really interacting with the public constantly—We had a lot of complaints and stuff. That's tough. It's hard." Lee went on to build an incredibly successful career at Chemical Bank before joining JPMorgan.  ** We've been asking Wall Street vets about their earliest experiences in finance (lessons, screw-ups, pieces of advice etc.). If you would like to share something from your early Wall Street career, please feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We can keep you anonymous if you wish.  FREE AppDownload
Smith & WessonThe demand for firearms is going up. That's what gun-maker Smith &amp; Wesson is telling its investors. The company just published a new 46-slide presentation highlighting the health of the company and the industry. It includes tons of information showing America's ever-increasing love for guns. We pulled the most interesting slides. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Samsul SaidIt’s not easy for investors to grasp the dynamics of consumer spending in diverse emerging markets. We think the best way is to look inside the refrigerators of people across the developing world. Refrigerators are more than just iceboxes. Their contents speak volumes about their owners. And their proliferation signals a country’s economic progression. So the fridge and its contents can serve as a guide for investors seeking to tap emerging consumer spending, which is projected to grow eightfold to US$63 trillion by 2030, according to our forecasts, based on OECD data. Devices Are Deceiving Emerging consumers defy simple classifications. Some analysts look at income, assets or people per room as a framework. In our view, these indicators are flawed. For example, a Living Standard Measure counts the number of certain items in a home to determine a household’s socioeconomic status. So a person with a laptop, TV, mobile phone and stereo could be classified as rich. Yet in our field research, we’ve met people in countries like Ghana whose ramshackle homes are full of electronic devices but who are quite obviously poor. Kitchens offer a more honest reflection. Behind the fridge door is an abundance of information that can help us understand who emerging consumers are and how they’re likely to spend money in the future. We’ve analyzed the contents of 70 refrigerators in rural and urban homes that we visited across 12 developing countries from Chile to China. While it may not be a statistical sample, the initial patterns we’ve seen suggest that the inside of a fridge mirrors the status of a home. Food for Thought In working-class homes, the fridge is used mainly for efficiency items (Display). It includes basic foods such as eggs, fruits and vegetables and some pre-cooked food. Middle-class fridges stock more indulgences, from alcoholic beverages to chocolate and cheese. And for affluent households, health is a primary concern. So expect to find foods like low-fat Yoghurt or 100% fruit juices. The AllianceBernstein Blog Why is this important? Because once we understand how people’s tastes change as their income levels increase, we can also figure out how to invest in the consumer evolution as the refrigeration revolution sweeps through a market. The display below shows penetration of refrigerators in different countries as income levels increase, from 1980 through 2013. In developed markets, more than 99% of households have a fridge. Brazil isn’t far behind. In China, about 86% of homes had a fridge. But in India, by contrast, only about 27% of households were able to chill their food. This is likely to increase rapidly as annual per capita incomes reach US$3,000, which seems to be the tipping point for rapid adoption of refrigeration. The AllianceBernstein Blog Indulgences in China Our research suggests that China is in the indulgence phase. So companies that make products like beer, butter and chocolates should benefit from rising incomes. Indian families are still buying fridges, then filling them with efficiency items like milk, yogurt and ready-made sauces. Brazil has already shifted toward health mode, which should see higher-end food producers draw more spending. Of course, specific investing conclusions differ in every country. Market environments and company fundamentals must also be studied to identify successful portfolio candidates. But by starting with refrigerator shelves, we think investors can gain vital intelligence to understand the people, lifestyles and spending scenarios that will unlock earnings growth in emerging consumer companies This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAmerican Apparel owner Dov Charney speaks during a May Day rally protest march for immigrant rights, in downtown Los AngelesNEW YORK (Reuters) - An internal investigation at American Apparel Inc has found that its CEO Dov Charney violated company policies, ranging from misusing company funds to failing to stop the discrediting of at least one former employee who had accused him of sexual harassment, a person close to the matter said. The company’s board ousted the 45-year-old Charney as chairman on Wednesday, citing unspecified allegations of misconduct. It suspended him as president and chief executive officer, and plans to fire him for cause, following a 30-day period stipulated in his contract. The company's independent directors hired law firm Jones Day in mid-March to lead the investigation, said the person and a separate source familiar with the matter. It is unclear what events prompted the board to initiate the investigation, which is ongoing. The probe revealed that Charney, who founded the hipster clothing brand, was using company funds to book flights for his parents, the person said. He also sometimes provided corporate apartments to friends and stayed in them himself when he wasn’t on company business, according to this person. The investigation’s findings also included that Charney had known about but failed to stop a blog created by an American Apparel employee that displayed naked photographs of former saleswoman, Irene Morales, who had sued him, the person said. A person familiar with Charney's thinking said that any use of photographs of the former employee by American Apparel was only done to counter her damaging allegations and the strategy was approved by other company officials. This person said that Charney believed any use of apartments was not material and was normal business practice. In terms of the travel charges, this person said Charney’s father is on American Apparel’s payroll and that his mother, although not an employee, is a retail and design contributor to the company. Charney's employment contract entitled him to "vacation benefits and reimbursement of reasonable and necessary business expenses," according to a company filing in April. His father, Morris Charney, received $238,000 in architectural consulting and director fees from the company in 2013, the filing showed. A spokesman for American Apparel declined to comment. A representative for Jones Day was not immediately available for comment. The company, which only has a market value of $120 million, has been struggling with weak sales and heavy debt. While the industry lauded Charney for his creativity, the company has been under fire for lax financial controls and concerns about the strength of its management team. In recent years, Charney has fought off a series of sexual harassment lawsuits. In one of the most high-profile cases, Morales claimed she was held as a teenage sex slave, forced to perform sexual acts during an eight-month period, including oral sex in Charney's Manhattan apartment just after she turned 18. A lawyer for American Apparel said in 2011 that it was Morales who had stalked Charney and was trying to "shake down" the company. In 2012, a New York judge ordered her $250 million claim to be arbitrated. The status of the arbitration proceedings could not be immediately determined. American Apparel is in talks to hire an investment bank, expected to be boutique Peter J. Solomon, one of the people close to the matter said. The bank, which could not be immediately reached for comment, will provide capital if the company's lenders declare it in default on some of its debt, the person said.   (Reporting By Nadia Damouni and Jeffrey Dastin; Editing by Jilian Mincer and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
