ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 2.3% year-over-year in June. This was just shy of expectations for a   2.4% rise and compares to a 2.5% rise the previous month. Meanwhile, producer prices were down 1.1% YoY. This was slightly more than the 1% decline economists were expecting and compares with a 1.4% decline in May. Food price inflation was expected to slow on account of lower pork and fruit prices, Jian Chang at Barclays wrote in a note ahead of the data release. Producer price deflation was expected to ease as commodity prices had risen and industrial activity picked up, Chang wrote. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jay LaPreteThere were 47,000 completed foreclosures in May, down 9.4% year-over-year, according to CoreLogic. But foreclosures were up 3.8% month-over-month.  Since the financial crisis began in 2008, 5 million properties have been lost to foreclosure. 660,000 homes were in the process of being foreclosed (foreclosure inventory) as of May 2014, down 37%  from 1 million a year ago. Foreclosure inventory was down for the 31st straight month, and accounted for 1.7% of all homes with a mortgage in May, down from 2.6% a year ago. But it isnt' all good news. The improvements have largely come from non-judicial states. The report finds that foreclosure inventory in judicial states is on average more than twice that of non-judicial states. "The pace of completed foreclosures slowed in May compared to last month but I expect this to be a temporary respite," Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic said in a press release. "There is still much more hard work to do to clear the backlog of foreclosed properties. Although difficult, we need to continue to aggressively clear distressed homes to ensure the return of a healthy housing market." Here are some details from the report: We've previously pointed out that the foreclosure crisis has been moving east to New Jersey and New York. CoreLogic FREE AppDownload
Only a year ago, "living on Bitcoin" meant merely surviving. When Forbes reporter Kashmir Hill experimented by only buying in Bitcoin for a full week, she struggled to pay her rent and even to find food. Had Hill done her experiment today, however, she likely would have had a much easier time. Today, you can live a life of luxury spending only your BTC. As of this writing, BTC payment provider Bitpay processes Bitcoin transactions for 35,000 merchants worldwide—up from just 1,000 merchants in September 2012. It’s not just Bitcoin miners and e-cigarettes anymore, either. You can buy a much larger variety of goods and services with Bitcoin than you could in the cryptocurrency’s early days. If you’ve got some bitcoins squirreled away from back when the hype was high, here are just a few of the well-known companies that will gladly accept them: Take your bitcoins and get out of town. Book your vacation surreptitiously through Expedia. So far, the travel booking company only accepts Bitcoin payments for hotels, but plans to expand to flights, car rentals and more, a spokesperson told the Wall Street Journal. Need to book your flight (or Amtrak train, or hotel room) with bitcoins right now? CheapAir already has you covered. Need to get even farther away? In November 2013, Richard Branson announced that his space travel company, Virgin Galactic, will accept bitcoins. Buy bits and pieces with Bitcoin. Amazon, Target, CVS and other chain stores don’t accept Bitcoin directly. But with Gyft, you can use bitcoins to buy a gift card to any of these stores and get around that. And in good news for people attempting to live on Bitcoin, Gyft’s cards include chain restaurants like Burger King and grocery stores like Whole Foods. Looking to buy in bulk? Wholesale site Overstock claimed to be the first major U.S. retailer to accept Bitcoin back in December 2013. By May, the company said that customers had made $1.6 million worth of purchases using Bitcoin. Use Bitcoin to build your electronic world. Working your way through some ReadWrite tutorials? Buy a new Raspberry Pi, Arduino, or any of their components and accessories at Adafruit. In news surprising nobody, major computer retailer Newegg announced in July that it will accept Bitcoin. Being that you could already buy parts on Newegg to build Bitcoin miners, the move makes sense for its audience. Pay for access to Bitcoin news with your bitcoins. This May, satellite TV provider Dish Network claimed to become the largest company yet to accept Bitcoin. Dish doesn’t know how many of its 14 million subscribers desired this payment option, but in July they’ll find out for sure. The Chicago Sun-Times became the first major newspaper to accept Bitcoin after it tested a BTC paywall in April. Now it receives 11% of new subscriptions in bitcoins. Have a good time with Bitcoin. Online gaming site Zynga now accepts payment in Bitcoin for some of its most popular titles, including FarmVille 2. The Sacramento Kings became the first professional sports franchise to permit fans to pay for professional basketball tickets and merchandise in Bitcoin. Live large with Bitcoin. Buy your next diamond with Bitcoin. Reeds Jewelers, a national jewelry chain, now accepts Bitcoin in all of its retail locations. BitPremier, a luxury Bitcoin marketplace, just celebrated its first anniversary. But even though you’ve probably heard of it, the company continues to push the envelope. You can now buy an $11 million yacht there. In March, BitPremier confirmed the largest Bitcoin purchase on record: a $500,000 villa in Bali. FREE AppDownload
Marcos Brindicci/ReutersGood morning! Let’s get to it… 1. Das whupping. Germany has bundled host nation Brazil out of the World Cup in – let’s face it – humiliating fashion. Brazil, the red-hot favourite to win the tournament from the start, was 5-0 down after 30 minutes; Germany scored four goals in a six-minute period, and it finished 7-1. There were a lot of tears, and Brazilian players had some pretty interesting, tetchy-looking exchanges after the final whistle. The insult to the injury is German football is known for a clinical approach that doesn’t often result in big scorelines. The Germans will play the winner of tomorrow’s Argentina v The Netherlands game in the final. 2. To the markets and it was once again a bad day for “momentum” technology stocks in the US session, with the Nasdaq finishing down 1.3%. The Dow and the S&amp;P were both off 0.7%. It follows a bit of a nothing day in the Asia session yesterday, where the ASX was off just over 0.1%. The futures contract is down 24 points heading into the start of trade in Australia. 3. It’s a big day on the data front, with China CPI out at 11.30am AEST, expecting to show a little bit of price heat coming out of the Chinese economy. “High-frequency data suggested that food prices may have expanded by 0.2% mom in June, which equates to a 4.3% yoy increase, slightly higher than the 4.1% in May,” Soc Gen wrote in their Asia Morning Call note. “However, at the same time, nationwide average housing prices were reported to have declined for a second consecutive month in June. Thus, balancing these factors, the CPI is expected to have declined slightly by -0.1% mom in June, suggesting a yoy rate of 2.4% yoy after the 2.5% in May.” Also this morning in Australia there’s an important update to the Westpac-MI consumer sentiment survey, which everyone – not least Joe Hockey – will be looking at for signs of an uplift following the budget-induced funk. On balance, the Aussie data has been good this with, with the PCI surging on Monday and the NAB business survey showing a surprise lift yesterday. More here. 4. The FoFA debate sometimes seems to rely on arcane and impenetrable arguments only understood by insiders. Yesterday Finance Minister Mathias Cormann targeted fees associated with “intra-fund advice” which appears to hit the industry super sector most but was not easily understood. So we did some digging and it seems he’s right – the exemption might just be unfair. 5. Fire danger in the middle of winter. Because of continuing dry conditions around Sydney in recent months, and high winds expected today, the NSW Rural Fire Service warns there’s an increased fire danger for the state today for a vast area stretching from the Queensland border down to the South Coast, some 800km away as the crow flies. 6. Not so fast, Nathan Tinkler. The former Newcastle mining magnate’s much-heralded return to the resources sector might be on hold. The AFR reports this morning that he’s missed a crucial payment on the acquisition of the Wilkie Creek mine from Peabody Energy. 7. Indonesia’s presidential election is held today, though with the polls tight the result may not be known for some time yet. Markets are pricing in a win for Joko “Jokowi” Widodo, a former furniture entrepreneur seen as more business friendly, over Prabowo Subianto, a former military general. 8. Future North Korea. What happens when you get a group of North Korean architects a brief to design what sustainable tourism in their future will look like? This: AllureMedia That’s one of many paintings commissioned by tour operators Koryo Group, who organise trips into the republic out of Beijing. “There is very little exposure to contemporary architecture in North Korea,” a Koryo spokesman told CNN. The paintings are on show in Vienna, but you can see all the good ones here at news.com.au. 9. J.K. Rowling has published a new Harry Potter story. The characters are in their 30s and it’s set in the Quidditch World Cup. Harry is greying. Apparently there’s not a spell for that. Rowling wrote it for gaming website Pottermore to coincide with the FIFA World Cup. There’s more details here. 10. Smallpox is not dead yet. This is crazy – pretty much the whole world stopped getting vaccinated for smallpox when it was declared eradicated in 1979. Now a vial of it has turned up in a cold store in Maryland, US. There’s two other doses – one in the US and one in Russia. According to Wiki, it killed 300–500 million in the 20th Century and two million as recently as 1967. There’s two other controlled doses – another in the US and one in Russia, that guard against it being used for biological warfare. BONUS ITEM: Even more sharks in tornadoes. Sharknado was as surprisingly entertaining as it was mad when it became an obvious hit for SyFy last year. Now, the only disappointing thing about the sequel, due for release on July 30, is that isn’t isn’t called “Sharknado 2: The Sharkening”. But we think “Sharknado 2: The Second One” is just as good. Here’s the official trailer:  Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
TLC screencapFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Taking On Current Clients' Children Could Be A Bad Idea For Advisors (Nerd's Eye View) As advisors shift to serve the upcoming generations, many are concentrated on wooing the children and heirs of their existing clients. Michael Kitces wrote on his blog, Nerd's Eye View, why this is a bad approach for most investors. He compares it to running a retirement home that caters to both the young and old, and how doing so does a disservice to both groups. "Taking a firm focused on retirees and managing their assets, and trying to mix in clients of all ages, just distracts from the focus of the practice! Such a solution is unlikely to appeal to a younger demographic who will still recognize that the firm’s retiree- and asset-management-centric services are not for them, and may even alienate the retiree clients, too," Kitces said. "In fact, the whole approach highlights and accentuates the fact that a firm chasing the children and grandchildren of its retiree clients really isn’t focused on the needs of its clients at all, but is simply focusing on the client's pot of money instead – and chasing it to whatever generation or destination it happens to flow!" Wearable Technology Will Streamline Communication and Information in Financial Services (WealthManagement.com) Wearable technology, including smartwatches and Google Glass, is slowly making its way into the mainstream. The adoption of this new trend could mean quicker access to information, Lauren Barack said on Wealth Management. Cost and unfamiliarity are holding back wearables from significant integration into daily life, but financial service firms such as Fiserv and Fidelity Labs are starting to experiment with how these will change communication between advisors and clients. "Where so much of financial services has gone online, with standard features for all, having a higher-end experience delivered to a higher-end client can be beneficial for the customer," Barack said. “People want a high-level of hand-holding and personal touch, which is typically how the wealth management industry has sustained itself,” Serge Van Dam from Fiserv told Barack. “You want to make them feel the digital experience is a premium service. So I think the key challenge is how do you get customers to feel like they that have premium in a digital relationship?" Advisors Need To Be Well-Versed in Real Estate (Wall Street Journal) For those who are able to advise on real estate, understanding rates of return and making assumptions about tenants, property repairs, taxes and so on will give them an advantage. David Blain, president of Blue Sky Wealth Advisors, wrote in WSJ that holding real estate provides another stream of income and also has tax advantages. Advisors can charge fees based on the complexity of the client's financial, tax, and investment situation. "Advisers who want to add real estate to their repertoire need to be able to identify the right client type for such investments. The right client is someone who can put time and effort into their real-estate investment, and who has sufficient capital," Blain said. "My general rule is that never more than one-third of a client's investments should be in real estate. Aside from that, get educated. At the end of the day, advisers should be able to take a property and boil it down to a rate of return." How To Take Advantage Of The Robo-Adviser Trend (InvestmentNews)  Robo-advisers have been stirring up attention and are considered to be disrupting the traditional wealth management industry. In InvestmentNews, Hardeep Walia from Motif Investing explained why robo-advisers can actually be more helpful, and less of a threat to existing advisors. "...In the right hands, technology-driven investing can be one of the best innovations to come along for advisers in a long time. It frees up endless time that may be wasted on back-office operations that takes them away from revenue-generating activities such as behavior coaching, financial planning and the ability to take on and service more clients," Walia said. "Technology-driven investing isn't so much a battle between humans and machines, but about improving the quality and efficiency of the financial planning process. Advisers can thrive in the era of robo-advisers if they can strike the right balance between high-tech and high-touch." Why You Shouldn't Be Jumping On The Silver Bandwagon (BlackRock) Silver has risen 12 percent since lows in June, but Russ Koesterich from BlackRock has three reasons why it's not quite time to start buying up silver (or gold). 1. While the metal has had a respectable run over the past month, silver is still playing catch-up after losses earlier this year.2. The recent jump in silver prices is partly a function of the metal’s volatility. 3. Part of the reason that both silver and gold have advanced this year is that interest rates have unexpectedly dropped. "For investors looking to take a bet, one factor favoring silver is arguably the economy. Fifty percent of silver demand is tied to industry. If the economy does improve, silver demand should rise faster. That said, both silver and gold are vulnerable to higher real rates, neither looks particularly mispriced, and investors in silver will need to contend with a lot of volatility," Koesterich said. "While I believe that most investors should always have a small allocation to precious metals, it’s not clear that this is the time for a dramatic increase in the allocation to either metal." FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Andrei TaranchenkoAfter nearly two years of oversize gains, home prices are finally starting to slow toward a more sustainable pace. Many states are still experiencing home prices that are below their peaks made during the housing bubble, but 10 states have already surpassed their previous peaks. Home prices increased 8.8 percent in May, marking the 27th consecutive month of year-over-year gains, according to the latest reading from CoreLogic’s Home Price Index. In fact, 94 of the top 100 metro areas showed year-over-year increases in May, lead by Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario and Los Angeles-Long Beach-Glendale in California. In comparison, prices surged 11.8 percent on an annual basis in February. “Home prices are continuing to climb across most of the country, which has both positive and negative implications for the housing market,” said Anand Nallathambi, president and chief executive officer of CoreLogic. “While the rapid rise in prices over the past two years has liftedmany homeownersout of negative equity, it has also become a negative factor in buying decisions for prospective purchasers weighing affordability concerns. As we move ahead, a moderation in home price increases over the next 12 months should help cool things down a bit and keep the housing recovery going. Every state in the nation has posted price gains over the past 12 months. California and Hawaii have logged the biggest gains, at 13.1 percent and 13.2 percent, respectively. However, they are still below their peaks made during the housing bubble. Let’s take a look at 10 states where home prices have recaptured their bubble peaks. 12-month change: 11 percent 12-month change: 8.9 percent 12-month change: 8.6 percent 12-month change: 7.5 percent 12-month change: 6.4 percent 12-month change: 3.7 percent 12-month change: 3.5 percent 12-month change: 3.5 percent 12-month change: 3.3 percent 12-month change: 3.2 percent FREE AppDownload
Star Wars Return of the JediGovernment and industry action against cyber attacks isn't moving fast enough for Wall Street. Now banks are proposing a cyber war council to defend against future threats to their data.  According to a Bloomberg report, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (Sifma) has submitted a proposal for a committee of executives to protect banks from cyber terrorism. The group would work on active defense strategies and speedy communication between agencies and the private sector, if an attack were to occur. The members would come from the Treasury Department, the National Security Agency, the Department of Homeland Security, and other U.S. agencies. Already on board to help facilitate these efforts are former NSA director Keith Alexander and former U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff. In the document, Sifma explains that because the financial markets are so dependent on the electric grid, any cyber attacks that wipe out accounts could cause widespread panic. The recovery of the accounts would be "difficult and slow," and could lead to a loss of investor confidence and bank runs. Cybersecurity have been a growing concern for Wall Street banks. Last year, the Financial Times reported more than half of the security exchanges in the world fought off cyber attacks in the past year. Here are Bloomberg's excerpts from the document: The systemic consequences could well be devastating for the economy as the resulting loss of confidence in the security of individual and corporate savings and assets could trigger widespread runs on financial institutions that likely would extend well beyond the directly impacted banks, securities firms and asset managers. We are concerned that the industry may not have the capabilities that we would like to effectively defend against this newer form of potential attack, the capability that we would like to stop such an attack once commenced from spreading to other financial institutions, or the capability we would like of effectively recovering if an initial attack is followed by waves of follow-on attacks. The core problem is that if transformers and critical equipment were destroyed at these sites, it could take months to build the replacement equipment. Read the full story over at Bloomberg &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Douglas Elliman/ Evan JosephA penthouse at Skylofts on Hudson Street in TriBeCa that looks like a glass cube has returned to the market with a $48 million listing price, according to The New York Daily News. The  four-bedroom, 4.5 bathroom apartment has 360-degree views of Manhattan and the Hudson River. It's being sold by William Duker, a private investor who did a stint in prison for defrauding the government. He's never lived in the stunning condo, according to the NYDN. It's being marketed by Tal and Oren Alexander of Douglas Elliman. Meredith Galante contributed to this story.
Alcoa today reported second quarter earnings that beat expectations. Excluding certain items, the company earned profit of $0.18 per share on revenue of $5.84 billion, topping expectations for $0.12 on revenue $5.66 billion. Along with its earnings conference call, the company also released a presentation detailing the state of global aluminum demand.  Aluminum is one of the most important commodities in the world, found in everything from airplanes to beer cans, and demand for the metal is often seen as an indicator of the global economy's strength. Currently, Alcoa expects growth in most of its segments, including aerospace, automobile, packaging, and building and construction. The biggest year-over-year declines are being seen in Alcoa's global airfoil market. Overall, the company reaffirmed its outlook for 7% growth in global aluminum demand.  Here's the breakdown in four slides. Alcoa Alcoa Alcoa Alcoa FREE AppDownload
On Monday, Argentine Economy Minister Axel Kicillof met with Daniel Pollack, a special master appointed by a U.S. court to discuss his country's dispute over $1.3 billion worth of bonds with a group of hedge fund creditors known as NML. Little has been written about how it went, but based on the chilling op-ed Kicillof posted on President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's website on Tuesday, we can only imagine that things went badly. What's your take? "The vulture funds never wanted to come to the terms accepted by the vast majority of creditors," Kicillof wrote. "They're trying to extort a sovereign nation. They want privileged conditions and and they will stop at nothing to reach their objective: They try to interrupt the flow of payment to Argentine bondholders, denying them their right; they are going to speculate on the future of 40 million Argentines that have made enormous sacrifices to get on their feet after the 2001 crisis; and they're going to cause irreparable damage to the international financial system, putting all restructuring in doubt and making future restructuring practically impossible." What Kicillof is describing doesn't sound like the hedge funds are asking for negotiation, what he is describing sounds like they're asking for complete and total surrender. This Argentine administration has always been good at that kind of language, though. Kicillof is a Marxist ideologue and former professor who spearheaded Argentina's takeover of YPF — the Argentine subsidiary of Spanish oil and gas company, Repsol. In other words, he is not one for tepid opinions or gestures. In this bond case, it has always been Kicillof's stance that these "vulture funds" — who are suing to get 100 cents on the dollar for their investment in defaulted Argentine bonds dating back to the country's collapse in 2001 — "never lent Argentina money," because they bought the bonds after the country defaulted. Over 90% of bondholders with this debt restructured in 2005 and 2010. To Kicillof, that was the time for negotiating, and the fact that NML did not shows they were only interested in speculating on Argentina's future. He also managed to get a shot in about the fact that NML is based in the Cayman Islands in order to "avoid paying U.S. taxes." (Ouch.) Kicillof's op-ed was, in part, a response to an op-ed published in the FT by Jay Newman, a portfolio manager at NML. Newman said that he and his group were willing, and have always been willing, to negotiate with Argentina. But again — Kicillof says it was NML who showed bad faith at the meeting. The "vulture funds" refused to put a stay on all payment to bondholders as negotiations were underway. This is key, because according to a U.S. court's "unfair" ruling, Argentina cannot pay some bondholders and not others. It gives Argentina until July 30 to either pay up or default. Kicillof closed his piece saying — "The vulture funds don't negotiate: that's what makes them vultures." He meets with the special master again on Friday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueAluminum giant Alcoa reported earnings per share of $0.18 on revenue of $5.84 billion. Analysts were expecting earnings per share of $0.12 on revenue of $5.66 billion.  Following the results, shares of Alcoa were up better than 2.5% in after hours trade. The company also reaffirmed its 2014 outlook for global aluminum demand growth of 7%. Alcoa also increased its 2014 estimate for the North America commercial transportation market to a range of 10% to 14%, from a previous range of 5% to 9% in the first quarter. The higher estimate is based in part on rising truck orders and backlogs. Alcoa said all of its business segments were profitable during the quarter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerStocks fell for the second straight session, with the Nasdaq leading the way lower, falling more than 1.3%. The situation in Israel also remains highly unstable, as geopolitical events are once again on the mind of investors.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS, showed that U.S. job openings surged to 4.635 million in May. The report, which is one of Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's favorite economic reports, was expected to show job opening fell to 4.35 million compared to 4.455 million in April. The report also showed that job quits, seen as a sign of confidence as you'd expect those who quit their job to believe they can get other work, increased to 2.527 million from 2.467 million. Following the report, Chris Rupkey, Chief Financial Economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, said, "4.635 million job openings out there in May: go get yours today. But you know what, job openings are going straight up, the official press release downplaying the data saying there were 4.6 million job openings on the last business day of May, little changed from 4.5 million in April… Little changed, are you kidding? The trend is straight up... Net net, economists got a jolt in the arm this morning for those looking for better times ahead. The number of job openings, especially in 2014, is soaring. Things could literally not be much better." 2) Following the JOLTS report, Cooper Howes at Barclays noted that the ratio of unemployed job seekers per job fell to 2.11, its lowest level since 2008. Howes said, "This ratio has declined steadily in recent years and currently stands below the average of 2.18 seen from 2002 to 2006 even though the unemployment rate averages 5.4% during that time. In our view, this suggests that there is little slack remaining in labor markets and that wage growth will pick up more quickly than it did at similar levels of the unemployment rate in past cycles."  3) Another piece of economic data was also released today, the NFIB Small Business report, which showed the Small Business Optimism Index fell 1.6 points in June to 95.0. In its report, the NFIB said, "The Index did manage to stay above 95, which seemed to be a ceiling on the Index since the recovery started. The good news is that the job components improved again, reaching levels seen only in strong private sector economic times. The bad news is that capital outlays and planned spending faded along with expectations for improving business conditions." 4) Two Federal Reserve Presidents spoke today and diverged on their views of recent inflation data. Narayana Kocherlakota, President of the Minneapolis Federal Reserve, said in remarks before the Minnesota Business Partnership said that the recent jumps in inflation are "purely transitory." Kocherlakota added that, "What you should take away, though, is that I currently see the probability of inflation’s averaging more than 2 percent over the next four years as being considerably lower than the probability of inflation’s averaging less than 2 percent over the next four years." 5) Jeffrey Lacker, President of the Richmond Federal Reserve said in remarks made in Charlotte, North Carolina that inflation, "has bottomed out." Lacker said, "While the inflation numbers will often run hot or cold for several months at a time, the latest numbers suggest that inflation has bottomed out and is moving toward the Committee’s target. I expect that firming trend to continue this year." Unlike Kocherlakota, however, Lacker is not currently a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, which decides the path of monetary policy in the U.S. The minutes from the latest FOMC minutes are expected to be released tomorrow afternoon.  6) In the markets it was an ugly day for stocks, especially some of the internet-related so-called "momentum" stocks that took a beating in March and April. Shares of companies including Zulily, Splunk, FireEye, Yelp, and Twitter all fell more than 7% as the Nasdaq, which houses many tech-related issues, fell more than 1.4%. The Russell 2000 Index, which houses many of the smaller, more volatile stocks in the market, fell 1.3%.  7) In corporate news, aluminum giant Alcoa is expected to report second quarter earnings after the market close, marking the unofficial start of corporate earnings season. Analysts were looking for earnings per share of $0.12 on revenue of $5.66 billion. Ahead of corporate earnings, keep in mind these 50 stocks, courtesy of Bespoke Investment Group, which make the biggest single-day moves following their earnings reports.  Don't Miss: GOLDMAN: These Are The 20 Cheapest Stocks In The Market »  FREE AppDownload
One of the biggest financial advantages out there is something anyone can access by opening a simple retirement account: compound interest. Retirement accounts such as 401(k)s and Roth IRAs aren't just savings accounts — they're actively invested, and therefore have the potential to make the most of this benefit. As Business Insider's Sam Ro explains, "Compound interest occurs when the interest that accrues to an amount of money in turn accrues interest itself." So why is that so important? The charts below will show you the incredible impact compound interest has on your savings and why starting to save in your 20s is one of the best things you can do. The chart below from JP Morgan shows how one saver (Susan) who invests for only 10 years early in her career, ends up with more wealth than another saver (Bill), who saves for 30 years later in life. By starting early, Susan was able to better take advantage of compound interest. Chris, the third saver profiled, is the ideal: He contributed steadily for his entire career. JP Morgan Funds This chart by Business Insider's Andy Kiersz also emphasizes the impact of compound interest, and the importance of starting early. Saver Emily, represented by the blue line, starts saving the exact same amount as Dave (the red line), but begins 10 years earlier. Ultimately, she contributes around 33% more than Dave over the course of her career, but ends up with almost twice as much wealth as he does. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Compound interest can get you pretty far. In fact, Business Insider calculated — based on your current age and a 6% return rate — how much you need to be saving per month in order to reach $1 million by age 65. You can also see the calculations based on different rates of return. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joseba EtxaburuA fighting cow leaps over festival goers as she enters the ring following the first running of the bulls at the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 7, 2014.The bull market is in its sixth year and the S&amp;P 500 is near its all-time high. For Wall Street's stock market strategists, Q2 earnings season will be huge. "Market participants will be looking for further improvements in revenues and earnings growth that along with financial engineering in the form of share buybacks have helped move the market higher through the recovery since 2009," said Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus earlier this week. "Guidance as to what corporate leadership sees ahead will likely carry increasing weight." According to Reuters, Wall Street is looking for 6.2% year-over-year growth in S&amp;P 500 earnings per share. Growth is also expected to accelerate to a double-digit pace by the second half of the year. It's worth noting that valuations have become increasingly rich. Currently, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at around 15.7 times forward earnings, which is well above 5-year and 10-year averages. One way for those valuations to improve is by seeing earnings actually beat expectations. We'll see. Earnings season kicks off with aluminum giant Alcoa after today's closing bell. FREE AppDownload
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesSalary data released last week revealed average male staffers at the White House earn about 13% more than their female counterparts. The White House responded by pointing out six female staffers received high profile promotions in the past year. However, according to data collected by the conservative consulting firm Target Point, the women who were promoted at the White House received smaller raises than men. While the average man promoted at the White House received a 24.4% raise, Target Point found the average raise for a promoted woman was 18.5%. Target Point also found 46 men were promoted at the White House between 2013 and 2014 compared to 41 women. Additionally, the firm noted 88 women left White House jobs in the past year while only 77 men departed.  Target Point Senior Vice President and Chief Data Scientist Alex Lundry said this data shows "the White House's hypocrisy on this issue is stunning" as President Barack Obama has made equal pay for women a major part of his agenda this year.  "The data clearly reveal that its not just salary for which there are significant differences between men and women, but also raises, promotions, and turnover," said Lundry. "Empirically, this White House does not treat their male and female employees the same." On July 2, White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest addressed the fact there is a pay disparity between male and female staffers at the same time the president is attempting to address this same issue nationally. "I wouldn’t hold up the White House as the perfect example here," Earnest said at his daily briefing. Earnest went on to say "we still have more work to do at the White House," though he claimed "the White House performs significantly better than the private sector" in this regard. He did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider Tuesday about the statistics on staffer raises.  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoPreet Bharara U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara's perfect track record in insider trading convictions just got ruined. Today, Rengan Rajaratnam, the younger brother of ex-Galleon Group chief Raj Rajaratnam, just got acquitted of a conspiracy charge in an insider trading case, the Wall Street Journal reports. Since th government's massive insider trading crackdown began in 2009, Bharara—also known as "The Sheriff Of Wall Street"—had a perfect record of 81-0 for convictions. "While we are disappointed with the verdict on the sole count that the jury was permitted to consider, we respect the jury trial system whatever the outcome, and we thank the jury for their service. This Office maintains its faith in the criminal justice system, a system that has resulted in the convictions by trial or guilty plea of 85 other defendants on insider trading charges. We will continue to seek justice in the investigation and prosecution of those who violate the securities laws of the United States," Bharara said in a statement.  In 2011, Rengan's brother Raj Rajaratnam was convicted and sentenced to 11 years in federal prison for orchestrating a massive insider trading scheme. Rengan worked at Galleon Group.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSoccer legend Pele (L) gestures in front of a huge credit card held by Geoff Bruce, head of Cards Asia Pacific of Hongkong Bank, during the launching ceremony of a World Cup MasterCard card, February 24, 1998.Consumer credit balances increased by $19.6 billion in May. This is according to the Federal Reserve's monthly G.19 report. This compares to the $26.1 billion increase in April. Economists were expecting balances to increase by $19.6 billion. Revolving debt, which includes things like credit cards, inceased by $1.79 billion. Non-revolving debt, which includes car loans and student loans, climbed by $17.8 billion. "In our view, most of the rise in nonrevolving credit can be attributed to growth in federal student loan programs; according to the Federal Reserve, total student loan debt outstanding has risen by over $400bn since the start of 2010, and federal loans currently make up roughly 85% of the total," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. "We expect the trend of strong growth in nonrevolving credit and tepid increases in revolving credit to persist." FREE AppDownload
Bespoke Investment GroupSecond quarter earnings season kicks off tonight with Alcoa's second quarter earnings report, which is expected after the bell.  For roughly the next four weeks, we'll get a flood of corporate earnings reports before and after the bell. In the wake of some positive economic data, these companies will give us a picture of what is going on in corporate America.  Following earnings reports, stocks can be volatile, with a companies shares sometimes moving more than 10% or 15% up or down after positive or negative results.  Ahead of the start of Q2 earnings, Bespoke Investment Group published the 50 most volatile stocks after their earnings reports.  All of the 50 stocks have an average move of more than 11.9%, up or down, after their earnings reports over the last six quarters.  This list contains a lot of smaller internet or tech companies, but does include four S&amp;P 500 members: Netflix, Keurig Green Mountain, First Solar, and Priceline.  If you're playing any of these stocks ahead of earnings, buckle up. FREE AppDownload
Douglas Elliman/ Evan JosephA penthouse at Skylofts on Hudson Street in TriBeCa that looks like a glass cube has returned to the market with a $48 million listing price, according to The New York Daily News. The  four-bedroom, 4.5 bathroom apartment has 360-degree views of Manhattan and the Hudson River. It's being sold by William Duker, a private investor who did a stint in prison for defrauding the government. He's never lived in the stunning condo, according to the NYDN. It's being marketed by Tal and Oren Alexander of Douglas Elliman. Meredith Galante contributed to this story.
YouTube/ILOveOldiesThe Andrews Sisters harmonized on stage ... but not off it.Since the days of Cain and Abel, sibling rivalries have dotted history in many shapes and forms. Some siblings sue each other over money or defamation while others live out their days amid a frigid silent treatment. Some sibling rivalries are purely playful, competitive one-upsmanship. These 16 sibling groups prove that it's impossible to expect brothers and sisters to get along all the time, but they also show that some just simply have it out for one another. FREE AppDownload
Minneapolis Fed Narayana Kocherlakota is brushing off recent reports of accelerating inflation. "[Y]ou can see that PCE inflation has risen relatively rapidly over the past three months and is now 1.8 percent—very close to the FOMC’s target," he said in a speech today. "But ... many large fluctuations in PCE inflation end up being purely transitory. To formulate an accurate forecast for inflation, we need to look through these transitory fluctuations, no matter how large they might be—and that’s not always easy." Kocherlakota, a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, is considered one of the more dovish monetary policymakers. His speech is clearly more dovish than the speech of Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker who is confident that the inflation rate has "bottomed out." Read Kocherlakota's full speech at MinneapolisFed.org. FREE AppDownload
Muddy Waters founder Carson Block sat down for a short interview at the FT's Camp Alphaville conference, and walked us through some ugly numbers for China's GDP. He says that he believes that when China's real estate investment bubble does burst —after the government can kick the can down the road no longer — the country could see a 20%-25% decline in its GDP. Here's how Block sees it: Block continued, "This isn't scientific.. but I think that household consumption number is a better number because household consumption is a function of household income." Watch the full interview below:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris Keane "While the inflation numbers will often run hot or cold for several months at a time, the latest numbers suggest that inflation has bottomed out and is moving toward the Committee’s target," said Jeffrey Lacker. "I expect that firming trend to continue this year." Lacker, President of the Richmond Federal Reserve, said this as he presented his economic outlook in Charlotte, North Carolina. Inflation rates have been low for a long time. But CPI and PCE reports have indicated that prices have been picking up. It's worth noting that Lacker is not presently a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, which decides the path of monetary policy. "The outlook for inflation is ... quite important to us, since ... monetary stability has always been the Fed’s primary mission," said Lacker. "The Federal Open Market Committee is on record as stating that its goal is for the price index for personal consumption expenditures to rise at an annual rate of 2 percent. Many observers expressed concern last year that inflation, at about 1 1/4 percent, was running well below the FOMC’s target. Inflation has averaged 2 1/2 percent over the last three months, however. " Read the whole speech at RichmondFed.org. FREE AppDownload
Paul Marotta/Getty ImagesEditor's note: This post appeared on Quora in answer to the question, "Why do Harvard graduates head to Wall Street?" Henry Wong, a Harvard grad who went into investment banking, provided this answer, which he has allowed us to republish. I think there is something more insidious at work here. Bear with me as I attempt to elaborate. It is true that banking (and consulting) pays well and is prestigious. At least people are lead to believe it is prestigious, and that is what matters. Few people at the age of 21-22 know exactly what they want to do, and it makes sense to maintain a "generalist" status with investment banking (and consulting). It opens a few doors and delays specialization (as Nick Huber correctly pointed out). Those are all valid points. I know those were the reasons I got into investment banking. However, after years working on Wall Street, recruiting new talent and observing the education system, I think there is a deeper problem. Harvard, as well as other "prestigious" colleges, selects for kids who will "succeed" (defined broadly) and look for relevant signals/indicators, such as good grades, leadership traits, "well-rounded," etc. What inevitably happens is students and parents "work towards" these signals/indicators.  So colleges accidentally introduced a new signal/indicator, I call it the "conformist" signal. Students who excel at conforming to social expectations have a much higher chance of getting into Harvard. Don't get me wrong, many of these students are talented and human beings are social animals! Nonetheless, it is important to acknowledge Harvard does not select for iconoclasts and the unconventional types. My personal observation is Harvard and other well-regarded colleges have a student body bent towards meeting and beating social expectations. There is an understanding that Wall Street is glamorous and prestigious, where talented people flock to (at least when I was there). Whether this is true or false does not matter. It is the social expectation/understanding that matters, and Wall Street is "catnip" to the conformist! It checks every box. It is another very strong signal/indicator to a conformist. Whether intended or not, Wall Street ends up selecting for conformists. Note that these are reinforcing cycles and behaviors. Society (schools, jobs, parents, etc.) rewards students that conform to social expectations. As these students join the work force and become part of society, they will naturally select for their kind of people. Harvard and Wall Street simply epitomizes this behavior. So my cynical answer to your question is:  Harvard (and other culprits) select for conformists who are naturally attracted to Wall Street. This introduces a few questions: Click here to read the rest of Wong's answer as well as other answers to the question about Harvard graduates and Wall Street.    FREE AppDownload
U.S. employers had 4.635 million job opening in May, up from 4.464 million in April. This is according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' new Job Opening and Labor Turnover Survey. This comes as the unemployment rate continues to fall. "The ratio of unemployed job seekers per job opening fell to 2.11 (previous: 2.18), its lowest level since 2008," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. "This ratio has declined steadily in recent years and currently stands below the average of 2.18 seen from 2002 to 2006 even though the unemployment rate averaged 5.4% during that time. In our view, this suggests that there is little slack remaining in labor markets and that wage growth will pick up more quickly than it did at similar levels of the unemployment rate in past cycles." And hotter wage growth means higher inflation. Economist Mark J. Perry just tweeted the chart. @Mark_J_Perry FREE AppDownload
Sergei Karpukhin/ReutersPicture illustration of a section of a Russian 100-rouble banknote taken in MoscowNaked images of the Greek God Apollo have graced buildings and paintings for centuries, but his disrobed body has so shocked one Russian lawmaker that he wants to change the country's 100-rouble banknote. The note, worth less than $3, depicts an image of a statue of Apollo riding a four-horse chariot atop the Bolshoi Theater, one of Russia's main cultural symbols. "You can see clearly that Apollo is naked, you can see his genitalia," Roman Khudyakov, a member of parliament for the nationalist LDPR party, told Reuters Television. "I submitted a parliamentary request and forwarded it directly to the head of the central bank asking for the banknote to be brought into line with the law protecting children and to remove this Apollo." He said he had been stirred into action when he saw two children looking at the banknote: "The girl screamed at the boy: 'Can you see that? I told you, there is a penis here!' I was shocked, you know." The call coincides with growing conservatism in President Vladimir Putin's third term, during which he has courted the Russian Orthodox Church. What is widely described as anti-gay legislation has also been passed banning the promotion of "non-traditional" relations to minors. The Bolshoi itself made headlines by covering the genitalia of the huge Apollo statue with a figleaf when it reopened in 2011 after a scandal-marred restoration that took more than six years and $700 million. Khudyakov's proposal triggered a wave of satire on the Internet, with some users joking it must have been the first time a lawmaker had seen a 100-rouble banknote as they are reported to deal with much larger sums. The central bank had no immediate comment. ($1 = 34.2275 Russian Rubles)   (Additional reporting by Oksana Kobzeva, Writing by Gabriela Baczynska, Editing by Timothy Heritage/Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
There are very few market indicators that can predict recessions without sending out false positives. The yield curve is one of them. At a breakfast earlier today, LPL Financial's Jeffrey Kleintop noted that the yield curve inverted just prior to every U.S. recession in the past 50 years. "That is seven out of seven times — a perfect forecasting track record," he reiterated. The yield curve is inverted when short-term interest rates (e.g. the 3-year Treasury) are higher than long-term interest rates (e.g. the 10-year Treasury yield). "The yield curve inversion usually takes place about 12 months before the start of the recession, but the lead time ranges from about 5 to 16 months," wrote Kleintop in a recent note. "The peak in the stock market comes around the time of the yield curve inversion, ahead of the recession and accompanying downturn in corporate profits." The Federal Reserve has been signaling that tighter monetary policy is on its way, which means short-term interest rates should move higher. Is this something we should be worried about? Kleintop offered some context: How far the Fed must push up short-term rates before the yield curve inverts by 0.5% depends on where long-term rates are. Even if long-term rates stay at the very low yield of 2.6% seen in mid-June 2014, to invert the yield curve by 0.5% the Fed would need to hike short-term rates from around zero to more than 3%. Based on the latest survey of current Fed members that vote on rate hikes, they do not expect to raise rates above 3% until sometime in 2017, at the earliest... Lots of economic and market factors drive what happens with interest rates. So the shape of the yield curve is definitely worth paying attention to. "The facts suggest the best indicator for the start of a bear market may still be a long way from signaling a cause for concern," he said. LPL Financial FREE AppDownload
 While traveling around Latin America, Linda Rottenberg noticed a troubling trend. "I was noticing that there were no jobs,” she said in a recent interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, “and everyone I was meeting felt that they didn’t want a government job, but no one else was hiring … And I kept saying ‘Why aren’t you starting a business!’ And I’d tell the story of Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in the garage and they’d say, this is Latin America. No one is funding me to start my crazy idea … and I don’t even have a garage.” From that moment on Rottenberg went on a mission to support entrepreneurship in emerging markets — to help the people who already had the motivation. “I just had seen too much talent,” she explains, “And I knew there were great ideas, and I knew if we could just marry a few stories with some people that had the expertise, the mentoring, and the capital, that this would come to life.” That's how Rottenberg's venture, Endeavor, was born. Now it operates in over 20 countries, creating 580 companies, and has helped over 900 committed entrepreneurs with funding. “These are people who are changing their communities. These are people who are creating really high wage jobs — they’re changing cultures. They’re creating a role model effect.” Check out more awesome interviews with CEOs on OneWire's YouTube Channel. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierMomentum stocks are getting crushed again. In trading action eerily reminiscent of that seen in March and April, momentum stocks like FireEye, Zulily, Yelp, and Twitter are taking a beating today. FireEye is down almost 8%, while Zulily is down 8.3%, Yelp is down 7.5% and Twitter is down 7.3%.  Shares of social networks LinkedIn, down more than 6%, and Facebook, down 4%, are also lower. The Nasdaq, which houses many of the internet-related stocks, is down 1.3%, or 58 points. On a percentage basis, the Nasdaq's loss is more than double the decline of the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow, which are lower by about 0.6% each.  On Twitter, Bespoke Investment Group said, "Momentum names acting like they did in March and April last two days. Definitely going to hit sentiment hard." CNBC's Carl Quintanilla also said that this is the worst two-day decline for the Nasdaq since May 6-7.  Over the last 18-month bull market, the Nasdaq and the small-cap Russell 2000 have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 and Dow. The indices and stocks that lead on the way up, however, often lead on the way down. FREE AppDownload
screengrab via YouTubeAfter a series of awkward moments in which she was criticized for her personal fortune, Hillary Clinton seems to have found a way to strike a balance between taking a progressive position on income inequality and acknowledging her wealth. In an interview with the German outlet Der Spiegel published Tuesday morning, Clinton said she agreed with French economist Thomas Piketty, the author of the high-profile recent book "Capital in the Twenty-First Century," that income inequality undermines the fundamental fabric of democracies. Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton declared the growing gap between the rich and the poor is threatening democracy in a new interview published Tuesday morning. Speaking with the German outlet Der Spiegel, Clinton said she agreed with French economist Thomas Piketty, the author of the high-profile recent book "Capital in the Twenty-First Century," that income inequality undermines the fundamental fabric of democracies. "We've had this huge experiment known as America that was a diversity of populations, and we have held it together because we had a democracy that slowly over time included everybody. Even during the Great Depression people in the streets believed that they could make it and they would be better off," said Clinton. Now, Clinton said, people have "lost trust" in the entire political system. "Now the relative wealth is much higher, but the disparity makes people believe that they're stuck," she argued. "They no longer believe that things are going to get any better, no matter how hard they work. People have lost trust in each other and the political system and I think that's very threatening to democracy." Der Spiegel proceeded to question Clinton — a multimillionaire widely considered the Democratic front-runner in the 2016 presidential election and reportedly charges as much as $200,000 per speech at events — on whether lower-income people could be bothered by her own fortune. Clinton dismissed such concerns. "Well, certainly, I can understand that, but that's never been the crux of the concern in our country, because we've always had people who did better than other people. That's just accepted. The problem is that people on the bottom and people in the middle class no longer feel like they have the opportunity to do better," she said. In prior interviews, Clinton addressed questions about her wealth by attempting to separate herself from other, "truly well off" individuals — drawing accusations of being tone-deaf on the issue. Updated 11:03 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
San Francisco FedThe slow recovery in the U.S. jobs market can be connected to lackluster growth in start-up companies, which in turn can be explained by the crash of the U.S. housing market. In a new research note, San Francisco Fed economist Liz Laderman and VP Sylvain Leduc say dipping into personal assets is often critical to getting financing for a start-up business. When housing prices tanked, so did the ability of individuals to get loans to set up firms. As a result, start-up jobs growth remains well below its 20-year historical average of running 20 percentage points higher than regular firms' job growth: What's more, the Fed says, start-ups have historically been critical to allowing a swift bounce-back from jobs losses after recessions. That has not happened here. "Because start-ups add so many jobs early in recoveries, even modest slowdowns in the creation of new businesses could significantly reduce overall employment growth," they write. San Francisco Fed The 0nly saving grace is that housing prices have begun to creep upward, which seems to be allowing employment gains to accelerate. For reference, here's nonfarm payrolls against home prices. A movement in the latter usually precedes changes in the former.  FRED  FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS, showed job openings surged to 4.635 million in May. Expectations were for job openings to fall to 4.35 million. Last month's report showed that total job openings in April totaled 4.455 million, up from 4.166 million the prior month. In addition to job openings increasing, May's report showed that the quit rate held steady at 1.8% of total employment, though the gross number of monthly quits edged up to 2,527,000 from 2,467,000. The quit rate is often seen as a measure of worker confidence, as people wouldn't leave their job unless they were confident they could find another.  Peter Tchir at Brean Capital said of the report, "A very strong number. This is one Yellen told us to watch. You have to go back to June 2007 to get a better number." The JOLTS report is one of Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's favorite economic indicators, and in a week without a ton of economic data, the JOLTS report will be closely watched. This chart, which comes to us courtesy of Bloomberg LP economist Michael McDonough, shows a breakdown of the report.  @M_McDonough This chart from the BLS shows the hires and separations rates since May 2011.  BLS FREE AppDownload
Jeffrey Beall / FlickrStocks are falling again and the Nasdaq is getting crushed. The Nasdaq is down 58 points, or about 1.3%. The Dow and S&amp;P 500 are also lower, down 113 and 13 points, respectively. According to CNBC's Carl Quintanilla, this is the worst 2-day decline for the Nasdaq since May 6-7. And Bespoke Investment Group just noted on Twitter that, "Momentum names acting like they did in March and April last two days. Definitely going to hit sentiment hard." After almost two months of calm in the market, activity has noticeably picked up ahead of second quarter earnings, which are set to unofficially kick off tonight with Alcoa's report after the bell. In economic news, earlier this morning, NFIB's Small Business Optimism index fell to 95.0 from 96.6. The latest JOLTS report showed job opening surged in May to 4.635 million. Following the JOLTS report, one of Fed Chair Janet Yellen's favorite economic indicators, Peter Tchir at Brean Capital said, "You have to go back to June 2007 to get a better number." FREE AppDownload
The ancient Stoic philosophers are often dismissed as joyless and boring intellectuals. But the Stoics were very interested in the pursuit of things like happiness and success; they merely pursued them in different ways than most. With a few simple changes in perspective and behavior, the Stoics knew that it was possible to achieve a lasting form of personal happiness. Fortunately for us, their techniques remain highly relevant today. Produced by Ryan Larkin. Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
REUTERS/Juan MedinaIt's come to Kipling. According to a report from Tobias Buck of The Financial Times, Jenaro Garcia, the disgraced founder of Let's Gowex, the Spanish WiFi provider that filed for voluntary insolvency over the weekend, turned to Rudyard Kipling's famous poem "If—" in an email to employees. "If—" is one of the most famous poems of the 20th Century, and opens with the iconic lines, "If you can keep your head when all about you/Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,". Buck reports that Garcia's email, published in the Spanish media, says among other things, "I know I have caused irreparable damage to you and many of your friends and family." Yesterday, we noted that on Twitter, Garcia simply said, "I apologize to everyone. Sorry wholeheartedly" after the company announced it was going under. Garcia subsequently tweeted that he confessed in court and is willing to face the consequences. So while Garcia is certainly trying to repair the broken spirits of the company's staff that now find themselves out of a job, perhaps he is also trying to perk himself up. For inspiration, we've included the full text of Kipling's poem below: "If—" IF you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,But make allowance for their doubting too;If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,Or being lied about, don't deal in lies,Or being hated, don't give way to hating,And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise: If you can dream - and not make dreams your master;If you can think - and not make thoughts your aim;If you can meet with Triumph and DisasterAnd treat those two impostors just the same;If you can bear to hear the truth you've spokenTwisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,And stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools: If you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,And lose, and start again at your beginningsAnd never breathe a word about your loss;If you can force your heart and nerve and sinewTo serve your turn long after they are gone,And so hold on when there is nothing in youExcept the Will which says to them: 'Hold on!' If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,' Or walk with Kings - nor lose the common touch,if neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you,If all men count with you, but none too much;If you can fill the unforgiving minuteWith sixty seconds' worth of distance run,Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it,And - which is more - you'll be a Man, my son! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stringer Participants listen to a speech by Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf during the opening of the Gwadar deep-sea port on the Arabian Sea, 480 km (300 miles) west of Karachi March 20, 2007. In recent years, Chinese companies have begun a huge wave of construction that is already reshaping the world. Here are six of the most ambitious projects. An enormous project to connect Gwadar port in southern Pakistan to the west of China involves roads, railways and oil and gas pipelines and will eventually give China a highly-coveted port in the Indian Ocean. When the corridor is finished, it will serve as the main gateway for trade between China and the Middle East and Africa. Control of Gwadar port was transferred to China's state-owned Overseas Ports Holding company in February 2013. Earlier this year, a plan to build an airport at Gwadar was also agreed, as well as the laying of fibre-optic cables between the Chinese border and Rawalpindi. In May, China Railway Construction Corporation inked a £7.6 billion contract to roll out an 860-mile high speed railway across Nigeria for trains traveling at 75mph. So far there have been no details on the route of the line. First launched in March 2007, an ambitious project to build a six-lane toll road across Algeria has been hit by confusion, allegations of bribery and delays for workers' salaries. China Rail Construction Corporation and CITIC won contracts for parts of the highway, while a Japanese consortium also won a construction contract. When finished the highway will run 756 miles from the Moroccan border to the Tunisian border, connecting Algeria's coastal cities. On the coast of the Gulf of Finland, south-west of St Petersburg, China is building a new town for 35,000 residents. With £1 billion of investment from the Shanghai Industrial Investment Company, the project was scheduled to take six to eight years but has slowed since the financial crisis. When finished, the town will have 14,000 apartments, five schools and nine kindergartens, as well as shopping centers, restaurants and cinemas. However, there has been criticism of poor conditions for the construction workers and traffic and access problems getting to the town. In 2011, Shenyang Power Group (SPG) signed a deal to develop a 36,000 acre wind farm in West Texas, one of the largest in the United States. Chinese-made turbines will power the plant, funded by a £880 million loan from China's Export-Import Bank. Last July, on a visit to Beijing, Goodluck Jonathan, the Nigerian president, agreed a deal to build a 700MW dam on the Niger river, roughly 90 miles from Abuja. Construction will take five years and three-quarters of the cost will be loaned by China to Nigeria for 20 years at 2.5 per cent interest. Additional reporting by Adam Wu  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James, says the market looks vulnerable to a 10%-12% pullback. In a note posted on the firm's website yesterday, Saut said:  "Just like our fundamental analysts are making a negative 'call' on the PC computer business that fell off a cliff in May/June, I am making a 'call' that the current set-up in the equity market is remarkably similar to the summer of 2011 that ushered in an 18% decline. While I do not think any pullback from here will be that severe, I do think we are vulnerable to a 10%-12% decline in the weeks ahead, albeit within the construct of a secular bull market that has years left to run." Saut also noted that, while he typically eschews such comparisons, a historical chart of the S&amp;P 500 from the summer of 1965 today could have merit considering the news backdrop of the two periods (Vietnam vs. Middle East). Raymond James In a note to clients this morning titled "A 20% Correction? That's Not What I Said!," Saut says he fielded calls from portfolio managers and investors wondering if he was really calling for a 20% pullback.  The above quote makes it pretty clear that Saut was not calling for a 20% correction, but that he fielded calls on a misinterpretation is a pretty interesting indication of where investor psychology is right now. The markets keep grinding higher and people seem desperate for a correction.  Except that's not what Saut called for.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA supporter of Sunni terror group ISIS has outlined how to support the movement using Bitcoin.  In a PDF posted to a Wordpress blog, a man calling himself Amreeki and Amreeki ("American") Witness on Twitter, explains the problems militants face in funding their operations. One cannot send a bank transfer to a mujahid or suspected mujahid without the kafir governments ruling today immediately being aware. Perhaps, a few incredibly wealthy Muslims may find ways to avoid this system, especially ones in Arab countries, however the majority of Muslims are incapable of donating to those who need it most. The solution is Bitcoin, he says. It is anonymous and decentralized, and with an extra layer of encryption called mixing, the author says, transactions would be "untrackable." He uses former online marketplace Silk Road as an example of a once-successful instance of how illicit goods could be purchased online with the digital currency:   The Silk Road was the popular online market running mostly on Bitcoin. It was an online black market that could have potentially be used for anything from purchasing weapons to donating to mujahideen, though most kufar used it to intoxicate themselves. It utilized user’s Bitcoin wallets, mixers to confuse those trying to spy on transactions, reputation systems, private messages, seller pages, and arbitrators, which could be readapted to be qadis. The author demonstrates a keen understanding of how the cryptocurrency works.  It is a digital only currency created through a process called mining. A mining machine is a powerful computer that processes  recent transactions sent through the Bitcoin network, and validates them. If it finds that the transaction is legitimate, the money, Bitcoins, are sent and some Bitcoins are given to the miner. The people sending Bitcoins get their transactions validated and the miner receives a small fee, benefitting both sides. This system allows for no counterfeit Bitcoins to ever exist, as each one can only exist alongside validation. Bitcoin is sent instantly across the world, with waiting times not exceeding fifteen minutes on the norm. The author advises sympathizers to set up accounts on Dark Wallet, a service that offers ramped-up anonymity for completing transactions.     The Pentagon's Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office recently named virtual currencies as a potential threat to be investigated, although the Treasury has said terrorists would still need to rely on real currency to fund their operations.   Sky News' Tom Cheshire was first with the story. Here's the full PDF: btcedit-21  FREE AppDownload
AFPGermany's Commerzbank is negotiating a fine with US authorities of at least 500 million dollars over allegations it dealt with countries blacklisted by the US, such as Iran, the New York Times reported late Monday. An agreement could be announced as early as this summer, the newspaper said, quoting what it called people briefed on the matter. The Times said Commerzbank, Germany's second largest bank, is "suspected of transferring money through its American operations on behalf of companies in Iran and Sudan". A settlement has only begun to be sketched out but it is expected to include at least 500 million dollars (365 million euros) in fines for Commerzbank, the Times said. That would be a mere fraction of the 8.9 billion dollars (6.5 billion euros) that French bank BNP Paribas has agreed to pay over handling transactions that allegedly violated economic sanctions against Sudan, Cuba and Iran from 2002 to 2012. Commerzbank revealed in 2010 that its dollar transactions with Iran were under investigation in the United States. But it did not say what kind of fine it might end up having to pay. The Times said a settlement with Commerzbank could set the stage for a separate settlement with Germany's largest bank, Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank said last week it was cooperating with US authorities but did not at the time know where the probe might lead. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hannibal HanschkeA woman stands in front of a illuminated picture of a mathematical Quasi-Crystal on display in the fortress in the eastern German city of Dresden December 14, 2006.David Kostin, chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, is out with his quarterly chartbook for U.S. equities.  In it, Kostin and his team take a look at the stocks that have the most upside and downside to Goldman's price targets. On this quarter's list of the stocks with the biggest upside are tech high-flyers like eBay, salesforce.com and, of course, Netflix. Industrial names like U.S. Steel and PACCAR are also on the list. Over the first half of the year, the S&amp;P 500 may have gained 7%, but according to Goldman, the 20 stocks with the most price target upside could land investors a 26% to 51% increase. FREE AppDownload
Here's your inflation chart of the day. From the latest NFIB Small Business optimism index, a look at the number of small businesses that are raising prices and increasing compensation. The index was briefly higher in 2010, coming out of the crash, but besides that this is the highest level of companies with a planned price increase. According to Jana McTigue and Pantheon economics, the print increases the odds of an upside surprise in CPI and PPI this month. NFIB FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heino KalisA bull which is chasing a reveller jumps into the sea during the "Bous a la Mar" festival in the eastern Spanish coastal town of Denia July 7, 2014.German Banks Are Next. After BNP Paribas, federal authorities are now targeting Commerzbank for violating U.S. sanctions, the New York Times reports. "The bank, which is suspected of transferring money through its American operations on behalf of companies in Iran and Sudan, could strike a settlement deal with the state and federal authorities as soon as this summer, said the people briefed on the matter, who were not authorized to speak publicly." Deutsche Bank will also come in for a settlement, the paper says.  Two Profit Warnings. Samsung is warning of a profits drop of as much as 26.5% YOY. WSJ: "In a first for the company, Samsung included a one-page explanation for the poor numbers, citing weaker-than-expected demand for its products in China and Europe, and South Korea's strengthening currency. Smartphone adoption is slowing in advanced markets, while the rise of low-cost producers threatens Samsung's competitiveness in emerging markets." Meanwhile Royal Dutch-KLM said its 2014 EBITDA would decline 12% on lower traffic, as well as "difficulty repatriating revenues from Venezuela, due to a currency dispute," the FT said.  The Nicaragua Canal? A Chinese tycoon got a Nicaraguan committee to approve a new $40 billion shipping canal across the Central American country that would compete with the Panama Canal, Reuters reported. It's ridiculously ambitious and probably illegal, but Chinese lawyer Wang Jing, who heads Xinwei Telecom Enterprise Group, says it will help develop the country. Calls For ECB To Act. Executives in Europe are calling on Frankfurt to weaken the Euro. "[Europe] cannot be the only economic zone of the world that doesn’t consider its currency as a weapon<U+2009>.<U+2009>.<U+2009>.<U+2009>as a key asset to promote its economy,” Airbus CEO Fabrice Brégier told the Financial Times in an interview. Brégier says it should be at least 10% lower from its $1.35 level.  Alcoa. After the bell we get our first major earnings of Q2, aluminum giant Alcoa. Analysts expect $0.12/share on $5.61 billion revenues. Alcoa is a widely followed bellwether of global economic activity. RIP Crumbs. The cupcake seller has officially closed all its stores as of Monday night.  Sluggish Europe. U.K. manufacturing fell most in 16 months in May, while German exports contracted more than estimated. U.S. Data. At 7:30 a.m. we get the NFIB small business optimism index for June. At 10:00 a.m. we get JOLTS. In April, job openings were up 17% YOY, and quits were up 11% YOY. And at 3 p.m. we get May consumer credit data consensus is for an increase of $17.5 billion. Fed Speakers. Richmond's Jeffrey Lacker addresses a Charlotte audience at 1 p.m., and Minneapolis' Narayana Kocherlakota presents in front of a hometown crowd at 1:45 p.m. Markets. U.S. futures were lower. European stocks were down. Asian markets saw mixed gains, with Indian stocks falling more than 2% on profit taking after reaching record highs. Russia’s Micex climbed to the highest level since October, Bloomberg said. Indonesian shares rallied for a third day before an election tomorrow, it said. FREE AppDownload
Ed YardeniIn 1725, Antonio Vivaldi composed “The Four Seasons,” a set of four violin concertos. The sounds of each concerto resembles its respective season. So for example, “Winter” is punctuated with pizzicato notes from the high strings, suggesting icy rain. “Summer” sounds like a thunderstorm in its final movement, which is often called “Storm.” One of the great virtuosos of the investment business was Sir John Templeton. He observed that bull markets experience four phases: pessimism, skepticism, optimism, and euphoria. Similarly, my friend Laszlo Birinyi has also identified four phases: reluctance, digestion, acceptance, and exuberance. Where are we now in the current bull market? In my opinion, we are moving from the third to the fourth phase for the S&amp;P 500. The first phase started on March 9, 2009 and ended after the second and worst correction of the bull market, on April 29, 2011. The second phase included three minor corrections, with the last one ending on October 3, 2012. The third phase has had no corrections and is probably coming to an end now. It may be setting the stage for what can also be called the “melt-up” phase. The start of the fourth phase probably coincided with the bottom in the “internal correction” of the momentum stocks on May 8. A chart of the S&amp;P 500’s forward P/E can also be used to identify these four phases. Ed Yardeni Today's Morning Briefing: The Fourth Phase. (1) Vivaldi, Templeton, and Birinyi. (2) The four phases of a bull market. (3) Transitioning from the third to the fourth phase. (4) Exuberance fueled by buybacks, M&amp;A, and Yellen. (5) Equity fund flows entering the fourth phase. (6) Industry analysts are exuberant about earnings. (7) Can the secular bull survive a melt-up/meltdown scenario? (8) Bear market triggers. (9) Sectors leading the earnings parade. (10) Global growth remains slow according to German data. (11) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transportation. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
The UK economy has seemingly very hot, but this is an ugly number. From the ONS, here's the summary and the chart showing weak data in May. Note the highlighted line. ONS ONS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at Bloomberg terminals on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, May 13, 2013.Quick heads up. There's three important datapoints coming out today. From Calculated Risk: • At 7:30 AM ET, the NFIB Small Business Optimism Index for June.• At 10:00 AM, Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey for May from the BLS. In April, Job Openings were up 17% year-over-year and quits were up 11% year-over-year.• At 3:00 PM, Consumer Credit for May from the Federal Reserve. The consensus is for credit to increase $17.5 billion. Why are theses important? Well the first two should give us fresh insight on the labor market, and provide further pieces to the puzzle about whether wages are rising and slack is diminishing. And the last one will give us new data on credit expansion, which is also a crucial part of the story. None of these are top-shelf datapoints that the media pays much attention to, but they do give some nice under-the-radar insight into things. FREE AppDownload
Jess Cooper/flickrSHANGHAI (Reuters) - U.S. electric car maker Tesla Motors Inc &lt;TSLA.O&gt; is being sued in China for trademark infringement, a surprise development that casts a shadow over CEO Elon Musk's ambition to expand rapidly in the world's biggest auto market. Tesla said in January that the trademark dispute between it and Chinese businessman Zhan Baosheng - long seen by analysts as a barrier to Tesla's entry into China - had been resolved. The car maker began delivering its Model S sedans to Chinese customers in April. But Zhan, who registered the "Tesla" trademark before the U.S. company came to China, is now taking Tesla to court, demanding that it stop all sales and marketing activities in China, shut down showrooms and supercharging facilities and pay him 23.9 million yuan ($3.85 million) in compensation, his lawyer Zhu Dongxing said on Tuesday. The Beijing Third Intermediate Court will hear the case on Aug. 5, according to a statement on the court's website. Tesla China declined comment. Zhan declined to be interviewed. The case underscores one of the thorniest problems faced by foreign firms in China. Global companies including Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt;, Koninklijke Philips NV &lt;PHG.AS&gt; and Unilever NV &lt;UNc.AS&gt; have all been embroiled in trademark disputes in the country in the past. Zhan, who claims ownership of the "Tesla" trademark, has long been a headache for the Palo Alto, California-based car maker and in part contributed to Tesla's belated arrival in China. Based in China's southern province of Guangdong, Zhan registered the trademarks to the Tesla name in both English and Chinese in 2006. He had in the past sought to sell the label to the U.S. company but negotiations collapsed. In January, Veronica Wu, head of Tesla's China operations, told Reuters the company had resolved the trademark dispute that had prevented it from using "Te Si La", the Chinese name best known among Chinese consumers, which Tesla wanted to use in China. Zhan's current lawsuit, however, brings new uncertainty to Tesla's fate in China, which the firm had expected to become its biggest global market next year. Apple Inc was embroiled in a similar case for years before reaching a $60 million deal last year for the rights to use the iPad trademark in China.     (Reporting by Samuel Shen and Adam Jourdan) FREE AppDownload
The GuardianGood morning! Here's what people will be talking about on Tuesday.  1.  The Israeli military says it has launched a counter-offensive on the Gaza Strip against Hamas called Operation Protective Edge in "order to stop the terror Israel's citizens face on a daily basis." The Israeli army hit at least 30 sites in the Palestinian territory early Tuesday and has already called up 1,500 reservists. (Continue reading at The New York Times) 2. Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah has rejected preliminary results from last month's election that favored rival Ashraf Ghani, alleging widespread fraud. Abdullah's camp called the results a "coup against people's votes." (Continue reading at Reuters) 3. British scientists have developed a blood test for people with memory problems that predicts the onset of Alzheimer's disease within the next 12 months with an 87% accuracy. The test could be available within two years. (Continue reading at The Guardian) 4. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un was shown limping across stage at an event marking the 20 year anniversary of his grandfather, Kim Il-sung. The footage was  broadcast by state media. (Continue reading at The Guardian) 5. Typhoon Neoguri hammered the southern Japanese islands of Okinawa on Tuesday, bringing ferocious winds, heavy rain, and waves over 40-feet high. Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated ahead of the storm, which officials said could be one of the strongest to hit Japan in decades (Continue reading at The Associated Press).  6. A number of Swiss banks have threatened to block the accounts of American clients who fail to provide information confirming they are compliant with U.S. taxes. The move follows increased pressure from U.S. authorities to crack down on banks believed to be helping citizens avoid taxes. (Continue reading at The Financial Times).  7. Marcel Kittel of Germany won the third stage of the Tour de France, which ran from Cambridge to The Mall in London.  After the victory — his second of this year's race — the 26-year-old said: "Emotionally, this win is close to the one I got on the Champs-Elysees in Paris last year." (Continue reading at BBC)  8. As part of a three-day visit to China, German Chancellor Angel Merkel visited students at Tsinghua University where she argued for sustainability in conjunction with the country's breakneck economic growth. Earlier, Merkel met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing to discuss a "strategic partnership."  (Continue reading at The Associated Press).  9. Passengers on a roller coaster at California's Six Flags Magic Mountain were trapped off the ground for about three hours after the ride struck a tree branch and slipped off the tracks. A few people were also injured. (Continue reading at USA Today). 10. Washington state retailers can now legally sell marijuana. Shortages are expected as the nation's second legal recreational marijuana market opens for business. (Continue reading at The Los Angeles Times) And finally ... In China, 100 panda figures made from bamboo scraps were displayed in the "1st Panda" show as part of an effort promote environmental awareness. (Continue reading at Xinhuanet). FREE AppDownload
