REUTERS/Tim WimborneAll's not well in Australia. Riding on the back of a mining boom, Australia escaped the worst of the financial recession relatively unscathed. But as the Chinese economy slowed and the commodity boom wound down, Australia's economy began to falter.  Now, unemployment is at a 12-year high of 6.4%, compared with a low of 4% in 2008. Some were quick to point out that headline number didn't tell the complete story. "The jump in the unemployment rate to a 12-year high reported last week was more noise than a new trend in the labor market," wrote Carl B. Weinberg at High Frequency Economics. "However, the headline did raise awareness in the markets that the unemployment rate is particularly high relative to recent history." Matthew Klein at FT Alphaville points out that "the trend is not encouraging." Australia's overall employment to population ratio has fallen by about 2 percentage points since the end of 2010, and he argues that this is in part because of the lack of job growth in mining but largely because the economy has been slowing. RBAIn its August statement on monetary policy, the Reserve Bank of Australia said that mining investment has fallen noticeably from its peak two years ago and has further to fall. Meanwhile, "non-mining business investment remains low relative to its average share of economic activity over recent decades, and the Bank’s liaison continues to report that firms are reluctant to undertake significant investment projects until they see a sustained period of strong demand." What's more? Retail sales fell 0.5% month-over-month in May, following a 0.1% decline in April. And the recent rise in unemployment has many worried about the impact on consumer spending. The growth in real household disposable income has slowed as well, up 1.5% in the year-to-March quarter, compared with 4% over the past decade. "The slow growth largely reflected weakness in labour income, consistent with subdued labour market conditions," according to the report. But wealth has been boosted by higher home and stock prices. RBA Some parts of the economy are ticking up. Australian manufacturing PMI moving into positive territory in July after eight months of contraction. But Aussie dollar strength has become a cause for concern. "Many respondents to the Australian PMI expressed renewed concern about the stronger Australian dollar, which has increased import competition and lowered demand and selling prices for locally made products again this month," according to the report. "Meanwhile, wages and input costs continued to grow, placing extra pressure on manufacturing businesses’ margins." John Edwards at the RBA continues to argue that the Aussie dollar is overvalued, which can only hurt an economy that is still heavily skewed towards export. The Aussie dollar is up nearly 30% against the U.S. dollar in the past 10 years, and 4.2% year-to-date. It's possible that as growth has once again become Beijing's top priority, it's mini stimulus could extend a little support to the Australian economy. But we'll be watching Australia's transition from an economy led by resource exports to one led by consumption. Meanwhile, the RBA has lowered its Australian GDP forecast to 2.5% this year, from its previous forecast of 2.75%. It expects GDP to expand 2.5% to 3.5% in 2015, down from previous forecast of 2.75% to 3.75%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA shopper browses for goods at Aeon, Japan's second largest retailer.Japan's GDP fell 6.8% in Q2. This was a sharp reversal from the 6.1% spike we saw in Q1. While the drop is jarring, it wasn't totally unexpected. In fact, economists were actually forecasting a 7.0% decline. Late in 2013, Japan announced a consumption tax hike that would go into effect in April. This caused Japanese consumers to shop like crazy in Q1 in anticipation of the tax. In economics, this is called pulling forward demand. Consumer spending dropped by 5.2% in Q2, which was worse than the 3.7% decline expected. None of this is new to Japan. Ahead of the report, Nomura's Yasuhiro Takahashi noted that consumer spending plunged 3.5% in Q2 1997 after a similar planned consumption tax hike, which went into effect in 1997. Additionally, Takahashi noted that sampling bias might make consumer spending appear worse than it really is. "In the first preliminary estimates for Q2 1997 there was a sharp fall in consumer spending (down 5.7%; 12 September 1997 edition of the Nikkei), which was then revised up as GDP statistics were revised," he said. "We could see a similar narrowing of the size of decline this time as well." Japan's Nikkei is up modestly early in Asia's Wednesday trading session. So, no big deal. Nikkei.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frank PolichThe S&amp;P 500 is up an incredible 190% since its March 2009 lows. It's up a whopping 50% since the beginning 2012. In a new 34-page note titled "Transitioning To Lower Returns," Barclays' U.S. equity strategist Jonathan Glionna writes that those years of awesome returns are behind us for now. "U.S. equities have made a remarkable advance in the past five years, recovering from the credit crisis, powering through the European sovereign debt scare, and surging on a third dose of quantitative easing, leaving the S&amp;P 500 close to an all-time high," he writes. "This advance was grounded in increased earnings, itself a byproduct of elevated profit margins; boosted by share repurchases, which are approaching new records; leveraged with more debt, which has never been higher; and augmented by an expansion of valuation multiples, with most now above historical averages." Indeed the rally we've experienced was well-justified.  But those market drivers are losing steam. "We believe U.S. equities are transitioning out of a recovery rally and into a period of lower returns as the benefits of margin expansion and share repurchases prove to be already priced in and a return of faster revenue growth becomes a prerequisite for another re-rating higher," he wrote. His warnings about peaking profit margins and slowing share repurchases are not news. Those themes have been told repeatedly. His warning about revenue growth — which he calls "the missing ingredient" — is somewhat surprising. Indeed many market bulls brush off worries about margins and buybacks by arguing that the economy is about to reach escape velocity, which in turn will help drive sales and inflation higher. (Remember, stocks tend to be a hedge against inflation because companies have the ability to maintain earnings by passing higher costs to customers by raising prices.) "Sales growth has been less than 3%, and we believe it will remain subdued because of weak domestic economic growth and an inability to restart last cycle’s growth engine: international sales," he said. Europe, which is one of the U.S.' biggest customers, has been reporting lots of disappointing economic data. Even once-bright spot Germany is showing the signs of an economy on the verge of contraction. Domestically, things aren't exactly great. A new NFIB survey revealed that 13% of American small business owners identify poor sales as their single most important problem. Stock market valuations from a sales perspective already appear expensive. "The last time the S&amp;P 500’s price-to-sales ratio was higher than it is now, sales were growing at 7%," Glionna writes. "We are setting our price targets for the S&amp;P 500 at 1975 for 2014 and 2100 for 2015," he writes. In other words, he sees stock rallying 2% from here to the end of the year, and then rising just 6% in the following year. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Beef Products Inc (BPI) facility is pictured in South Sioux City, NebraskaBy P.J. Huffstutter CHICAGO (Reuters) - Beef Products Inc will reopen a Kansas processing plant on Monday to boost production of "lean finely textured beef," which critics call "pink slime," as wholesale beef prices soar with a shrinking U.S. cattle herd.The reopening of the Garden City, Kansas, plant comes more than two years after it was shuttered following a national media controversy about the BPI product. The plant will collect raw chunks of meat and fat beef trimmings from a neighboring Tyson Foods  slaughterhouse, package them into large bins, and then ship the refrigerated containers to BPI's processing facility in Dakota City, Nebraska, BPI said on Tuesday. The company aims to hire 40 to 45 people for the Kansas plant, which had more than 230 employees prior to its closure. BPI is the leading maker of the low-fat product made from chunks of beef, including trimmings, and exposed to tiny bursts of ammonium hydroxide to kill E. coli and other dangerous contaminants. And until the spring of 2012, the company had four state-of-the art plants, more than 1,300 employees and was expanding aggressively. Few Americans realized the product was a mainstay of fast-food burgers, school lunch tacos and homemade meatloaf. But the meat processor shuttered most of its plants and its revenues plummeted that year - a collapse that company officials blame on a series of ABC News broadcasts in 2012 that repeatedly called BPI's product "pink slime." The company is embroiled in a sweeping defamation lawsuit in Union County Circuit Court in South Dakota against the network, star anchor Diane Sawyer and other defendants, and is seeking at least $1.2 billion in damages. Attorneys for both BPI and the network have proposed a trial date of February 2017. The company is growing again, Craig Letch, BPI's director of food quality &amp; food safety, said in a statement. "Although business conditions are not yet at the point where we can resume lean beef production operations in (Kansas), this is certainly a step in the right direction," Letch said. The size of the U.S. cattle herd has fallen to its smallest in 63 years after years of drought.     Cargill Inc [CARG.UL], one of the nation's largest beef processors, last month closed a plant in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, due to the scarcity of cattle. The company shuttered a Texas beef plant last year. Beef prices have been climbing as the herd shrinks. The retail price for extra lean ground beef in June hit a record high $5.48 per lb, surpassing the previous record of $5.42 in April. The case is Beef Products Inc et al v. American Broadcasting Cos et al, First Judicial Circuit Court of South Dakota, Union County, No. 12-292.  (Additional reporting by Tom Polansek and Theo Waters in Chicago; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Star5112 via FlickrThere are a few, who move toward the sounds of chaos.  Ready to respond at a moment’s notice,  And when time comes,  They are the first to move toward the sound of tyranny ... injustice ... and despair. They are forged ... in the crucible of training. They are The Few. The Proud. The Marines. -Recruitment video, US Marine Corps The US Marine Corps has a long and deserved outstanding reputation for bravery, purpose, and honor. They exemplify all the best characteristics of our country. In this note, I am not equating in any way Marines’ jobs, their duties, and the risks they take to protect the United States with anyone’s job in the financial markets. We have all worked with financial professionals who consider themselves “macho” or “alphas”, but realistically anyone in our industry is minor league when compared to a Marine. However, there seems to be a message for investors in the Marines’ current recruitment video regarding whether one would “move toward the sounds of chaos”. It seems that most investors have historically run away from chaos, and they seem to be doing it again. Stock market volatility is always a scary thing. Investors nearing retirement fear their nest eggs will evaporate. Younger investors saving for a home or a child’s college education fear their families’ futures might be in doubt. However, history suggests that allowing volatility to overrule a good investment plan tends to lead to poor performance. It’s not volatility itself that generally leads to poor longer-term performance, but rather it appears to be investors’ emotional reactions to volatility that ultimately lead to poor performance. Chart 1 below compares the 20-year investment performance of the so-called “average investor” to the performance of roughly twenty asset classes and sub-asset classes. Many investors probably have some sort of investment plan that likely includes many of these various asset categories. The performance of the typical investor over this time period is shockingly poor. The average investor has underperformed every category except Asian emerging market and Japanese equities. The average investor even underperformed cash (listed here as 3-month t-bills)! The average investor underperformed nearly every asset class. They could have improved performance by simply buying and holding any asset class other than Asian emerging market or Japanese equities. Thus, their underperformance suggests investors’ timing of asset allocation decisions must have been particularly poor, i.e., investors consistently bought assets that were overvalued and sold assets that were undervalued. They bought high and sold low. When chaos occurred, investors ran away. RBA Stock market volatility has increased, and investors are acting in typical fashion. They are running away. Chart 2 shows the rolling 12-month flows into US equity mutual funds. Investors have now reduced their US equity exposure for thirteen straight weeks. Consider chart 2 within the context of chart 1. Investors seem to be acting emotionally rather than investing with discipline. RBA Our motto at RBA is Uncertainty = OpportunitySM. History suggests that the best investment opportunities are in asset classes that investors shun. We strongly feel investors’ ongoing fear of US equities continues to offer substantial opportunity. We aren’t nearly as brave as Marines, but we do try to help our clients by looking for opportunities in investment chaos. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTube(Reuters) - The Securities and Exchange Commission has launched a broad examination of alternative mutual funds, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The so-called funds "sweep" includes examinations of large investment firms such as BlackRock Inc &lt;blk.n&gt; and AQR Capital Management LLC, as also smaller firms that previously didn't offer mutual funds, the Journal said. (http://on.wsj.com/1ppVgBx) BlackRock has launched seven alternative mutual funds aimed at penetrating the retail alternatives market. Alternative mutual funds typically employ investment strategies that imitate those of hedge funds, such as investing in private debt or shorting assets, and command higher fees. Traditional mutual funds, in comparison, generally invest in more standard asset classes such as stocks and bonds for the long haul. Reuters reported in July that a surge of investment in alternative mutual funds had caught the attention of the regulators and that the SEC would launch examinations into these. The SEC also expects alternative funds to follow a regulation that generally requires mutual funds to send payments to investors within seven days after they redeem shares. BlackRock and AQR Capital Management were not immediately available for comment.   (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Feroze Jamal) FREE AppDownload
Online investing company Wealthfront has just announced a new client: The San Francisco 49ers. Writes president and CEO Adam Nash on the Wealthfront blog: The San Francisco 49ers will cover the advisory fees on the first $100,000 each individual invests with Wealthfront. Wealthfront will also provide financial education for both current employees and alumni through its acclaimed seminars. The post goes on to explain that when Wealthfront noticed a pattern of professional athletes signing up for their services, they started exploring these players' unique challenges. Now, they have an entire football team on board. "We strive to provide our employees with the best possible benefits," 49ers CFO Cipora Herman told Wealthfront, "and that includes resources dedicated to financial education and management.” So-called robo-advisors like Wealthfront and Betterment, which manage clients' investments through passive investing based on algorithms, have been growing quickly in terms of the assets they manage. Now, with the addition of the 49ers to the client list of one of the best-known players in the space, their profile might begin to grow as well. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S.-court appointed mediator Daniel Pollack arrives at federal court for a hearing on Argentina's debt crisis, in New YorkBy Daniel Bases NEW YORK (Reuters) - Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator in the debt dispute between Argentina and holdout creditors, who has come under fire from the Argentine government for his handling of the talks, expects to hold more meetings with both sides. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa appointed Pollack, an experienced New York lawyer, as Special Master in the long-running dispute that dates back to Argentina's near $100 billion sovereign debt default in early 2002. The two sides have not met since Argentina defaulted for the second time in 12 years on July 30. "I have been in touch with the attorneys for the parties. I am anticipating meetings of the parties and their attorneys as we go forward," Pollack told Reuters. He declined to elaborate further. Holdout creditors led by deep-pocketed hedge funds Elliott Management Corp and Aurelius Capital Management, won an award of $1.33 billion plus accrued interest in 2012. Earlier on Tuesday Thomson Reuters IFR reported that plans being formulated by international banks to try to facilitate a buyout of the holdouts positions was struggling to come to fruition. Elliott, with $24.8 billion in assets under management (AUM), and Aurelius, with $4.5 billion in AUM, specialize in buying up distressed or defaulted debt and negotiating profitable settlements, sometimes through the courts. Their case was upheld on appeal and denied hearing by the U.S. Supreme Court in June, just before a regularly scheduled coupon payment was due on restructured bonds. Argentina defaulted July 30 on those bonds after the two sides could not come to an settlement, having only been brought face-to-face for the first time in 13 years just one day ahead of the deadline. Buenos Aires lashed out at Pollack the day after the default calling him incompetent. Griesa jumped to Pollack's defense on Aug. 1, confirming his position and maintained an order for both sides to continue to meet in hopes of reaching a settlement. In 2012 Griesa ordered that Argentina could not pay creditors who decided to settle with the government in 2005 and 2010 without also paying the holdouts concurrently, basing his decision on an equal treatment clause known as pari passu that was contained in the original debt issued in 1994. Griesa held a second post-default hearing with attorneys for both sides, this time prompted by published legal notices by Argentina asserting it was not in default because it deposited its coupon payment with the trustee Bank of New York Mellon. That $539 million deposit is now frozen per Griesa's 2012 ruling. Griesa said Argentina it was publishing misleading statements and then threatened a contempt-of-court order if it did not stop. Argentina's lawyers from Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton said they had nothing to do with the legal notices.  (Reporting By Daniel Bases; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee is seen behind a glass wall with the logo of Alibaba at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou, Zhejiang provinceSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd overhauled its pact with the parent of its payments affiliate Alipay, boosting the Chinese e-commerce giant's potential gain if Alipay is sold or goes public, according to an amended Alibaba filing on Tuesday. Alibaba, which is set to go public in New York later this year, also agreed to sell its small and medium enterprise loan business for $518 million cash to Alipay's parent company, called the Small and Micro Financial Services Company. The deal was revised on Aug. 12, Alibaba said in the securities filing. The earlier agreement was reached in 2011.  (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / carterseFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Active Managers Must Dodge A Market Bubble Puncture In Order To Avoid Dire Futures (Morningstar) Active managers have become 'the periphery' as passive funds have been overtaking active funds. The most likely way that active managers can reverse their "dire future" would be to "dodge the puncture of a market bubble," writes John Rekenthaler. For active managers to benefit during a market bubble, it must occur within a market segment. "While a market crash is required to pop the bubble and release active managers’ period of outperformance, a crash alone is not a sufficient condition." In 2008, active management's fortunes were "damaged rather than improved" by the plunge.  "The other requirement, of course, is that active funds have a dramatic underweighting in that segment. It does no good if they own the bubble." And the problem with that, is "today’s stock fund managers are not positioned much differently from the overall marketplace," according to Rekenthaler. "If a market crash drags down passive funds, active funds surely will not be far behind."  "There is, however, a possibility for bond-fund managers. In aggregate, taxable-bond managers hold much fewer Treasuries and government-agency bonds than does the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, the most common benchmark used for taxable-bond funds," he writes. "…If interest rates were to rise dramatically, thereby decimating Treasuries, active taxable-bond managers might regain the initiative. " HighTower Recruits An $800 Million Merrill Advisor Team (Financial Planning) A Merrill Lynch team with $800 million in assets under management (AUM) is joining HighTower Partnership. The newly recruited team will "represent the firm's fourth office in Florida," Andrew Welsch at Financial Planning reports. Three of the advisors — Pamela Lynn Abraham, Jack Thomas, and Trevos Swartz — join the firm as partners, and will have an equity stake in their new employer. An additional advisor, Mathew Verrengia, senior registered associate Benita Alstatt, an client services associate Tiffany Likness also made the move. Abraham had been at Merrill Lynch her entire 33-year career — making this her first ever switch. Hiring Millennials Is A Long Term Investment In The Company (The Wall Street Journal) Jim Meehan managing partner at 1847Financial partially credits a threefold increase in production from 2011 to 2013, to the almost 40 millennial financial advisors he hired. He states that the hire was merely "smart business" because millennials bring "energy and enthusiasm to the business". Additionally firms that don't hire millennials are not investing in the future. "Many advisors don't have a succession plan," he told Veronica Dagher at the WSJ. "What do they think is going to happen to all of their clients and their business?" He's even started an intern program with the hopes of "hiring some of those interns when they graduate". However, the downside of millennial hires is that sometimes older clients don't take them seriously. To combat this problem and to help the millennials gain credibility, Meehan puts them on teams with more seasoned advisors. Soaring Profit Margins Aren't A Normal Level Of Profitability — They're A Peak (AllianceBernstein) Net profit margins have gone from 4.6% in March 2009 to 9.8% at the end of Q1 2014. "The problem is that, historically, margins like these have marked a peak rather than a normal level of profitability," writes James T. Tierney, Jr., at AllianceBernstein. "And the factors that have driven margin expansion to date are unlikely to persist." Labor efficiencies, lower depreciation and amortization, and reduced interest expense, all factors that have driven margin expansion won't last long. He says that, firstly, "the labor market is tighter, which could introduce higher wage inflation. While technology will always be a persistent pressure on labor, with employee share of revenue at very low levels, it may be much harder for companies to tighten wage costs further." Secondly, amortization and depreciation have declined for two reasons: companies are now more conservative about allocating capital; and "certain accounting rules have changed." Thirdly, "companies can't really rely on improvements to financing to help boost margins."  "Investors should recalibrate their expectations to the new profitability reality. It’s clearly going to be much harder to rely on margin expansion to deliver double-digit earnings growth in the quarters ahead, so revenue growth will be much more important to earnings growth. In this environment, the best defense to slowing margin gains is to identify companies that can beat expectations by delivering secular revenue growth." One Of The Most Important Investment Innovations Has A Dark Side (Vanguard) ETFs have been some of the most important investment innovations of the past 25 years. But the "dark side of innovation is proliferation", according to Vanguard CEO Bill McNabb. "We now see some ETF providers thinly slicing market and country exposures. Others are basing products on back-tested data, bringing the market to only those that 'promise to outperform' broad markets." Additionally, Vanguard has doubts over whether this "would ultimately benefit investors." Another problem with ETFs is the "issue of capacity constraints with traditional active mutual funds", according to McNabb. He writes: "when an Vanguard active fund reaches a certain asset level or is attracting too much 'hot money', we close the fund to new investors." But doing that with active ETFs is difficult. "Our research shows that after these ETFs are launched, most actually underperform the market.1 It's hard to have the discipline to use ETFs for broad asset allocation and not get caught up in the product fads of the day. But it's the right thing for investors," according to McNabb. FREE AppDownload
Most people are just terrible at investing. We hear about this frequently. One big problem is that investors often find themselves buying at highs and selling at lows, especially when volatility picks up and patience is tested. "Amidst difficult financial times, emotional instincts often drive investors to take actions that make no rational sense but make perfect emotional sense," said BlackRock back in 2012. "Psychological factors such as fear often translate into poor timing of buys and sells." Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors considers twenty years of historical data for this in a new research note. "The performance of the typical investor over this time period is shockingly poor," wrote Bernstein. "The average investor has underperformed every category except Asian emerging market and Japanese equities. The average investor even underperformed cash (listed here as 3-month t-bills)! The average investor underperformed nearly every asset class. They could have improved performance by simply buying and holding any asset class other than Asian emerging market or Japanese equities. Thus, their underperformance suggests investors’ timing of asset allocation decisions must have been particularly poor, i.e., investors consistently bought assets that were overvalued and sold assets that were undervalued." Bernstein's data is based on the buying and selling activity of mutual fund investors. "They bought high and sold low," he added. "When chaos occurred, investors ran away." Richard Bernstein Advisors FREE AppDownload
Sony PicturesWhen the news of that beloved actor/comedian Robin Williams had passed away at 63 in an apparent suicide, I felt as if part of my childhood had died. I grew up watching Williams' films–Good Will Hunting, Dead Poets Society, Jumanji, Mrs. Doubtfire, Aladdin, etc. He's a legend.  Feeling sentimental, I decided to watch the Peter Pan remake "Hook" on Netflix last night.  Watching the film as an adult, it made me realize that it's actually sort of a Wall Street movie. Maybe it's just the financial journalist in me. Either way, the film has a simple, important message that's applicable to Wall Street today – spend time with your kids.  In the film Robin Williams plays Peter Pan, but he's not a boy in Never-Neverland, he's all grown up. He's now Peter Banning–an overweight, middle-aged, hot-shot M&amp;A attorney—and he's forgotten his own identity of the kid who used to fight Captain Hook. Williams' grown-up character is attached to his cellphone. He's constantly discussing deals. He hardly pays attention to his own children–Maggie and Jack. The movie opens with him getting distracted at his daughter's school play and missing his son's baseball game. It's close to Christmas, so the Banning family flies to London to visit Great Grandma Wendy Darling, the grandmother of Banning's wife Moira. Banning hasn't visited Wendy in ten years.  Hook screencapWhile at Wendy's house, Williams' character freaks out about a $5 billion deal that could fall through. His kids are playing in the background. While on the call, Banning says, "Will someone just shoot me?" and his son responds playfully making a gun gesture with his hands, "Bang, bang!" Banning lashes out.  "Will everyone just shut up! And leave me alone for one moment?! Moira, get them out of here, will you? I'm on the phone call of my life! Wendy later asks Peter about his job. "I am still in mergers &amp; acquisitions...," he began to explain.    His son Jack interrupted, "Any resistance, and he blows them out of the water!"   "So, Peter, you've become a pirate," Wendy said.  Hook screencapMoira reminds Banning that they only have a few short years with their children. Soon they will grow up and they won't want to spend time with their parents. That night, Banning, his wife and Wendy attend a ceremony. When they return home, they discover that the children have been kidnapped by Captain Hook.  Banning, who is still in denial about his Peter Pan identity, is forced to go back to Neverland by Tinkerbell (played by a tiny Julia Roberts). When Banning arrives on the Jolly Roger — Captain Hook's ship — he's confident that as a powerful corporate attorney he can just bring his kids home.  "Hook, you let those kids out of that net in less than one minute or you better get an attorney and hope to God he's better than me," Banning said. "Who are you?" Hook said.  "I'm Peter Banning, Attorney at Law, these are my children and I want them back." At one point, Bannings tries to write a check to get his kids back. Hook is surprised and disappointed that Peter Pan has grown up — he doesn't want to fight a lawyer, he wants to fight The Pan. Hook demands that Banning fly and free his children but Banning couldn't. Over the next three days, Banning meets up with the Lost Boys, a group of orphaned kids now lead by Rufio. "I want to speak to a grown up!" Banning demands "All grown-ups are pirates. We kill pirates," Rufio replied. "I'm not a pirate. It so happens that I am a lawyer."  "Kill the lawyer!" "I'm not that kind of lawyer."   Hook screencapInitially, Banning struggles to find his identity amongst the Lost Boys. Soon, though, he learns to use his imagination to find his "happy thought" — the memories that will give him the power of flight. Within three days, he's able to fly, fight and "crow" — like the Lost Boys do — and he's once again sporting Peter Pan's signature green tights. He returns to the Jolly Roger to retrieve his children, and reveals that his "happy thought" was his son, Jack.  A battle between the pirates and the Lost Boys ensues. Hook faces off with Rufio and stabs him. Before he dies, Rufio tells Banning, "You know what I wish? I wish I had a dad like you." Hook is ultimately defeated. Banning and his kids fly back to London. At the end, Banning tosses his cellphone out the window into the snow.  The moral of the story is simple–No matter how high-flying your career might be, family always comes first.     FREE AppDownload
Will Wei, Business InsiderKing Digital, which makes the popular "Candy Crush" mobile game, was down more than 25% in after-hours trade on Tuesday after announcing a surprising $150 million special dividend. King Digital's net income in the second quarter totaled $161.7 million, and the company reported $832.2 million of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter. So it isn't like the company doesn't have the funds to pay out a dividend, which is worth $0.469 per share outstanding and is payable on Sept. 30, but a large payout from a company that recently went public is a surprising move.  Essentially, King Digital just paid out its entire first quarter earnings in the form of a dividend. This payout could be read a few different ways. For one, investors could see it as a reward, given that the stock has closed above the $22.50 initial offering price just once in five months though its cash position is still fairly strong. Another way to see the payout is King Digital waving the white flag on its future. The company's "Candy Crush" game has been a massive success, but following up a hit of that caliber with another is a huge ask for any company.  There's also the matter of the company's post-IPO lock-up expiration. On Twitter, CNBC's Carl Quintanilla, citing comments from analysts at Pacific Crest, said that 93% of King Digital shares are impacted the Sept. 22 lock-up expiration that looms. A lock-up expiration is the first date that insiders can sell their stake in a company after its IPO, and so this dividend could be seen as a way to keep investors in from selling their stake. In its earnings release, King Digital added that: "In addition, the Company's executive officers, directors, founders, and affiliated funds, including Bellaria Holding S.a.r.l of whom Apax WW Nominees Ltd is the sole shareholder, together representing 80% of outstanding shares, have agreed to a new lock up with the Company through the date following the Company's announcement of fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings." The read-through on this announcement could be that the company expects the remaining 13% of shares impacted by the lock-up expiration to be sold into the market. In addition to the dividend announcement, King Digital said that in Q2, the company earned $0.59 per share, which was in-line with analyst expectations. Bookings were also better than expected, coming in at $611 million against expectations for $606 million. King said bookings would slow in the third quarter, with the company expecting bookings of $500 million to $525 million, with full-year bookings of $2.25 billion to $2.35 billion.  With a decline of more than 23%, King Digital has had more than $1 billion taken off its total market capitalization in just a few minutes after this report.  FREE AppDownload
Richie Rich/flickrRadioShack sales have been in a steady decline for years.  The company is currently closing more than 1,100 underperforming locations and remodeling some stores with modern technology. But analyst Michael Lasser at UBS writes that he doesn't think RadioShack will be able to recover (via Ben Levisohn at Barron's).  RadioShack's new efforts to redesign stores are too little, too late, Lasser writes in a note to clients. "Even if these stores (and the other remodeled locations) have seen better results, we don’t think it will be enough to impact the entire chain," Lasser said. "Also, we are skeptical that the refreshed locations will provide a halo benefit to those stores that haven’t been touched."  While the brand could improve the experience at a few stores, that doesn't mean that the overall business will improve, Lasser writes.  He also criticizes the company's strategy of adding new projects "to furnish a reputation of having the latest and greatest tech items."  "We think this has been akin to throwing things against the wall to see what sticks," Lasser said.  Lasser believes that competition within the industry is to blame.  "RadioShack’s efforts to effectuate a turn-around have been hampered by a difficult operating environment," he writes.  FREE AppDownload
APA 'Candy Crush' mascot on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.King, the maker of popular mobile games like "Candy Crush Saga," reported earnings for last quarter on Tuesday. Earnings were right in line with expectations, but it was a miss on revenue. Here's the score: EPS: $0.59 vs. $0.59 expected. Revenue: $593.5 million vs. $606 million expected. The stock crashed. It was down at least 20% after hours.  King also announced a $150 million one-time dividend for the company's top directors, executives, and investors. King games had 138 million daily active users and 485 million monthly active users last quarter. Because of last quarter's lower-than-expected revenue, King is lowering its guidance for the rest of the year. It expects gross bookings to be $500 million to $525 for the quarter ending September 30. It expects gross bookings for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31 to be $2.25 billion to $2.35 billion. Mobile gaming companies like King and Zynga are under intense pressure to crank out insanely popular games. Usage of games like "Candy Crush" and "Farmville" tend to fall off over time, so these companies are constantly looking to create a new hit. Zynga has had trouble doing that over the years. King may be in the same boat soon. King's strategy for now seems to be making sequels to popular franchises like "Candy Crush Saga" and "Bubble Witch Saga." King also announced Tuesday that it bought Nonstop Games, a game developer in Singapore, in a $90 million deal. You can read King's full earnings release here &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Bernard Madoff exiting the Manhattan federal court house in New YorkBy Svea Herbst-Bayliss BOSTON (Reuters) - Two former hedge fund managers who boasted Ivy League credentials and invested some of their clients' money with swindlers Bernard Madoff and Thomas Petters, agreed to plead guilty to criminal charges that they lied about their investment record, the U.S. attorney in Boston said on Tuesday. Gabriel Bitran, 69, a former professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and associate dean at its business school, and his son Marco Bitran, 39, will be sentenced to serve at least two years but no more than five years in prison if the court accepts the pleas, U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz said in a statement. No dates have been set for when the men will make their guilty pleas or when they will be sentenced. The men founded hedge fund GMB Capital Management in 2005 and raised more than $500 million from wealthy investors who wanted a piece of the MIT's professor's exclusive computer models, which the pair falsely said had never suffered a down year and delivered double-digit returns ranging between 16 percent and 23 percent. But instead of investing the money themselves, the Bitrans who boasted degrees from MIT and Harvard University and work experience at Wellington Management, put it with others, including Tom Petters' and Madoff's frauds. At the height of the financial crisis when several of the Bitrans' funds plunged in value in the fall of 2008, the pair pulled roughly $12 million of their own money out but left their investors stuck in tumbling investments, Ortiz said. The men lost more than $140 million of GMB investors' principal. Marco Bitran's lawyer said that he looks forward to putting the matter behind him, while Gabriel Bitran's lawyer said that he accepts responsibility and is pleased that there will be a resolution of the matter. Two years ago, the men settled civil charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission when they neither admitted nor denied the SEC's findings and agreed to disgorge $4.3 million, pay a $250,000 fine each and be barred from the securities industry, the SEC said. Madoff is serving 150 years in prison for turning his wealth management business into a giant Ponzi scheme. Petters was sentenced to 50 years in prison on similar charges.  (Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Roosevelt CassioA resident walks with a dog across the drying bottom of the Paraibuna dam, part of the Cantareira water system that provides greater Sao Paulo with most of its water, in Redencao da Serra, August 11, 2014.Stocks went nowhere on the second day of the trading of the week, with the Nasdaq, which lead yesterday's gains, logging the steepest loss.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. NFIB's small business optimism survey for July showed that the number of respondents saying that there are "few or no qualified applicants" for jobs continues to rise, coming in at 42% of respondents in the latest survey. Overall, the index rose 0.7 points to 95.7 in July from June's reading.  2. The latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary, or JOLTS report, from the BLS showed that job openings grew again in June, to 4.67 million from 4.635 million May. This is slightly better than the 4.6 million openings that were expected by economists. The June report showed that the hires rate was up 0.1% to 3.5% in June, while the separations rate was unchanged at 3.3%. The quits rate was unchanged at 1.8% in June. 3. The Treasury Department released its latest budget statement for July, showing that the deficit narrowed to $94.6 billion in July, down from $97.5 billion in the same month last year. This deficit was also narrower than the $96 billion expected by economists. Year-to-date, the deficit is at $460.5 billion, down from the $680.2 billion at the same point last year. 4. Shares of Intercept Pharmaceuticals gained 16% after the company on Monday afternoon announced an update on its liver disease treatment. The stock, which gained more than 55% in after hours trade on Monday, has had a volatile year, nearly quadrupling in one day in January, and including Tuesday's gains was up more than 320% year-to-date. 5. Revel Casino, the most expensive hotel and casino in Atlantic City history, said it would shut its doors on September 10 after no qualified bidders emerged to bail out the project. 6. Israeli biotech company Vascular Biogenics, which made its debut on the Nasdaq on August 1, said on August 8 that it was no longer public. In a statement, the company said its underwriters, Wells Fargo and Deutsche Bank, terminate the offering "due to an unexpected situation in which a substantial existing U.S. shareholder did not fund payment for shares it previously agreed to purchase in the offering." 7. Last week, much of the chatter around the market surrounded the massive outflow from high-yield mutual funds. Goldman Sachs' Charles Himmelberg put this move into some more context in a research note to clients, calling it a "six-sigma" event, or an event that has the same likelihood of flipping a coin 29 times in a row and getting heads each time.   Don't Miss: Another Ship Carrying Millions Of Dollars Worth Of Crude Oil Is Doing Donuts In The Atlantic Ocean » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Fields Medal is widely considered the most prestigious award in mathematics, and the 2014 Fields Medalists were just announced. The Fields Medal is given to between two and four mathematicians under age 40 at the International Congress of Mathematicians, held once every four years. According to the International Mathematical Union, the body that awards the Fields Medal, the award intends "to recognize outstanding mathematical achievement for existing work and for the promise of future achievement."  It is usually awarded for mathematical research that solves or extends problems that have vexed mathematicians for decades or centuries, or research that greatly expands on or even creates new areas of mathematical thought. Here are the four 2014 Fields Medalists: International Mathematical Union2014 Fields Medal Winner Artur Avila.Artur Avila is a Brazilian mathematician who has contributed to a number of fields. Some of his most notable research is in the study of chaos theory and dynamical systems. These areas seek to understand the behavior of systems that evolve over time in which very small changes in initial conditions can lead to wildly varying outcomes, such as weather patterns, as typified in the classic example of a butterfly's wings flapping leading to a change in weather hundreds of miles away. One of Avila's major contributions to this field of study was in clarifying that a certain broad class of dynamical systems fall into one of two categories. They either eventually evolve into a stable state, or fall into a chaotic stochastic state, in which their behavior can be described probabilistically.   International Mathematical Union2014 Fields Medal Winner Manjul Bhargava.Manjul Bhargava's research is focused on number theory and algebra. One of the basic subjects in algebraic number theory is the behavior of polynomials with integer coefficients, like 3x2 + 4xy -5y2. Carl Friederich Gauss, one of the greatest mathematicians of the late 18th and early 19th centuries, developed a powerful tool for analyzing polynomials like the one above, where the variables are all raised to at most the second power. Bhargava, by intensely studying Gauss' work and adding to it an impressive level of geometric and algebraic insight, was able to extend Gauss' tool to higher degree polynomials in which we raise the variables to higher powers than two. This work vastly expands the ability of number theorists to study these fundamental mathematical objects. International Mathematical Union2014 Fields Medal Winner Martin Hairer.Martin Hairer researches stochastic partial differential equations. Differential equations show up throughout mathematics, physics, and engineering. They describe processes that change over time, like the movement of a shell shot from a cannon, or the price of a stock or bond. Differential equations come in a variety of flavors. Ordinary differential equations are equations that only have one variable involved. The motion of a cannonball, for example, can be modeled with a simple ordinary differential equation in which the only variable is the time since the cannon was fired. Partial differential equations involve processes that depend on multiple variables. In many physical settings, both time and the current position of an object are needed to determine the future trajectory of the object. These describe a much wider variety of processes in the world, and are generally much harder to work with than one-variable ordinary equations. Differential equations can also be either deterministic or stochastic. The cannonball's movement, or the movement of a satellite orbiting earth, are deterministic: Outside of measurement error, once we've solved the equation, we have no doubt about where the cannonball or satellite will be at a given point in time. Stochastic equations have a random element involved. The motion of sugar grains stirred in a cup of coffee, or a stock's price at a given moment in time are both best described by models that have an element of noise or randomness. Stochastic partial differential equations — equations that have multiple input variables and random noise elements — have traditionally been very difficult for mathematicians to work with. Hairer developed a new theoretical framework that makes these equations far more tractable, opening the door to being able to solve a number of equations with both large amounts of mathematical interest in their own rights, and with powerful applications in the sciences and engineering. International Mathematical Union2014 Fields Medal Winner Maryam Mirzakhani.Maryam Mirzakhani's work focuses on the geometry of Riemann surfaces. Riemann surfaces are a classic type of non-Euclidean geometry: while a Riemann surface still has two dimensions like a plane, and we can still define lines, angles, and curves on the surface, the way that the measurement of angles and distances will come out can be very different from what happens on a normal Euclidean plane. A basic example of this that we've looked at before is the Riemann sphere: a version of a sphere in which we still have a notion of lines and angles, but where strange things can happen, like triangles with three 90-degree angles. Riemann surfaces can get far more complicated than the Riemann sphere, and one of the major research areas in the study of these surfaces is how one Riemann surface can be smoothly deformed or smushed into another surface. These deformations themselves have their own strange geometries, called "moduli spaces," and Mirzakhani has contributed several interesting results in understanding these mysterious spaces. FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: Below is an excerpt from Tim Swanson's new book, "The Anatomy of a Money-like Informational Commodity," now available in PDF and at Amazon.  The charts in the chapter below are reused throughout the remaining sections of the book primarily because of their importance in probing the blockchain.  Understanding how to read them is critical in discussing how to measure user adoption and growth. For example, in July 2014, Pantera Capital, an investment fund focused on bitcoin, released their proprietary “BitIndex” which attempts to quantify bitcoin adoption without the use of monetary signals.[i] In the chart above, the constituent parts are: The problem with the first 6-out-of-7 components in the Pantera non-monetary index is that they precisely measure the wrong thing, interest, and fail to accurately describe the right thing, adoption.  Furthermore, in their announcement they mention that they intentionally underweight transaction volume; yet this is the only valid measurement in their entire index.[ii] What does that mean? In Naked Statistics, author Charles Wheelan describes a gift he received for Christmas one year: a laser golf range finder that he anticipated would improve his game due to its precision.[iii]  Yet this did not occur because it did not measure what really needed to be measured: accuracy.  In his words: There were two problems. First, I used the stupid device for three months before I realized that it was set to meters rather than to yards; every seemingly precise calculation (147.2) was wrong. Second, I would sometimes inadvertently aim the laser beam at the trees behind the green, rather than at the flag marking the hole, so that my “perfect” shot would go exactly the distance it was supposed to go—right over the green into the forest. The lesson for me, which applies to all statistical analysis, is that even the most precise measurements or calculations should be checked against common sense. People use Wikipedia to find out information that is complicated, when they do not understand it.  Thus, there is a difference between what Pantera wants to measure (adoption and growth) versus what they did measure (interest, education and awareness). Despite a creative effort, Pantera is not measuring what it is trying to measure.   If a key indicator as to whether or not economies (virtual or physical) expand is based on Wikipedia viewership (like Bitcoin supposedly is), then Brazil’s GDP will most certainly see huge growth because the entry for Brazil was ranked 53rd in mid-July 2014.[iv]  The reality is that Wikipedia views of Bitcoin represents interest or education and not usage or adoption – or in other words, interest grows but adoption does not.  In mid-July 2014, O.J. Simpson was the 779th most popular Wikipedia entry but readers (probably) were not trying to figure out how to lead an interstate highway chase during rush hour.  Similarly, several Transformer movie entries rank in the top 350 but it is also unlikely that there was a simultaneous underground, organic movement for creating origami-like talking animatronics on wheels.  Interest is not leading to adoption (conversion rates), why?   As a friend explained to me, perhaps it is akin to opening lines at a movie: if they like it there will be lines, if they don’t then there won’t be.  Maybe people, despite their awareness and exposure to Bitcoin just don’t like it or have no use for it. The problem with the github commit component is that it is an input divorced from its output and suffers the same problem that U.S. News &amp; World Reports(USNWR) statistics fail with in regards to ranking colleges.  For instance, some of the metrics for USNWR deal with incoming GPAs, standardized tests and alumni donations which may correlate with a successful collegiate career for some students but do not necessarily cause it or lead to success afterwards.  More on this later below. What about on the output side of Bitcoin?  How do we measure that with the protocol?  One is if nodes and miners have upgraded their software. Or in other words, at least two components of their index can be gamed, github commits and Wikipedia edits, and consequently the future of Bitcoin can get exponentially grander by merely spending a few dollars on Mechanical Turk.[v]  For instance, Belkin, the electronic manufacturer was in the limelight 5 years ago for astroturfing: hiring people to write 5-star reviews of its products via the Mechanical Turk platform.[vi]  Just as “click farms” have been created to inflate “Likes” on Facebook pages, there is no reason Mechanical Turk could not be used for making Wikipedia edits to juice that part of the index as well.[vii] Likewise, the number of commits a github repo has, while on the face of it seems to measure developer activity, but it is unclear what the quality of these commits are or whether or not they are eventually removed.  Or more importantly, whether or not the code is shipped and installed by miners and verification nodes.  And this, the BitIndex does not measure: one-third of all nodes are still running version 0.8.x which are over a year old.  Similarly, if a serious flaw and vulnerability was found in the core Bitcoin code base (bitcoind) which caused a cascade of hard forks that destroyed Bitcoin entirely, the github commit component would precisely measure the wrong thing, inputs, rather than an accurate attribute: healthy production code.  In fact, that measure would spike, leading observers to believe that this collapse is good news for Bitcoin. Charles Wheelan also describes this input versus output problem with USNWR which concurrently befalls the BitIndex.  For example, why should alumni giving count for 5% instead of 1% or 10% in the USNWR?   And what is the exact weighting for these corresponding seven components in the BitIndex?  In his words:[viii] For all the data collected by USNWR, it’s not obvious that the rankings measure what prospective students ought to care about: How much learning is going on at any given institution? Football fans may quibble about the composition of the passer index, but no one can deny that its component parts—completions, yardage, touchdowns, and interceptions—are an important part of a quarterback’s overall performance. That is not necessarily the case with the USNWR criteria, most of which focus on inputs (e.g., what kind of students are admitted, how much faculty are paid, the percentage of faculty who are full-time) rather than educational outputs. Two notable exceptions are the freshman retention rate and the graduation rate, but even those indicators do not measure learning. As Michael McPherson points out, “We don’t really learn anything from U.S. News about whether the education they got during those four years actually improved their talents or enriched their knowledge.” All of this would still be a harmless exercise, but for the fact that it appears to encourage behavior that is not necessarily good for students or higher education. For example, one statistic used to calculate the rankings is financial resources per student; the problem is that there is no corresponding measure of how well that money is being spent. An institution that spends less money to better effect (and therefore can charge lower tuition) is punished in the ranking process. Colleges and universities also have an incentive to encourage large numbers of students to apply, including those with no realistic hope of getting in, because it makes the school appear more selective. This is a waste of resources for the schools soliciting bogus applications and for students who end up applying with no meaningful chance of being accepted. Merchant adoption, as we have seen throughout this book, bears little correlation with consumer adoption in Bitcoin.  In fact, merchant adoption tripled in the first half of 2014 without a similar increase in consumer usage.  Hashrate similarly does not measure adoption, but rather, hashrate.  Because of a steady decrease in distributed miners, the network is qualitatively less secure due to centralization and this is not measured or captured by hashrate.  The hashrate is distributed not at the mean, but on one tail, leading to cartelization concerns.[ix]  As noted by Jeff Garzik in chapter 1, for all intents and purposes the Bitcoin network is merely comprised of 12 people (mining pools) and at most 7,000 fully validating nodes and declining.  Google searches, as shown in chapter 9, has seen a continual decline since its absolute peak in December and correlates largely with the media boom-bust cycle.  Perhaps this will pick up in the future, but this is not an accurate way to gauge adoption.  Similarly, the increase in the number of installed wallets is not the same as the number of actively used wallets let alone user adoption.  For example, the amount of downloads of all Linux distributions is in the tens of millions but the amount of active users of desktop Linux is a small fraction of all operating systems by users (it varies between 1%-1.75%).[x]  Download and installation does not mean usage.  As noted later in chapter 8, the Bitcoin Android wallet has had a horizontal usage rate since February 2014 and because it is the most popular wallet it is possible that most other wallet providers have seen similar trends.  For example, the number of Blockchain.info “My Wallet” wallets steadily increase each month yet the corresponding “My Wallet Number of Transactions per day” and “My Wallet Transaction Volume” remains relatively flat the past six months: users probably forgot their wallet password and/or create a new wallet for each of their transactions.[xi]  Or in other words, the number of “My Wallet Users” does not correlate with usage which likely means they are not new users.  Contrary to Blockchain.info’s statements, they do not actually have 2 million users as they are conflating wallets with users.[xii]  Similarly, as shown several times, the collective transaction volume on the Bitcoin network is flat and has been for 7 months despite significant merchant onboarding and increase in “wallet users.” Brett King, author and founder of Moven, independently pointed out a similar phenomenon in July 2014:[xiii] If we look at the most successful mobile payments initiatives in the US today, then the best candidates would be the Starbucks mobile app, Venmo and Dwolla P2P apps, and the mobile wallets of Google and ISIS. Bitcoin global transaction volume in USD peaked at US$180 million in June according to Blockchain.info, but the problem we’ve got is that it is unlikely that that transaction volume correlates with mobile wallet usage, in fact, we know it doesn’t. If it did we’d see wallet downloads improving transaction volume. The more likely conclusion is again, these are not new users being added at Blockchain.info but instead are existing users creating new wallets because they misplaced their passwords or for features like Shared Coin (e.g., coin mixing). How to measure the adoption and growth of bitcoin? There are four charts that I show throughout this book that use data from the blockchain, the public ledger, which shows what is actually taking place on the network.  Instead of guessing with laser range finders, I would argue that the four indicators taken together paint an accurate picture of adoption and usage: Number of Transactions Per Day (Transactional Volume), Bitcoin Days Destroyed, Miner Fees and Total Volume Output.  Below is a description of each one. The chart above is the on-chain transactional volume over the past year.[xiv]  As noted throughout this study, in terms of visualizing consumer usage, this is arguably the most important chart.  Despite a tripling or even quadrupling of merchant support, there has been very little corresponding on-chain growth.  Instead, most of the growth is on the edges, in trust-me silos.   The spikes in late November, early December 2013 correlate with the boom in market prices for bitcoins. Tim Swanson The chart above is the on-chain transactional volume over the past year.[xv]  As noted throughout this study, in terms of visualizing consumer usage, this is arguably the most important chart.  Despite a tripling or even quadrupling of merchant support, there has been very little corresponding on-chain growth.  Instead, most of the growth is on the edges, in trust-me silos.   The spikes in late November, early December 2013 correlate with the boom in market prices for bitcoins. Tim Swanson The chart above measures Total Transaction Fees (TTF), the total bitcoin value of transaction fees miners earn per day.[xvi]  These are the seen fees and currently represent, at the time of this writing, between 0.2% and 0.4% of the total miners revenue which is more accurately captured in the Cost Per Transaction (via the block reward subsidy) discussed later in chapter 11.[xvii]  Nonetheless, TTF is important because if more Bitcoin was attracting more on-chain users, they would collectively be paying more fees to miners for their transactions.  As visualized above, TTF has been flat since November 2013 reinforcing the view that there has not been a large growth in on-chain usage (off-chain is not depicted as that information is proprietary).   Tim Swanson   The fourth chart (above) shows the Total Output Volume, the total value of all transaction outputs per day.[xviii]  This is a good measure for visualizing the upper bound, the maximum amount of bitcoins that are sent in any given day.  As seen here, the trends correlate with trading activity centered around the late November, early December 2013 boom.  If bitcoin adoption and usage was increasing exponentially as some advocates claim, this chart would capture that. Yet why doesn’t total output volume tell us the whole story of bitcoins used each day?  Because it also includes “change” from return addresses which can throw off the real number by an order of magnitude upward; the real number is likely lower than shown above.  The issue again is: is Charles Wheelan (or Pantera) measuring what was intended to be measured?  Or is he using the laser range finder on the golf course, failing to see the forest for the trees? For instance, during the early years of the Cold War a Soviet bomber was unveiled, Myasishchev M-4 Molot, that Western intelligence agencies were in retrospect, unable to quantitatively measure leading to false assumptions and policy faux pas – a “bomber gap.” This maskirovka (Russian, for military deception) was recounted in The Space Shuttle Decision:[xix] Then, on May Day of 1954, at a public air show, the Soviets showed off a new jet bomber, the Bison. Here was another surprise-a Soviet jet bomber. It was all the more worrisome because no one in the U.S. had known of it until the Kremlin displayed it openly. A year later, in preparations for the next such air show, American observers saw a formation of 10 of these aircraft in flight. In mid-July came the real surprise. On Aviation Day, Colonel Charles Taylor, the U.S. air attaché in Moscow, counted no fewer than 28 Bisons as they flew past a review in two groups. This bomber now was obviously in mass production. The CIA promptly estimated that up to 800 Bisons would be in service by 1960.  In fact, Taylor had seen an elaborate hoax. The initial group of 10 Bisons had been real enough. They then had flown out of sight, joined eight more, and this combined formation had made the second flyby. Still, as classified estimates leaked to the press, Senator Stuart Symington, a former Air Force Secretary, demanded hearings and warned the nation of a "bomber gap." The flap forced Ike to build more B-52 bombers than he had planned, and to step up production of fighter aircraft in the bargain. Yet even when analysts discovered the Aviation Day hoax, they took little comfort. If Moscow was trying to fool the CIA, it might mean that the Soviets were putting their real effort into missiles rather than bombers. This is similar to the illusion of a Potemkin village (<U+041F><U+043E><U+0442><U+0451><U+043C><U+043A><U+0438><U+043D><U+0441><U+043A><U+0438><U+0435> <U+0434><U+0435><U+0440><U+0435><U+0432><U+043D><U+0438>) a fake village used to impress outside dignitaries.  The most infamous was staged when Empress Catherine II of Russia visited Crimea in 1787.  Her lover, Grigory Potemkin (namesake of the illusion) allegedly built fake villages with façades in the areas she travelled near; even going as far as to dress up as a villager all in an effort to fool Catherine by concealing the poverty of the area. Measuring growth and in this case adoption and wealth is not just for history books but can also help market participants accurately view what is going on in a system like Bitcoin.  The contemporary example corresponding to the Bison bombers would likely be subscribers and commenters at reddit Bitcoin, many of which are sock puppets and/or spam accounts used to game the karma system (i.e., systemically promote a scam or phishing website).  For instance, in the first week of July 2014, reddit subscriptions (pictured above) noticeably jumped by an order of magnitude.[xx]  Was this new adopters rushing into the subreddit?  Possibly, but probably not. The last chart (below) for this section comes from Coinbase, a large consumer and merchant wallet provider.[xiii] According to Brian Armstrong, co-founder of Coinbase, this also includes off-blockchain transactions (any under 0.25 bitcoins) between Coinbase users.[xiv]  As of this writing, 0.25 bitcoins is roughly $150.  What is noticeable is the same trend observed with the on-chain data, relatively flat transactional volume. Or in other words, the reason the bitcoin price did not jump on news that Dell (the computer company) had partnered with Coinbase and accepted bitcoin payments in July 18, 2014 (as well as other supported merchants in previous months) is because very few people spend bitcoins in general and because there is no reason to use bitcoins to buy a Dell product when the same targeted consumer base already has credit cards.  CheapAir.com, an online travel agency, did not fare much better, generating $1.5 million in bitcoin payments between November 2013 and July 2014.[xv]  If the average flight is $300 roundtrip, this would amount to about 5,000 flights over the span of about 8 months. It is unlikely that someone who has enough bitcoins to buy a computer or plane ticket doesn't already have a credit card that can do the same thing.  Instead, bitcoin holders are going to use bitcoins for things they need which credit cards cannot be used for, not things that advocates on forums think the bitcoin holder needs.  Again, there is a difference between the consumer behavior Bob wants to have versus what does happen.  And at this time, based on observed actions, bitcoin holders do not necessarily need or want wares from Dell or CheapAir.com. Bitcoin Market Opportunity Index To be even handed, Pantera’s BitIndex is not the only inaccurate measure of growth and adoption.  In August 2014, Garrick Hileman published an experimental Bitcoin Market Opportunity Index (BMOI) which attempts to rank countries that will most likely adopt bitcoin.  Based on his metrics, Argentina is purportedly the most likely. There are a number of fundamental flaws with his model, almost all of which involve the same problems that Pantera had: Source: Garrick Hileman Above is a table which describes the variables he used in determining the rank-order of countries. Yet these metrics are not measuring actual adoption or usage of bitcoin.  In actuality: The full list of all 37 variables that Hileman uses is, as of this writing, inaccessible.[xxix] Hileman’s methodology also includes set of variables, 39, including: technology penetration, remittances, inflation, black market, financial repression, bitcoin penetration and historical financial crisis.  As of this writing, the full set of variables are unavailable. Using a series of equations and weightings, he then produces the following table: Tim Swanson  Source: Garrick Hileman The table (above) is a list of countries that are, according to Hileman, the most likely to adopt bitcoin.  Ignoring the economic issues discussed later in chapters 9 and 10, it is unclear how Zimbabwe, India, Nigeria or Nicaragua could adopt it from an infrastructure point of view.[xxx]  It is also unclear why policy makers in the remaining countries would officially adopt it as well.  To compound matters, it is unclear what adoption actually means using this methodology.  Does this mean that Argentinian central bank will begin buying bitcoins on the open market and then pay overseas bond holders with bitcoin? In his words: One of the first questions that arises in constructing a bitcoin adoption index is: what type of adoption should the BMOI measure? For example, should the BMOI focus on where bitcoin is most likely to be used as a store of value?  Or should it measure bitcoin’s commercial potential as a medium of exchange? And which of these two is more likely than the other to influence bitcoin’s geographic progression? The answers to such questions have a significant influence on the choice of index variables and weightings. These are important questions and are thoroughly dissected later in chapter 9 and 10.  The short answer to the second question is that bitcoins are a poor store of value due to their volatility – in the process of editing this book the market price of bitcoin fluctuated about 11% (between $564-$634).[xxxi] Furthermore, it is unclear how Argentina’s policy makers could adopt bitcoin as-is today.  The monetary stock (“market cap”) of bitcoin is about $7.7 billion.  On August 1, Argentina defaulted on about $29 billion in debt.[xxxii]  The logistics of how this transition could take place is not clear in Hilemann’s explanation and since Argentina's bondholders would likely want to instantly cash them in, trying would crash the market.  This is further explored in the following chapter. Mobile goal posts As seen in throughout this chapter, a quandary for this space is that few people are actually looking at data that reflects the real health of the network.  On the one hand there is a public, independent, transparent database called a blockchain that advocates are quick to point to as a disruptive technology because it is purportedly immutable.  Yet when it comes to looking at behavior on this blockchain, very few people or organizations have discussed what is actually happening on it preferring to look at indicators that may be more favorable to their inclinations. More often than not, such discussion devolves as the “goal posts” – the metrics considered as valid – are moved to some undefined point in time in the future in which these same measurements are then allowed to be valid.  In the interim, the sole barometer and focus by many, seems to be price levels, which if John Kenneth Galbraith's works (discussed later in chapter 13) are any indication, could be a sign of unsustainable bubble activity. Arguably the primary technological breakthrough is the blockchain and bitcoin (the currency or commodity or luxury good) is simply the first “appcoin;” one of many.[xxxiii]  In fact, there are at least 83 other uses for it and multisig itself opens up a new world for managing digital and digitized assets.[xxxiv]  The next chapter discusses a couple potential uses-cases and where an ever increasing amount of bitcoins are born. This article originally appeared at Of Numbers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe ceiling of the Sistine ChapelThe government has clamped down on Wall Street banks, but that doesn't mean money goes to sleep.  In a shift decades in the making, the hedge fund world has exploded in size, filling the void banks have left open to take finance's biggest risks and reap its greatest rewards. Sebastian Mallaby's book 'More Money Than God,'documents the rise of hedge funds, from the very first venture in 1949 to the giants that they are now. It also provides insight into how many of today's star hedge fund managers go their starts. We've gone through Mallaby's book for you, and highlighted the most important people that made hedge funds into the powerful, driving market force it is today. FREE AppDownload
AP/Bebeto MatthewsKate Spade shares were down as much as 26% on Tuesday after the company warned on its second quarter earnings conference call that sales could slow in the second half of the year, according to Bloomberg's Lindsey Rupp and Selina Wang. Shares of the retailer, which initially rallied after reporting earnings and revenue for the second quarter that missed expectations, plunged intraday during the company's conference call, which began at 10:00 am ET.  Rupp and Wang reported that the company said sales would increase at a "high-single" digit rate in the second half of the year, down from a 30% gain in the first half. The company's profit margin goals may also be delayed by a year due to the slower than expected ramp up of Kate Spade's "Saturday" brand.  In the second quarter, Kate Spade earned $0.05 per share, more than the flat quarter expected by analysts, on sales that totaled $265.99 million, more than the $237.83 million that was expected. The company also said the wind-down of its Juicy Couture brand is "substantially complete," with the company now reporting that segment as discontinued operations. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies before the House of Representatives Financial Services Committee on Capitol Hill in WashingtonWASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Approaching a historic turn in U.S. monetary policy, Janet Yellen has staked her tenure as chair of the Federal Reserve on a simple principle: she'd rather fight inflation than another economic downturn. Interviews with current and former Fed officials indicate that Yellen and core decision-makers at the U.S. central bank are determined not to raise interest rates too early and risk hurting the fragile U.S. economy. It's a commitment that will be vigorously tested in coming months as pressure builds inside the Fed, among Republicans on Capitol Hill, and perhaps even in financial markets, for the Fed to acknowledge a strengthening U.S. economy with its first interest-rate increase in more than eight years. A global central bankers' conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming next week will give Yellen a major stage on which to press her case. After taking over from Ben Bernanke in February, she has developed a distinct style: off-the-cuff and personable in public appearances, unusually direct in calling attention to the plight of the unemployed, meticulous in her preparation for Fed meetings and highly attuned to the opinions of her colleagues, the Fed sources say. A common adjective used to describe her in meetings is "over-prepared." She is able to deeply question staff and colleagues about the fine points of their presentations, and so far has been able to forge consensus statements that have satisfied the Fed hawks most concerned about the inflation threat while keeping the central bank focused more on employment. The nightmare scenario she wants to avoid is hiking rates only to see financial markets and the economy take such a hit that she has to backtrack. Until the Fed has gotten rates up from the current level near zero to more normal levels, it would have little room to respond if the economy threatened to head into another recession. Inflation, on the other hand, is a familiar foe that Fed officials say they are confident they can control with conventional policy tools. "If the Fed were to generate too much economic growth and higher inflation, that is a much better situation to be in than one of a faltering economic recovery and the need to rely even more on unconventional tools," said David Stockton, the Fed's chief economist until 2011 who is now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "The Fed knows how to contain inflation if it is moving," he said, while the impact at this point of another downturn "are more uncertain and hard to counter." The risks of moving too soon, Stockton and others in and outside the Fed say, include snuffing out an already tepid housing market recovery with higher mortgage rates, depressing business investment and durable goods purchases, and triggering sudden declines in asset prices. And after extraordinary efforts to right the U.S. economy after the financial crisis struck, there would likely be little appetite among Republicans or other fiscal conservatives on Capitol Hill to use fiscal policy to counter a fresh recession, making it all the more important for Yellen to avoid helping to cause such a reversal. "The challenge that she and the Fed as an institution face is to support the recovery, because fiscal policy ... is no longer on the table for both political and economic reasons," said David Lipton, first deputy managing director at the International Monetary Fund.  "Now that (the economy) is recovering, the challenge is to gauge its strength and make sure it stays on the right path." The other scary scenario is that a bout of swifter-than-expected inflation could erode three decades of hard-earned confidence that prices will remain under control, which in turn could make it easier for higher inflation to take firm root. The Fed's more hawkish officials also worry that the longer rates remain ultra low the more likely it is that troublesome financial bubbles will form. Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Plosser formally dissented over the current dovish approach at the central bank's last policy meeting, while in recent weeks Richard Fisher of the Dallas Fed has amplified his concern that the bank is falling behind the inflation curve. But even Fisher, one of the Fed's most outspoken hawks, credited Yellen's "extremely thoughtful" way of taking into account the views of other policymakers, a factor he said prompted him not to dissent.    "She may be new to the chair but she's well respected and she knows all the personalities in the room," said former Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke. Jeffrey Fuhrer, senior policy advisor at the Boston Fed, said Yellen's communications style is "a little more open and accessible" than her predecessor Bernanke. Adding: "She's a bit more approachable somehow." The central bank is also watching the November mid-term elections with particular interest: a Republican takeover of the Senate could give momentum to a proposal that would force the Fed to rely on a mechanistic rule to set interest rates based on the levels of inflation and unemployment in the economy. That would undermine the collective judgment Yellen feels is needed to guide the economy in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Despite a falling unemployment rate and inflation that is rising toward the Fed's 2-percent target, Yellen has in the last six months managed to shift investors' attention to stagnant wage growth and the high number of Americans who have given up the search for work.  She recently described higher inflation readings as "noisy," noting that overshooting the target is "at most a risk that we could face somewhere down the road." At an IMF event in early July, she dropped another strong clue that she was not afraid to let the economy heat up, saying the threat of asset-price bubbles or other financial instabilities probably won't prompt an earlier-than-expected policy tightening. That speech has been cited by a number of analysts who know Yellen as an important sign that she is putting her stamp on the evolving debate over how deeply central banks should be concerned with financial stability. Yellen was clear: raising rates would almost certainly cost jobs and growth, but wouldn't necessarily stave off bubbles. In yet another sign of the Fed's patience, San Francisco Fed chief John Williams, often cited as a policy bellwether, recently made the theoretical case for allowing inflation to run temporarily above target to help bring down the number of long-term unemployed. Even broaching the idea of letting inflation run hot is a sensitive topic for a central bank that in the late 1970s and early 80s hiked its key rates to as high as 20 percent to slay sky-rocketing price increases. Investors currently do not expect the Fed to lift rates until the second half of next year - a remarkable achievement for Yellen given the U.S. unemployment rate is near a six-year low and closing in on what Fed officials see as its equilibrium level. Colleagues said that Yellen has adapted easily to her new role, yet what Stockton called her "stress test" lies ahead, and may begin this fall when the debate over interest rates intensifies. The Fed expects to end one of its key crisis programs in October when it stops buying Treasury bonds and mortgage backed securities. Once that happens, the next step is to raise rates. "You're going to see a battle ... that is wide open" among policymakers, predicted former Fed Vice Chair Alan Blinder. "There are a zillion ways it could go wrong but the simplest way is that the Fed exits too slowly, in which case some of the fears of the inflation hawks will come true," added Blinder, now a Princeton professor. "The other is that the Fed moves too quickly - this is the one that often gets forgotten - and the recovery stalls or, even worse, gets reversed." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a Target sign next to one of their stores in VistaBy Solarina Ho and Susan Taylor TORONTO (Reuters) - Target Corp  is repairing the supply chain problems it holds largely responsible for last year's botched Canadian expansion and expects to show measurable progress on a turnaround by this fall, its top executive in Canada said on Tuesday. In its first international expansion, Minneapolis-based Target opened an unprecedented 124 stores and three distribution centers in Canada last year, losing nearly $1 billion as sales fell far short of expectations. Disappointed shoppers complained of higher prices than in U.S. stores, poor selection, and empty shelves, and distribution center workers told Reuters that poor planning led to supply chain problems that began long before the first store opened. "With the benefit of hindsight, if we could do it all over again, we wouldn't have opened up that many stores, that many DCs (distribution centers), in that short a time frame. I know that much," Mark Schindele, Target Canada's new president, told Reuters. "We're now unwinding some of the decisions we made that were based on speed." Some analysts say that Target, which was also hurt badly by a massive U.S. data breach late last year that involved 40 million payment card numbers, should cut its losses in Canada and either close poorly performing stores or pull out entirely. Schindele, a 15-year Target veteran who came to Canada in May, said the company is focused on improving all of its stores and would not answer questions about whether any closures are being considered.  SUPPLY CHAIN "RESET" The discount retailer is pushing a three-pronged turnaround plan that will focus on its supply chain, pricing, and merchandise selection. As a first step, all 130 stores are counting their inventory, to help "reset" an overwhelmed supply chain. Most stores have completed that work and are reporting significantly fuller shelves, Schindele said. He added that the rapid pace of Target's entry resulted in problems with the set-up of its all-new Canadian technology systems due to hastily made decisions. A key issue, distribution center staff had told Reuters, was that shipments of many products coming into warehouses did not match data in Target's computer system. That created a bottleneck as staff scrambled to reconcile differences. Schindele said that when the system was first set up, minimum order quantities were not aggregated at the vendor level, as is typically done, but by the distribution centers, which made tracking purchase orders difficult. "If your data integrity isn't good, it's really hard to keep stores in stock," he said. With one year of operations under its belt, Target Canada now has sales data to help forecast demand and allocate products. Schindele said excess inventory problems have been   alleviated significantly since last year. The recovery plan, which reflects work with two different consultants, also includes retraining staff. Workers were initially pushing inventory through the system, rather than allowing the software to do its job, Schindele said. Technology will be reconfigured and stores will also see merchandise shipped more frequently. "We expect to see measurable progress this fall," Schindele said, but did not provide details. In response to customer complaints, the company said it is changing its price-match policy to add Canadian online retailers such as Aamazon.ca and Walmart.ca, while allowing shoppers to use popular price matching apps. The cheap-chic retailer will add 30,000 new products and expand its line of exclusive products, including a partnership with Canadian celebrity interior designer Sarah Richards to try to boost sales. Executives would not provide any Canadian sales or profit growth targets or say how much the repair plan will cost. Target cut its second-quarter profit estimate last week and said Canadian sales were softer than expected. The company is scheduled to report results on Aug. 20. New Target Chief Executive Brian Cornell officially starts work on Tuesday, but he was briefed by Schindele last week on the recovery plan and will tour Target stores when he visits Canada this week.  (Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson; and Peter Galloway) FREE AppDownload
 New York State prosecutors have indicted three executives for allegedly far exceeding the state's limits on interest rates on short-term loans, through so-called payday loans that are often poorly regulated, reports The New York Times. The rare case highlights the risk customers can face from payday loans that can lead them to dire financial straits. It also sheds light on a multibillion-dollar industry that has rarely been the subject of criminal actions, The Times points out. Payday loans are typically for less than $500 and due on the borrower's next payday, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The loan's finance charge could range from $10 to $30 per $100 borrowed, with a typical two-week loan amounting to an annual percentage rate (APR) of nearly 400%, compared to 12% to 30% for credit cards. Carey Vaughn Brown allegedly owned a dozen companies throughout the U.S. and overseas to try to dodge American authorities while controlling all parts of an exploitative loan process, including extending loans with exorbitant interest rates between 350% and 650% and collecting automatic payments from borrowers' bank accounts.  Business Insider reached out to Brown's attorney for the case, Paul Shechtman, for a comment and will update if we hear back. He told The Times his client "acted in good faith and looks forward to showing his innocence.” Although New York has laws capping interest rates at 25%, these charges are rare because lenders continue to get away with illegally extending loans at far higher rates. In all, 18 states and the District of Columbia prohibit excessively high-cost payday lending through a variety of measures, according to the Consumer Federation of America. But 32 states still permit payday loans at triple-digit interest rates, some without even setting any rate cap. The biggest trouble for payday lending customers is what happens when they miss payments, leaving them susceptible to fees they may not be aware of and tremendous levels of interest, as John Oliver has pointed out on a segment of his talk show "Last Week Tonight." More than 75% of the payday lending industry's loan volume is generated by borrowers who are forced to borrow again before their next pay period, Oliver reported. The training manual of one payday lending company features a circle diagram clearly showing a vicious cycle customers can face. “An actual Ace Cash training manual for employees features a diagram which starts with the customer applying for an ACE loan, moves through them spending the money on that loan, being unable to pay it back, and then being forced to apply for an ACE loan again,” John Oliver said on his show. We reached out to ACE loan to give it an opportunity to comment on the Oliver segment, and we will update this post if we hear back. The problem persists because payday lending companies find ways to skirt legislation in many states through minor changes. For example, businesses in Ohio have registered as mortgage lenders to escape legislation targeting businesses licensed as short-term lenders — while maintaining the same practices. "For regulators it's like playing legislative wack-a-mole," Oliver said. "Just when you think you've squashed them down, they pop up somewhere else wearing a completely different outfit." That vicious cycle impacted Columbus, Ohio poet and author Joylynn M. Jossel after she borrowed just a couple hundred dollars but couldn't pay it back two weeks later, reported DailyFinance. Since she couldn't pay off her debt in time, she became plagued by excessive interest rates. Jossel then borrowed from another payday lender to pay back her first loan, creating a slippery slope that left her owing money to four different lenders. When she did pay off her loans, she would immediately have to take out another loan to pay her bills. Eventually, she was paying $1,800 toward those loans each month. That led to harassment from collection agencies. "They tell you any and everything to get you to come in and pay for the check that didn't clear," Jossel told Daily Finance. "They'll tell you, 'You're a criminal, you wrote a bad check. That's against the law, it's a felony, you're going to jail.' They call all of your references and your job. It's horrifying. I felt so suffocated. It felt as if I was in this black hole that I just couldn't get out of." Jossel escaped the cycle after she received money from an unrelated civil lawsuit. "I have never, and I mean never, thought twice about visiting a payday loan center ever again in my life," she said.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTreasury DepartmentThe Treasury Department just released its latest monthly budget statement, which showed a $94.6 billion deficit in July, down slightly from a $97.5 billion deficit in the same month a year ago. This is also less than the $96 billion deficit expected by economists. Year-to-date, the Treasury's deficit is about $460.5 billion, down from $680.2 billion at the same point a year ago.  Stocks were little changed in reaction, with the Dow down about 35 points, the S&amp;P 500 down 6 points, and the Nasdaq down 22 points.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile of steam rising from the stakes of the coal fired Jim Bridger Power Plant outside Point of the Rocks, WyomingBy Anna Yukhananov and Valerie Volcovici WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A year ago, U.S. President Barack Obama sought to mobilize the nation behind a grand plan: fight climate change by slashing carbon pollution at home, while prodding other countries to follow. A key part of that strategy was for the United States to stop using public money to finance the construction of most coal-fired power plants abroad, seen as one of the main causes of rising pollution from heat-trapping gases. But a year later, momentum has stalled on the Obama administration's plan for a global "domino effect" that would choke off financing for coal projects from public lending institutions around the world. Some key lenders continue to finance coal projects, and the Export-Import Bank of the United Stastes has put its ban on hold. In the past year, Japan has approved funding for three major coal plants in energy-thirsty emerging markets. And Germany, typically a leader in global climate action, continues to support coal projects. Observers say a new development bank from the BRICS group of emerging markets - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa - is also unlikely to follow strict coal limits when it launches in two years. If countries move away from coal as a fuel source, they are likely to do so for reasons other than a lack of public funding. In 2012, according to the World Resources Institute, almost 1,200 coal-fired power plants had been proposed globally, with China and Pakistan accounting for the majority of the projects.  COMMERCIAL INTERESTS RULE U.S. officials say their plan to limit public support for coal has had a global impact, with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the Nordic countries joining the effort over the past year. Now, the United States is trying to persuade other countries to change their export credit policies "to help level the playing field for U.S. coal-related energy exporters and bring other countries' financing practices in line with their climate change policies," Treasury spokeswoman Holly Shulman told Reuters. U.S. officials have floated proposals at multilateral forums such as the G20 but have been rebuffed by Japan and Germany. U.S. Treasury officials have also discussed with China the role that public funds can play in developing less carbon-intensive energy sources. Scott Morris, a former Treasury official for development finance, said the rapid change the United States has hoped for was never realistic. "It's harder to be pure, whether on climate or any other issue, in the face of domestic commercial interest," said Morris, now a senior associate with the Washington, D.C., think tank Center for Global Development. Even within the United States, some lawmakers, especially  from coal-producing states, want to end coal project restrictions at the Export-Import Bank. The bank has suspended its internal ban on coal plant financing until September and is mulling funding for a massive coal mine in Jharkhand, India. Japan's development bank, JBIC, is the world's biggest public investor in coal projects and is likely to help India if the United States and European countries pass. From 2007 to 2013, Japan invested $19.7 billion in coal projects overseas, according to the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. The 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident prompted Japan's government to rely more on coal technology to boost exports and the economy, said Kimiko Hirata, international director for the Kiko Network, a climate-focused non-governmental organization. Germany, meanwhile, is expected to publish a review of its stance on funding coal plants in October. A spokesman for the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development declined to provide more details. From 2006 to 2013, KfW, Germany's state development bank, lent $3.7 billion to coal projects in Greece, India, Serbia, South Africa and Australia. KfW said its support for coal is dwarfed by its investments in environmental protection, but added that it continues to support coal to give energy access to countries that cannot move away from fossil fuels immediately. The World Bank and many developing countries agree, contending that there are not enough economically feasible alternatives to fossil fuels. The Bank agreed to support new coal projects only in countries with no other options to meet energy needs, but has said a strict no-coal policy is not realistic. For reasons of energy access, the new BRICS development bank is unlikely to have the same limits on coal lending as the World Bank. Although public finance for coal plants will continue, some countries are trying to reduce their dependency amid domestic politics and economic pressures, analysts say. China's total coal production is likely to grow as its economy expands, but Beijing wants to curb the fuel's share of its energy mix to fight air pollution. And in India, coal projects are running into problems with economic viability, said Ashish Fernandes, a campaigner for Greenpeace. "This kind of warning signal (on coal), as the actual reality of investing in coal plants today, is just as important as whether the BRICS bank announces new restrictions," said Justin Guay, policy analyst with the Sierra Club.  ($1 = 0.7491 euro)  (Additional reporting by Christoph Steitz in Frankfurt; editing by Ros Krasny and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Boeing logo is seen at their headquarters in Chicago(Reuters) - Boeing Co  said it had been jointly selected with United Technologies Corp's  Sikorsky unit to build a next-generation multi-role helicopter for the U.S. Army. The first flight for the program is expected in 2017, Boeing said. The company did not disclose the value of the contract.  (Reporting by Sagarika Jaisinghani in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
We recently told you about the United Kalavryta, an oil tanker carrying 1 million barrels of Kurdish crude that was forced to essentially do donuts in the Gulf of Mexico after Iraq sued to halt the shipment.  Now another ship bound for the U.S. carrying 300,000 barrels of crude from Kurdistan has been idled a few dozen miles from Ocean City, Maryland after its buyer halted the shipment.  The Malta-flagged Minerva Joy was making its way up the Atlantic Coast when Axeon Specialty Products, an asphalt refining operation located in Paulsboro, New Jersey said it did not want to get mixed up in the dispute between Baghdad and the autonomous Kurdish region in Iraq's north, Argus research reports.  Iraq's oil ministry says the Kurds are illegally shipping product. A district judge in Houston ruled late last month that the U.S. lacked the authority to unload the shipment since it was outside her court's jurisdiction, and that the dispute must be decided in Iraq. Baghdad does not appear to have filed against Minerva, Argus says.  The Kalavryta remains anchored in international waters near Galveston. Here's the Minerva's exact location, via mindblowing global shipping data site Marine Traffic... Marine Traffic And here are its recent movements: Marine Traffic FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua LottA participant practice his yo-yo techniques during the International Yo-Yo Competition at South Street Seaport in New York August 9, 2008. It’s been a very strong earnings season for US companies. But for many, it’s becoming much more challenging to expand profit margins. In a tougher environment, we think investors should focus more closely on revenue growth to find stocks that can thrive. More than 75% of US companies have already reported second-quarter earnings. Revenues for S&amp;P 500 companies have climbed by about 5% while earnings were up more than 10%, according to Bloomberg data. Both of these numbers are higher than the previous quarter—and the fastest earnings growth since early 2012.  Profitability trends warrant some scrutiny. Operating profits of S&amp;P 500 companies have grown at an annualized rate of more than 20% over the past five years, based on data for the first quarter. This marks a sharp recovery from the recession trough. Sales have been much weaker. According to the same data, sales per share have grown at less than 5% per year, even off the depressed base.  Profitability at a Peak As a result, profit margins have soared. Net profit margins more than doubled from 4.6% in March 2009 to 9.8% at the end of the first quarter. And based on our estimates, margins could come in just shy of 10% when all the second-quarter results are in (Display). Sounds great, so what’s the rub? The problem is that, historically, margins like these have marked a peak rather than a normal level of profitability. And the factors that have driven margin expansion to date are unlikely to persist. Margins gains have benefited from three key drivers: labor efficiencies, lower depreciation and amortization, and reduced interest expense. Although we are not forecasting a drop in margins, we think that it has become incrementally more difficult to make further progress on these fronts for several reasons. Disappearing Margin Drivers  First, the labor market is tighter, which could introduce higher wage inflation. While technology will always be a persistent pressure on labor, with the employee share of revenue at very low levels (Display), it may be much harder for companies to tighten wage costs further. Second, depreciation and amortization have declined because companies have been more conservative allocating capital and certain accounting rules have changed. Since capital spending is likely to rebound over time, we don’t think depreciation and amortization will help buoy margins. Finally, with interest rates near all-time lows, companies can’t really rely on improvements to financing to help boost margins. For context, these three factors have been the biggest drivers of margin growth over the past decade. In this environment, companies that can benefit from secular revenue growth are poised to do well. For example, MasterCard recently reported 13% revenue growth for the second quarter, more than double the rate of global consumer spending, as cash transactions increasingly shift toward electronic payment. More broadly, we’re looking for industries and companies that are growing faster than the rate of gross domestic product growth. Examples can be found in shale oil production, Internet advertising and the active apparel industry. Investors should recalibrate their expectations to the new profitability reality. It’s clearly going to be much harder to rely on margin expansion to deliver double-digit earnings growth in the quarters ahead, so revenue growth will be much more important to earnings growth. In this environment, the best defense to slowing margin gains is to identify companies that can beat expectations by delivering secular revenue growth. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMicrosoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer answers questions at the company's annual shareholder meeting in Bellevue, WashingtonLOS ANGELES (Reuters) - The sale of the Los Angeles Clippers to former Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer closed on Tuesday after a California court confirmed co-owner Shelly Sterling has the right to sell the basketball team, the NBA said. The NBA Board of Governors had previously approved the sale and Ballmer is now the Clippers Governor, the NBA said in a statement.  (Reporting by Mary Milliken; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Legendary investor Carl C. Icahn has just written his first blog post for Yahoo Finance advocating for more shareholder activism.  He has also included a chart in response to those who "question the efficacy of including activists' designees on public company Boards of Directors." The chart shows what would have happened if investors put their money in companies in which Icahn had someone on the board. According to Icahn, folks would have done really well. (He filed it in an 8-K too [via WSJ]) "Even more telling is the annualized return of a person who invested in 23 companies whose Boards Icahn designees joined between January 1 2009 and June 30 2014: if the person invested in each company on the date that the designee joined the Board and sold on the date that the Icahn designee left the Board (or continued to hold through June 30, 2014 if the designee did not leave the Board) they would have obtained an annualized return of 27%."  While he's had some big winners like WebMd and eBay, he's also had some losers like Voltari Corp. and Dynegy. Here's the full rundown:  shareholderssquaretable.com FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesThe Level III CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) results are out and most folks can breathe a sigh of relief because they passed the excruciating exam. According to the CFA Institute, approximately 54% of the 26,882 candidates passed their Level III exam in June. That's higher than last year when only 49% of candidates passed. It's also the highest pass rate since 2008. The CFA program, which consists of three exams, is considered to be the hardest series of tests on Wall Street. Fewer than 20% of candidates pass all three tests on the first try.  It also takes the average CFA candidate four years to complete the entire program.   What's more is the average test-taker also spends about six months preparing. They tend to put in about 300 hours preparing for each level. It's a lot of work and a huge accomplishment.  Those who passed Level III will soon be able to officially call themselves CFA charterholders (new business cards, anyone?). Of course, that all depends on experience in the industry and membership requirements, the release said. For now, they can celebrate. You can tell they're excited. Congrats all!  Just went 3 for 3 #cfaresults get off me Woo! #cfaresults http://t.co/kTgX3Mb26y pic.twitter.com/pU4v5vKn8k I'm a super baller now I guess #cfaresults almost 3 years ago I began a journey that ended today with one simple word "congratulations" #cfaresults #cfa Crushed it. I'm officially fkn DONE #cfaresults Failed. Deep inside i thought i could've passed this last hurdle. Time to reflect #cfaresults #cfalevel3 <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+009E><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+009E><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+009E>—  style="font-family: Helvetica Neue, Arial, sans-serif; color: white; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 100; line-height: 20px; margin-top: 23px;">FREE AppDownload<
REUTERS/Thomas PeterWard physician Thomas Klotzkowski (R) cleans doctor for tropical medicine, Florian Steiner, in a disinfection chamber at the quarantine station for patients with infectious diseases at the Charite hospital in Berlin August 11, 2014.The Ebola trade is having a rough day.  Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which has had a volatile three days, was down 18% on Tuesday after gains of 45% and 15% on Friday and Monday, respectively. Friday's pop in Tekmira followed a Thursday evening announcement that the FDA loosened a hold on the Ebola treatment in the company's development pipeline.  And though Tekmira has been the biggest individual mover on Ebola-related news, it is not the only company working to develop a treatment or vaccine for Ebola, for which there is currently no cure.  According to a statement from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, publicly-listed Newlink and BioCryst Pharmaceuticals receive government funding for Ebola treatment candidates. The CDC said BioCryst is getting funding from the Department of Defense's Threat Reduction Agency, in addition to National Institutes of Health support, to develop an antiviral Ebola treatment. BioCryst was down 1% on Tuesday. Newlink also announced on August 5 that a subsidiary of the company entered a $1 million letter contract with the U.S. Defense Threat Reduction Agency aimed at bringing an Ebola vaccine licenses from the Public Health Agency of Canada closer to human clinical trials.  On Tuesday, Newlink shares were down nearly 6%.  The CDC's announcement also noted that Mapp Biopharmaceutical, a private biopharma company based in San Diego, is developing ZMapp, an experimental treatment for use in individuals infected with Ebola virus. The CDC said the treatment hasn't been tested in humans for safety or effectiveness though Reuters reported that ZMapp was used to treat a priest in Spain who was evacuated from Liberia after testing positive for Ebola.  As of Tuesday, more than 1,000 people have died due to Ebola, according to the World Health Organization. And in a statement on Tuesday, the WHO said it "convened a consultation to consider and assess the ethical implications for clinical decision-making of the potential use of unregistered interventions." "In order to understand the safety and efficacy of these interventions, the group advised that, if and when they are used to treat patients, there is a moral obligation to collect and share all data generated, including from treatments provided for ‘compassionate use’ (access to an unapproved drug outside of a clinical trial)," the WHO said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBischoff arrives for the British Bankers' Association annual international banking conference in LondonBy Huw Jones LONDON (Reuters) - Win Bischoff, chairman of Britain's accounting watchdog the Financial Reporting Council, will also become chairman of JPMorgan Chase's  European arm from January, the investment bank said on Tuesday. His appointment to JPMorgan comes at a time when British lawmakers are keen for the FRC to scrutinize the accounts of banks more closely. Lawmakers have questioned regulators over why accountants gave banks a clean bill of health just months before they had to be rescued by taxpayers in the 2007-09 financial crisis. The FRC said that the UK government's business ministry, which appointed Bischoff to head the accounting watchdog, was aware at the time that he might take up a post at JPMorgan. Bischoff's appointment at the bank has been approved by the banking sector's two main regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Bank of England's Prudential Regulation Authority, the FRC said. Bischoff took up the reins at the FRC earlier this year after stepping down as chairman of Lloyds  bank. He will work about two days a week at the bank and two and a half days at the watchdog. An FRC spokeswoman said the regulator did not believe there was any conflict of interest in Bischoff working for a regulator and a bank. "Potential and actual conflicts of interest are monitored," the spokeswoman said. Bischoff began his role as a non-executive director and lead independent advisor of JPMorgan Securities (JPMS), the Wall Street bank’s main legal entity in Europe, the Middle East and Africa on Tuesday, according to an internal memo sent by Daniel Pinto, head of JPMorgan in Europe and CEO of the global corporate and investment bank. He will also serve on the Directors’ Risk Policy Committees for JPMS and JPMorgan Europe Limited, as well as the EMEA Governance Review Committee and the EMEA Audit and Compliance Committee, the memo said. Bischoff’s role will involve monitoring the firm’s strategy, executive management, performance and standards of conduct and is central to its international governance, Pinto said in the note. The FRC warned accountants in May that they must sharpen their act when it comes to checking the books of banks or they could be forced to take corrective action.  (Additional reporting by Clare Hutchison; Eiting by Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile of a view from the boardwalk of several casinos in Atlantic City, New JerseyBy Daniel Kelley (Reuters) - The bankrupt Revel Casino Hotel in Atlantic City is set to close by Sept. 10 after its owner failed to find a buyer for the 1,400-room resort, marking the latest casualty for the struggling New Jersey gambling center. Revel Entertainment Corp, which operates Atlantic City's newest casino, filed for bankruptcy protection in June and received court approval to borrow $23.9 million in an effort to keep the casino-hotel operating for another month while it searched for a new owner. "Despite the effort to improve the financial performance of Revel, it has not proven to be enough to put the property on a stable financial footing," the company said in a statement on Tuesday. Revel's closure would put some 3,100 people out of work, according to the state Department of Labor, adding to thousands of other job losses expected in the city as at least three other casinos shut down. The announcement by the Revel, which said it would continue looking for a buyer, comes five days after a scheduled auction of the property was postponed to Thursday to allow more time to evaluate bids. "While we continue to hope for a sale of Revel, in some form, through the pending bankruptcy process, Revel cannot avoid an orderly wind-down of the business at this time," it said. Revel, built at a cost of $2.4 billion, opened in April 2012 just as the city's fortunes were beginning a massive decline, has been hurt by new gaming options in nearby Pennsylvania and Delaware siphoned away visitors. The company has said it was losing $2 million a week, even in the busy summer season. The Revel's closing could leave Atlantic City with a third fewer casinos than at the start of the year, when 12 casinos were in operation. In July, Trump Plaza Hotel announced it would close in September. The Atlantic Club casino was sold and shut down in January and the Showboat Atlantic City, one of the city's largest properties, announced it will close at the end of August.  (Reporting by Daniel Kelley; Writing by Laila Kearney; Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Bill Trott) FREE AppDownload
High-yield bond mutual funds saw outflows total an eye-popping $7.1 billion last week. "HY flowmageddon," said Goldman Sachs' Charles Himmelberg in a research note we saw via @lebullmarche. "This is the largest HY outflow on record – a 6-sigma event when flows are scaled by mutual fund assets under management!" Sigma is another way of saying standard deviation. And the greater the number of standard deviations, the more unlikely the event. A 6-sigma event is extremely rare. If you want to put a number to it, think 1 in 500 million. According to Business Insider quant reporter Andy Kiersz, it's like flipping a coin 29 times in a row and getting heads each time. It's like rolling a die 11 times in a row and getting 6 each time. Goldman Sachs"High-yield is less overvalued," said Doubleline Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach in a phone call with Business Insider on Friday. Gundlach stopped short of saying high-yield looked attractive. Himmelberg didn't. "Our confidence in the buying opportunity in the face of retail selling stems from our belief that credit fundamentals remain supportive, while valuations are now more attractive," Himmelberg said. "Unlike the muni market (where institutional liquidity providers are few), the corporate market has a deep bench of investors who are responsive to value. This is one reason we have long argued that dislocations caused by retail selling present more opportunity than risk." UBS"[T]he U.S. high yield house is not burning down," said UBS's Matthew Mish. "The real panic will come with a more severe downturn in credit and economic fundamentals, which will likely trigger an exodus from non-institutional and crossover/tourists from U.S. high yield. That moment is unlikely to be a 2014 event." This is not to say the outflows and price declines will end anytime soon. "Given the outstanding concerns around rate, credit, and liquidity risks, some will simply choose to exit early – the tack some investors are clearly embracing," Mish said. "How far it extends is anyone's guess, but the run continues and the negative headlines seem unlikely to abate over the near term." FREE AppDownload
AP Images Post updated below with statement from Atlantic City Mayor. Revel, the most expensive hotel and casino in Atlantic City history, will shut down Sept. 10 after no qualified bidders emerged to bail out the project. CBS' Jeff Kolakowski reports over 3,200 workers' jobs will be affected.  Earlier this summer, the resort filed for bankruptcy for the second time in two years, listing liabilities of up to $1 billion. The development posted an operating loss of $21.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. Revel first filed for bankruptcy less than a year after it opened in 2012. Revel cost $2.6 billion to develop and is New Jersey's second-tallest building. Planned at the height of the pre-Lehman bubble, the project face numerous delays after the financial crisis. The greatest setback came when principal owner Morgan Stanley walked away from its $1 billion investment in 2010.  ingret9/flickrRevel's casino floor. The hedge fund Chatham Asset Management became the project's principal owner earlier this year. The group was unavailable for comment. The AP's Wayne Perry reports this will be the second of four A.C. casinos to shut down this year, which will bring its total down to eight.    Robert Johnson for Business InsiderTwo more casinos will close before the year is over. Atlantic City already has a 13.1% unemployment rate, about double the rate of New Jersey.  The state is on the hook for millions. While no money was invested directly, state officials gave the project a $261 million tax break, with the public getting 20% of the owner's income in exchange. But Revel has never turned a profit. The state's main pension fund also has huge stakes in Chatham and Canyon Capital Partners, another Revel owner.  Robert Johnson for Business InsiderNew Jersey residents are on the hook for millions.  Here's Revel Entertainment Group's full statement via The Philadelphia Inquirer: We regret the impact this decision has on our Revel employees who have worked so hard to maximize the potential of the property. We thank them for their professionalism and dedication; however we are faced with several unavoidable circumstances. Despite the effort to improve the financial performance of Revel, it has not proven to be enough to put the property on a stable financial footing. This situation is compounded by the considerable non-controllable expense structure that has financially burdened the property. In addition, challenges have arisen in our attempts to sell Revel as a going concern. While we continue to hope for a sale of Revel, in some form, through the pending bankruptcy process, Revel cannot avoid an orderly wind down of the business at this time. Update: Atlantic City mayor Don Guardian released the following statement just before noon Tuesday, saying Revel Entertainment may have frozen out potential last-minute bidders: We are disappointed in the decision that the Board of Revel has made as there appeared to be several bidders for the property. While I am not privy to the current facts that led to this decision, I do know this process is a complex one compounded by an extremely short time frame and cash flow challenges. This might be Revel's last chapter, but not the last one for this building. My administration remains committed to the workers, the businesses, and the visitors who are impacted by today’s news. FREE AppDownload
Investing.com Oil markets have been startingly calm in recent months despite unrest in some of the world's largest oil producing regions. The price of London-traded Brent crude oil is actually down $5 since mid-May. The reason is that the world doesn't need as much of the stuff right now — and global production continues to ramp up.  Tuesday, the International Energy Agency announced global oil demand growth in Q2 had fallen to 0.7 million barrels a day, the slowest place since Q1 2012. The agency also revised its total 2014 demand growth forecast down to 1 million barrels, down from 1.1 million in 2013. In the OECD Americas and Europe last quarter, demand is estimated to have plunged by a combined 440,000 a day. You'll recall Europe is basically in a Depression. But demand in the U.S. remains nowhere near its pre-recession high. EIA Meanwhile, global supply was up 230,000 barrels a day in July to 93 million barrels a day, thanks to higher OPEC output from Saudi Arabia and, for now, Libya, along with American shale.  In the U.S., May crude oil production was 1.1 million barrels a day year-on-year, roughly equivalent to adding the total crude oil supply of Colombia to the world in just 12 months.   Pick a country seeing problems. Iraq? There's not as much oil in the north to worry about compared with the south, the IEA says: The situation on the ground is highly fluid and infrastructure bottlenecks in the South, rather than the humanitarian disaster in the North, may remain the biggest hurdle to Iraq’s ability to deliver the supply growth expected from it in the medium term. Russia? Europe's sanctions were constructed to avoid oil. The consensus in the industry seems to be that neither set of sanctions will have any tangible near-term impact on supplies. Even for the medium term, their impact appears questionable. EU sanctions are highly selective, exclude agreed contracts, and can only be extended past one year by consensus. The IEA says demand will likely rise in the second half of the year, but that the market is convinced OPEC can meet it.  The past two years prices have seen an unprecedented dampening in price swings: FRED Compare this with past eras:FRED FREE AppDownload
BIIBanking institutions are in a race to provide the newest online and mobile features to their users, as retail banking branches lose their relevance fast. That's because banks know that these services are how they will win over their next-generation of client. This is particularly important in the banking industry because bank customers tend to be extremely loyal. So, capturing the attention of younger adults — and, in particular, millennials — when they're first choosing their bank can lead to a long-term market advantage. BI Intelligence been closely tracking evolving trends in the payments industry, and how mobile is one of the biggest disruptive threats to legacy businesses, including merchant service providers, payment terminal providers, big financial institutions, and credit and debit card companies. Businesses are evolving their services and acquiring startup competitors to stay ahead of the curve. For full access to our findings sign up for a free trial. Consider: BII Access All Our Downloadable Charts On The Payments Industry By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today&gt;&gt; BIITake Wells Fargo as an example. The bank now has over 13.1 million mobile banking customers. That's up 285% from 3.4 million four years ago in the second quarter of 2010. That's why banks are putting a lot of money into building out their mobile banking capabilities. BI Intelligence estimates that global mobile banking investment will grow at a compound annual growth rate of 15% through 2018, when investment will reach $3.34 billion. Take a look at the chart at below for a look at how investment in mobile banking is expected to ramp up. BI Intelligence is a subscription tech research service, providing analysis and reporting on the latest trends disrupting the payments industry. For full access to our library of downloadable charts, sign up for a free trial. BII   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIsraeli biotech company Vascular Biogenics made its debut on the Nasdaq on Aug. 1 — and then on Aug. 8 said it wasn't public anymore.  Vascular Biogenics, which offered 5.4 million shares in its initial offering, valuing the company at about $222 million, is engaged in the discovery, development, and commercialization of cancer and immune-inflammatory disease treatments, according to its latest prospectus filed with the SEC.  On Saturday morning the company announced that Deutsche Bank and Wells Fargo, which underwrote Vascular's IPO, terminated the offering, "due to an unexpected situation in which a substantial existing U.S. shareholder did not fund payment for shares it previously agreed to purchase in the offering." The company added that the "termination is not related to the Company, its business or its prospects." According to Vascular's latest filing with the SEC, the company has incurred losses in each year since its inception in 2000 and accumulated a total deficit of $109.8 million as of Dec. 31, 2013.  When a company files for an IPO there is no guarantee that the company will go public, with a number of factors including a lack of investor demand potentially derailing a company's plans. In 2012, electronic stock exchange BATS Global went public but canceled its offering the same day after a series of computer glitches prevented the stock from trading, according to Bloomberg's report of the debacle. But a company going public, trading for more than a week, and then delisting its shares and refunding investors is an unprecedented move.  In The Wall Street Journal's report on Vascular's failed IPO, it cited comments from Renaissance Capital analyst Matt Kennedy, who said, "We've never seen anything like this happen before. With the investor not transferring payment — I don't think we've seen that." The Journal said that on Monday market officials "began to unwind the transactions and refund investors."  On Friday, Nasdaq announced that the stock was halted with a "news pending" designation, later changing this to "additional information requested" on Saturday morning. Since the offering priced at $12 per share, shares of Vascular hadn't made it back to those levels in its six days of trading, eventually getting halted at $11.15 per share.  Now, investors will get their money back. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifJob openings grew to 4.67 million in June, according to the latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary, or JOLTS report, from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Expectations were for the report to show 4.6 million job openings as of the end of June, down slightly from the 4.635 million openings that existed at the end of May. The June report showed that the hires rate was up 0.1% to 3.5% in June, while the separations rate was unchanged at 3.3%.  The quits rate was unchanged at 1.8% in June. Commentary from Bloomberg's Chris Middleton following the report indicated that there are about 2 unemployed job seekers for each available job in the economy.  The JOLTS report is one of Janet Yellen's preferred economic indicators, and will be watched closely ahead of next week's Jackson Hole symposium, which is being held under the title "Re-Evaluating Labor Market Dynamics." This chart from Calculated Risk shows the updated JOLTS data.  Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
Facebook/SwordandPloughSword & Plough makes wearable goods out of recycled materials from the U.S. military.Many companies make it a priority to give back to their communities, whether it's a core part of their missions or not. This year we've seen many companies go above and beyond to protect the environment, help the less fortunate, and solve some of the world's biggest problems. We found 20 of the most inspiring companies based on their actions for good this year. These inspiring institutions, listed alphabetically, are role models for their efforts in social responsibility. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Brown Shares of Intercept Pharmaceuticals were up 45% shortly after the market open on Tuesday after the company on Monday announced development updates for several of its drug candidates. The company, which has a market cap of more than $5 billion, also reported second quarter earnings, posting a larger than expected quarterly loss.  Intercept is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of liver disease treatments. Intercept shares, which were halted ahead of the company's announcement on Monday afternoon, were up nearly 250% year-to-date as of Monday's close, with the stock nearly quadrupling in one day on January 9 after the company stopped its FLINT trial of obeticholic acid for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, due to "early efficacy." In its 10-Q filed with the SEC on Monday afternoon, Intercept outlined new developments for its FLINT trial.  On Monday, the company also gave the following updates on its development programs: TheStreet.com's biotech reporter Adam Feuerstein broke down the results last night, writing that the rally in shares, "reflects a sense of relief that OCA head into a registration-worthy phase III study next year with less risk."   FREE AppDownload
Jim D. Woodward / FlickrFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The balance sheet of the European Central Bank and the euro zone's national central banks contracted by 34.425 billion euros ($45.95 billion) to 2.025 trillion euros in the week that ended on Aug. 8, the ECB said on Tuesday. The decrease came as banks took less funding in the ECB's main refinancing operation and repaid long-term loans to the central bank. Gold reserves were unchanged at 334.432 billion euros. Net foreign exchange reserves in the Eurosystem of central banks decreased by 0.1 billion euros to 213.3 billion euros, the ECB added.     (Reporting by Frankfurt newsroom) FREE AppDownload
Depending on how you look at it, corporate debt levels may look dangerously high or managebly low. In a note to clients on Monday, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker takes the latter view. He highlights two key features of this debt corporates have taken on: interests costs are much lower than operating profits and the bulk of the debt isn't due for a few years.  He addresses the first feature by pointing out that the interest coverage ratio for companies is near multi-decade highs.  A company's interest coverage ratio is its earnings before interest and tax, or EBIT, divided by its interest expense over the same period. An interest coverage ratio below 1 means companies aren't generating enough cash to service their debt; that ratio is currently around 8. Basically, profits really have to collapse before corporation start defaulting on their debts.  This chart from Morgan Stanley shows the interest coverage ratio for the largest 1,500 companies in the market through the first quarter of this year. Morgan Stanley And not only are companies more than capable of meeting their current debt obligations, this debt also isn't coming due for several years. In other words, companies don't have to worry about refinancing  their debts for a little while. It's also worth noting that these maturities have been pushed back because corporations have been taking advantage of unusually low borrowing costs.   Morgan Stanley Parker says that the market doesn't appear to be at the top of a cycle, writing that, "Our view is that hubris and debt define the top of every cycle, and as such, we monitor signs that could ultimately translate into more downside to corporate earnings. Today, it is very hard to make that argument." "Our judgement is that the risk-reward is now skewed more toward the positive than it was early in July," he said. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Ukrainian hryvnia just made a new low against the U.S. dollar.  On Tuesday, one dollar bought 13.4 hyrvnias, with the hryvnia losing more than 4% against the dollar just today.  The latest drop in the currency comes amid reports that Russia is sending a convoy of 280 humanitarian aid trucks into Ukraine, according to Reuters.  This convoy comes amid warnings from Western nations that the help could be used, "as a pretext for an invasion." This chart from Google Finance shows the severe depreciation in the value of the hryvnia against the dollar over the last month. Google Finance (via @SaraEisen) FREE AppDownload
How much do you really know about one of the most controversial countries in the world?  Learn some mindblowing facts about this hermit kingdom that hangs off the east coast of China. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Research by Elena Holodny. Follow Business Insider: On YouTube
Thomson ReutersPacks of Marlboro cigarettes are displayed for sale at a convenience store in SomervilleLONDON (Reuters) - Philip Morris International, the world's largest tobacco company, is prepared to sue the British government should it implement a law requiring plain packaging of cigarettes, a document seen by Reuters on Tuesday showed. The UK government has conducted a consultation with its Department of Health on potential legislation which would force cigarette makers to sell their products in plain packages with graphic health warnings and no branding. The maker of Marlboro cigarettes "is prepared to protect its rights in the courts and to seek fair compensation for the value of its property," the company has told the UK government in response to its consultation. The UK government said in April it wanted to implement plain packaging after a review found it could reduce the incidence of children taking up smoking. It published draft regulations in June, and launched a six-week consultation that ended last week. Philip Morris submitted its response to the UK government after the consultation. "'Standardized packaging' is a euphemism for government-mandated destruction of property," Philip Morris said in its submission, seen by Reuters on Tuesday. "It is unlawful, disproportionate, and at odds with the most basic requirements of the rule of law." If it goes ahead, Britain would be the second country after Australia to ban cigarette branding. Australia is already facing challenges at the World Trade Organization over complaints the laws create illegal obstacles to commerce.   (Reporting by Martinne Geller in London; editing by Shadia Nasralla) FREE AppDownload
Tim McLaren/flickrAt 6.2%, the unemployment rate remains uncomfortably high.  And yet, companies are increasingly saying they're having a hard time finding workers. This statistic from the latest NFIB small business optimism survey really drives home the disconnect. Note the highlighted part of the text below: NFIB owners increased employment by an average of 0.01 workers per firm in July (seasonally adjusted), the tenth positive month in a row and the best string of gains since 2006. Seasonally adjusted, 13 percent of the owners (up 1 point) reported adding an average of 2.9 workers per firm over the past few months. Fifty-three percent of the owners hired or tried to hire in the last three months and 42 percent (81 percent of those trying to hire or hiring) reported few or no qualified applicants for open positions. Twenty-four percent of all owners reported job openings they could not fill in the current period, down 2 points, but a solid reading. Fifteen percent reported using temporary workers, up a point. Job creation plans continued to strengthen and rose 1 percentage point to a seasonally adjusted net 13 percent, the best reading since September 2007. On a seasonally adjusted basis, job creation plans improved and job openings held at a solid level. Actual job creation remained positive, although modestly so. 81% (!) say they're having trouble hiring workers. One possibility is that this is a sign of structural mismatch. That's one theory of labor market weakness, that not enough workers have the skills demanded by employers. There could also be a wages issue. Maybe businesses need to be more aggressive about raising wages to attract employees. Or maybe employers are exaggerating. Regardless, this is a pretty stunning number in light of elevated unemployment.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe latest earnings season is almost over, with 91% of S&amp;P 500 companies having reported their Q2 2014 results. The latest blend of actual and estimated earnings shows a growth rate of 9.6% year-over-year. That’s up from the low of 5.9% at the start of the earnings season during the week of July 10. It is also up from the first quarter’s growth rate of 5.3%. The solid gain isn’t surprising given the 6.0% (saar) growth in nominal GDP during the second quarter. It was up 4.1% on a y/y basis. What is surprising is the gain during the first quarter, when nominal GDP fell 0.8% (saar). However, it was still up 3.3% y/y. S&amp;P 500 revenues are driven by global nominal GDP, with the U.S. accounting for a significant portion of that total, of course. S&amp;P 500 forward revenues rose to a new record high at the end of July. Forward earnings rose to record highs yet again last week for the S&amp;P 500/400/600. For the S&amp;P 500, forward earnings was $128.22; it is converging toward the 2015 consensus estimate of $133.69 (as of last week), which has been edging higher recently. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Revisiting Eurozone. (1) Earnings growth near 10% for Q2. (2) New record highs for forward revenues and earnings in US. (3) Tough year for EMU investors. (4) The case for resumption of EMU bull market in stocks. (5) TLTROs will soon provide lots more ECB liquidity. (6) Bond yields plunging and euro falling should help too. (7) Uptrends in exports to Eurozone and in retail sales. (8) EMU forward earnings bottoming, maybe. (9) EMU MSCI cheaper than US MSCI, as usual. (10) Leading indicators weaken, especially in Germany. (11) Resolution of Ukraine crisis will determine whether buying opportunity is now or in the foreseeable future. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Despite an unemployment rate that remains high at 6.2%, good labor in America is in short supply. This is the message of the NFIB's July small business optimism survey. Forty-two percent of respondents say there are "few or no qualified applicants" for jobs. This number has been trending higher since 2009. Twenty-one percent of firms have reported actual compensation changes in the past three months; this number has also been trending only higher since 2009. While sales continues to be a bigger concern for small businesses, it continues to drop as the single most important problem. This is interesting because it suggests economic concerns are shifting from weak demand to tight supply. All of this points to higher wages for America's workers, which in turn should lead to higher inflation. NFIB FREE AppDownload
David Ryder/Getty ImagesThe battle between Amazon, the online retailing giant, and Hachette, the international publishing group, has the makings of a plot for a legal thriller by John Grisham. A plucky young upstart eventually finds success, only to fall to the dark side and turn its back on the values it initially pledged to hold dear. The only problem is that in this battle it is not clear which side takes the role of fallen angel. Amazon wants you to believe that the villain is Hachette, which began life as a bookshop in France in 1826 but is now one of the biggest book publishers in the world and part of Lagardère, a £6 billion media empire. Amazon claims that Hachette is colluding on prices with rival publishers and preventing the public from getting cheaper books. On the other side, Hachette, with the support of hundreds of authors including Grisham, James Patterson and Stephen King, claims it is Amazon, the world’s biggest online retailer, that deserves the opprobrium. It says that Amazon, created by Jeff Bezos in 1995, has evolved from a business that pledged to offer consumers access to cheaper books and entertainment into a corporate machine damaging the well-being of writers and high streets around the world. The two sides have exchanged open letters. A group of 900 writers calling themselves Authors United paid for a full-page advert in The New York Times at the weekend, pleading with Amazon to be left out of its fight with Hachette. This was prompted by Amazon reducing its stock of Hachette titles and blocking pre-orders, which are vital to secure early sales and nudge a book up the charts. “By inconveniencing and misleading its own customers with unfair pricing and delayed delivery, Amazon is contradicting its own written promise to be 'Earth’s most customer-centric company’,” the writers claimed. “Many of us have supported Amazon since it was a struggling start-up. This is no way to treat a business partner. Nor is it the right way to treat your friends.” The row has come to a head because Amazon and Hachette have failed to agree new terms under which the online retailer can sell the publisher’s books, which include classics such as To Kill a Mockingbird and modern bestsellers such as The Silkworm by Robert Galbraith, the pseudonym of JK Rowling. Amazon claims the price of a new ebook should be $9.99 (£6), compared with $12.99 to $19.99 at present. It also wants to restructure the way revenues are split between the publisher, author and itself. The retailer responded to Authors United by using the name Readers United. It accused Hachette of stonewalling in negotiations, colluding with other publishers on prices, and compared dismay at the rise of ebooks to the reluctance of publishers to accept paperbacks after the Second World War. “They believed low-cost paperbacks would destroy literary culture and harm the industry (not to mention their own bank account),” Amazon wrote. In its letter, Amazon provided the email address for Michael Pietsch, the chief executive of Hachette, and encouraged the public to email him with concerns. Those who do email Pietsch find that he is responding. “This dispute started because Amazon is seeking a lot more profit and even more market share, at the expense of authors, bricks-and-mortar bookstores, and ourselves,” he says. It is not the first time this type of complaint has been made against Amazon. Indeed, at the heart of the row is the dramatic change that the internet has brought to the entertainment industries, and the key question of whether the growth of Amazon is a good thing. In the UK, the company has been criticized for hastening the demise of local high streets, for poor working conditions in its warehouses, and for not paying its fair share of corporation tax. Amazon enjoyed sales of £4.3 billion in 2013, but accounts for Amazon.co.uk Limited show it paid just £4.2 million in corporation tax. Amazon also had a row with Warner Bros earlier in the year and has now blocked pre-orders on new Disney films such as Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Maleficent. Publishers, film studios and record labels are cautious about the growth of Amazon. Not only does it want to sell products for a lower price than they do, but there are concerns that Amazon will not allow a film studio or record label to promote its product in the same way that a high street store will. This is why HMV has re-emerged on the high street in Britain, despite falling into administration last year. The film studios and record labels want HMV to survive. They are offering it exclusive products – such as special-edition CDs and DVDs and greater access to back catalogues – to take on Amazon. As a result, although HMV has half as many stores as when it fell into administration, sales in the shops that did survive are up 10 per cent, year on year. However, Amazon’s share of the entertainment market is still growing. The latest data from the UK show that it accounts for 22 per cent of music, video and gaming sales and is the largest entertainment retailer in the country by some distance. Amazon has come a long way since it was founded in 1995. It arrived in the UK in 1998 by buying bookpages.co.uk, but today it sells more than 100 million distinct products. The company is now using its clout to try to drive down pricing and secure better terms. In some ways, Amazon’s clash with Disney and Hachette is similar to the rows Tesco has had with farmers in the past as it tried to pay less for milk and meat. The only difference is that Amazon’s suppliers are far more high-profile and have a public voice. Amazon wants you to interpret its attempt to drive down costs as being in the best interest of shoppers. It claims it has improved access to books, films and music around the world by lowering prices and introducing new technology such as the Kindle, which provides up-and-coming authors with an unprecedented platform to reach readers. Philip Jones, the editor of the trade magazine The Bookseller, says there is some truth in this, but warns that Amazon has to communicate better with publishers. “It is a victim of its own success,” he says. “It is so big that whatever it does it has the potential to do great damage. It’s like a giant that squashes a house if it takes a misstep. It has an attitude, which I think is from the top, of a relentless drive to get rid of the competition. Whatever its motives, it’s going to have a difficult time convincing people it is right.” When Amazon floated on the New York stock market in 1997, Bezos wrote an extraordinary letter to shareholders. It laid out how Amazon would shun the short-term pressure to make a profit, and focus relentlessly on becoming the biggest retailer in the world. “We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or short-term Wall Street reactions,” Bezos wrote. In other words, he was looking for world domination at any cost. These words have turned out to be eerily prescient. Amazon’s sales were just $148 million a year at this time. At its current rate of growth, it will generate sales of more than $100 billion in the next 12 months. Given Bezos’s “us against the world” mentality, it is no surprise that Amazon has rubbed people up the wrong way during its rapid ascent. However, the clash with Hachette should also be seen in the light of growing pressure on Amazon to deliver profits. Seventeen years on from Bezos’s letter, Amazon is still not making much money. The company’s most recent financial results show that in the three months to the end of June, it lost $126 million despite sales growing 23 per cent to $19.3 billion. This was not a one-off, and the company warned there would be worse to come in the rest of 2014. Wall Street responded to these results by wiping more than 10 per cent off the value of Amazon shares and warning that it was time for Bezos to deliver. Michael Pachter, a retail analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles, said: “All of us understand making investments, and there’s a point where investors don’t know what the payoff is. What if they get to $200 billion in revenue and still don’t have profit?” Amazon would not be the first retailer to respond to such pressures by leaning on suppliers, but the Seattle-based company has reached a crucial point in its development. The company seemingly has few qualms about attracting enemies, but with the pressure now on from governments, suppliers and shareholders, it could be time to start making some friends.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
From Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a very quick guide to what traders are talking about today. Good morning!   Some divergence US and German Futures this AM, with S&amp;P 60bp above the DAX as Ukraine claims that Moscow has massed 45,000 troops on the Ukraine border causing the relief rally to fade in Europe.   Interesting Spanish and Italian markets are bouncing sharply – seems a rotation from Spanish paper.   Volumes remain light as heavy “out of office” messages are replied to e-mails – Most EU markets are trading 30% light to normal averages.   Russia’s Micex continues to bounce, and not seeing any major “safe haven” trades occurring early.   Aussie led the Asian markets higher on decent economic data, led by a 1.5%+ pop in the miners.   Japan gained small as GPIF headlines circulate into (what’s expected to be) a terrible GDP number tonight.     Shanghai saw some profit-taking as they’s leapt 8% in the last 3 weeks, while Kospi added small into their Interest Rate Decision Thursday.  The US 10YY is flat, and most PIIGS debt is tighter to Bunds, helping the EU banks well outperform the German selloff.   The Euro is nearing a 9M low as ZEW collapses (expected), keeping German yields near all-time lows.   The “Carry Trade” of the USDJPY cross is showing some risk-taking, but it failed to stay upside 200dma into BOJ minutes tonight.   The DXY is testing recent peaks, causing a headwind for commodities.   We do have a bid under industrial metals as dovish China hopes increase, while Gold is only adding small despite Ukraine concerns.   The Oil complex is breaking down rapidly as slowdown concerns increase for EU, and the IEA cuts Oil consumption forecasts this AM.   Brent has taken out recent lows, and nearing the 1Y floor.    WTI is under pressure as well, as the Energy players rotate towards the Natty complex with increases LNG consumption headlines hitting in Asia.  Scheduled Catalysts today include Small Business Optimism at7:30, JOLTS jobs data at 10, a small POMO at 11, WASDE data for AG at 12, a 3Y auction at 1, and Treasury’s Monthly budget statement at 2.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the start of tradingBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were higher on Tuesday, indicating a potential third straight day of gains as investors continued to bet that tensions in Ukraine would not escalate dramatically. Equities have come under pressure because of the problems between Russia and Ukraine, with the S&amp;P 500 at one point down about 4 percent from a record closing high in late July. The benchmark has recovered some of the decline but remained more than 2.5 percent below its record, suggesting traders may see bargains in the market. The gain implied by futures came despite ongoing concerns about the region, with Ukraine reporting that Russia had massed 45,000 troops on its border. Russia said a convoy of 280 trucks carrying humanitarian aid had set off for Ukraine, and Western governments warnings against using help as a pretext for an invasion. Investors remained concerned about the fallout from any escalation in tensions. In Germany, geopolitical anxiety hit economic sentiment in August, the ZEW think tank said, with investor morale dropping to its lowest since December 2012. Market participants monitored other areas of unrest, including the recent violence in the Gaza Strip and Israel and U.S. air strikes in Iraq. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures rose 4 points and were below fair value, a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures added 27 points, and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures rose 9.25 points. ReneSola Ltd was one of the New York Stock Exchange's biggest premarket movers, jumping 6.7 percent to $3.03 after it reported a second-quarter swing to profit on lower costs. Consumer Reports magazine said Tesla Motors Inc's Model S sedan had "more than its share of problems" a year after giving the car top marks. Shares were little changed premarket. Hedge fund ValueAct Capital LLC said it had taken a $1 billion stake in Rupert Murdoch-controlled Twenty-First Century Fox Inc, the film and TV company. ValueAct's chief executive officer told Reuters he supported the independent business plan of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc and that he doesn't believe it has to buy Allergan Inc. ValueAct is a top Valeant shareholder.  (Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanA tightrope walker performs between two spheres of the Atomium monument in Brussels on Monday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Germany In A Word: Grim. The ZEW investor confidence survey index plunged to 44.3 in August, which was much worse than the 54.0 expected by economists. To make things worse, the expectations index crashed to 8.6 from 27.1. This was the lowest reading since December 2012. "In one line: Grim, as slump in investor sentiment deepens," said Pantheon Economics' Claus Vistesen. "Given the recent sharp drawdown in equities, a drop in sentiment was expected, but the decline was larger than anticipated, reinforcing downside risk to the economy." Henkel Confirms The Grim Outlook. "We expect the escalation of the Russian Ukrainian conflict as well as the persisting political turmoil in the Middle East to have a negative impact on the market environment," said Henkel CEO Kasper Rorsted earlier Tuesday. Based in Dusseldorf, Henkel supplies the world with a variety of consumer goods ranging from laundry detergent to toothpaste. Intercept Pharmaceuticals Explodes. Biopharma firm Intercept announced some good news regarding its drug pipeline. After the company filed its earnings announcement and 10-Q on Monday afternoon, the stock exploded by around 65%. Markets Are Up. U.S. futures are up with Dow futures up 30 points and Nasdaq 100 futures up 9 points. Asia closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.18%. Europe's a bit weaker, with Britain's FTSE flat and Germany's DAX down 0.2%. Euro Tumbles. The euro slumped after Germany's ZEW investor index. The currency is currently at $1.3337, down 0.36% for the day. "The German ZEW survey suggests the euro-area economy will continue to slow through the first half of next year," said Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "That will provide ammunition for the proponents of quantitative easing at the European Central Bank." JOLTS Job Openings. The BLS's Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey will be released at 10 a.m. ET. Economist expect it to reveal there were 4.6 million job openings in June, down from 4.635 million in May. "JOLTS has garnered more attention lately as Fed Chair [Janet] Yellen often cites the survey when assessing the state of the labor market," noted Credit Suisse economists. "In May, JOLTS job openings continued to strengthen, rising to 4.6M and job vacancies per unemployed worker increased to 0.47, the highest level since May 2008. The ratio of vacancies to unemployed workers has risen much faster than its post-crisis trend for two months in a row, providing further confirmation that the U.S. labor market has indeed shifted to a period of stronger growth. However, the rates of hiring and quitting were unchanged and remain well below pre-crisis levels." Monthly Budget Statement. Economists expect the Treasury Department to report a deficit of $96 billion. Here's Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman: "We estimate the federal government ran a $92 billion budget deficit in July, down from $98 billion a year earlier on a 3.2% rise in receipts and 0.4% increase in outlays. Flat withheld income and payroll taxes slowed tax revenue growth, while one-off payments lowered miscellaneous outlays versus higher healthcare spending. For fiscal year 2014 ending in September we see the deficit on pace to narrow to $500 billion, or 2.9% of GDP, from $680 billion, 4.1% of GDP, in 2013 on 6.2% growth in receipts and 5.4% growth in outlays." The report gets published at 2 p.m. ET. Consumer Reports On Tesla's Model S. "Consumer Reports, which last year gave top marks to electric carmaker Tesla Motors Inc.'s Model S sedan, now says the car it owns has had "more than its share of problems,'" reports Reuters' Bernie Woodall. "Just before the car went in for its annual service, at a little over 12,000 miles, the center screen went blank, eliminating access to just about every function of the car," the magazine said in its statement. New York Is Going After Payday Lenders. "A trail of money that began with triple-digit loans to troubled New Yorkers and wound through companies owned by a former used-car salesman in Tennessee led New York prosecutors on a yearlong hunt through the shadowy world of payday lending," reports The New York Times' Jessica Silver-Greenberg. "On Monday, that investigation culminated with state prosecutors in Manhattan bringing criminal charges against a dozen companies and their owner, Carey Vaughn Brown, accusing them of enabling payday loans that flouted the state’s limits on interest rates in loans to New Yorkers." New iPads Are Coming. "Apple Inc.’s suppliers have started manufacturing new iPads, according to people with knowledge of the matter, as the company works to reinvigorate sales of the tablet computers after two straight quarters of declines," reports Bloomberg's Tim Culpan and Peter Burrows. "Mass production of a full-sized iPad with a 9.7-inch screen is already under way, with an unveiling projected for the end of this quarter or early next, said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because the details aren’t public. A new version of the 7.9-inch iPad mini is also entering production and will probably be available by the end of the year, they said." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas MukoyaA model presents a creation during the Festival for African Fashion and Arts (FAFA) 2012 "Fashion for Peace" show in Kenya's capital Nairobi, November 17, 2012.The muddy streets of Kenya's crowded Korogocho slums are a far cry from the fashion boutiques of Paris, Milan, New York or London. But beneath a tin roof, workers from some of the country's poorest communities sew buttons and stitch cloth for top international designers, part of a not-for-profit "ethical fashion" project. "Before Ethical Fashion, I couldn't educate my children," said Lucy, sitting in a circle of women, needles in hand as they deftly sew white seed beads to the surface of smooth, chocolate-colored leather. "But now I can educate them, and provide for them anything they need," said the mother of four, in her late 30s. From Korogocho, accessories like the cuffs the women sew are sold in high-end international boutiques, stamped with the labels of international fashion houses like Vivienne Westwood, Fendi and Stella McCartney. It is part of the Ethical Fashion Initiative (EFI), a project built on a model of "mutual benefit" that aims to support poor communities by linking them up with fashion houses and distributors. Workers on the scheme -- a member of the Fair Labor Association -- would take months to earn enough to buy some of these luxury goods, which sell for hundreds of dollars on the high street. But conditions are very far from the sweatshops that muddy some fashion brands, with the UN-backed scheme providing decent working conditions, training and -- perhaps the clearest sign of its success -- people queuing up to join looking for work. Organizers say some 90 percent of workers in Kenya have improved their homes, and almost 85 percent now provide better food for their families. A joint effort by the United Nations and World Trade Organization, the initiative has expanded from Kenya to Burkina Faso, Ghana, and Haiti, with plans for future expansion on the continent and in Asia. The long journey these bags, clothes and accessories will make has reshaped the lives of women like Lucy. Struggling as a teenager in this tin-shack slum in Kenya’s capital Nairobi, by the age of 16 she had turned to prostitution to survive. With three children of her own, she also cares for her nephew, after her sister died of AIDS. Starting out five years ago as a seamstress, Lucy is now a supervisor. Last year she moved her family out of Korogocho to a nearby suburb, with lower crime rates. Of the more than 5,000 people involved in the initiative in Kenya, 90 percent are women. For Arancha Gonzalez, chief of the International Trade Centre that runs the project, it offers a sustainable way to improve lives. "Trade, economic activities, markets can also be married with human development, with women's economic development, with poverty reduction," Gonzalez told AFP on a visit to the workshops in Nairobi. The project's slogan is "not charity, just work." "We call it ethical because we give a decent job, with decent working conditions, to very destitute people," Gonzalez added. "First and foremost it gives women dignity." Workers also use environmentally friendly, often recycled materials, and their operations are carbon neutral. Gonzalez says that for the designers working with the EFI, economics and ethics need not be mutually exclusive. "It's about making money," said Gonzalez. "But you can also make profits in a socially sustainable way." Beyond Vivienne Westwood, brands producing work through the initiative include Karen Walker, Sass &amp; Bide, Stella Jean, United Arrows and other major international houses. Hubs in Nairobi, Accra and Port-au-Prince receive commissions from the designers, provide training and organise the production of bags, jewelery and fabrics by locals. "We talk about responsible fashion as if it were a segment of fashion but it is not, it's fashion," said Simone Cipriani, the project's technical adviser. Though fashion may be fickle, quality endures. By linking skills like sewing and beading with top fashion houses, Ethical Fashion hopes to create products that are both beautiful and meaningful. "We are not talking about those things that you buy because you have a sense of guilt," Cipriani said. "We are talking about things that you buy because they are beautiful, really gorgeous. But then they have this incredible, positive story behind them, the story of people who get a decent life out of this work, who get a new life." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA visitor walks past a Microsoft booth at a computer software expo in Beijing, June 2, 2010. (Reuters) - On a trip to Beijing a decade ago, Bill Gates was asked by a senior government official how much money Microsoft Corp made in China. The official asked the interpreter to double check Gates' reply as he couldn't believe the figure was so low. It's a problem that hasn't gone away. Indeed, Microsoft's current issues in China conceal a deeper problem for the U.S. software giant - despite the popularity of its Windows operating system and Office suite, few people in emerging markets are willing to pay for legitimate copies. This not only costs Microsoft in lost revenue, but is also holding back the spread of its newest Windows 8 version - analysts say even buyers of pirate software prefer older versions. According to StatCounter, a website that tracks what software is loaded on Internet-connected computers, more than 90 percent of PCs in China - now the world's biggest market - are running pre-8 versions of Windows. Microsoft is trying to tackle this. This year it's offering Windows 8 at a discount to PC manufacturers who install its Bing search engine as the default. And it's giving away versions of Windows 8 for phones and some tablets. But, as the industry shifts from desktop to mobile, the cloud and free or cheap software, China sums up both the old and new challenges Microsoft faces in making money in emerging markets - and, increasingly, in developed ones. "The great danger for the company is that what has happened to them in emerging markets - basically no revenue from new PCs because of piracy - is not far off what's happening everywhere," said Ben Thompson, the Taiwan-based author of stratechery.com, a popular technology blog. For sure, China is a major, and unique, headache for Microsoft. Many of the problems are tied to a broader push by the Chinese government to limit foreign firms' dominance and encourage local technology firms to become viable competitors. After years of healthy relations with Beijing, Microsoft last month was suddenly targeted by anti-monopoly regulators who raided its China offices as part of a price-fixing investigation. But the spats mask the fact that Microsoft has never really cracked how to get people in emerging markets to pay for its software. The company rarely breaks out revenues by geography, but it has provided clues about the size of the problem. In 2011, then CEO Steve Ballmer reportedly told employees that, because of piracy, Microsoft earned less revenue in China than in the Netherlands - with 1 percent of its population - even though China bought as many computers as the United States. According to the BSA anti-piracy lobby group that Microsoft co-founded, emerging markets account for 56 percent of all PCs in use, and 73 percent of software piracy. Of the $77.8 billion revenue Microsoft generated in its 2013 financial year, China, Brazil and Russia each "exceeded" $1 billion, according to a Microsoft presentation. For comparison, Apple Inc generated $27 billion in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, in its 2013 financial year. For Microsoft, that's a lot of lost revenue from the heart of its business. "Windows and Office are still very much the core of Microsoft," says Sameer Singh, an India-based analyst. The most recent breakdown by Microsoft of its results by product line - for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 - shows that 56 percent of its global revenue and 78 percent of operating profit came from Windows and Office. Microsoft doesn't just lose the revenue from pirate copies, it also loses access to customers who might buy other Microsoft products that work with or on top of Windows and Office. Across most markets, Windows and Office account for more than half of revenues, says Andrew Pickup, Microsoft's Asia PR chief. This, analysts say, is because many of Microsoft's other products, such as Exchange and Windows servers, depend on customers already using Windows and Office. "The Microsoft ecosystem is obviously pretty interconnected," says Jan Dawson of U.S.-based Jackdaw Research. "So it makes sense that the proportion of revenue would be similar in emerging markets." Part of the intractability of piracy in emerging markets is that each part of the chain poses a problem. For PC makers working on wafer-thin margins the operating system is one of the costliest parts of the machine, while mom-and-pop shops which form the bulk of retailers in such markets can't afford to turn away price-sensitive customers who are comfortable buying pirate software. The problem, therefore, starts with computer makers, Singh says, since "convincing them to ship every PC with Windows pre-installed is difficult." Margins on PCs for a company like Lenovo Group Ltd are "near single digits," says Bryan Wang, an analyst at Gartner. The result is that up to 60 percent of PCs shipped in the emerging markets of Asia, says IDC research manager Handoko Andi, have no Windows operating system pre-installed - so-called 'naked PCs', which usually instead carry some free, open source operating system like Linux. That compares with about 25 percent in the region's developed markets like Japan and Australia. A quick scan of Taobao, the popular Chinese e-commerce site operated by Alibaba, shows a vast selection of PCs shipped with Linux rather than Windows. Once the machines hit the retailers, it's hard to tell where legitimate software stops and piracy begins. On a recent morning in Zhongguancun, a teeming electronics hub in north Beijing, shopkeepers offered to bundle what they said were legitimate versions of Windows with a new laptop, either for free or the equivalent of about $30. Microsoft began lobbying Lenovo in 2004 to stop shipping naked PCs, but the Chinese firm countered that its margins were too low, a person familiar with the negotiations said. Two years later - just days before then-President Hu Jintao visited Gates' U.S. home - China announced a new law requiring PCs to be shipped withoperating systems. That merely dented piracy rates, which fell to 79 percent in 2009 from 92 percent in 2004, according to the BSA. Lenovo said it reached an agreement with Microsoft in June of this year to ensure that Lenovo PCs sold inChina would come pre-installed with a genuine Windows operating system. Microsoft's new approach is to push the price of Windows low enough to make it worth a PC maker's while. The cost of a Windows license has fallen to below $50 from as high as $150, said IDC's Andi, taking Microsoft down to "levels where they've never competed before." Microsoft's Pickup said it was too early to gauge take-up. In any case, making Windows cheaper for PCs is just part of a broader response to deeper shifts in the industry. The rise of mobile, tablets, cloud-based services and free operating systems has marginalized Microsoft and challenged its business model. While Windows is on more than 90 percent of traditional computers - according to data compiled by analyst Ben Bajarin - that figure drops to below 14 percent once mobile devices such as phones and tablets are factored in, estimates Gartner. More than half those devices run Google's Android mobile OS, which is effectively free to handset and tablet makers. Apple, a key player in all types of devices, gives away upgrades to its operating systems for free. Pickup says Microsoft has listened to phone makers' complaints and relaxed what hardware they need to install the mobile version of Windows. It has also made the operating system free on any mobile device of 9 inches or less. Taken together, the moves are "about bringing down the cost as more and more of the populations in these emerging markets are having their first computing experience," Pickup said. These are significant concessions, analysts say, but Microsoft will have to learn to be a bit player, where its software and services run on other people's operating systems. "The biggest threat to Microsoft," Dawson said, "is the shift from a PC-based world where Microsoft dominated to a mobile world where Microsoft is an also-ran." (This story has been refiled to correct Wang affiliation in paragraph 19)  (Additional reporting by Noel Randewich in SAN FRANCISCO and Bill Rigby in SEATTLE; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Christopher Michel There are two datapoints coming today in the US. Via Calculated Risk, they are:  • At 7:30 AM ET, the NFIB Small Business Optimism Index for July.• At 10:00 AM, the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey for June from the BLS. In May, the number of job openings (yellow) were up 19% year-over-year compared to May 2013, and Quits were up 15% year-over-year.  Neither the NFIB survey nor the Job Openings And Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) are the kind of report that grabs front-page headlines. But each are favored by economic hipsters who like to follow the surveys that the mainstream folks don't. The NFIB survey offers an interesting snapshot of the factors pressuring business (labor costs, credit availability, end demand, etc.). And the JOLTS survey (which is one of Janet Yellen's favorite indicators) offers a glimpse of labor market tightness, as it reveals how many job openings they are, and whether they're actually getting filled. So be cool, and pay attention. FREE AppDownload
The euro is sinking following a horrible German investor confidence report. It's currently at $1.3343, down 0.3% for the day. Germany's ZEW investor confidence survey index plunged to 44.3 in August from 61.8 a month ago. This was much worse than the 54.0 expected by economists. To make things worse, the expectations index crashed to 8.6 from 27.1. This was the lowest reading since December 2012. Economists were expecting 17.0. "In one line: Grim, as slump in investor sentiment deepens," said Pantheon Economics' Claus Vistesen. On Thursday, we'll get our first estimate of Germany's Q2 GDP. Economists estimate it contracted by 0.1% quarter-over-quarter. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
 Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesEuropean markets are mixed early in Tuesday trading.  Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.04%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.35%. Germany's DAX is down 0.38%.  Spain's IBEX is up 0.59%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.44%. In Germany, the the ZEW investor confidence survey index plunged to 44.3 in August from 61.8 a month ago. Pantheon Economics' Claus Vistesen said: "In one line: Grim, as slump in investor sentiment deepens." Asian markets closed in the green. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.18% and Japan's Nikkei closed up .020%.  U.S. futures are in the green with Dow futures up 26 points and S&amp;P futures up 3.8 points. FREE AppDownload
@MarkitEconomicsConfidence in Germany is crumbling. The ZEW investor confidence survey index plunged to 44.3 in August from 61.8 a month ago. This was much worse than the 54.0 expected by economists. To make things worse, the expectations index crashed to 8.6 from 27.1. This was the lowest reading since December 2012. Economists were expecting 17.0. "In one line: Grim, as slump in investor sentiment deepens," said Pantheon Economics' Claus Vistesen. "Given the recent sharp drawdown in equities, a drop in sentiment was expected, but the decline was larger than anticipated, reinforcing downside risk to the economy." Some of this deterioration is likely due to the escalating conflict with Russia, which recently imposed a ban on food imports from the European Union. "We expect the escalation of the Russian Ukrainian conflict as well as the persisting political turmoil in the Middle East to have a negative impact on the market environment," said Henkel CEO Kasper Rorsted earlier Tuesday. Based in Dusseldorf, Henkel supplies the world with a variety of consumer goods ranging from laundry detergent to toothpaste. The economic data out of Germany has been astonishingly bad this month, highlighted by sharp drops in industrial production and factory orders. "All Europe has been affected by these tensions as well as by the stalling of the German economy," said Cumberland Adviors' Bill Witherell on Friday. "The Italian economy, for example, appears to be slipping into recession. The French economy also has failed to establish sustainable growth. While the Spanish economy is seen as having been transformed by its structural reforms, industrial production in Spain fell by -0.8% month-to-month in June, following a -0.6% drop in May." "The German ZEW survey suggests the euro-area economy will continue to slow through the first half of next year," said Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "That will provide ammunition for the proponents of quantitative easing at the European Central Bank." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rodi SaidDisplaced people from the minority Yazidi sect, fleeing violence from forces loyal to the Islamic State in Sinjar town, walk towards the Syrian border, on the outskirts of Sinjar mountain, near the Syrian border town of Elierbeh of Al-Hasakah Governorate August 10, 2014.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Tuesday. 1. Actor and brilliant standup comedian Robin Williams died in an apparent suicide Monday night. He was 63.  2. Iraq's president appointed a new prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, to replace incumbent leader Nuri al-Maliki. Maliki, however, has made it clear that he will not go quietly. "Potentially, I wouldn't exclude the possibility that Maliki would try some sort of coup," author of "Inside Iraq Politics" Kirk Sowell told CNN. "I would exclude the possibility that it might succeed." 3. Heated protests in Ferguson, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis, continued for a second night following the fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager by a police officer. The F.B.I has now opened a probe into the shooting.  4. Three-time NASCAR champion Tony Stewart will not face criminal charges after his car struck and killed 20-year-old Kevin Ward Jr. during a race Saturday night. Following the incident, Stewart has pulled out of his next race at Plymouth Speedway scheduled for this coming Saturday.  5. Russia is sending a convoy of trucks carrying humanitarian aid to eastern Ukraine. The relief mission is reportedly in collaboration with the International Committee of the Red Cross, although a spokesman for the agency told the Associated Press that he did not know where the trucks were headed or what they were carrying.  6. The Liberian government will receive sample doses of an experimental drug for Ebola after approval from the U.S. Zmapp has so far been used to treat two U.S. aid workers and an Ebola patient in Spain.  7. Luxury retailer Barney's will pay $520,000 to settle allegations that African-American shoppers were singled out as suspected shoplifters because of their race, The Financial Times reported. The investigation was spurred by customer complaints at a Manhattan department store.  8. Iraqi forces are dropping food and supplies to aid the thousands of Yazidis trapped on Mount Sinjar in Iraq. The minority group was driven to the mountains by ISIS militants.  9. Australia signed a defense agreement with the United States that will allow for "more U.S. marines and aircraft in the Northern Territory and closer co-operation on missile defense," Sky News reports. The military expansion will take place over the next two decades.  10. Despite a price hike in January, the U.S. Postal Service said it lost $2 billion during its second quarter. The agency said the loss was largely due to a $1.5 billion increase in operating expenses.  FREE AppDownload
