AP Photo/Neal UlevichHSBC China manufacturing PMI climbed to an 18-month high of 51.7 in July, from 50.7 in June. This missed expectations for a rise to 52, and was lower than the flash reading of 52. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Many sub-indices saw downward revisions from the flash reading, which accounts for the decline in the headline number.  New export orders however climbed at the second fastest rate since November 2010. Moreover, job shedding eased in July and the latest decline was the weakest since March. "The economy is improving sequentially and registered across-the-board improvement compared to June,” Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist for China, said in a press release. “Policy makers are continuing with targeted easing in recent weeks and we expect the cumulative impact of these measures to filter through in the next few months and help consolidate the recovery.” Earlier we got the official PMI number which climbed to 51.7, from 51 in June and beating expectations for a rise to 51.4. China's mini-stimulus has helped improve sentiment and Beijing again seems to have made growth a top priority. Markit Economics/HSBC FREE AppDownload
Brean CapitalBond investors are struggling to find a decent yield in this environment of low interest rates. U.S. 10-year Treasury notes currently yield about 2.5%, just slightly better than the just-less-than 2% inflation we've seen over the first half of this year. As a result, bond investors are left with only bad — or at least, suboptimal — options right now. Peter Tchir at Brean Capital published a research note on what he calls "The Circles of Bond Hell." There are five: 1. Hope Market Cheapens: Some folks are just waiting for bond prices to fall and yields to rise. But if your investment strategy has come down to "Hope the Market Cheapens," you have no investment strategy. You are going to church. Tchir: "While this strategy has the appeal of being risk averse, it hasn't worked at all." 2. Increase Duration: If you are forced to increase your duration, you're exposing yourself to interest rate risk. And in (overly) simple terms: When short-term rates rise, the stuff you own that doesn't mature for a really long time is worth less. Tchir: "This seems to be fraught with career risk at this stage." This sounds appealing. 3. Decrease Credit Quality: This forces investors to take a step down. So an investment-grade investor buys high-yield corporate bonds, which carry more default risk but yield more, and a government-bond investor buys investment-grade corporate bonds, and so on. Tchir: "While dangerous, this remains a viable way to increase yield — assuming the central banks continue to support the markets and the economy muddles along." 4. Give up Liquidity: Basically, you gotta buy stuff that's harder to get rid of in order to get returns. This is scary because you can't get rid of things when the market turns against you. Tchir: "It does mean that your credit decisions have to be better than otherwise, because you likely own this in a down market." 5. Increase Structure: Buy more complicated stuff. Buying an asset-backed security, which might include some auto loans, mortgages, and other things, instead of buying a high-yield corporate bond from one company. But the more stuff you've got, the less you know about how to use it, basically. Tchir: "This is the next most logical step ... This is where the value is and where investors will be forced to move as it is the best option left to increase yield." In our most recent Most Important Charts In The World feature, Tchir contributed this chart, which shows where we are in the bond market cycle. Business Insider According to Tchir's schematic, we have a world of bond investors finding value where no one else can, but we are short of having a glut of credit geniuses. For now. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeGary ShillingFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. GARY SHILLING: In This Risk-On Environment, Here Are 9 Investments I Like (A. Gary Shilling's Insight)  In his latest monthly Insights newsletter, Gary Shilling writes that he still thinks we're in a risk on investment climate, despite red flags we're seeing in global economic growth and financial markets. "So we continue our defensive stance towards equities and suggest Treasurys as a safe haven and beneficiary of possible deflation, especially in the eurozone, as well as a weak U.S. economy," Shilling writes.  Here are the nine investments Shilling finds "attractive". 1 Treasury bonds; 2. Selected income-producing securities; 3. Small luxuries; 4. Consumer staples and foods; 5. The dollar against the euro and sterling vs. dollar; 6. Selected health-care providers and medical office buildings; 7. Low P/E stocks; 8. Productivity enhancers; 9. North American energy producers ex renewables. Meanwhile, he thinks agricultural commodities, especially sugar are unattractive. This is "due to nearly perfect growing weather and enough inventories of many crops (Our own bees are producing a record honey crop!)." PIMCO Lags 89% Of Its Peers (Reuters)  Bill Gross' PIMCO Total Return Fund, the world's biggest bond fund had another terrible month, lagging 89% of its peers in July, according to Morningstar data cited by Jennifer Ablan at Reuters. "According to preliminary Morningstar data on Thursday, Pimco Total Return is posting a negative 0.44 percent return, while its peer-fund category has a negative 0.23 percent return for the month as of July 30," writes Ablan. For the year the fund is up 3.25% lagging 76% of its peers. Investors Are Descending Into The Five Circles Of Bond Hell (Business Insider) In a low interest rate environment, fixed income investors are desperately searching for yield. Peter Tchir at Brean Capital describes the five "Circles of Bond Hell." 1. "Hope market cheapens: While this strategy has the appeal of being risk averse, it hasn't worked at all."2. "Increase duration: This seems to be fraught with career risk at this stage."3. "Decrease Credit Quality: "While dangerous, this remains a viable way to increase yield — assuming the central banks continue to support the markets and the economy muddles along."4. "Give up Liquidity: "It does mean that your credit decisions have to be better than otherwise, because you likely own this in a down market."5. "Increase Structure: "This is the next most logical step ... This is where the value is and where investors will be forced to move as it is the best option left to increase yield." Advisors Need To Help Clients Better Understand Tax-Smart Investment Strategies (The Wall Street Journal)  A large number of people do their own taxes but aren't aware of tax-smart investment strategies and solutions, writes Mike Miroballi, president of BMO Harris Financial Advisors in the WSJ. "Advisers should remind clients of the importance of positioning assets," he writes. "Putting your least tax-efficient investments in your tax-advantaged accounts like IRAs makes a lot of sense, especially if you don't need that income immediately." "Advisers should also remind clients to maximize the tax benefits available through tax-deferred accounts. …Advisers should also be familiar with the state-by-state rules for tax-friendly investment vehicles like 529 education savings plans. In some states, if a client is saving for a college education, they can get a tax deduction for contributing to their in-state 529 plan." Where Has Macro Volatility Gone (Business Insider) "One of the main reasons for the collapse of volatility in financial markets this year is the decline in macroeconomic volatility, aka the 'Great Moderation,'" writes Ruslan Bikbov, director at US Rates Research at Merrill Lynch. "The decline in trend growth coupled with still-ample spare capacity puts economic growth on a path of narrow volatility. We don't expect volatility to return to historical norms unless macro volatility rises, which likely requires trend growth to increase as well." Business Insider/Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
ReutersOn Wednesday Argentine Economy Minister Axel Kicillof was in New York City, telling the world that his country had gone into default for the second time in a little over a decade. On Thursday he was back home, explaining to the Argentine people what it was like dealing with Daniel Pollack, the man appointed by the U.S. Court to mediate between Kicillof's delegation, and the hedge fund creditors — known collectively as NML Capital — to which Argentina owes over $1.3 billion. "Statements by Pollack seem like a manual on how to harm Argentina," said Kicillof. "He's tougher than S&amp;P." Perhaps Kicillof is right, Standard and Poors called Argentina's failure to pay a "selective default," Pollack called it a "technical default." We're learning that there is a difference. We're also learning that Argentine Twitter has an incredible sense of humor about this whole disaster. Kicillof. pic.twitter.com/3L1TrzGFZl   There's one Kicillof quote especially that the Argentine Twittersphere embraced. "Being generous with other people's money is terrible," he said. Argentine Twitter responded by repeating the quote and adding a reminder that it was coming from a man who "month after month spends more money on government social programs." "Ser generoso con la plata de los demás es pésimo" dice Kicillof, que mes a mes reparte más planes sociales.   Kicillof is a Marxist professor who drives a 2008 Renault an years ago, as a junior minister, master minded the government takeover of the Argentine subsidiary of Spanish oil and gas company, Repsol. His political ideology has never been a secret. It's just that now that the country is in its current precarious situation, Argentines have even more reason to unleash their since of humor on Kicillof and his policies. Escuchando a Kicillof. pic.twitter.com/KSpyZT5E2y Kicillof: "es una pavada atómica afirmar que estamos en default" http://t.co/BCSNXhmlH8 Kicillof also suggestively said that he found out that Pollack had been a colleague of NML's lawyers. "They all know each other, there's an affinity there," he said. Classy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred Prouser Elon Musk in 2009. Tesla has come a long way.Tesla reported adjusted earnings of $0.11 a share, beating Bloomberg's consensus for earnings of $0.04 a share and loss of $0.26 a year ago. Revenue came in at $857.5 million, versus a consensus estimate for $813 million.  Shares saw volatile trading after-hours, with the stock climbing and falling as much as 2%.  Here's the link to the Q2 shareholder letter »  On a GAAP basis, Tesla reported a loss of $62 million. Tesla relies heavily on non-GAAP results.   Tesla delivered 7,579 vehicles in Q2, besting Barclays' forecast for 7,546 units and Tesla's own forecast for 7,500 units.  However, Tesla now sees Q3 deliveries at 9,000 vehicles, which is slightly below Barclays' estimate of 9,200-9,700 vehicles. Tesla still says they will deliver 35,000 vehicles for 2014. Last year they delivered about 22,450. So, they're holding to a 56% growth forecast. And it now forecasts 100,000 deliveries on an annualized basis for 2015.  "While guiding to a below-consensus 3Q’14 on deliveries and earnings, Tesla gave bullish guidance for 2014 and 2015 that should support the shares – guiding to a 4Q delivery rate of over 13,000 units and an exit rate of 100k units in 2015," Barclays said. "The guidance provides us some insight into Tesla’s expectations for a quite steep delivery ramp-up over the coming years and into the Model 3 era." The Palo Alto-based company confirmed they had broken ground in Reno as a potential site for its Gigafactory, a manufacturing plant that Tesla hopes will double the world's volume of lithium ion batteries by 2020. Earlier today, Tesla and Panasonic confirmed media reports that they'd signed a deal to furnish the factory. In its shareholder letter the firm said additional partners for other parts of Tesla's battery pack would be announced in the coming months.  The firm now says it will spend close to $1 billion in 2014. They ended the quarter with $2.7 billion cash reserves. They're seeing a gross margin of about 27%. "We continue to invest in additional production capacity, continued Model X and Model S development, Gigafactory construction, and further expansion of our sales, service, and Supercharger footprints," they said. "We have also chosen to slightly accelerate our investments in production capacity and the Gigafactory." They also confirmed they have a powertrain delivery deal with Daimler for the Mercedes-Benz B Class EV.  This is just the 17th quarterly report in the Palo Alto-based firm's history, but few companies' reports are as closely watched. Some have made the case that the entire electric vehicle industry, not to mention the future of solar rooftops, depend on Tesla's success. Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas, a Tesla bull, released a note yesterday arguing investors should prepare for a miss on some items, but should nonetheless "prepare to buy the dips."  We're prepared for a weakish 3Q volume guide. Extensive retooling/reconfiguration of the Fremont plant in preparation of higher volume and Model X could create short-term supply constraints that Tesla may want to telegraph into the 3Q volume outlook. While still possible to reiterate its FY14 outlook of 35k units, we believe this will be heavily dependent on a 4Q catch-up. We're at 9,350 Model S in 3Q (vs. 7,725 in 2Q) but are prepared for a number well below 9k. Barclays also cautioned delivery guidance could disappoint, but that "momentum still exists in the name in the near-term, driven by positive datapoints around China and Model X." Shares were down 2% into Thursday's close.  Click Here For Updates » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzIt was an ugly end to July for the financial markets. Stocks in the U.S. sold off hard, with the Dow falling more than 300 points and the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq each losing 2%.  And in addition to the broad market sell-off, a number of stocks had absolutely terrible days. Valeant Pharmaceuticals, the Canadian pharmaceutical company that has been seeking to acquire Botox maker Allergan, lost more than 6% after cutting its full-year earnings and sales outlook. Yelp shares fell more than 11% despite the company on Wednesday night reporting a quarterly profit for the first time since it went public.  Shares of 3D Systems, which makes 3-D printers, fell 10% after the company's earnings and revenue both came in short of expectations.  L-3 Communications were down more than 12% after reporting preliminary second-quarter earnings and announcing that it is conducting an internal review because of accounting matters in the company's Aerospace Systems segment. The company said it expects to incur a pretax charge of $84 million and a related reduction in net sales of $43 million.  Adidas shares listed in New York were down more than 15% after the German athletic apparel company issued a statement that said the "recent trend change in the Russian rouble as well as increasing risks to consumer sentiment and consumer spending from current tensions in the region point to higher risks to the short-term profitability contribution from Russia/CIS." In the second quarter, Adidas said it expects to report sales that grew 10%, though sales in its TaylorMade-adidas Golf segment fell 18%, yet another poor indicator for the health of golf in the U.S. U.S.-listed shares of French telecom giant Alcatel-Lucent fell more than 10% after the company reported second-quarter revenues of €3.28 billion, up 0.7% over last year.  Shares of Sprint also got hammered, falling 5% after French telecom company Iliad said it offered to acquire T-Mobile in a deal valuing the company at $36.20 per share. T-Mobile shares were up 6% following the news. Sprint and T-Mobile have long been discussing a potential merger. After Argentina last night defaulted on $1.3 billion worth of debt owed to hedge fund creditors, the country's Merval stock index got crushed, closing down 9%.  A couple massive companies didn't crash, but they aren't having great days either. ExxonMobil fell more than 4% after the oil giant reported second-quarter production fell 5.7% to 3.84 million barrels of oil equivalent, short of the 3.96 that was forecast by analysts. The company's financial results were better, as earnings per share and revenue beat expectations. Samsung, which doesn't trade in the U.S., last night reported quarterly profit that fell sharply from the prior year, with the company blaming its poor results on increased competition in the smartphone space, as well as high production costs for its flagship Galaxy S5 smartphone. Kellogg shares lost more than 6% after the company reported second-quarter sales that were in line with expectations, while its U.S. Morning Foods segment, which includes its flagship cereal brands, saw sales fall 4.9%. The Chicago purchasing managers index, or PMI, report earlier this morning came in well below expectations. The index came in at 52.6, down from 62.6 in May, and lower than the 63.0 that was expected by economists, and this dropped marked the single biggest monthly fall since October 2008.  After the market close, wearable camera maker GoPro announced its first quarterly earnings since going public in June, and despite beating on the top and bottom lines, the stock got crushed, falling 10% in after hours trade.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Matt JohnstonThe view from the top of roller coaster Kingda Ka taken with a GoPro camera.Shares of GoPro are getting crushed after the company's first quarterly earnings report since going public. The stock was down about 12% after last night falling 10% following the report. GoPro reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.08, topping estimates for $0.07. Revenue in the second quarter totaled $244.6 million, beating estimates for $238.1 million. On a "GAAP," or unadjusted basis, however, GoPro lost $0.24 per share.  Since debuting in June, GoPro shares have been on a tear, gaining about 100% since the IPO.  Yesterday, the stock closed just below $48, just about doubling the market cap of the company since shares priced at $24 in their initial public offering. Currently, GoPro's market cap is about $9.5 billion.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
The stock market experienced one of its worst one-day sell-offs in months. There's no shortage of things to be worried about. Argentina just defaulted, Iraq's a mess, and Russia could soon retaliate for the latest round of economic sanctions. But traders agree that Thursday's sell-off is probably due to one stat: the 0.7% jump in the employment cost index (ECI) in the second quarter. This number, which crossed at 8:30 a.m. ET, was a bit higher than the 0.5% expected by economists. And it represents a year-over-year growth rate of over 2%. It's a big deal, because it's both a sign of inflation and labor-market tightness, two forces that put pressure on the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy sooner than later. "I just confirmed this theory with Art Cashin," said NYSE floor governor Rich Barry. "He agrees that today's sell-off has much more to do with Fed concerns than with Argentina." (Cashin is a veteran trader and UBS Financial Services' director of floor operations.) On Wednesday the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) said, "a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." Thursday's ECI suggests otherwise. "This is the biggest increase since 2008," said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey of the ECI. "Some at the Fed feel that one sign of labor market slack is low wages. Well, wages, the employment cost index, are rising again." "While overreacting to any single data print is usually a bad idea, we note that this series tends to be fairly stable and today’s gain is probably more than just noise," said Societe Generale's Aneta Markowska. "Our past analysis suggests that the Phillips curve is slowly coming back to life and wage pressures should have begun to pick up during the spring months." The Phillips curve posits that there exists an inverse relationship between the unemployment rate and the inflation rate. "By the Fed’s own admission, the unemployment rate is no longer elevated and inflation is no longer at risk of persistently undershooting 2%," added Markowska. "So why do we need another year of zero rates?" The prospect that the Fed could tighten monetary policy sooner than expected is frequently blamed for causing market volatility. The idea is that if the Fed tightens, then it pulls liquidity out of the credit markets, which indirectly would pull liquidity out of the stock markets. FRED FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sam MircovichStocks got crushed across the board, with the Nasdaq logging the largest percentage loss while the Dow lost more than 300 points and the small cap Russell 2000 index lost more than 2%. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. On the economic data front, the Chicago purchasing managers index fell more than it has in one month since 2008, coming in at 52.6 for June against 62.6 in May. Economists were looking for the index to climb to 63.0. "A monthly fall of this magnitude has not been seen since October 2008 and left the Barometer at its lowest level since June 2013," MNI Chicago said in its press release. "In spite of the sharp decline this month, feedback from purchasing managers was that they saw the downturn as a lull rather than the start of a new downward trend." 2. Weekly initial jobless claims came in at 302,000, just above the 300,000 that was expected by economists. Last week's number, however, was revised down to 279,000 from 284,000, as the four-week moving average of initial jobless claims fell to its lowest level since April 15, 2006. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said the report suggests modest improvement in labor markets, adding that, "We view the weekly rebound in claims off of last week’s unexpectedly large decline as reflecting volatility stemming from the annual auto industry shutdown for retooling auto production plants." 3. Last night, Argentina defaulted on $1.3 billion worth of debt it owes to hedge fund creditors, and following the news, Argentina's stock market took a serious hit, as the Merval lost more than 7%.  4. Amid the sell-off in the major stock indices, a number of individual companies took a beating, including Valeant Pharmaceuticals and 3D Systems. Valeant, the Canadian Pharmaceutical company that is seeking to acquire Botox-maker Allergan, fell 8% after its full-year earnings and revenue outlook disappointed. 3D Systems, which made 3-D printers, fell 11% after reporting earnings and revenue that came in below expectations.  5. In mergers and acquisitions news, French telecom company Iliad made an offer to acquire T-Mobile in a deal that values the company at $36.20 per share. T-Mobile, which also reported earnings this morning that showed revenue grew 8% in the second quarter, acknowledged that it received an offer from Iliad, but said it had no further comment. Following the news, T-Mobile shares gained more than 5%, while shares of Sprint, which has been seeking to acquire T-Mobile for some time, fell 6%.  6. German athletic apparel maker Adidas issued a statement this morning that had two pieces of bad news: the turmoil in Russia will weigh on the company's profit, and golf sales are lagging. Adidas said that, "[T]he recent trend change in the Russian rouble as well as increasing risks to consumer sentiment and consumer spending from current tensions in the region point to higher risks to the short-term profitability contribution from Russia/CIS." The company also said that sales in its TaylorMade-adidas Golf segment fell 18%, yet another indication of golf's struggles.  7. Earnings season is still rolling along, as Tesla and GoPro are among the notable companies expected to report earnings after Thursday's market close.  Don't Miss: Investors Are Descending Into The Five Circles Of Bond Hell » FREE AppDownload
CNBCEarlier today Warren Buffett unexpectedly called into CNBC and spoke with Tre Grinner, a Hodgkin's Lymphoma patient and aspiring investment banker. Currently, Grinner is doing a week-long investment banking internship at Goldman Sachs, thanks to the Make-A-Wish foundation. He was speaking about his internship experience live on CNBC when Warren Buffett dialed in. During the phone call, Buffett gave Grinner several pieces of investing advice. He said that "it's a mistake to pay attention to the day to day fluctuations" because "the trick in investing is to buy good business and to hold them for a long time." Buffett also recommended that Grinner "take all the accounting courses that he can find" because it'll help with reading financial statements. He added that even though it takes time to learn the language of accounting, "it pays off big later on". Most exciting of all, Buffett expressed his interest in meeting Grinner personally, and extended him an invitation to Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting in May. To watch the full interview on CNBC click here.   FREE AppDownload
Getty / Justin SullivanLinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner LinkedIn just announced its Q2 earnings. It's a beat on both the top and bottom lines.  Here are the numbers: Stock was up as much as 13% in reaction, but has since cooled to about 8% after-hours. Revenue increased 47% year-over-year, with LinkedIn's talent solutions products, which help recruiters find the right candidates, accounting for 60% of the total $533.9 million revenue. Marketing and premium subscriptions each made up 20% of the revenue. About two-thirds of LinkedIn's more than 300 million users are international, but revenue from the U.S. still makes up about 60% of the total.  One of the things analysts had their eyes on was LinkedIn's revenue growth. They were concerned that the growth rate was going to continue to decelerate, but it actually accelerated, increasing 47% year-over-year this quarter compared to 46% year-over-year last quarter. For the full year, LinkedIn is expecting revenue of between $2.14 and $2.15 billion. The company also just announced the launch of a new enterprise product called "Sales Navigator," which will connect salespeople and buyers, and highlighted the growth of its long-form publisher platform, which sees about 30,000 new posts weekly. When LinkedIn launched the program, it was only available to a select group of "Influencers," but now 15 million people have posting capabilities.  Here's the official statement from CEO Jeff Weiner: Here's a look at LinkedIn's historic revenue: LinkedIn FREE AppDownload
Fun fact: Robo-advisor startup Betterment has a book club. Recently, they read Stephen Dubner and Steven Levitt's "Think Like A Freak." So when Betterment founder and CEO Jon Stein interviewed Dubner, he asked how investors could think like freaks about their money. Of all the insights in the book, Dubner boiled the key advice down to one simple concept: Acknowledge what you don't know. He went on to explain that many people who have earned enough money to be able to invest think they must be smart enough to "figure this out." "But if 'figure this out' means 'I'm gonna put all 20 grand on Blackberry today because I think that they just have to come back somehow,'" Dubner said, "that is assuming a level of knowledge there's just no reason you should have access to."  There's even a $5 word for it: ultracrepidarianism, or the belief that because you're an expert at one thing, you must be equally proficient at others, and are eager to share advice in those fields. "Doctors are really good at that," Dubner quipped. The good news is that there are people out there who do know, he explained. Those of us who are skilled in an area other than personal finance shouldn't be taking time away from improving that knowledge to learn every detail about managing money. "Don't think it's this thing you need to figure out how to do, because people have already figured it out," Dubner continued. Rather than become one of them, we should capitalize on their knowledge. Watch his entire answer in the video below:.  FREE AppDownload
Using data from the World Trade Organization we created these maps to show which foreign nations the United States and European Union get most of their fuel imports from.  The World Trade Organization defines fuels as petroleum, natural gas, coal, and other energy products. Russia is a prominent trading partner for both the EU and the United States. Simran Khosla/GlobalPost Simran Khosla/GlobalPost
FacebookSales at Buffalo Wild Wings are soaring.  Thanks to the company's savvy business strategy, net income in the second quarter increased by 44%, reports Mark Brandau at Nation's Restaurant News.  Buffalo Wild Wings' success is especially remarkable considering the overall slump in the restaurant industry.  Here are a few reasons business is booming.  1. Paying attention to the calendar. This year has been full of sporting events, from the NCAA tournament to the World Cup. Buffalo Wild Wings pays special attention to the calendar and times promotions around these events, executives told analysts and investors on a conference call. Advertising restaurants as a go-to place to watch games was an effective tactic, Brandau writes.  2. Improving the experience. Buffalo Wild Wings has implemented several changes to make eating there more convenient. More than 190 restaurants have added tableside tablets, which allow customers to play games while they're waiting for food. The brand is also installing technology to pay at your table, eliminating the annoying wait after a meal.  3. Server technology. Buffalo Wild Wings is planning to equip servers with hand-held systems for sending orders to the kitchen or accepting payment from diners, Brandau writes. This will improve communication between servers and cooks and will help accuracy. 4. Focused strategy. Buffalo Wild Wings focuses on beer, wings, and sports, CEO Sally Smith told Business Insider last year.  While casual dining restaurants in general work to differentiate in the space, Buffalo Wild Wings has succeeded by focusing on its strengths.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Thayer Editor's note: This post originally appeared on The Two-Bit Idiot. New York Department of Financial Services Chief Ben Lawsky recently released a draft proposal for a BitLicense that would have to be obtained by any New York firm that processing Bitcoin. Dana Syracuse, whom Selkis also addresses is DFS general counsel.  Dear Mr. Lawsky and Mr. Syracuse: My name is Ryan Selkis, and I am a Bitcoin entrepreneur, journalist and former venture capital and investment banking professional.  Thank you for providing me and others from the virtual currency community with the opportunity to submit public comments in response to your department’s recently issued BitLicense proposals.  I would like to commend you and your colleagues for your recent efforts to engage our community and better understand the potential and challenges associated with integrating virtual currencies into the broader financial system.  Now that an initial regulatory framework has been outlined, it is critical that your department iterate on its proposals and listen to the genuine concerns of the broader Bitcoin community.  Finalizing measured and effective regulations is incredibly important for the health of virtual currencies.  Not only will the New York BitLicense help legitimize Bitcoin in the financial capital of the world, but it will also set the standard for how other state and national regulators choose to oversee virtual currency related businesses in the future.  As a bitcoin entrepreneur, widely-followed industry analyst and former financial services professional, I believe I am uniquely qualified and positioned to suggest modifications that will help strengthen and streamline these important regulations.This is the first of many public comment letters I plan to submit to your department advocating for clarifications and improvements to the early draft of the BitLicense.  Given the scope and detail of the proposals, I have divided my feedback into dozens of short letters which deconstruct specific provisions that I believe are ambiguous or deficient, and have outlined suggestions for drafting improvements that should help your department better achieve its twin goals of curbing illicit activity and fostering innovation.  I hope you will find my comments helpful.Personal BackgroundWhile I do not formally represent or work for any entity within the bitcoin ecosystem other than myself, I have been recognized by peers and industry leaders as one of the industry’s most insightful analysts, and my blog (TBI Daily) is among the most widely read and followed bitcoin media outlets in the US.  Most of my work centers around virtual currencies’ regulatory outlook, economic opportunities and scaling challenges, and as a result, tends to attract executives, investors and the “Wall Street crowd.”  I have been an outspoken advocate for common sense regulations that standardize consumer protections, enhance technical security, and promote proper financial controls at exchanges and deposit-taking organizations, especially after I exposed the massive losses and investor fraud at Mt. Gox, the now-defunct Japanese exchange which was once the industry’s largest.On the other hand, my experiences as an entrepreneur have left me - like so many others from the community - deeply skeptical of the ability of regulators and central authorities to exhibit the restraint necessary to issue truly effective regulations that promote growth without crippling innovation.  I was forced to abandon one of my ventures within the industry due, in large part, to sky high estimated compliance costs and a lack of licensed US money transmitters willing to work with such an organization.  In addition, a second, charitably-focused venture, has been delayed for two years thanks to unelected government authorities, and would be invalidated entirely by the BitLicense regulations, were they finalized in their current form.I can personally certainly appreciate the need for smart, but careful regulation in this nascent industry, and it is from the perspective of a young entrepreneur that I will be speaking most passionately in response to the BitLicense proposals.The Need for a BitLicenseMany within the industry may dispute that virtual currencies require any special regulation at all.  While I share some similar concerns, I also believe the BitLicense proposals represent an important step towards the widespread adoption of virtual currencies.  The standardization they promote and safeguards they require should lead to greater levels of trust from consumers and the broader business community.  That trust, in turn, will help the industry’s exchanges, wallet services and payment processors attract customers and partners who had previously eyed virtual currencies with skepticism.  Background checks for key employees, shareholders and directors at BitLicensed companies make sense, as do rigorous reviews of the companies’ financial and technical controls, all of which can hardly be described as requirements that are unique to bitcoin service providers.  The proposals which standardize cyber security programs, disaster recovery plans, and consumer protections, disclosures and marketing should also be considered positive developments for the industry.  I for one believe that it is reasonable to assume that those responsible for safeguarding other people’s assets should be subject to more thorough background checks, even if that does add to the compliance costs of some larger ventures.The BitLicense, then, is undoubtedly a good thing for the future of virtual currencies in theory.  However, whether it will prove to be a boon for the industry in fact remains an open question.  This will largely depend on your department’s continued engagement with our community.  If the BitLicense drafting process is transparent, collaborative and iterative, I am optimistic that the proposals will ultimately prove valuable. In order to weigh whether the BitLicense is effective vs. overly burdensome it helps to think in terms of the “pipes” that connect the legacy financial system to the broader virtual currency community.  In cases where virtual currencies appear to be exempt from existing regulations that already apply to fiat currency exchanges, deposit-taking banks or payment processors, clarifications seem appropriate and fair.  These regulations may help the industry’s new ventures integrate with the compliance-wary institutions who are critical partners needed to improve liquidity (derivatives market makers), provide insurance (brokers, underwriters), add product functionality (credit / debit cards), and create more funding avenues (banks, investors).  Any regulations which lubricate the pipes between the fiat and virtual currency financial systems should be embraced, while those that clog the pipes to no real positive effect should be avoided at all costs.  Areas for Improvement Unfortunately, due to ambiguities or miscalculations in the current draft, I fear there are numerous unnecessary and ultimately ineffective provisions that clog the pipes to the virtual currency ecosystem.  In many cases, honest entrepreneurs toiling on new projects, especially younger technologists who have yet to build impressive resumes, would be precluded by the BitLicense proposals from participating in this new economic boom.  The restrictive nature of some of the proposals might even render bitcoin and alternative currencies completely unusable by many consumers and enterprises.  And certain requirements levied upon virtual currency businesses by the NYDFS would actually encourage illicit activity, harm consumers, and block both human and financial capital investments into the fledgling ecosystem.As currently drafted, the BitLicense contains numerous ineffective, destructive, and misguided provisions, and at times draws inappropriate and incorrect conclusions about its impact on the virtual currency ecosystem.  In the coming weeks I will expound upon these specific issues in full-length posts.  For now, here is a summary of the myriad problems with the current draft:   1) The BitLicense’s scope is inappropriately broad, and punitive to software providers.  The working definition of “Virtual Currency Business Activity” must either narrow or additional exemptions must be made for businesses who do not take custody of user assets or exchange currencies.  Firms providing institutional trading services (e.g. Kraken, itBit), payment processing (e.g. BitPay, Coinbase, Stripe), hosted wallets (e.g. Coinbase, Circle, Xapo), or investment management services (e.g. Pantera, Bitcoin Investment Trust, Winklevoss ETF) are logical candidates for BitLicenses as they are all take custody of customer funds at some point in time.  On the other hand, open-source wallets and multi-signature wallets which do not take custody of user assets (e.g. Blockchain.info, BitGo) should be excluded the reporting and bonding requirements of other BitLicensed firms as they cannot reasonably be viewed as financial institutions, but pure-play software providers.  2) The BitLicense lacks an “on-ramp” for small businesses that will hurt jobs.  The NYDFS is mistaken in its assertion that the BitLicense proposals will not have an adverse impact on jobs and employment opportunities in New York state - as it claimed last week when it unveiled the BitLicense proposals.  Any future versions of the BitLicense should include a “Job Impact Statement” as required by New York law, and take into careful consideration the feedback provided by the broader bitcoin community, especially from those starting new ventures.  Small venture exemptions should be made for innovators who wish to act in good faith and comply with existing regulations, but who cannot afford the sizable compliance costs of a fully licensed virtual currency business.  If the NYSDFS added an exemption for organizations processing less than a specified floor of transaction volume, or at least radically streamlined the reporting processes for startups, they could capture the bulk of virtual currency activity without stifling new innovations.  Educated early adopters would likely test out new, less-regulated ventures while the mainstream consumers could rely safely on their more thoroughly vetted counterparts.3) The BitLicense requires innovators to first ask permission to offer new services.  Virtual currency ventures should be allowed to experiment and develop new tools and services for their customers without the lengthy delays and costs associated with petitioning the NYDFS for such permission.  As written, the BitLicense cripples any innovation for unfunded entrepreneurs who are testing new and unproven ideas.  Should the NYDFS fail to rein in the scope of the licenses, it seems likely that software services will route around New York state in the coming months, restricting residents from accessing many new and valuable virtual currency tools.  New York State would become a laggard in virtual currency technology.  In addition, these requirements effectively guarantee many academic projects at universities will be undermined due to regulatory fears and compliance costs.4) The BitLicense strengthens the technology used to facilitate illicit activity.  High compliance costs and legal fears could drive the majority of innovation in virtual currencies underground.  Honest actors who choose to experiment with open-source block chain technologies will be forced to beta test their tools in black markets, which would put many bad actors at the leading edge of the technology.  Far from containing and restricting the use of virtual currencies to fuel illicit activities, the BitLicense, as written, will encourage such usage.5) The BitLicense impedes innovations that would improve liquidity and reduce volatility.  As written, the BitLicense proposals would threaten the fungibility of Bitcoin, creating a dichotomy between white-listed coins held at BitLicensed institutions and black-listed coins which circulate freely across the globe.  These two types of bitcoins would likely trade at different prices, complicating the creation of derivatives products which alleviate volatility for consumers and merchants.  In addition, an undue burden would be placed on payment processors and wallet providers to distinguish between white-listed and black-listed bitcoins used in each transaction.  These dual standards would be bad for consumers and ineffective at curbing black market activity.6) The BitLicense restricts consumers’ financial freedom.  By outlawing privacy and severely hindering a person’s ability to control his or her own financial assets, the BitLicense in its current form criminalizes personal financial management outside of the regulated financial system.  Not only is this morally questionable, but it would make New York State the most restrictive regulatory environment in the US - much more restrictive than even its federal counterparts.  Without these unnecessary and cumbersome restrictions on transaction reporting, authorities can still monitor suspicious activities from identified users at exchanges and hosted wallets, and authorities could track all inflows and outflows from unidentified addresses over time.  The BitLicense already allows for “enhanced due diligence” on suspicious transactions and could easily apply to those whose transactions appeared questionable without effectively blacklisting all unknown bitcoin addresses.  7) The BitLicense disproportionately hurts young, less affluent and underbanked consumers.  In many cases, these proposals will effectively shut out unbanked and underbanked consumers from the economic benefits of virtual currencies.  These underserved individuals generally find it more difficult to comply with existing “know your customer” regulations, and could be relegated to their inferior existing products should they find difficulty meeting the BitLicense’s high threshold for compliance.8) The BitLicense restrictions on virtual currency investments are ineffective and harmful to consumers.  Under the guise of safeguarding ventures’ assets from the price volatility of virtual currencies, the NYDFS could actually do irreparable harm to ventures seeking to provide insurance for deposits or otherwise hedge their currency exposure.  The prohibitions against holding virtual currencies in retained earnings or from profits would actually destabilize many ventures.  In addition, such prohibitions are inappropriate as these restrictions may be more properly imposed by a given company’s investors and board directors themselves, on a case by case basis, according to the best interests of that particular company.9) The BitLicense will fail to prevent illicit activity and hurt honest actors instead.  However unpalatable, the NYSDFS must also recognize that it is impossible to prevent individuals from using open-source software to transact freely and privately.  It seems likely that the department’s crusade against anonymous virtual currency users from across the globe will fail at the same time it severely damages the industry’s ability to create innovative and valuable products for honest users.  The department would be better suited monitoring those who choose to utilize the services at bitcoin’s licensed “banks” and exchanges within existing financial regulations.  10) The BitLicense outlaws crucial development and experimentation that happens with new alternative virtual currencies.  Under the BitLicense proposals, any party “controlling, administering or issuing a virtual currency” will require licensing.  This provision would have outlawed the very invention of bitcoin, and it seems to ban any new alternative currencies and tokens that might be created in the future.  The detrimental effect this would have on innovation in New York and across the US cannot be understated.  New currency innovators would be extremely unlikely to launch in the US, and would very likely follow the lead of Ethereum, Counterparty and other organizations in moving their legal operations overseas.   ConclusionThe BitLicenses have transformative potential to legally integrate bitcoin into the heavily regulated global financial system, but this potential will be squandered if some of the NYSDFS’s most cumbersome provisions are not modified or eliminated.  Like many others within the virtual currency industry, I am betting my career on Bitcoin.  The brilliance of its universal, secure, distributed public ledgers; the intellectual horsepower of its community; and the flexibility of its underlying technical protocols have the potential to transform financial services in the same way that the internet transformed communications.  As you and your colleagues have noted, virtual currencies have the potential to reduce costs within the financial system, empower underserved consumers, and spawn countless applications in addition to currency exchange and payments - but only if the entrepreneurs and technologists building its infrastructure are allowed to operate with integrity and reasonable oversight, rather than under an irrational fear of prosecution.  And only if the consumers and enterprises using the technology are encouraged to invest carefully and experiment with the technology, and are not unnecessarily constrained in how they control and manage their own personal assets.I sincerely hope that you will listen to our concerns and continue to engage with those who work tirelessly in this industry each and every day.Sincerely, Ryan Selkis This article originally appeared at The Two-Bit Idiot.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The latest data suggests that while the value of banks' average residential mortgage loans has increased, the volume of new loans has stayed relatively flat since 2011. What's caused this divergence? The clues may be in the home price data. "Since 2011, the average value of a mortgage application for home purchase has increased by $60,000 or 28%," writes Paul Diggle at Capital Economics. "Over the same period, the average house price has increased by a more modest $19,000 or 12%." What this basically means is that mortgage lending has been geared towards the most credit worthy borrowers, who tend to earn more and take out bigger loans. Diggle points out that the average credit score for successful mortgage applicants is 730, significantly higher than the average American credit score of 690. This explains why the average value of mortgage applications is growing much faster than the price of homes. Remember, tight credit conditions is one of the factors holding back the housing recovery. As the economy improves and incomes rise, new mortgage lending should rise. Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
Summer is hot, and heat can lead to some questionable fashion choices all in the name of staying cool. Aaron Marino, an image consultant and men's style expert of iamalpham.com, and Kat Griffin, founder and editor-in-chief of Corporette.com, share some of the worst mistakes you can make when trying to keep cool at work. Produced By Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Argentina's stock market is tanking after the country said on Wednesday night that it would voluntarily default on $1.3 billion of debt owed to a group of hedge funds. Near 2 pm ET in New York, the Merval remained down more than 7%. Google Finance Thursday's plunge in the Merval follows a big run-up this week ahead of Argentina's Wednesday deadline.  Argentina's default marks the second time in the past 13 years that the country has defaulted on its debt. Markets around the world also fell, with U.S. stocks deep in the red on the final trading day of the month.  FREE AppDownload
For years, politicians and activist have been saying that the country's biggest banks are still 'too big to fail', in part because they get a funding advantage from the government. Today, the Government Accountability Office released a study today on exactly what kind of impact that subsidy has. The study found that "the largest financial institutions had lower funding costs during the 2007-2009 financial crisis". Overtime, however GAO found "that the difference between the funding costs of the largest and smaller institutions has since declined". Not exactly what the 'too big to fail' people were looking for. GAO’s study did not find clear evidence for the continued existence of a ‘too big to fail’ funding advantage in 2013. Although they found funding advantages for some of the models tested, often times they did not find such an advantage. The report was requested by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and David Vitter (R-La.) in January 2013. Both Brown and Vitter appeared on Bloomberg TV today to argue the importance of eliminating subsidies that perpetuate the idea of "too big to fail" banks. "Well first of all the megabank seems to be arguing there was never a subsidy, no subsidy. Now they're having to admit, yes, there was or is a subsidy, and they're arguing about the amount of it," Vitter said. "The report says it may have gone down some with economic conditions and getting much better. The report also says if we go back to the same crisis conditions of 2008 the subsidy goes up. So I think clearly there is a too big to fail subsidy or cost of funding advantage. And I don't think it's been reduced significantly if you factor in the general economy." In the interview, Brown said banks are 25% larger since the 2008 financial crisis. While the report said subsidies have gone down, Brown and Vitter are concerned that the existence of subsidies will encourage banks to still take much riskier positions. Bloomberg View previously reported the subsidy amount at $83 billion. Because increased regulation such as the Dodd-Frank Act didn't make enough change, Brown and Vitter said, they are proposing a bill that requires 15% capital reserves from large banks. "I think this report is further ammunition that this is a continuing issue. Too big to fail is not dead and gone at all. It exists. The number goes up and down depending on the state of the economy, the state of risk, but it clearly exists. And again you even have corporate treasurer types saying, yes this is something we look at in terms of where we put our money particularly in times of a bad economy," Vitter said. And they're not the only ones who think that 'too big to fail' is still a problem. The Americans for Financial Report released the following statement regarding the GAO report: "AFR does not believe that this finding should be read as evidence that the problem of 'too big to fail' has been solved. First, one would expect any funding advantage due to government support to decline during periods were perceptions of credit risk generally in the markets was low.Credit spreads have reached unusually low levels over the past few years.  Consistent with this, the GAO analysis predicts that should credit risk perceptions increase, the funding advantage for large banks would reappear.  Second, the GAO found that market participants they interviewed believe that implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act so far has reduced, but not eliminated the likelihood that the federal government would step in to prevent any of the largest bank holding companies from failing.   Third, regulators themselves have stated that the implementation of the Dodd-Frank resolution mechanism is not yet adequate to end the possibility of government support to large banks. Finally, other potential bailout mechanisms, such as Federal Reserve emergency lending, are not yet subject to adequate controls." To read the full GAO report,  click here.   FREE AppDownload
Navy BeachEveryone knows that hotels are expensive in Manhattan, but Montauk? A small oceanfront hamlet at the very tip of Long Island's south fork, Montauk is now officially the most expensive place to stay in New York State this summer, according to NewYorkHotels.org. Montauk used to be a quiet, laid-back town filled with immigrants and fishermen, but recently it has become a Hamptons hotspot that has hip restaurants and pricey hotels that cost an average of $342 per night—almost $200 more than the average hotel room in Manhattan. NewYorkHotels.org ranked the most expensive destinations in New York State by the average cost of a hotel room this summer. The hotel booking site looked at hotel rates during the month of August, and only considered hotels and bed and breakfasts that are rated at least 3 stars and are well situated near the beach or city center.  Besides Montauk, several other Hamptons towns took top spots on this list, with East Hampton coming in second at $332 per night and Southampton coming in fourth at an average cost of $295 per night. Surprisingly, New York City came in at number 8, with rooms costing a mere $153 per night.  The full list is below:  1. Montauk $342  2. East Hampton $332  3. Saratoga Springs $312  4. Southampton $295  5. Greenport $264  6. Cooperstown $184  7. Niagara Falls $163  8. New York City $153  9. Geneva $143  10. Ithaca $142  11. Lake George $141  12. Buffalo $137  13. Oneonta $136  14. Rochester $134  15. Syracuse $128  16. Alexandria Bay $127  17. Long Island City $116  18. Oswega $103  19. Lake Placid $102  20. Watertown $92  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/RIA Novosti/Kremlin/Alexei NikolskyThe downing of MH17 has complicated the situation for Russia President Vladimir Putin, but he's not finished yet. Alastair Newton of Nomura has a note titled "Russia/Ukraine: 'Check'...but not 'checkmate'" in which he analyzes the most recent round of Western sanctions against Russia over Ukraine and lays out some of Putin's options. The EU measures, largely matched by the U.S., "intensify the direct pain on Moscow and add ‘psychological’ pressure, in my view, by keeping the EU and the US more or less in lockstep," Newton writes, noting that pressure investors tangentially to reduce direct exposure to Russia. Julia Ioffe of the New Republic explains that the the result is "a brash and unpredictable man backed into a corner with little, if any, way out. And it’s not a good Putin to be faced with." The Russian leader has a dilemma: He can continue to back separatists in eastern Ukraine and incur the West's wrath, or he can back down and lose support from the domestic masses he's whipped into a frenzy over 'Novorussia.' Newtown notes that "the ball now appears firmly in Moscow’s court – not least because of the EU’s undertaking to review the package in three months and repeal measures if the Kremlin 'starts contributing actively and without ambiguities to finding a solution to the Ukraine crisis.' Neither retreat nor invasion is likely, according to Newtown, and the likeliest path at this point is "a middle course, aiming – through continued pursuit of a ‘hybrid’ approach to Ukraine – for a Transnistria-type frozen conflict while waiting for ‘events’ to give him an opportunity to tilt the balance back in his favour." Putin has one event he can count on: Winter is coming. Newtown explains that Russia's arguments for humanitarian intervention and the potential for engineering a fresh gas crisis in Ukraine will become stronger in a few months if he can sustain the separatist militias until then. Ever since separatists shot down MH17, Ukraine's army has reclaimed most of the territory outside the urban centers of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Meanwhile, Russian troops have been shelling Ukrainian troops from across the border — thereby helping the separatists survive. “[The Ukrainian army's] task was to establish a 5km [3-mile] buffer zone along the border, but now they need a 30km zone if they are going to stay out of the range of Russian rocket fire,” Igor Sutyagin, a Russian military expert at the Royal United Services Institute in London, told The Financial Times. “If you want to do that you have to fight in the cities and that is very difficult to do. They are stuck.” As long as the separatists hold the cities, Putin has ways that he can pressure both Ukraine and the West. Newtown believes that he will continue to do just that. National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine FREE AppDownload
Somewhere in all the talk about vulture capitalists and corrupt governments, of sovereign nations and free markets, the true meaning of this battle between Argentina and a group of hedge fund creditors was completely lost. It stopped being about the money. Maybe, to some, it never was.  Follow us here for a minute: Argentina has the over $1.3 billion necessary to pay the NML Capital — the group of hedge funds led by Paul Singer that have been suing The Republic for almost a decade. And Paul Singer, ideally, simply wants to get paid. So for the love of pragmatism, why can't this deal get done? Ego. This is about ego. "The public roadblocks thrown up by both sides... are designed to back the other party into a corner," said William Brandt, the President of Development Specialists Inc., one of the U.S.'s premier bankruptcy and restructuring experts. Argentina said it couldn't pay the "vultures" at NML because paying before 2015  would trigger the RUFO — Rights Upon Future Offering — clause in its bond contract. Triggering that clause would entitle all bondholders to the same payment (100 cents on the dollar) as NML, even though 97% of bondholders have taken haircuts on that debt of up to 70%. If  RUFO would hold true, triggering it would open Argentina up to $15 billion worth of payments. But it likely wouldn't hold true. The language in Argentina's own contract says that The Republic cannot voluntarily negotiate better terms with other bondholders. But paying NML is not voluntary. It's Court ordered. Plus there are other RUFO work arounds. You see, ideally, the other bondholders — the ones who have taken a haircut on their debt — want to get paid too. Already, some have volunteered to waive their right to RUFO to get a deal done. Bondholders have also asked presiding Judge Thomas Griesa to grant Argentina's request for a stay on payments — a request the Judge has already once rejected — until a negotiation is reached. Judge Griesa kicked that request over to NML, saying that the holdout creditors should decide whether or not the stay should be granted. NML said no. "If there's once shortcoming in Singer's personality and business style it's that he doesn't know when to accept victory," said Brandt who has sat across the negotiating table from Paul Singer before. "A wise course of action would be to let your opponent up from the mat and not dance on their grave." Singer did win the lawsuit, after all. "Paul Singer wants to show he's a world power," said Brandt. The problem with all the posturing, is that's not only ridiculous, it's also dangerous. The longer NML and The Republic argue, the worse Argentina's economy gets. Today alone the Argentine stock market is sinking like a stone. The peso is depreciating against the dollar too, hastening a painful devaluation that could've waited until the country's inflation rate — the second worse in Latin America after Venezuela's — was under better control. In a note published Thursday morning, Goldman Sachs cut its Argentine GDP growth forecast to -1.3% for 2014 and -1.4% for 2015. "The impact on the economy will gain in importance the longer it takes to solve this situation," Goldman wrote. "Without any prospect of the central government being able to tap international markets in an electoral year, the continuous monetization of a (likely) growing fiscal deficit would increasingly fuel inflation and exchange rate pressures. Facing mounting pressures and a significant amortization of its own short-term debt... the Central Bank may have to resort to a significant correction of both interest and exchange rates (as already occurred in 1Q14), although it is likely to be constrained by political resistance due to the incipient economic recession." Argentina's leaders have said time and time again that the world stands with it. That poor countries are subject to a systemically unjust financial system. And until Thursday morning, The Republic might have gone on saying that without any question. And then an editorial called 'The 'Vultures' Are Not The Dramatic Ones' appeared in Uruguayan newspaper El Pais: "It's clear that our neighboring country's drama is not being caused by the 'vulture funds Has anyone ever heard of another country having a problem like this one? Even fragile, small countries like Uruguay, countries that have gone through a few financial crisis', have negotiated a with our creditors reasonably and with civility, and we have lived through those times without so much kicking and screaming." The editorial goes on to say that Argentina's problem is part psychological. The Republic and its citizens live under the impression that the world is out to get them — that they, despite their riches, are forever on some heroic quest to fight the powers that be. For this delusion to persist, there must be a "power" to fight. There must be a straw man to divert the people's attention from the fact that some of these problems are of their government's making. Now Paul Singer is giving Argentina diversion on a silver platter. What a perfectly nasty pairing. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi J. Michael Pearson, Chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc., gestures during their annual general meeting in Laval, Quebec May 20, 2014.Shares of Valeant Pharmaceuticals were down 8% after the company reported earnings this morning. Valeant's second quarter results were roughly in-line with estimates, but its outlook disappointed. Valeant has been locked in a battle to acquire Botox-maker Allergan, and has teamed with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman as part of its efforts.  The company reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.91, a penny better than expectations, on sales of $2.04 billion, which was in-line with estimates. Valeant reported that same-store organic product sales grew 4%. Allergan, which has rejected Valeant's overtures so far, has been critical of Valeant's organic sales growth. For its fiscal-year 2014, Valeant lowered its revenue and earnings outlook, saying it now sees revenue of $8-$8.3 billion, less than the $8.3-$8.7 billion it previously expected. The company now expects earnings per share to total $7.90-$8.10, less than the $8.55-$8.80 it previously expected.  Valeant also lowered its adjusted cash flow outlook. Along with its second quarter earnings conference call, Valeant released a presentation outlining its expectations through 2016, including slides that presented its expected financial results assuming it is successful in acquiring Allergan.  Valeant said it expects Allergan shareholders to request the company hold a special meeting in August. Valeant Valeant Valeant FREE AppDownload
VWVolkswagen reported second-quarter earnings today that beat estimates. Earnings actually fell 3.1%, but that wasn't as bad as analysts expected, Bloomberg's Christophe Rauwald reported. What's intriguing is that VW wants to change its corporate metabolism to be more like...Apple. It can take years for an automaker to bring a new car from development to production, which can leave consumers feeling that a manufacturer's lineup is stale. According to Bloomberg's Rauwald, "[T]he world’s No. 2 carmaker is mobilizing a team of 40 to 60 top managers to accelerate vehicle and technology development to mimic the fast-paced rollouts of consumer electronics companies like Apple Inc." Earlier this month, Rauwald reported on VW's decision to establish the managerial "task force" to accomplish this goal. There's no question that the world's automakers are grappling with the rapidly evolving landscape of technology and trying to avoid being left in the dust. Ford, for example, just announced that it will be sponsoring an app developer conference in September. And Tesla CEO Elon Musk recently enthused over software updates to the Model S sedan that will, among other things, enable owners to name their cars. This is going to be a major theme in the auto industry over the next few years. FREE AppDownload
T-Mobile T-Mobile just confirmed Iliad's takeover offer, according to Bloomberg. Shares of the company were halted ahead of the announcement.  T-Mobile said it has no further comment at this time. This serves as the first acknowledgment from the company that France's Iliad has made an offer to acquire T-Mobile.  Iliad said in a release that its offer values T-Mobile at $36.20 per share. Iliad said it has offered $15 billion for 56.6% of T-Mobile at $33 per share, and values the remaining 43.4% of the company at $40.50 per share. In its release, Iliad said that, "This transaction should not raise any antitrust issue in light of the competition rules given that Iliad is not present in the United States." Earlier, T-Mobile spiked higher after The Wall Street Journal reported that it received a buyout offer from France's Iliad. The Journal's report said the offer from Iliad was made less than a week ago, but said it was unclear what response T-Mobile's board has had to the offer.  T-Mobile shares were up 5% after the report, while shares of Sprint were down about 3%. Sprint and T-Mobile have long been seeking a merger, and in early June it was reported that company's were "close" to a deal that would've seen Sprint acquire T-Mobile for $32 billion.   Earlier today, T-Mobile reported second quarter revenue grew 8% over the prior year, with the carrier reporting 1.5 million net customer additions in Q2.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sam MircovichStocks got crushed across the board, with the Nasdaq logging the largest percentage loss while the Dow lost more than 300 points and the small cap Russell 2000 index lost more than 2%. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. On the economic data front, the Chicago purchasing managers index fell more than it has in one month since 2008, coming in at 52.6 for June against 62.6 in May. Economists were looking for the index to climb to 63.0. "A monthly fall of this magnitude has not been seen since October 2008 and left the Barometer at its lowest level since June 2013," MNI Chicago said in its press release. "In spite of the sharp decline this month, feedback from purchasing managers was that they saw the downturn as a lull rather than the start of a new downward trend." 2. Weekly initial jobless claims came in at 302,000, just above the 300,000 that was expected by economists. Last week's number, however, was revised down to 279,000 from 284,000, as the four-week moving average of initial jobless claims fell to its lowest level since April 15, 2006. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said the report suggests modest improvement in labor markets, adding that, "We view the weekly rebound in claims off of last week’s unexpectedly large decline as reflecting volatility stemming from the annual auto industry shutdown for retooling auto production plants." 3. Last night, Argentina defaulted on $1.3 billion worth of debt it owes to hedge fund creditors, and following the news, Argentina's stock market took a serious hit, as the Merval lost more than 7%.  4. Amid the sell-off in the major stock indices, a number of individual companies took a beating, including Valeant Pharmaceuticals and 3D Systems. Valeant, the Canadian Pharmaceutical company that is seeking to acquire Botox-maker Allergan, fell 8% after its full-year earnings and revenue outlook disappointed. 3D Systems, which made 3-D printers, fell 11% after reporting earnings and revenue that came in below expectations.  5. In mergers and acquisitions news, French telecom company Iliad made an offer to acquire T-Mobile in a deal that values the company at $36.20 per share. T-Mobile, which also reported earnings this morning that showed revenue grew 8% in the second quarter, acknowledged that it received an offer from Iliad, but said it had no further comment. Following the news, T-Mobile shares gained more than 5%, while shares of Sprint, which has been seeking to acquire T-Mobile for some time, fell 6%.  6. German athletic apparel maker Adidas issued a statement this morning that had two pieces of bad news: the turmoil in Russia will weigh on the company's profit, and golf sales are lagging. Adidas said that, "[T]he recent trend change in the Russian rouble as well as increasing risks to consumer sentiment and consumer spending from current tensions in the region point to higher risks to the short-term profitability contribution from Russia/CIS." The company also said that sales in its TaylorMade-adidas Golf segment fell 18%, yet another indication of golf's struggles.  7. Earnings season is still rolling along, as Tesla and GoPro are among the notable companies expected to report earnings after Thursday's market close.  Don't Miss: Investors Are Descending Into The Five Circles Of Bond Hell » FREE AppDownload
 MPI/Getty ImagesAfter meandering higher for most of the year, the stock market is now sputtering. That's triggering chatter about a minor "correction," which many people believe is long overdue. And maybe that's what we're at the start of, a minor correction. Or maybe this is just a blip, and the brilliant and prudent Jeremy Grantham is right that we're on the cusp of a new bubble that will take the S&amp;P 500 up another 10% to 15% over the next year to 2,250. (As a stockholder, I sure hope so!) Or maybe we'll get both — a minor correction and a new bubble spike. Or maybe we're just in the middle years of a fantastic bull market. I don't know. (Neither does anyone else, by the way.) I'm also not predicting a crash. One thing I do know, though, is that stocks are extremely expensive on every valid historical measure I know of. In the past, this level of overvaluation has presaged poor long-term returns. So I'm not expecting my retirement account to do well from this level over the next seven to 10 years. The other thing that this level of valuation has also often preceded is something much worse than a "minor correction" — a crash. And there are other things that are happening now that have also preceded crashes. So I would not be surprised to see stocks fall ~50% from this level in the next few years. And, if that happens, you shouldn't be surprised either. A crash of that magnitude wouldn't even make stocks "cheap." It would merely take them back to their long-term average. And to deny the possibility that stocks might someday drop back to their long-term average seems the height of delusion to me. Yes, maybe it's "different this time." Maybe, this time, stocks really have "reached a permanently high plateau." But I doubt it. And it's not just price that concerns me. There are three basic reasons I keep warning you that I think future stock performance will be lousy: Below, I'll address those, one at a time. Lest you be concerned that I'm just "talking my book," I should be clear about one thing: I own stocks, and I'm not selling them. (For many reasons, including that I'm a long-term investor.) From a personal-finance perspective, I would like nothing more than for the market to keep going up.  I also want to point out one new thing that is worrying me lately: the rise of investor margin debt. Money is cheap right now and the stock market has been going up for five years. As a result, lots of investors are borrowing money to buy stocks. This, in turn, is making stocks go up more, which encourages more investors to borrow more money to buy stocks. And so on. As you can see in this chart from Doug Short, investor margin debt (red) is now higher than it was just before each of the two recent crashes, both of which took stocks down ~50%. Short via Gartman The problem with margin debt is that the cycle is just as self-reinforcing on the downside. Once stocks drop, investors are forced to sell stocks to meet margin demands. That selling causes stocks to drop more. And so on. Basically, if and when stocks reverse course, conditions are ripe for them to fall a long, long way before anything begins to prop them up. Anyway, on to the broader concerns ... In the past year or two, stocks have moved from being "expensive" to "very expensive." In fact, according to one historically valid measure, stocks are now more expensive than they have been at any time in the past 130 years with the exception of 1929 and 2000 (and we know what happened in those years).  The chart below is from Yale professor Robert Shiller. It shows the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 for the last 130 years. As you can see, today's PE ratio of 26X is miles above the long-term average of 15X. In fact, it's higher than at any point in the 20th century with the exception of the months that preceded the two biggest stock-market crashes in history. Robert Shiller Does a high PE mean the market is going to crash? No. Sometimes, as in 2000, the PE just keeps getting higher. For a while. But, eventually, gravity takes hold. And in the past, without exception, a PE as high as today's has foreshadowed lousy returns for the next seven to 10 years. While we're at it, please note something else in the chart above. Please note that, sometimes—as in the entire first 70 years of the last century — PEs (blue line) can be low even when interest rates (red line) are low. That's worth noting because, today, you often hear bulls say that today's high PEs are totally justified by today's low interest rates. Even if this were true—even if history did not clearly show that you can have low PEs with low rates—this argument would not protect you from future losses, because today's low rates could eventually regress upwards to normal. But it's also just not true that low rates always mean high PEs. And in case some of your bullish friends have convinced you that Shiller's PE analysis is otherwise flawed, check out the chart below. It's from fund manager John Hussman. It shows six valuation measures in addition to the Shiller PE that have been highly predictive of future returns. The left scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. The colored lines (except green) show the predicted return for each measure at any given time. The green line is the actual return over the 10 years from that point (it ends 10 years ago).  Today, the average expected return for the next 10 years is slightly positive — just under 2% a year. That's not horrible. But it's a far cry from the 10% long-term average. John Hussman, Hussman Funds And, lastly, lest you're tempted to dismiss both Shiller and Hussman as party-pooping idiots, here's one more chart. This one's from James Montier at GMO. Montier, one of Wall Street's smartest strategists, is also very concerned about today's valuations. He does not think it's "different this time." Montier's chart shows that another of the common arguments used to debunk Shiller's PE chart is bogus. Bulls often say that Shiller's PE is flawed because it includes the crappy earnings year during the financial crisis. Montier shows that this criticism is misplaced. Even when you include 2009 earnings (purple), Montier observes, 10-year average corporate earnings (blue) are well above trend (orange). This suggests that, far from overstating how expensive stocks are, Shiller's chart might be understating it. Jamies Montier, GMO In short, Montier thinks that all the arguments you hear about why today's stock prices are actually cheap are just the same kinds of bogus arguments you always hear in the years leading up to market peaks: Seemingly sophisticated attempts to justify more buying by those who have a vested interest in more buying. So, by all means, go ahead and tell yourself that stocks aren't expensive. But be aware of what you're likely doing. What you're likely doing is what others who persuaded themselves to buy stocks near previous market peaks (as I did in 2000) were doing: Saying, "it's different this time." That's price. Next comes profit margins. One reason many investors think stocks are reasonably priced is that they are comparing today's stock prices to this year's earnings and next year's expected earnings. In some years, when profit margins are normal, this valuation measure is meaningful. In other years, however — at the peak or trough of the business cycle — comparing prices to one year's earnings can produce a very misleading sense of value. Profit margins tend to be "mean-reverting," meaning that they go through periods of being above or below average but eventually — sometimes violently — regress toward the mean. As a result, it is dangerous to conclude that one year of earnings is a fair measure of long-term "earning power." If you look at a year of high earnings and conclude these high earnings will go on forever, for example, you can get clobbered. (It works the other way, too. In years with depressed earnings, stocks can look artificially expensive. That's one reason a lot of investors missed the buying opportunity during the financial crisis. Measured on 2009's clobbered earnings, stocks looked expensive. But they weren't. They were actually undervalued.) Have a glance at this recent chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels like today's — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean. And when profit margins have reverted, so have stock prices. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, again, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau," as a famous economist remarked about stock prices just before the crash in 1929. And, unlike that economist, you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that what you are really saying is "It's different this time." And "it's different this time" are described as "the four most expensive words in the English language." For the last five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping more and more money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not immediately. And not always. But often. Let's go to the history ... Here's a look at the last 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping). The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. But just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, let's zoom in. In many of these periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not immediately, and not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening now will likely lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. So those are three reasons I'm still nervous about stock prices and think stocks will likely deliver lousy returns over the next seven to 10 years: price, profit margins, and Fed tightening. I also would not be surprised to see the stock market drop sharply from this level, perhaps as much as 50% over a couple of years. None of this means for sure that the market will crash or that you should sell stocks (I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) It does mean, however, that you should be mentally prepared for the possibility of a major pullback and lousy long-term returns.  Because unless it's different this time, that's what we're likely to get. SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot / Google Maps There's been a shooting in the Bank of America building near the Chicago Board of Trade, the Chicago Tribune reports. Police told the Tribune that one person is dead and another is injured. A SWAT team is on the scene. The shooting reportedly happened at about 10 a.m. on the 17th floor of the Bank of America building, according to the Tribune. The victim was shot in the head and was critically wounded. Chicago police gave Business Insider this statement: "Police responded to a call of shots fired at 9:50 a.m. ... Upon arrival, officers discovered two adult males: a 54-year-old victim and a 59-year-old offender. They were lying on the floor of an office building, both having sustained gunshot wounds to the head. The 59-year-old male offender was pronounced [dead] on scene from a self-induced gunshot wound to the head." The 54-year-old victim was transported to a local hospital and is in critical condition. The incident is being investigated as a murder-suicide. CBS Chicago reports that the shooter was a disgruntled employee. Some employees who work for a tech company in the building had recently been demoted due to downsizing, a police source told CBS. The shooting reportedly happened while the employee was having a meeting with the company's CEO. The CEO is thought to be the victim. Here are photos from the scene: from the 2 shot RT @slow911: From the shooting at 231 S. LaSalle pic.twitter.com/Gr0iP7wcV9 First photo from scene of S. LaSalle St shooting. @BreakingNews http://t.co/Q9p6nBT1DS pic.twitter.com/9UDvcATAaZ Screenshot / Google Maps FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersL-3 Communications Holdings Inc CEO Michael Strianese speaks during Reuters Aerospace and Defense Summit 2010 in Washington(Reuters) - L-3 Communications Holdings Inc said it fired four employees as part of an ongoing internal review that revealed overstatement of net sales and deferred cost overruns in the company's aerospace business. The company's shares fell as much as 14 percent to $103.01 on Thursday, their biggest intraday percentage drop ever. L-3, which provides communication and electronics systems to the U.S. military, said another employee had resigned in connection with the review. The company said the overstatement primarily related to a "fixed-price" maintenance and logistics support contract that began in December 2010 and runs through January 2015. L-3 cited misconduct and accounting errors including concealment from L-3's corporate staff at its aerospace systems business for the overstatement and deferred cost overruns. The company said it expected to take a related pretax charge of $84 million and a $43 million reduction in net sales. L-3 reported on Thursday preliminary sales of $3.02 billion for the second quarter ended June 27. "We have no reason to believe that this issue occurred at any other segment of the company," Chief Executive Michael Strianese said on a conference call with analysts. He declined to give more details about the review. L-3 said about $50 million of the charge related to periods prior to 2014 and about $30 million related to the second quarter of 2014. The company also cut its 2014 operating margin forecast for the aerospace systems business to 9.0-9.2 percent from 10.6-10.8 percent. (Editing by Ted Kerr and Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Think of last night's Argentine default as an explosion. Now even 24 hours later the dust has yet to clear, and what will remain when it does is the stuff of questions and rumors —a heady mix of speculation based on a history that tells very little. Remember: Countries generally don't choose to default even though they have enough money to pay creditors, like Argentina does. The biggest rumor going around right now is a good one for Argentina. The word is that private banks including JP Morgan, HSBC, and Citigroup are in negotiations to buy over $1.3 billion in debt from NML Capital, the group of investors that have sued the country for about a decade. JP Morgan has declined to comment, though Bloomberg reports that the bank has held talks with Aregntina and that those talks are ongoing. Ideally for Argentina, it could sell the bonds to another buyer — one that, unlike Paul Singer, would be happy to wait until 2015, when a clause that would allegedly cost Argentina $15 billion would expire, to get paid. The country's not going anywwhere, after all. And it's still actually quite rich. Eventurally, it will be able to pay. The story was first reported in Argentine newspaper Ambito, and contained no citation. Meanwhile, Argentine bonds have ended their two-day rally and headed downward. The Merval, the country's stock market, is down more than 9%. Last night, Argentina's Economy Minster announced that negotiations to resolve a dispute with NML Capital over debt dating back to the country's last 2001 default had collapsed. As a result, the country could not make a payment to any of the bondholders of its 2033 sovereign debt, and entered into what Standard and Poors called a "selective default," and what the U.S. Court appointed mediator Daniel Pollack called a "technical default." A body called The ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee, in Washington D.C., will decide whether country entered default officially. Argentina, for its part, insists that it is not in default because it attempted to pay some of its 2033 bondholders. However the Court, ruling that The Republic could not favor bondholders who took a haircut on that debt — exchange bondholders — over the 3% that had not — NML Capital — sent that payment back to Argentina. Those who pretend to say that Argentina is in a technical default are full of nonsense," said Argentine Cabinet Head Jorge Capitanich. "They want to harm the debt restructuring process... The State has fulfilled its payment according to the law." "Everyone is pretty lost," says Federico Zaldua an Argentina-based trader on Itau BBA's Latin America bond desk. "The currency will have to be devalued... and this just speeds up the process... Inflation is bad because there is no plan." And this, he says, is the state the country could be in until the end of 2015, when Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's government is replaced with one more friendly to financial markets. That's the worst case scenario. "It's not JC Penney, it's not going away, it's a country... the next government is going to want to get into financial governments again and get this thing resolved... This is going to get resolved... It's a matter of when and how?" In the meantime, it could very well be that a private buyer will step in to purchase NML Capital's debt. That would be the best case scenario — but it doesn't have to happen immediately. "If was a holdout and I'm a CDS holder," Zaldua reasoned, "I'd wait for the clearing commission to determine that there's a default and that CDS should be triggered." That's when you make your move. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeGolf sales still stink. Back in May, Dick's Sporting Goods highlighted its struggles with golf sales during the first quarter.  Today, Adidas joined the "party."  In a statement, the company said it expected to report that second-quarter sales in its TaylorMade-adidas Golf segment declined 18%. And this negative news for Adidas golf came amid a 10% sales jump during the quarter. Adidas said the challenges in its golf segment were related to "poor retail sentiment and the slow liquidation of old inventory in the golf category across the globe." The company also said it would restructure its TaylorMade-adidas Golf segment "to align the organization's overhead to match lower expectations for the golf industry's development." Earlier this month, Callaway Golf reported second-quarter sales that fell 7%, below the company's prior outlook for sales to fall 5% or less. Callaway also cited "high retail inventory" and "anticipated promotional activity" as drags on sales.  Back in May, we highlighted this chart from Golf 20/20, which included golf through February, that gave a discouraging picture of how much people were playing golf.  Updated through April, rounds played are still down this year.  Golf2020.com And aside from falling sales and declining participation, golf faces a less tangible problem. As BI's Jay Yarow, who is also a huge golf fan, wrote following Rory McIlroy's victory at the British Open earlier this month, the Tiger Woods era is officially over. McIlroy is just 25 years old and may well be the sport's next big star, but this doesn't seem to be helping golf's popularity. Getty ImagesTiger's popularity swelled from the late 1990s through the early 2000s, as did the sport's popularity. Tiger's ignoble fall from grace not only damaged his image but struck a blow to golf as a whole. A post on the blog Sports Media Watch said that TV ratings for each of professional golf's three major tournaments this year declined double-digits from last year.  Citing data from the National Golf Foundation, ESPN's Darren Rovell reported that approximately 400,000 left the sport in the past year. And earlier this month, Dick's gave the golf world more bad news, laying off 400 PGA professionals at its stores. No matter the cause, something is wrong with golf in America. FREE AppDownload
Alexei Nikolskyi/RIA Novosti/Kremlin/ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin during a meeting with Russian ambassadors, envoys, and diplomats at the Foreign Ministry headquarters in Moscow on July 1.For all the sanctions Western leaders can throw at Russia, the biggest threat to President Vladimir Putin's ability to back separatists in east Ukraine is something beyond his or their control: the price of oil. With Russia's $2 trillion economy heavily dependent on crude exports, oil prices are always closely monitored by the Kremlin, but the government is particularly wary now as tensions with the West mount and sanctions ratchet up. Such conflicts often push up crude prices, but as long as oil, which accounts for 40 percent of state revenues, remains above the average $104 per barrel written into the 2014 budget, Moscow has little immediate need to worry. The alarm bells will start ringing if it falls significantly below $100, forcing the government to pay more attention to propping up an economy already close to recession. The International Monetary Fund warned in May that Moscow had no contingency plan for such a scenario, so a sustained tumble in the price of crude could even undermine Putin’s grip on power. "If the oil price goes down to $75 and stays there for a few years, Russia will have regime change," said a prominent Russian economist who asked not to be named. "Two years ago I would have said $60, but now, given the lack of growth, the increase in corruption and sanctions, $75 would be enough."  Such a scenario is not merely idle speculation; most analysts expect oil prices to fall in the coming years as new production, including from unconventional sources in North America, applies downward pressure to markets, with some forecasts going as low as $70 per barrel for Brent crude oil in 2020, down from over $105 currently. A long-term decline in prices may be unlikely given the unrest in Iraq and the limited scope for Iran to increase output due to sanctions, but any substantial fall could derail the Russian economy. Sergei Aleksashenko, a former deputy central bank governor and now a scholar at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, said a $10 drop in oil prices would strip 700 billion rubles ($20 billion), or 5 percent, from Russian budget revenues a year. That translates to about 1 percent of GDP. Local economists estimate that a $10 price drop could rob Russia of 3 to 4 percent in GDP growth. "The most evident outcomes of any decline in oil price are destabilizing of the balance of payments, devaluation of the rouble, rise in inflation and decline in budget revenues, decelerating of the growth," Aleksashenko said. "It is evident that the longer the period of reduced oil prices, the more significant the impact on the Russian economy." A drop to $38 per barrel in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis sent Russian GDP falling 7.8 percent, and it shed $200 billion of reserves within a few short months trying to defend the rouble, which still lost a third of its value. Its reserves, though still the world's fifth largest at nearly half a trillion dollars, are more than $130 billion below their level at the beginning of the 2008 crisis. The crisis passed when prices promptly climbed, but if Moscow learned any lessons, it is not clear in its economic pronouncements. "The government only publishes a basic level of macroeconomic risk analysis to support fiscal policymaking," the IMF said in its May report. "There is no analysis of the implications of (changes, such as in oil) for the government finances." The Finance Ministry manages two oil windfall revenue funds. One, the $87 billion Reserve Fund, has a clear goal to patch budget holes if the need arises. Former finance minister Alexei Kudrin said in a recent interview with ITAR-TASS news agency that if oil were to fall to $80 per barrel, the fund could last for two years. "That (reserve) is rather small," said Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. If oil hits $75-80, Aslund said "Russia would have to cut its imports, which would hit the standard of living, investment, and economic growth. A decline in GDP and standard of living would be inevitable." Besides oil and the oil wealth stash, Russia has precious little. "The policy of recent years has led us to a point when in the current stagnation all (other) reserves have been exhausted," said Kudrin, who helped to amass the sovereign funds during a decade of economic boom. "Structural reforms or a (policy) maneuver in favor of growth are not being considered." Keeping oil output at the current 10.5 million barrels a day is also essential for the budget. But the vast West Siberian deposits, which amount to about 80 percent of the country's total oil output, are in decline. Some firms have already cut investment and others may follow suit as a result of the standoff between Moscow and the West over Ukraine. Many cut investment after the 2008 crisis. "The situation is difficult and most likely will lead to the need to revise the investment program," a source close to one of Russia's largest oil producers said. "Everyone is pretending that nothing horrible is happening. It is very difficult to predict how the situation will develop." The annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in March boosted Putin's popularity at home to all-time highs, but the Kremlin's ongoing involvement in Ukraine and the economic price the country is paying is making business owners uneasy. Yet, in a country where criticism is rare and can result in exile or prison, most remain silent. "Business always adapts to the situation in which it finds itself," Trade Minister Denis Manturov said last week, adding that the punishment on Moscow by the West is "peanuts" compared with the isolation Russia suffered in Soviet times. Four of Russia's leading oil producers — Rosneft, Lukoil, Surgutneftegaz and Gazprom Neft — plan to invest a total of about $50 billion this year.REUTERS/Alexei NikolskyiRussian President Vladimir Putin at a Rosneft refinery in the Black Sea town of Tuapse in southern Russia on Oct. 11, 2013. Russia plans to spend around $150 billion a year over the next 10 years to bring on stream new fields in east Siberia, the Far East, and the Arctic, as well as improve oil output at mature fields, according to Energy Minister Alexander Novak. But that requires financing, which may be tricky, given the recent sanctions, which closed U.S. financing of longer than 90 days for Russia's top oil producer Rosneft and leading non-state gas company Novatek. Rosneft, which paid 2.7 trillion rubles in taxes to state coffers last year, used North American banks to arrange most of its over $38 billion in loans raised since the end of 2011. Asian banks are unlikely to be able to fill the gap. Domestic funding capacity is limited as the central bank keeps a cap on liquidity, to avert inflation, and Western sanctions aim to restrict capital markets for Russia's state-owned banks. Rosneft, which is preparing to start drilling in Arctic Kara Sea with ExxonMobil, declined to comment. Its capital expenditure was around 700 billion rubles for this year under an oil price of below $100 per barrel. "The sanctions will significantly limit (Rosneft and Novatek's) financing options and could put pressure on development projects," Moody's ratings agency said in a recent report. Gazprom Neft, Russia's No.4 oil producer, which is exploring for shale oil with Royal Dutch Shell, declined to comment, as did Lukoil. But based on their documents and earlier comments, they all envisage oil prices at between $90 and $100 in the medium term. Kudrin has for years warned that oil prices will fall. Some analysts say it was falling oil prices and the passing of peak production that led to the rapid meltdown of the Soviet Union a quarter century ago. Aslund, of the Petersen Institute, said a long-term oil price drop was unlikely but not impossible, given the geopolitical volatility, and that scenario could be catastrophic for Putin, who is facing re-election in 2018. "Putin would look weak and incompetent," Aslund said. ($1 = 35.0290 Russian Roubles)   (Writing by Lidia Kelly and Katya Golubkova; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan AlcornCompleted foreclosures fell 9.9% year-over-year to 49,000, according to the latest CoreLogic report. They were up 2.7% on the month.  Meanwhile, foreclosure inventory was down 35% YoY to 648,000, compared with 1 million in June 2013. Foreclosure inventory was down 3.9% on the month and down for the thirty second straight month. Foreclosure inventory accounts for 1.7% of all homes with a mortgage.  "While 32 straight months of year-over-year decline in the foreclosure rate is cause for celebration, the total number of homes still in the foreclosure process remains almost four times as high as the average in the early 2000s," Mark Fleming, chief economist for CoreLogic said in a press release.  "Additionally, there is concern over whether or not we can maintain this pace of improvement as the foreclosure inventory becomes more concentrated in judicial states with lengthier, more complex processes and timelines." Here are some details from the report: The decline in distressed homes has been skewing home prices. We've previously pointed out that the foreclosure crisis has been moving east to New Jersey and New York.  Corelogic FREE AppDownload
In hindsight, says Bill Ackman, his latest Herbalife presentation was overhyped and investors may have missed the point, Bloomberg reported. "My bad," he told the publication in an interview. After teasing his Herbalife presentation as "the most important presentation" of his career, Ackman flopped, with shares of Herbalife up 25% by the end of the day. Ackman was also forced to retract one of his statements shortly afterwards. According to Bloomberg, the private researcher helping Ackman look into Herbalife also said many details in Ackman's investigation were ignored. “It was a PR failure,” Ackman told Bloomberg. “I think we raised expectations. People were looking for the dead body and the smoking gun and instead what they got was a three-hour detailed regulatory presentation.” Ackman is famously short Herbalife, believing that the company is a pyramid scheme and its shares will eventually go to zero. His hedge fund, Pershing Square Capital Management, has a $1 billion short position on the company.  His most recent presentation was an attempt to uncover the questionable business practices of the company, through an investigation of its nutrition clubs. Ackman said Pershing spent $50 million on his research. Herbalife CEO John DeSimone rebutted his claims on Bloomberg TV the day of his presentation. The company has said Ackman's accusations are "completely false and fabricated."  "I'm my own worst enemy," Ackman told Bloomberg. Read the full story over at Bloomberg&gt;&gt;   FREE AppDownload
Based on en.wikipedia.orgBeware your flash drive.BOSTON (Reuters) - USB devices such as mice, keyboards and thumb-drives can be used to hack into personal computers in a potential new class of attacks that evade all known security protections, a top computer researcher revealed on Thursday. Karsten Nohl, chief scientist with Berlin's SR Labs, noted that hackers could load malicious software onto tiny, low-cost computer chips that control functions of USB devices but which have no built-in shields against tampering with their code. "You cannot tell where the virus came from. It is almost like a magic trick," said Nohl, whose research firm is known for uncovering major flaws in mobile phone technology. The finding shows that bugs in software used to run tiny electronics components that are invisible to the average computer user can be extremely dangerous when hackers figure out how to exploit them. Security researchers have increasingly turned their attention to uncovering such flaws. Nohl said his firm has performed attacks by writing malicious code onto USB control chips used in thumb drives and smartphones. Once the USB device is attached to a computer, the malicious software can log keystrokes, spy on communications and destroy data, he said. Computers do not detect the infections when tainted devices are inserted into a PC because anti-virus programs are only designed to scan for software written onto memory and do not scan the "firmware" that controls the functioning of those devices, he said. Nohl and Jakob Lell, a security researcher at SR Labs, will describe their attack method at next week's Black Hat hacking conference in Las Vegas in a presentation titled: "Bad USB - On Accessories that Turn Evil." Thousands of security professionals gather at the annual conference to hear about the latest hacking techniques, including ones that threaten security of business computers, consumer electronics and critical infrastructure. Nohl said he would not be surprised if intelligence agencies like the National Security Agency have already figured out how to launch attacks using this technique. Last year he presented research at Black Hat on breakthrough methods for remotely attacking SIM cards on mobile phones. In December, documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden demonstrated that the U.S. spy agency was using a similar technique for surveillance, which it called "Monkey Calendar." An NSA spokeswoman declined to comment. SR Labs tested the technique by infecting controller chips made by major manufacturer Taiwan's Phison Electronics Corp, and placing them into USB memory drives and smartphones running Google Inc's Android operating system. Similar chips are made by Silicon Motion Technology Corp and Alcor Micro Corp . Nohl said his firm did not test devices with chips from those manufacturers. Phison and Google did not respond to requests for comment. Officials with Silicon Motion and Alcor Micro could not immediately be reached. Nohl said he believes hackers would have a "high chance" of corrupting other kinds of controller chips besides those made by Phison, because their manufacturers are not required to secure software. He said those chips, once infected, could be used to infect mice, keyboards and other devices that connect via USB. "The sky is the limit. You can do anything at all," he said. In his tests, Nohl said he was also able to gain remote access to a computer by having the USB instruct the computer to download a malicious program with instructions that the PC believed were coming from a keyboard. He said he was also able to change what are known as DNS network settings on a computer, essentially instructing the machine to route Internet traffic through malicious servers. Once a computer is infected, it could be programmed to infect all USB devices that are subsequently attached to that PC, which would then corrupt machines that they contact. "Now all of your USB devices are infected. It becomes self-propagating and extremely persistent," Nohl said. "You can never remove it." Christof Paar, a professor of electrical engineering at Germany's University of Bochum who reviewed the findings, said he believes the new research will prompt others to take a closer look at USB technology, and potentially lead to the discovery of more bugs. He called on manufacturers to move to better protect their chips to thwart any attacks. "The manufacturer should make it much harder to change the software that runs on a USB stick," Paar said. (Reporting by Jim Finkle in Boston. Additional reporting by Michael Gold in Taipei; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressWorkers dye the Chicago River green as part of the city's annual St. Patrick's day celebrations in Chicago.The Chicago purchasing managers index unexpectedly plunged to 52.6 in July from 62.6 in May. Economists were expecting the index to climb to 63.0. "A monthly fall of this magnitude has not been seen since October 2008 and left the Barometer at its lowest level since June 2013," MNI Chicago said in its press release. "In spite of the sharp decline this month, feedback from purchasing managers was that they saw the downturn as a lull rather than the start of a new downward trend." "The surprise fall in the Chicago Business Barometer in July, following a strong second quarter, naturally raises questions about the sustainability of the recovery," MNI Chief Economist Philip Uglow said. "Some feedback from panellists points to this being a temporary setback, although we’ll need to see the August data to judge to what extent this is a blip.“ The stock market, which was already in the red, didn't move much on the announcement. The Dow is down 120 (0.7%) and the S&amp;P 500 is down 17  (0.9%). MNI Chicago FREE AppDownload
YouTube/WWEWWE chairman and CEO Vince McMahon.World Wrestling Entertainment's big bet on a streaming online video network is bleeding money, and now the company is scrambling to salvage it with major cost-cutting measures and a new pricing model. The company announced in its second-quarter earnings release Thursday that the WWE Network had just 700,000 subscribers, well short of the 1 million subscribers the company has said it needs for the network to break even and even further from the 1.4 million users needed to replace the pay-per-view business the network is expected to supplant. Though the company said in April that it was "well on its way" to hitting 1 million subscribers by the end of the year, the network has added just 33,000 new subscribers since then despite offering a free trial and launching an all-out marketing blitz. Perhaps as a result, the company said Thursday that its projected 2015 operating profit improved by $30 million, primarily because of cost-cutting measures and a new plan to reduce total company staff by 7%. The company now estimates that at its current subscription rate it would lose about $20 million in 2014, largely because of network startup costs. The WWE will also offer a new pricing model for the Network, which has required a six-month commitment from customers in exchange for access to its monthly special events (previously available on pay-per-view for upward of $50) and other content at a price of $9.99 a month. In August, when initial subscribers will first have the option to unsubscribe, it will debut an additional $19.99 option for customers who would prefer not to do the six-month commitment. The company also announced plans to expand the network, currently available only in the U.S., to more than 170 countries and territories starting Aug. 12. Still, the company has estimated that international demand for the network is only a fraction of the domestic audience. And even then, as wrestling business reporter Chris Harrington has pointed out, there's reason to believe many fans overseas have already found extralegal ways to buy the network. On the bright side, the company announced it lost $0.18 per share in the second quarter, a better performance than the $0.22 loss analysts had been expecting. Revenues for the quarter came in at $156.3 million, beating analyst expectations of $155.5 million. The stock is at $13.17, up $1.08 from its $12.09 close the previous evening. Still, that's down considerably from the $19.93 price it was trading at prior to a May crash on news of a disappointing new television contract.  FREE AppDownload
Neel KashkariFormer Treasury official and current California gubernatorial candidate Neel Kashkari says he spent a week as a homeless person to learn about what it was like to be at the bottom of American society.  In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Kashkari describes how he hopped on a Greyhound bus from L.A. to Fresno with just $40 and a change of clothes with the goal of landing a minimum wage job. He discovered that not a single firm was hiring, even on the lowest rung of the labor ladder.  "I offered to do anything: wash dishes, sweep floors, pack boxes, cook meals, anything," he writes. "I went to dozens of businesses in search of work but wasn't able to get any. In seven days, I didn't see a single 'Help Wanted' sign, but I did see plenty of signs that fast-food outlets now accept food stamps." He also found Fresno's food bank was at capacity, not only because of the weak economy but also because of the drought.    "One young woman in line at the food bank said it simply: 'There's not enough water. Crops can't be grown. My family works in the fields and they can't get work every day . . . sometimes just on weekends.' " Without money to even book a motel room, Kashkari sought free lodgings. "I tried to sleep on park benches or in parking lots. Anywhere I wouldn't be chased out. Night after night, however, I was woken up and told to move along by security guards or the police." What's caused all this suffering? Kashkari asserts the answer can be found in mismanagement from Sacramento — which is of course what someone running to unseat incumbent governor Jerry Brown would say.  "California's record poverty is man-made: over-regulation and over-taxation that drive jobs out of state, failing schools that don't prepare students for the skilled work force and misguided water policies that prevent us from saving surplus water in wet years to prepare for our inevitable droughts," he says. "We have the power to tackle poverty if we implement smart, pro-growth economic policies, as many other states have done." He made a video:  Click here to read the full piece at WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
    This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   BI Intelligence is a fast-growing and cutting-edge research service from Business Insider. At BI Intelligence we believe every knowledge worker deserves access to research, charts, and data to make their lives easier and their job performance better. We are growing our B2B client base, discovering new audiences and industries that benefit from the data, research and business insights we develop. We're adding to our sales team, someone to qualify inbound leads, conduct outbound prospecting, and work within an environment of measured analysis. If you're an ambitious self-starter eager to break into B2B sales, this is the role for you.    We’ll teach what you need to know to successfully sell syndicated research to enterprise customers, find and cultivate leads, and experience the thrill of closing your own deals. To be a successful part of our team you need to be comfortable talking to strangers, and have a positive attitude. You should be resourceful and metrics driven, being eager to sell and to learn.    Job Responsibilities     Requirements     Apply online and send us a short note to let us know why you're a good fit for the position. Thanks in advance. FREE AppDownload
Ed YardeniJapan and the Eurozone have abnormally low bond yields because investors aren’t convinced that their governments’ ultra-easy monetary policies and debt-bloated fiscal policies will revive their economies. These policies are propping up their social welfare states but aren’t stimulating their private sectors. Near-zero government bond yields certainly allow the governments of Japan and the Eurozone to keep borrowing to fund their social welfare spending. Yet bank credit remains tight for other borrowers, particularly in the Eurozone. The accommodative monetary policies of the BOJ and ECB remove all the pressure on their governments to rein in their fiscal excesses. Consider the following recent developments: (1) In Japan, Abenomics, which is simply a bigger dose of the same stimulative policies that didn’t work in the past, isn't working now. Industrial production plunged 3.3% in June (the steepest decline since March 2011), and 6.9% from the recent peak during January. It is back down to the lowest level since June 2013. The outputs of both consumer and capital goods industries are down. (2) In the Eurozone, the Economic Sentiment Indicator recovered smartly last year but has stalled over the past four months through July. Most of the region’s survey-based economic indicators have been upbeat for the past year. However, the actual economic recovery has been extremely weak. This is confirmed by the flat trend in the forward earnings of the EMU MSCI over the past year as analysts’ consensus earnings expectations for 2014 and 2015 continued to plunge through the week of July 17. Ed YardeniToday's Morning Briefing: New Abnormal? (1) New abnormal for bonds. (2) Old normal for stocks. (3) From endgame fears to anxiety fatigue, and now complacency. (4) The Bond King’s word games. (5) Old vs. new normal (or neutral). Good morning or good evening? (6) Greenspan and Yellen are investment strategists now. (7) Should the Fed have an investment opinion on biotechs? (8) Japan and Eurozone are abnormal. (9) Old normal GDP in US. (10) Fed in no rush to normalize interest rates. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
3D SystemsShares in 3D Systems were down more than 12% in pre-market trading Thursday after the firm reported earnings and revenue that fell short of expectations. Q2 EPS came in at $0.16 a share versus forecasts for $0.18. Revenue hit $151.5 million against $162.3 million expected.     Inventory climbed to $90 million versus $86 million forecast, and gross margin came in at 47.8% versus 51% forecast. CEO Avi Reichental said spending on new product launches held profits back this quarter but that underlying trends remained sound.    "While transitional forces temporarily pressured our gross profit margin, a detailed examination of the specific drivers, confirms that the fundamentals of our business are intact and our gross profit margins are poised to rebound and resume their expansion trajectory," he said. It's been a shaky year for 3D Systems and its chief competitor, Stratasys. We've previously discussed why we think the 3-D printing industry faces a hype problem. Here's a chart showing the two firms' returns YTD: Yahoo FREE AppDownload
Flickr/ Chris Padgett, an executive coach living in Ohio, meets with about 20 top-level executives every month. Basically, it’s his job to advise CEOs and VPs on how to run their organizations more efficiently. As you can imagine, it’s the sort of high-pressure job where appearances are important and formality is key. A good handshake is essential — or so you would think. A couple of months ago, Padgett went to meet with one of his newest clients, a chief marketing officer at a Fortune 500 company. The meeting started out typically enough — they exchanged verbal greetings, coffee was poured — but Padgett noticed something strange: The guy didn’t extend his hand for a handshake. Weird, but maybe he just forgot, Padgett thought. Or maybe he’s a germaphobe. At the end of the meeting, the executive stood up and, apparently pleased with how the meeting went, thrust his fist out. "It threw me," Padgett says. "At that level there’s more formality, and this guy in his mid-50s was like, 'Nope.'" Their knuckles collided midair and the fist bump was complete. Later that day, Padgett started thinking about meetings he’s had over the past couple of years. He began to realize that something was fundamentally changing. "More and more people aren’t shaking hands," he says. "I work in corporations. And in corporations, I’m finding it’s going away." It’s a bold statement. The handshake has existed as a form of nonverbal expression since ancient Greek times, and in corporate settings the handshake has been as ever-present as oxygen. But things change, I suppose. I’ve noticed it, too: More and more of my friends are opting for fist bumps. Even at work, with colleagues and superiors, the fist bump (A) is more fun and (B) has the potential for less awkwardness. (Nothing worse than receiving a slimy, limp hand.) But we’re still in an in-between phase. With friends, half the time I don’t know whether to hug or handshake or fist bump. Sometimes going for all three at once can result in some serious awkwardness, like this:  One thing is clear: Fist bumps are easiest to execute. Well-respected writers have toiled creating manuals on the art of the handshake. But even a child can throw out a perfect fist bump without any instruction. The point is, there are a lot of good reasons to support the fist bump. It’s equitable. It’s honest. But will it kill off the handshake?  “What you have posed is a very serious question,” Jesse Gaddis, the founder of a Brooklyn-based e-cigarette company, tells me over email. (I agree.) When Gaddis worked as a creative director in advertising two years ago, he’d find fist bumps and other alternative physical forms of camaraderie acceptable around higher-ups and colleagues. ”Not so much with clients,” he says. “You always wanted to square up and give them a good shake.” Now that he owns his business, though, he’s tried to set the tone. It hasn’t always worked. “When you try to fist bump a bunch of investors, well, that doesn’t look so sharp,” he says. “Or when you try to shake an intern’s hand and suddenly you feel you aren’t cool anymore. The fist bump to someone new is kind of like calling your best friend’s dad by his first name, even though we all know he goes by Mr. _____ still.”  If you needed more proof that fist bumps are displacing handshakes — even more mainstream than Obama throwing them out — look no further than JAMA, the country’s most prestigious medical association. JAMA urged hospitals last month to ban handshakes altogether. Pretty soon you’ll be fist bumping your surgeon the way you fist bump your Lyft driver. As weird as that sounds, there’s some health care logic to replacing the handshake with a fist bump. Researchers at Aberystwyth University in Wales published a study this week that advised people to opt out of handshakes. "For the sake of improving public health," the doctors wrote, "we encourage further adoption of the fist bump as a simple, free, and more hygienic alternative to the handshake." It’s not just doctors and hospitals pushing for handshake bans, either. StopHandshaking.com is a non-medical group that admonishes handshakers around the world. The group suggests a host of alternatives: a Native-American “how,” a friendly bow or even a basic nod. And, of course, they like the fist bump. (They even sell lapel pins to support the cause.) But hundreds of years of tradition don’t die easily. Plus, some people genuinely prefer a good handshake (even if it is gross). There are also those who think fist bumps are kind of lame — and swear off them altogether. “Fist bumps were cool about a year ago,” says Keith Miller, who owns Bubbly Paws, a dog-grooming facility in Wisconsin. “Now the only people that fist bump are d-bags with Livestrong bracelets on their wrist. You see lots of fist bumping at the gym. … Keep it there.” FREE AppDownload
The Irving, Texas-based oil giant said Q2 output fell 5.7% to 3.84 million barrels of oil equivalent, short of the  3.96 million forecast.  Exxon reported earnings of $2.05 a share, topping consensus expectations for $1.86 and a prior reading of $1.55. Revenue increased to $111.65 billion, also beating forecasts for $108.38 billion. The company has said it did not yet see an impact from new Russia sanctions. The Dallas-based firm recently extended its partnership with Rosneft.  Shares were down as much as 1.5%.  FREE AppDownload
screenshot via Comedy CentralComedy Central's top late-night hosts took corporate "inversions" to task on Wednesday night, devoting entire segments of their shows to slam the controversial practice of firms relocating their headquarters overseas for lower tax rates. On the "Colbert Report," Stephen Colbert mocked those who say the inversions are fine simply because they are legal. "If something is legal, you should always do it. That's why I'm going to Japan on my next vacation to hunt dolphins," he mused. Before Colbert, "The Daily Show" host Jon Stewart was similarly dismissive. "When does this end? When?" he said. "We are constantly giving in to every demand and whim of corporations. Yet they're still not satisfied. They'll never be satisfied ... They just want, and want, and want." Stewart pretended to have an epiphany regarding the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, which found corporations have a First Amendment right to free speech and the right to spend freely on political campaigns. "Wait a minute. When was the Citizens United decision? That was 2010, right? That explains it! Corporations have only been people for like four years. They're toddlers. And by giving in every time they throw a tantrum and threaten to run away from home, we're spoiling these bastards," he said. Showing a picture of singer Justin Bieber, Stewart quipped: "If we don't start telling corporations 'no,' they're just going to end up peeing in buckets and trying to sneak monkeys into Germany." Watch both segments and Colbert's subsequent guest interview on the subject below.   FREE AppDownload
The Office / NBCThe Department of Labor's latest weekly initial jobless claims report came in at 302,000. Expectations were for claims to total 300,000, up from last week's 284,000 which was the best reading since February 2006.  Last week's number was revised lower, to 279,000 from 284,000. The four-week moving average for initial jobless claims also fell to 297,250, down 3,500 from the previous week's average. This is the lowest level for the four-week average since April 15, 2006. Continuing jobless claims came in at 2,539,000, up from last week's revised 2,508,000.  The four-week average for continuing claims was 2,535,250, the lowest level for this average since October 13, 2007.  This chart from Bloomberg's Michael McDonough shows initial jobless claims. @M_McDonough And ahead of tomorrow's July jobs report, this chart from McDonough shows the relationship between initial jobless claims and nonfarm payrolls. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of the oil tanker SCF Byrranga, which was renamed the United Kalavrvta in March 2014 SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Part of a Kurdish oil cargo has been offloaded from a Greek-managed tanker into another tanker in the South China Sea, but mystery surrounds the identity of the buyer and where the two tankers are headed. The United Emblem, which is carrying more than 1 million barrels of oil, is one of three tankers loaded with oil from the autonomous Kurdish region, which is trying to sell oil independently. Iraqi Kurdistan is locked in a bitter legal and diplomatic struggle with Baghdad over international oil sales. A U.S. judge on Tuesday refused a request by Baghdad, citing a lack of jurisdiction, to seize 1 million barrels of oil aboard the United Kalavrvta tanker, which has been anchored off the port of Galveston since the weekend. The Kurdistan Regional Government filed a letter with the Texas court arguing its sales are allowed under the Iraqi constitution. Another tanker carrying Kurdish oil, the United Leadership, has been anchored off Morocco for almost two months. All three tankers are managed by Marine Management Services M.C., a Piraeus-based shipping company. A senior executive at Marine Management Services confirmed the ship-to-ship transfer involving the United Emblem took place in a "legitimate operation". The ship is "fixed to a legitimate charterer and performing legitimate operations," said Kostas Georgopoulos, the chartering manager at Marine Management Services. "The ship is still in international waters," he added. Georgopoulos declined to name the charterer or the details of the oil transfer but was aware the 161,724 dwt (deadweight tonne) ship was carrying oil from Iraqi Kurdistan. Around half of the ship's cargo could have been offloaded, according to Reuters AIS ship tracking data. Data on July 28 showing the ship was anchored with a 100 percent draft indicated the tanker was fully loaded. The ship's draft was 74 percent of the maximum when the information was updated on Thursday, compared with around 60 percent if the tanker was empty. The ship is anchored in the South China Sea about 20 km off the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia and about 50 km north-east of Singapore, Reuters data showed. Georgopoulos did not know where the ship was headed next, saying the charterers were controlling the vessel. "It's not us controlling the tanker. We are expecting the issuing of orders," Georgopoulos said. The captain of the ship said when reached by telephone: "You can't speak to me. Please don't call again. Whatever information you need get it from my owners. Thank you very much. Bye. Bye." The London based insurer of the ship, the London P&amp;I Club, declined to comment specifically on the vessel or its cargo, although director Steve Roberts, said: "We have had some contact" with Marine Management Services. The United Emblem loaded the oil cargo at Ceyhan in Turkey in mid-June, according to Reuters data, although exports have now stopped because storage at the port is at capacity forcing the Kurdistan Regional Government to shut-off its pipeline. The United States has publicly opposed direct oil sales, fearing they could contribute to the break-up of Iraq, and instead believes Baghdad and the Kurdistan Regional Government should reach an agreement on how the proceeds from oil sales should be split.   (Editing Ed Davies) FREE AppDownload
Jobs cuts in the tech industry have soared 68% year-over-year through June, according to new data from Challenger, Gray, and Christmas, and losses are on pace for their biggest jump since 2009.  The largest cuts came from H-P, which slashed 16,000. CEO Meg Whitman has said the company remains in turnaround mode as they work to streamline across their broad portfolio, which encompasses computing, networking, storage and software.  In total there will have been 48,402 jobs lost through June. That doesn't include Microsoft's recent July announcement that it would axe 18,000 positions. John A. Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas says the cuts do not necessarily bode ill for the industry. “Oddly, the rise in technology sector job cuts is occurring at a time when the economy is finally starting to regain some of its former glory. However, increased job cutting is not always a sign of an industry in decline.” Here's Challenger, Gray's table by company. Most of the cuts are in legacy tech giants: Challenger, Gray And by sector and year: Challenger, Gray FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
via The TelegraphArkady RotenbergArkady Rotenberg Of all Vladimir Putin's cronies who are described as childhood friends, few go as far back as Arkady Rotenberg and his brother Boris, who is blacklisted by the United States but not yet the EU. The billionaire brothers have known the Russian President since they were youngsters on the streets of Leningrad, the city now known as St Petersberg. The trio were so close that they practiced judo together at the same city club – but the relationship has now become one of lucrative financial convenience. The Rotenbergs now run SGM, an energy construction company, but they have also executed billion dollar contracts to provide support to Putin's "pet projects", such as the Sochi Olympic Games and Gazprom. Arkady has already been blacklisted by the US. Yuri Kovalchuk  AFPYuri KovalchukHe has been described as Putin's personal banker – and with good reason. As chief of Rossiya Bank, Mr Kovalchuk commands assets of approximately £6billion. One of Russia's 100 richest men, he is a close adviser to the President and the banker for senior officials of the Russian Federation. He has close ties with the shadowy Ozero Dacha Co-Operative – many of whose members are shareholders of Rossiya Bank. The shadowy and powerful society of luxury dacha owners on the eastern shore of Lake Komsomolskoye near Saint Petersburg brings together Russia’s most powerful oligarchs. He has already been blaklisted by the US Nikolay Shamalov Another old friend of President Putin, he is, with the Russian leader and Mr Kovalchuk a co-founder of the so-called Ozero Co-op. He has been targeted by the EU on the grounds that “he benefits from his links with Russian decision-makers”. He is the second largest shareholder of Bank Rossiya, which is considered the personal bank of senior officials of the Russian Federation. Since the illegal annexation of Crimea, Bank Rossiya has opened branches across the territory. Alexei Gromov  via RTE NewsAlexei Gromov  A former Soviet apparatchik then a Russian diplomat in Czechoslovakia and later Slovakia, Mr Gromov is President Putin's deputy chief of staff with responsibility, according to the EU, "for instructing Russian media outlets to take a line favourable with the separatists in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea".   FREE AppDownload
To the roof! Professional stunt man Ethan Swanson donned an HD Hero3 GoPro while taking a leap off of a Chicago rooftop, and the video is enough to warrant a need to wring your hands out after watching. GoPro's first quarterly earnings as a public company were scheduled to be announced later Thursday afternoon. Take a look at this jump. It's all from first-person POV. YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro YouTube/GoPro   [H/T Bloomberg TV] FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji 1.  Argentina Defaults. Argentina defaulted after failing to make a $539 million interest payment to a group of hedge funds. No one really knows what will happen next — the country has been locked out of international credit markets since 2001. There's still a chance the two sides could work out a settlement. “It’s in their best interest to delay acceleration and not introduce more difficulties,” Jane Brauer, a strategist at Bank of America, told Bloomberg. “The best thing for Argentina to do is to continue seeking a solution.” 2.  Adidas Shares Plunge On Russia. The footwear giant fell 14% in Europe trading after warning instability in Eastern Europe would affect store openings and profits. "[T]he recent trend change in the Russian rouble as well as increasing risks to consumer sentiment and consumer spending from current tensions in the region point to higher risks to the short-term profitability contribution from Russia/CIS," management said in a new statement. "As a result, Management has decided to significantly reduce its store opening plan in the market for 2014 and 2015 and to further increase the number of store closures." 3.  Tesla Officially Signs With Panasonic On Gigafactory. As Nikkei.com had previously reported, Tesla and Panasonic announced the Japanese electronics giant had agreed to provide equipment necessary for Tesla to assemble and package lithium-ion batteries, with the goal of doubling the world's supply by 2020. A person familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday that Panasonic would initially invest around 20 to 30 billion yen ($200-300 million) into the factory and would ultimately invest about $1 billion. "We have already engaged in various collaborative projects with Tesla toward the popularization of electric vehicles," Panasonic said. "Panasonic's lithium-ion battery cells combine the required features for electric vehicles such as high capacity, durability, and cost performance. And I believe that once we are able to manufacture lithium-ion battery cells at the Gigafactory, we will be able to accelerate the expansion of the electric vehicle market." 4.  Tesla Earnings. The announcement comes as the Palo Alto firm will report earnings after the bell. Consensus is for a loss of $0.24/share. In a note Wednesday, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas said numbers could come in light but that investors should be "prepared to buy the dips." "N. American Model S volume should continue to be down significantly YoY," he writes. "After falling 47% YoY in 1Q, we expect Tesla's NA revenues to be down around 20% YoY in 2Q (on NA shipments down nearly 30% YoY). While the company has highlighted supply prioritization for the international rollout, this won't stop some investors from wondering if markets like California are approaching saturation. We expect a vastly superior Model X (on the road by middle of next year) to put an end to these concerns." 5.  Russia. Russian equities are finishing off their worst month in more than a year, falling 29%. But Bloomberg reports those who have profited from the drop are not adding to their positions because the situation has never been muddier. "Many people are staying away from betting on or against the market because everything depends on the Russian government’s actions,” Sabina Mukhamedzhanova, a fund manager at Promsvyaz Asset Management in Moscow, which manages about 17.9 billion rubles ($500 million), told Bloomberg. “There’s no clarity regarding what’s going to happen.” Meanwhile, The Wall Street Journal reports Vladimir Putin and his closest ally in Europe, Angela Merkel, haven't spoken in more than a week. "Three days after the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke to Russian President Vladimir Putin for at least the 30th time since the Ukraine crisis erupted," Anton Troianovski and Alan Cullison report. "She had a blunt message, according to people briefed on the phone conversation: Call me if you have progress to report in defusing the conflict." SPONSORED BY Capco What will the finance industry look like in the years to come? Find out how the financial supply chain is reshaping the "new bank" at the 2014 Banking Reloaded Conference on October 29. Register today to join others in learning about the future of banking. 6.  Banco Espirito Santo May Need A Bail-In. Shares in the Portuguese bank fell 40% before being halted after it reported a $3.6 billion loss and said it had suspended staff over "harmful management" linked to the bank's exposure to business holdings of the Espirito Santo family. Reuters' George Hay says creditors may now need to step in as private investors are scared off.  WSJ's Simon Nixon says the BES situation is a blow to the ECBS' credibility. 7.  Europe Data. Inflation slowed to 0.4%, the lowest level since 2009. The unemployment rate dropped a tenth to 11.5%. Youth unemployment in Spain and Greece remains above 20%. 8.  U.S. Data. At 8:30 a.m. ET we get weekly jobless claims. Consensus is for 305,000, up from 284,000 prior. We also get the employment cost index. Consensus is for 0.5%, up from 0.3% prior. At 9:45 a.m. ET we get Chicago PMI. Consensus is for 63.2, up from 62.6.  9.  Earnings. Besides Tesla, we get quarterly earnings announcements from Exxon, Mastercard, Sony, and Trulia before the bell. After the bell we get Expedia, LinkedIn, GoPro, Valeant, WWE. BNP reported a loss of $5.8 billion on U.S. fines for its worst quarter ever. Shell said it was still working to offload bad bets on U.S. shale plays.  10.  Markets. U.S. futures are down 0.6%. London's FTSE was down 0.25%. Frankfurt's DAX was off 1%. Japan's Nikkei was down 0.1%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng was up 0.1%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enrique MarcarianArgentine stockbrokers work on the floor of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange June 16, 2014. BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina defaulted for the second time in 12 years after hopes for a midnight deal with holdout creditors were dashed, setting up stock and bond prices for declines on Thursday and raising chances a recession could worsen this year. After a long legal battle with hedge funds that rejected Argentina's debt restructuring following its 2002 default, Latin America's third-biggest economy failed to strike a deal in time to meet a midnight deadline for a coupon payment on exchange bonds. Even a short default will raise companies' borrowing costs, pile more pressure on the peso, drain dwindling foreign reserves and fuel one of the world's highest inflation rates. "It is going to complicate life for businesses like YPF which were going to look externally for financing," said Camilo Tiscornia, a former governor of Argentina's central bank. State-controlled energy company YPF &lt;YPFD.BA&gt; needs funds to develop Argentina's huge Vaca Muerta shale formation. Argentina had sought in vain to win a last-minute suspension of a ruling by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York to pay holdouts $1.33 billion plus interest. He ruled Argentina could not service its exchange debt unless it paid holdouts at the same time. A proposal for Argentina banks to buy out the hedge funds' non-performing debt also fell through, sources told Reuters. "This is a very particular default, there is no solvency problem, so everything depends on how quickly it is solved," said analyst Mauro Roca of Goldman Sachs. As dire as it is, the situation is a far cry from the mayhem following the country's economic crash in 2001-2001 when the economy collapsed around a bankrupt government. Millions of Argentines lost their jobs. This time the government is solvent. How much pain the default inflicts on Argentina, which is already in recession, will depend on how swiftly the government can extricate itself from its obligations. Buenos Aires had argued that agreeing to the hedge funds' demands to pay them in full would break a clause barring it from offering better terms than those who accepted steep writedowns in the 2005 and 2010 swaps. However, that clause expires on Dec. 31, after which the government would be able reach a deal with the funds. Many investors and economists still hope for a separate solution before then between the holdouts and private parties. "Our base case is that a default would be cleared by January 2015," said Alberto Bernal, a partner at Miami-based Bulltick Capital Markets. He projected that a default would cause the economy to shrink 2 percent this year compared with a previous market consensus for a 1 percent contraction. Failure to strike a deal will not cause financial turmoil abroad because Argentina has been isolated from global credit markets since its 2002 default on $100 billion, but domestic markets that had rallied on hopes of a deal in recent days will probably reverse course. Yields on Argentina's key dollar bond due 2033 fell to the lowest level in about three and a half years on Wednesday, and the country's MerVal index &lt;.MERV&gt; hit a record. "The correction will depend on perceptions of how long the default will take to solve," said Roca. The default could get much messier and take longer to clear up if creditors force an "acceleration" for early payment on their bonds. "How bad the outcome ends up being depends on whether bondholders accelerate," said Alejo Costa, strategy chief at local investment bank Puente. "Acceleration would open a new legal battle for the government that could end up in a new restructuring." Argentina has foreign currency restructured debt worth about $35 billion while its foreign exchange reserves stand at $29 billion. U.S. ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor's on Wednesday downgraded the country's long- and short-term foreign currency credit rating to "selective default". The default rating will remain until Argentina makes its overdue June 30 coupon payment on its discount bonds maturing in 2033, the agency said. Holders of insurance against an Argentine credit default will have their eyes peeled for an announcement from the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA). If ISDA declares an Argentine default, the total amount of money that would be paid out is just over $1 billion. After two days of talks with holdouts in New York, Argentine Economy Minister Axel Kicillof on Wednesday evening told reporters that Argentina was not in default because it had made the June $539 million interest payment to holders of exchanged bonds - even if this had not reached creditors by July 30, at the end of the month-long grace period. Judge Griesa called the payment illegal and blocked the funds' onward transfer to creditors. It remains in limbo in the Buenos Aires account of trustee agent Bank of New York Mellon. Argentines were sanguine about news of the default. "We have been in a similar situation before, and we will make it through," said a 27-year old employee at an automobile firm who declined to give his full name. "The sun rises each day. It will get resolved, be it next week, or next month." (Additional Reporting by Richard Lough and Eliana Raszewski; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogo of Sony Corp is pictured at an electronic store in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Sony Corp warned it doesn't now expect to make money on smartphones this year, citing weak demand, as the consumer electronics maker said restructuring will still help it turn a profit on its TVs after 10 years of losses. As it said April-June operating profit doubled, boosted by its videogames business and a one-off asset sale, Sony on Thursday cut its smartphone sales target this fiscal year by 14 percent. Sony now expects to just break even in the business this year, down from a previous operating forecast of 26 billion yen ($253 million), and is reviewing its mid-term strategy. Analysts had said the initial smartphone sales target was too ambitious amid stiff competition from Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd at the top end of the market, and cheaper Asian electronics firms at the bottom. Samsung Electronics also flagged its own uncertain handset earnings prospects on Thursday, undercut by Chinese rivals like Xiaomi, while Sony said progress by Chinese smartphone makers was a factor in its own sales shortfall. "It is possible the (smartphone strategy) review might result in an impairment charge against various assets in the mobile communications segment," said Sony's newly installed chief financial officer Kenichiro Yoshida. Despite the first-quarter surge, he said Sony would stick to fiscal year forecasts of a 140 billion yen operating profit and a 50 billion yen net loss - the company's second straight year in the red. "We are also discussing whether to change the number of phones in our line-up and adjust their lifecycle," Yoshida said, speaking at a news conference after the company released its results on Thursday. Sony now expects to sell 43 million smartphones this year, down from 50 million - a previous target corporate planning director Hiroki Totoki described on Thursday as "a little aggressive". With Yoshida helming restructuring plans, Sony has vowed to turn a profit on its flagship electronics division this year, come what may. The firm is cutting 5,000 jobs and spinning off its TV division into a separate company, a move chief executive Kazuo Hirai has said will increase accountability at the business. For the fiscal year, Sony on Thursday shaved 3 percent off its TV sales target, cutting it to 15.5 million from 16 million previously. That was despite quarterly sales growing 10.5 percent as Sony sold a higher proportion of premium models, including high resolution 4K sets.  GAMES GROWTH In the fiscal first quarter ended June, Sony's operating profit climbed to 69.8 billion yen ($679 million) from 35.5 billion yen a year earlier. That easily beat the 16.6 billion yen average of six analysts' estimates according to Thomson Reuters Starmine. Across the company as a whole, net profit surged to 26.8 billion yen in the first quarter from a meager 3.13 billion a year earlier. Revenue rose 5.8 percent to 1.81 trillion yen. Sony said a 14.8 billion gain from the sale of a technology center in Japan inflated first-quarter operating profit, while its financial services business again delivered the lion's share of earnings. Lifted by the success of its PlayStation 4 videogame console, Sony's games and networks division - the focus of much of the company's strategy going forward - also turned in a strong performance, doubling revenue and reversing into profit after losses a year earlier. Sony raised its operating profit forecast for the games and networks division by a quarter to 25 billion yen - equal to two and a half times the profit it expects in the division housing its TV business. CFO Yoshida, with a reputation for plain speaking, warned the strong first quarter didn't yet mean the company could afford to aim for higher earnings this year. "We have topped our targets (in the first quarter), but if you look at our past, we have made our targets in most first quarters but then haven't been able to meet our full-year targets," CFO Yoshida said. "I want to see how the rest of the year goes." Separately Sony also said it would set up a joint venture with Panasonic Corp and Japan Display Inc to develop organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays, with the government-backed Innovation Network Corp of Japan taking a majority stake.   (Reporting by Sophie Knight; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AFPPeople play polo on a field in the city of Dalian in China's Liaoning province on July 5, 2014.Gripping his mallet, Peng Zhichun gallops towards goal on a Chinese polo field, one of a growing number of the country's wealthy elite discovering the joys of the saddle and the whip. "New clubs are opening, people are more into equestrian sports, into polo, there are more international players coming, so it's growing really fast," the young man, dressed in an expensive leather helmet, boots and white trousers, said after dismounting. Peng, who was taking part in a luxury lifestyle event in the northern port of Dalian earlier this month, spent several years in the United States and is typical of China's emerging upper class, with a keen interest in travel and Western leisure activities. Among the privileged minority, chosen sports are indicative of status -- usually tennis and golf to start off with, graduating to skiing or riding. It is fertile ground for luxury brands such as the Swiss watch manufacturers for which the country has become a major market. In June, Shanghai hosted a stage of the Longines Global Champions Tour for the first time, a five-star showjumping event, the highest in the International Equestrian Federation's rankings. At Beijing's Tango Polo Club members are "select" and wealthy, says deputy chairman Chen Xie, and their numbers are growing steadily. "Polo is special. Members have to be rich enough to afford the membership. Courage is also needed as you can see, the sport is quite fast, intense and dangerous on the field," he told AFP. "The major customers are those above white-collar workers, say, entrepreneurs, or at least 'golden-collars'." It is undoubtedly a rich man's game. Club members have spent as much as three million yuan ($500,000) on a polo pony, and in one case 80 million yuan on a racehorse, Chen said -- sums which are lifestyle expenses rather than investments. "Horses are like humans, they go down in value when they pass their peak." China has a long equine history, with the first cavalry troops recorded in the Spring and Autumn Period of 770BC-476BC and ceramic horses unearthed alongside the later Terracotta Warriors. Chen also claims polo had its origins in Tang dynasty China before a British army officer imported it from India, although he acknowledges that "We all agree modern polo started from England." Nonetheless indigenous Chinese horse breeds are too small for many modern equestrian disciplines, he admits. The country's main equine stock is descended from Mongolian strains, but for centuries the animals of the steppe were bred primarily for stamina, rather than explosive speed. Most polo ponies are imported -- with three-quarters of the animals at the Tango club coming from Argentina. China imported fewer than 300 horses in 2005 but the number has risen tenfold in less than a decade. Now the country has about 500 riding clubs and half a million amateur enthusiasts, according to Wutzala, an ethnic Mongolian who uses only one name and runs the www.horse.org.cn website. But equestrian sports are far beyond most people's budgets, he says, with riding courses generally costing "250 to 400 yuan per hour plus coaching fee" and needing 30 hours to complete. For more populist disciplines -- in particular racing -- the picture is different. AFP Gambling is illegal in China except where it is run by the government or the proceeds donated to charity, and the state-sanctioned lotteries do not offer betting on foreign horse races, unlike football games. The ruling Communist Party associates racing with what it sees as the decadence and national humiliation of foreign occupation in the first half of the 20th century. In Shanghai, the colonial-era racecourse, once one of the largest in the world, was replaced by People's Square -- the site of the local government headquarters -- and a park. The global industry salivates at the prospect of a vast new market opening up, and in recent years French gambling representatives have visited China several times to promote Tote-style betting on races, with the bookmakers financing the sport. But while rumours of a relaxation in the rules have seen entrepreneurs invest in infrastructure, they have been left with abandoned courses hosting neither races nor spectators. Hong Kong group Desert Star Holdings had ambitious plans for a $1.7 billion "Horse City" in Tianjin including a racetrack, an international equestrian college and a 4,000-place stable, but the project has been postponed and some doubt it will ever see the light of day. "Chinese people enjoy betting," said Chen, adding that pure sports fans were not a sufficient market to develop racing. "With no betting there will be few participants." AFP Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
AFPBNP Paribas on Thursday posted a net quarterly loss of 4.3 billion euros ($5.75 billion), as a record fine for violating US economic sanctions sent it into the red for the first time since 2008. The French banking giant recorded an exceptional expenditure of 5.95 billion euros for the second quarter, linked to the penalty imposed for moving billions of dollars through the US financial system on behalf of Cuba, Iran, Myanmar and Sudan, all under economic sanctions. BNP Paribas agreed in June to a total settlement of 6.6 billion euros to avoid the case going to trial. It had already set aside 798 million euros to cover costs in the sanctions dispute. Excluding the cost of the fine, BNP Paribas's statement said it had generated net quarterly profits of 1.9 billion euros, up 23.2 percent on the same period last year, with a strong performance by its corporate and investment banking branch. BNP Paribas said 200 million euros, out of the total allocated to the US case, would be used to ensure a similar situation could not arise again, notably by setting up a division tasked with enforcing its compliance with US laws. The bank last posted a quarterly loss at the end of 2008, as its corporate and investment division was caught up in the fallout from the collapse of Lehman Brothers. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipCustomers line up as "Temporary Unavailable" stickers are placed on pictures of chicken nuggets and chicken filet on the menu at a McDonald's restaurant in Hong Kong July 25, 2014.(Reuters) - A food safety scare in China is testing local consumers' loyalty to foreign fast-food brands, including McDonald's Corp and Yum Brands Inc, which owns the KFC and Pizza Hut chains. Yum said on Wednesday that the scare, triggered by a TV report earlier this month showing improper meat handling by a supplier, Shanghai Husi Food, caused "significant, negative" damage to sales at KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants over the past 10 days. "If the significant sales impact is sustained, it will have a material effect on full-year earnings per share," Yum said in a regulatory filing. Shares in Yum, which counts China as its No. 1 market, tumbled more than 6 percent in extended trading. The stock has dropped nearly 12 percent since Yum posted second-quarter earnings on July 17. Officials from McDonald's in China and Hong Kong have not responded to requests for information on the impact on sales from the scandal, but McDonald's Holdings Co (Japan) Ltd on Tuesday scrapped its full-year earnings guidance after the China scare forced it to switch to alternative chicken supplies. A McDonald's Japan executive said sales had dropped 15-20 percent on a daily basis due to the scare. Both McDonald's and Yum are looking to China - where consumers see foreign brands as offering better food quality - for long-term growth given the size of its population, growing middle class and rapid economic growth. "Both of these stocks are banking heavily on China for their future growth," said Richard Brubaker, an adjunct professor at the China Europe International Business School and founder of the Collective Responsibility consultancy. "For Yum, this is a problem because it has a history of problems in China. For McDonald's, it's the sheer size of the problem and the inability to get product." CONSUMER CAUTION Yum, which has nearly 6,400 restaurants in China, had just begun to see its restaurant sales there recovering from a slide last year due to an avian food outbreak and a previous food safety scare. Yum has cut its global ties with OSI Group LLC [OSIGP.UL], the U.S. parent of Shanghai Husi Food. Yum said OSI was not a major supplier and the move had "minimal disruption" to the availability of menu offerings in China. McDonald's, which has more than 2,000 restaurants in China, has had a long relationship with OSI and was more dependent on the supplier than Yum. Many McDonald's China outlets have been hit by meat shortages since the company ended its relationship with OSI there. Around two-thirds of the more than five dozen consumers Reuters reporters spoke to in Shanghai, Beijing and Hong Kong on Thursday said they would scale back their visits to McDonald's, at least for now. "For people like us, McDonald's and KFC are places to meet friends," said Yao Nanfang, a 16-year-old student in a shopping mall in central Shanghai. "We'll still go to McDonald's, but we'll order fewer meat products." Diners in Hong Kong also said they were likely to eat less frequently at McDonald's, but noted that the chain's low prices made it hard to give up. "I come to McDonald's less often now, but I won't completely stop coming because it's so much cheaper than other restaurants," said Nan Tang, who says he eats at McDonald's twice a week. In Hong Kong, McDonald's has ended a promotion of its chicken McSpicy burger and shifted a membership program away from offering discounts on McNuggets, which it is not currently selling. Following the TV report that alleged workers at Shanghai Husi Food used expired meat and doctored food production dates, regulators closed the plant on July 20. Police have detained five people including Shanghai Husi's head and quality manager. Food safety has been a big concern for Chinese consumers after dairy products tainted with the industrial chemical melamine sickened many thousands and led to the deaths of six infants in 2008. (Additional reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore, James Zhang, Emily Chung, Nikki Sun, Donny Kwok and Clare Baldwin in Hong Kong, and Shanghai and Beijing newsrooms; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ng Han GuanTOKYO (Reuters) - Panasonic Corp confirmed on Thursday it would invest in U.S. electric carmaker Tesla Motors Inc's planned $5 billion lithium-ion battery plant in the United States, but said it had yet to decide on the size of its investment. The Japanese company, which already supplies batteries for Tesla, said it was gauging the demand for batteries before deciding on an amount. It had earlier said it would invest in stages and that any expenditure this year would be small. "We have not yet decided exactly how much we will invest and when," said Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai. "However, Tesla is a very important partner to us and discussions are continuing. We need to look very carefully at auto demand and respond appropriately so of course that means taking a step-by-step approach to investment," he added. A person familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday that Panasonic would initially invest around 20 to 30 billion yen ($200-300 million) into the factory and would ultimately invest about $1 billion. Demand for batteries from the U.S. premium eco-car maker has been a boon for Panasonic as it tries to expand its business as an industrial supplier, especially to the auto sector, and reduce its reliance on volatile consumer markets. Under the agreement, Tesla will prepare, provide and manage the land while Panasonic will manufacture and supply cylindrical lithium-ion cells and invest in the equipment, machinery and other manufacturing tools, they said in a joint statement. Tesla's chief executive Elon Musk has said that he expected Panasonic to become the main partner in the Gigafactory, which the company says will be able, when fully operational in 2020, to make more lithium-ion batteries in a year than were produced worldwide in 2013. It is currently looking at three new sites to locate the plant. Panasonic announced the deal with Telsa after beating analysts forecasts and reporting a 28.2 percent increase in operating profit for the first quarter on growing demand for its energy-saving household fittings as well as cost cuts.  (Reporting by Sophie Knight; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Susana VeraTraders talk at the Madrid stock exchange.Stocks are down across Europe. Britain's FTSE is down 0.2%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.7%. Germany's DAX is down 1.0%. Spain's IBEX is down 1.6%. This comes in the wake of new inflation and unemployment data. Consumer prices in the euro zone climbed by just 0.4% year-over-year in July, the lowest rate in five years. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate in the region slipped to 11.5% in June from 11.6%. "Lowflation in the euro area suggests the European Central Bank will maintain its easing bias," said Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "Those weak price pressures are likely to endure as the unemployment rate remains elevated." In Portugal, beleagured Banco Espirito Santo immediately lost half of its market value after shares resumed trading in the wake of a horrific earnings announcment. "Banco Espirito Santo SA’s stock plunged by the most on record and the bonds slumped after it was ordered to raise capital following a 3.6 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) first-half net loss," reported Bloomberg's Joao Lima. "The Bank of Portugal required the lender to raise the money after it set aside 4.25 billion euros in the first half, mostly to cover souring loans to other members of the Espirito Santo Group. That cut Banco Espirito Santo’s common equity Tier 1 ratio to 5 percent, less than the 7 percent regulatory minimum, according to a statement yesterday." This is weighing on the Portugese stock market where the PSI20 is down 3.2%. @ReutersJamie"Banco Espirito Santo shares resume trading after suspension....and plunge 45%" FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
@MarkitEconomicsEurozone consumer prices climbed by just 0.4% year-over-year in July. This was down from 0.5% in June, and it was worse than the 0.5% expected by economists. This was also the tiniest increase in prices since October 2009. "Looking at the main components of euro area inflation, services is expected to have the highest annual rate in July (1.3%, stable compared with June), followed by non-energy industrial goods (0.0%, compared with -0.1% in June), food, alcohol &amp; tobacco (-0.3%, compared with -0.2% in June) and energy (-1.0%, compared with 0.1% in June)," Eurostat said. The big risk here is that prices go negative and Europe spirals into deflation, a phenomenon that perpetuates itself as consumer and businesses delay spending in anticipation of even lower prices. Combined with the stubbornly high unemployment rate, this increases pressure on the European Central Bank to leverage monetary policy in an effort to stimulate economic activity and stoke inflation. "Lowflation in the euro area suggests the European Central Bank will maintain its easing bias," said Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "The ECB may take some comfort from the stabilization of inflation for services ... That rate has largely stabilized since hitting a low of 1% in December. Inflation in the service sector is a better indicator of domestically generated pressure on prices than that in the manufacturing sector." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Interview  WALMART/SAMSCLUB(Reuters) - Target Corp is hiring PepsiCo Inc executive Brian Cornell as its new chief executive, the Wall Street Journal reported. Target has been looking for a new chief executive after removing Gregg Steinhafel as chairman and CEO in May in the wake of a devastating data breach, which hurt the No.3 U.S. retailer's profit, shook customer confidence in the company and prompted congressional hearings. Steinhafel had been Target's CEO since 2008 and his departure also followed the company's botched multi-billion dollar expansion into Canada. The Minneapolis-based company had named its Chief Financial Officer John Mulligan as interim chief executive. Cornell, who has spent nearly a decade at PepsiCo, was a contender to succeed PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi, the Journal said. (http://on.wsj.com/1xCMUqk) PepsiCo said it looked forward to working with Cornell at Target and would announce his successor soon, the newspaper reported. Cornell, who will begin his new job on Aug. 12, earlier spent three years at Wal-Mart Stores Inc where he ran the Sam's Club warehouse chain. He was also the CEO of arts and crafts chain Michael's Stores Inc for two years, the newspaper said. Target and Pepsi did not immediately respond to emails seeking comments.   (Reporting by Supriya Kurane and Arnab Sen in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
@EU_EurostatThe unemployment rate in the euro area slipped to 11.5% in June from 11.6% in May. This was marginally better than the 11.6% unemployment rate forecasted by economists. Still, this is up from 10.2% a year ago, and it reminds us that Europe continues to have problems. And the story continues to be very uneven. The German unemployment rate stands at 6.7%, but in Italy the unemployment rate is at 12.3%. It's even worse in Spain and Greece where the unemployment rates are at 24.5% and 27.3%, respectively. Young people continue to see the worst of it. From Eurostat: "In June 2014, 5.129 million young persons (under 25) were unemployed in the EU28, of whom 3.319 million were in the euro area. Compared with June 2013, youth unemployment decreased by 506 000 in the EU28 and by 244 000 in the euro area. In June 2014, the youth unemployment rate5 was 22.0% in the EU28 and 23.1% in the euro area, compared with 23.6% and 23.9% respectively in June 2013. In June 2014, the lowest rates were observed in Germany (7.8%), Austria (9.0%) and the Netherlands (10.5%), and the highest in Greece (56.3% in April 2014), Spain (53.5%) and Italy (43.7%)." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christian HartmannEverything seemed to be going Adidas' way until the western world clashed with Russia. "[T]he recent trend change in the Russian rouble as well as increasing risks to consumer sentiment and consumer spending from current tensions in the region point to higher risks to the short-term profitability contribution from Russia/CIS," management said in a new statement. "As a result, Management has decided to significantly reduce its store opening plan in the market for 2014 and 2015 and to further increase the number of store closures." Shares of the $12 billion global shoe brand plunged by over 14% early in the European trading session. Markets across Europe are trading lower. In recent weeks, the U.S. and the European Union unveiled a series of economic sanctions against Russia for its involvement in destabilizing Ukraine. Sanctions were targeted at financial and energy firms. However, these industries haven't been the only ones affected by the turmoil. To be clear, Adidas actually just wrapped up a strong second quarter. It surely benefited from having sponsored both teams in the World Cup final (Germany and Argentina). The company said sales jumped 10% during the period, driven by 14% growth in Adidas brand sales. This was somewhat offset by an 18% drop in TaylorMade-adidas Golf brand sales. Overall, there was more bad news than good. "Taking these developments and initiatives into account, Management now expects a mid- to high-single-digit currency-neutral sales increase (previously: high-single-digit increase) for the full year 2014 and net income attributable to shareholders to be at a level of around €650 million (previously: €830 million to €930 million)," they said. Despite what's going on in Russia, Adidas is pushing forward with its growth efforts in the rest of the world. "[F]ollowing the strong performance at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, and improving momentum at brand adidas and Reebok, Management has decided to step up marketing and point-of-sale investments over the next 18 months to secure and drive faster growth rates and market share gains, particularly in the developed markets such as North America and Western Europe," they said. Adidas will provide a more complete update when it announces its full Q2 results on Aug. 7. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael DalderA visitor reaches for one of the first mugs of beer after the tapping of the first barrel during the opening ceremony for the 180th Oktoberfest at the Hofbraeu tent in Munich on Sept. 21.German unemployment dropped more than expected in July and retail sales climbed in June, data showed on Thursday, spelling good news for private consumption that is expected to drive growth in Europe's largest economy this year. Seasonally adjusted data from the Labour Office showed the number of people out of work decreased by 12,000 to 2.898 million. The consensus forecast in a Reuters poll had been for a drop of 5,000. "The fundamentals for German household spending are very strong. Unemployment is at long-term lows, employment at highs. Wages are rising, inflation is very low, and the uncertainty of the euro crisis has faded," said Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg Bank. German consumer morale rose to its highest level in more than 7 1/2 years heading into August as shoppers became more upbeat about their future income prospects than at any point since 1991, helped by a robust labor market and low inflation, which currently stands at just 0.8 percent in Germany. The jobless rate was steady at 6.7 percent, setting Germany worlds apart from euro zone peers like Greece and Spain, where around one in four people continue to be unemployed. But some companies are still slashing jobs in Germany. Firms ranging from lighting-maker Osram Licht AG &lt;OSRn.DE&gt; and solar company SMA Solar &lt;S92G.DE&gt; to Commerzbank &lt;CBKG.DE&gt; and industrial services group Bilfinger &lt;GBFG.DE&gt; have all announced they will be trimming their workforces. Data from the statistics office showed German retail sales rose by 1.3 percent in June in real terms on the month — their strongest rise since January and potentially a result of Germans hitting the shops at the start of the soccer World Cup. Schulz said retail sales had risen by 1.4 percent in the first half of 2014 compared with the same period earlier, suggesting they could grow by 2.8 percent this year. "That is a very healthy clip, which should make consumption a key driver of overall demand," he said. The German economy grew at its fastest rate in three years in early 2014, but that was largely due to mild weather so it is expected to slow or even stagnate in the second quarter before picking up again in the third. Other recent data has pointed to a slowdown, with exports, industrial orders and production all falling. Germany's VDMA engineering body has also slashed its output forecast for this year. Surveys have shown business and investor morale weakening, but consumers remain a source of support.   (Editing by Madeline Chambers) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of people walking by the Yukos oil company headquarters in MoscowMOSCOW/STRASBOURG (Reuters) - The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) awarded shareholders in Yukos 1.9 billion euros ($2.55 billion) in compensation after the former oil company argued Russia had unlawfully deprived the company of its possessions by imposing bogus taxes and a sham auction of its key asset. Just days after some of Yukos's former shareholders won $50 billion in The Hague, the Strasbourg-based court said Russia should also pay 300,000 euros in costs and expenses, plus any tax that may be chargeable. Russia's Justice Ministry said on Thursday a European court's approach to the Yukos case was unfair and biased, adding it could appeal its decision within three months. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) earlier on Thursday awarded shareholders in Yukos 1.9 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in compensation after the former oil company argued Russia had unlawfully seized it after demanding bogus taxes and via a sham auction. (Reporting by Megan Davies, Maria Kiselyova, and Vladimir Soldatkin in Moscow and Gilbert Reilhac in Strasbourg, editing by Elizabeth Piper) FREE AppDownload
