IMF researchers Vadim Khramov and John Ridings Lee have developed a new macro indicator called the "Economic Performance Index" — a measure that combines data on inflation, unemployment, government deficits, and GDP growth. "Though structurally simple, the EPI is a powerful macro indicator that clearly measures the performance of the economy’s three primary segments: households, firms, and government," write Khramov and Lee in an IMF working paper. "The EPI comprises variables that influence all three sectors simultaneously: the inflation rate as a measure of the economy’s monetary stance; the unemployment rate as a measure of the economy’s production stance; the budget deficit as a percentage of total GDP as a measure of the economy’s fiscal stance; and the change in real GDP as a measure of the aggregate performance of the entire economy." The basic calculation goes something like this: start with a "perfect" score of 100, then subtract the inflation rate, the unemployment rate, the government budget deficit as a percentage of GDP, and add back the real GDP growth rate (it's slightly more complicated than that — check out the paper for details). The annotated charts below plot the history of the U.S. EPI since 1790. IMF IMF
Renewable energy such as wind and solar are growing at 100 gigawatts (GW) of capacity annually. This $200 billion in yearly green energy spending represents immense opportunity for long-term investors, but figuring out which companies to invest in can be fraught with peril. Solar and wind companies are usually highly speculative, non-profit-earning, momentum stocks that can easily lose investors all of their money. The Motley Fool However, there are ways for long-term investors to grow rich from the green energy revolution with far less risk and generate substantial income to boot. This article outlines three securities who are poised to profit from this energy megatrend and take income investors along for the ride. NextEra Energy Partners is a recent YieldCo from NextEra Energy Inc, one of my favorite alternative energy companies. YieldCos are similar to REITs or MLPs in that they are income oriented securities that own cash-generating assets, however they don't have any of the tax benefits (or headaches) related to MLPs.  The reason NextEra Energy Partners isn't an MLP is because its solar and wind assets don't qualify for MLP status under the US tax code. Although taxed as a regular corporation, NextEra Energy Partners doesn't expect to pay any taxes for 15 years due to net operating losses it will be able to claim. The net effect of NextEra's Energy Partners' structure is that it will be a fast-growing solar and wind pure play, with a decent but fast-growing yield. Income investors may want to consider owning both for two simple reasons: income and growth potential. The Motley Fool NextEra Energy is one of the best electrical utilities in America. With 42 GW of capacity in 26 states and four Canadian provinces, it represents one of the cleanest power generation portfolios in the country (56% natural gas, 24% wind, 14% nuclear). Part of that portfolio is 11 GW of solar and wind capacity, representing 17% and 14% of America's utility scale wind and solar capacity respectively.  NextEra Energy Partners is the first YieldCo with incentive distribution rights (IDRs) to its general partner, NextEra Energy. This means that, once NextEra Energy Partners' distribution reaches a certain point, 50% of marginal cash flow will go the general partner. This will help NextEra Energy maintain one of the fastest dividend growth rates in the utility sector and keep it an exceptional dividend growth stock, one that's generated 13.4% total returns over the last 21 years compared to the market's 9.7%. What should get income investors excited however, is the fact that NextEra Energy has 4.4 GW of additional solar and wind capacity scheduled to be completed by 2016. That's a 40% increase in renewable energy capacity and NextEra Energy Partners, which just IPOed with 990 MW of capacity from 10 wind and solar projects, has right of first offer on 2.539 GW of additional capacity that NextEra Energy has pledged to drop down to it over the next three years. That 160% growth in capacity means distribution growth of 12%-15% annually, which will cause quick growth in IDR fees to NextEra Energy, enriching investors in both. Impressive growth to be sure, yet by 2016 NextEra Energy Partners will only own 23% of NextEra Energy's total renewable generating capacity. With IDR fees as an incentive, NextEra Energy Partners is likely to eventually receive all of its general partner's solar and wind assets, resulting in 10 to 15 years of exceptional distribution growth. Brookfield Renewable Energy Partners is an MLP that's 65% owned by Brookfield Asset Management, operator of one of the finest real estate and infrastructure empires in the world. Brookfield Renewable Energy Partners owns $17 billion in assets, including 216 hydroelectric and wind facilities that generate 6 GW of electrical capacity in the US, Canada, and Brazil. Not only do these assets represent geographical diversification, but their cash flows are 93% contracted to inflation-indexed power purchase agreements with a weighted average length of 17 years. Not only does this secure a very generous distribution (that's been growing at 5% annually since 2011), but analysts are projecting Brookfield Renewable Energy Partners will experience truly stunning growth over the next decade; 40% annual earnings growth fueling 32.34% annual distribution growth.  With Q1 results showing 14% annual growth in funds from operations/unit (which pays the distribution), growth appears to be accelerating, and if analysts are even close to right in their projections, Brookfield Renewable Energy Partners could be one of the best income investments of the next decade. Renewable energy represents an incredible opportunity for long-term investors to profit from a major energy megatrend. NextEra Energy, its YieldCo NextEra Energy Partners, and MLP Brookfield Renewable Energy Partners represent three of the best ways I've seen for income investors to cash in on the ocean of money that's flowing into green energy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSHONG KONG/SEOUL (Reuters) - Investment bankers are jostling to win plum roles from the founding Lee family of Samsung Group, South Korea's top fee-payer, as it prepares to hand the baton to the next generation in a restructuring that could land more than $100 million in advisory fees alone. Foreign and Korean investment banks are bringing in their chief executives and top dealmakers to pitch for a glut of deals as the $407 billion Samsung Group [SAGR.UL] untangles an empire that ranges from electronics to financial services. Banks' top executives have long courted the Samsung Group as it's among Asia's top fee-payers. Citigroup's chief executive Mike Corbat flew to Korea last year to meet with Samsung management, according to a source with direct knowledge of the matter, while last month Asia-Pacific head Stephen Bird traveled to Seoul. A spokesman for Citigroup declined to comment. Now, as the group's restructuring accelerates, Korean and foreign investment banks are assembling large teams, sending their CEOs to pay their dues at Samsung HQ and boosting research coverage of the group to try and win lucrative work from the conglomerate. "There are potentially hundreds of transactions that can be done to simplify the Samsung group structure," said Shaun Cochran, head of Korea at CLSA, an investment bank, which published a 178-page report on the group on June 16. As well as untangling the group's complex web of businesses, the restructuring could also ease a potential $6 billion tax bill faced by the Samsung heirs. Unlike large Western companies that often retain a 'house' bank, bankers say Samsung keeps them on their toes by fostering competition for each and every deal as it believes it gets better service that way. Since 2010 the group has paid an estimated $167 million in fees, the most among Korean corporates and the tenth-highest in Asia outside Japan, according to data from Freeman Consulting. So far this year, it has paid $21 million in fees, compared with $13 million for all of 2013. Bankers estimate Samsung could pay more than $100 million in fees over the next two years. With revenues from trading and dealmaking dwindling, global banks in Asia have culled staff and focused on cross-selling to the region's few serial fee payers. That makes a group like Samsung, whose Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is the world's biggest smartphone maker, a top target for banks. In return, Samsung is a demanding client even by investment banking standards. "For a one hour meeting with them, we'll do thirty man-hours of preparation so we don't waste their time," said a senior executive at a foreign investment bank in Seoul.              REUTERS/Jo Yong-HakSPRAWLING EMPIREThe sprawling Samsung conglomerate, whose 2012 revenues accounted for more than a quarter of South Korea's nominal gross domestic product, appears to be accelerating a restructuring after patriarch Lee Kun-hee, 72, was hospitalized in May. Last month, Samsung Everland Inc, a key holding company within the group, announced plans for an IPO, following a similar announcement in May by IT solutions unit Samsung SDS. Other mandates include battery maker Samsung SDI Co's acquisition of electronics materials affiliate Cheil Industries Inc, and a potential renminbi-denominated bond for Samsung Electronics. Banks are also pitching for at least three sell-side mandates from Samsung, as it prepares to divest  non-core businesses, a person familiar with the process said. The estimated $100 million payday for banks in the next two years excludes fees from ancillary business such as providing foreign exchange or hedging, which could push the total even higher. "Samsung's business style is 'we won't skimp on the payment, let's make sure the work is right,'" said a Korean banker working on one of the listings. A spokesman for Samsung said in an emailed statement that the group could not comment on fees or the details of its subsidiaries' process of selecting banks.              REUTERS/Seo Jae-hoonSamsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-Hee's daughters, president and chief executive of Hotel Shilla Lee Boo-jin (C), vice president at Cheil Industries and Cheil Worldwide Lee Seo-Hyun (L) and his only son Samsung Electronics' chief operating officer Jay LeeNEED TO IMPRESSBanks pitching Samsung must impress panels headed by management of the group subsidiary doing a given deal, bankers said. They must also woo Samsung heir apparent Jay Y Lee, who is overseeing the restructuring and taking a keen interest on major transactions such as the Everland IPO. Banks working on the SDS IPO were not short-listed for the Everland deal, sources with direct knowledge of the matter said, as SDS officials did not want their bankers distracted. Korean banks, unsurprisingly, have tended to win the lion's share of the work in the past four years, with Samsung's own securities arm earning 16 percent of all estimated fees. Goldman Sachs has earned an estimated $19.1 million in fees, or 11 percent of the total paid by the group since 2010, the most among foreign banks, according to Freeman Consulting and Thomson Reuters data. Other foreign banks on Samsung's books include Citigroup, which provides cash management and foreign exchange services for Samsung in some 67 countries, and JPMorgan Chase. "Samsung are the epitome of Korea in how they handle banking relationships - not looking to favour any firm outright, spreading the wealth around, but laser-focused on quality of execution," said a Seoul-based executive at a foreign bank.              (Reporting By Lawrence White in HONG KONG and Se Young Lee and Joyce Lee in SEOUL; Editing by Denny Thomas, Rachel Armstrong and Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
Most novice investors and economists understand that the stock market does not accurately represent the health of the economy. Among other things, the U.S. stock market (represented by the S&amp;P 500) reflects the activities of big global U.S. corporations that have access to cheap capital and do lots of business overseas. U.S. GDP includes more directly the activities of all of the small business that only operate domestically. RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub recently presented this fascinating chart in his massive 83-page Investment Strategy Playbook. It charts the evolution of the economists' expectations for Q1 GDP growth and stock market analysts' expectations for Q1 earnings growth. "1Q EPS was particularly strong relative to 1Q GDP," he noted. There are a few things that stand out: 1) The growth rate for S&amp;P 500 earnings is much higher than the growth rate for GDP. See the y-axes. 2) Stock market analysts and economists don't share the same sentiment in what they cover. In the right side of this chart, you'll notice by the revisions that stock market analysts were to too conservative in what they were estimating while economists were too optimistic. For more on the discussion of stocks versus the economy, see here, here, here, here, and here. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
Most folks were happy to learn that the U.S. national unemployment rate fell to 6.1% in June from 6.3% in May. But across the country, some folks are less likely to be employed than others. With the release of its June employment situation report, the Bureau of Labor Statistics published a series of charts offering some historical context. Below are the charts looking at unemployment rates by age and sex, ethnicity, and education. Teenagers, blacks, and those with less than a high school diploma have it worst. BLS BLS BLS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicChina's President Xi JinpingXi's efforts to rein in corruption have surprised many and there is much speculation about what is really going in with the crackdown. Among the key questions: 1. Is it a political purge, is it a broader, unprecedented in recent years effort to seriously tackle corruption, or is a combination of both? 2. Is the crackdown also a tool to weaken vested interests and set the stage for the comprehensive reforms mooted at the Third Plenum? 3. Is it a campaign that will soon run its course, or are Xi Jinping and Wang Qishan trying to build an institutional framework that will allow for ongoing, more consistent efforts to fight corruption? 4. What is clean enough, as no one can really believe corruption can be eradicated? 5. Can Beijing really be serious about fighting corruption without broader reforms that allow more independent oversight?   I wish I knew the answers, and certainly lots of us have opinions and hypotheses. I am sticking with what I wrote in the January 2013 Chinafile conversation Is Xi Jinping’s Fight Against Corruption For Real?:  ...Few outside observers believe corruption can be rooted out without broader political changes, but Mr. Xi appears determined to push this current crackdown farther than most believed... I know, it may be too late, and many are convinced this is just a lot of thunder without the rain. But do not underestimate how serious he is, and how much personal prestige he is investing. The recent Politburo meeting deserves more attention than it has gotten outside of official media. The comment that this latest meeting signals an upgrading of the “eight rules” is interesting. The corruption crackdown and austerity may in fact deepen." Eighteen months on, the odds of the crackdown continuing to deepen look high. Happy Independence Day to the American and British members of the Sinocism community! Be Informed About China.  The Sinocism China Newsletter. Free. FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Brendan McDermidSpecialist Geoffrey Friedman reacts to the Dow Jones industrials average passing 17,000 on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange July 3, 2014.LONDON (Reuters) - World stocks were enjoying the view at an all-time high on Friday, lifted by a strong week of U.S. economic data and promises from the European Central Bank that cheap money will be sloshing around for years. European shares opened marginally in the red as the dust settled from Thursday's forecast-busting U.S. jobs data and ECB meeting, with investors taking the opportunity to lock in profits after the biggest week of gains since March. A new three-year peak for Asian stocks overnight meant MSCI's All World share index, which tracks 45 countries, set its fourth consecutive record high, while the dollar, U.S. bond yields and growth-sensitive copper were also up on the week. "You can't fight the tape, it's as simple as that," said Justin Haque, a broker at Hobart Capital Markets, referring to the deluge of strong data this week, "It's a very bullish scenario." With Wall Street closed later for Independence Day celebrations markets were quieter than usual but there were still pockets of movement. Yields on lower-rated euro zone bonds continued to fall as analysts combed the details of new long-term loans the ECB has lined up for banks, and after it said on Thursday it stood ready to print money if needed. [GVD/EUR] The ECB will give banks the opportunity to borrow up to 1 trillion euros for four years at a rate of only 0.25 percent from September in the hope they will lend some of that money to businesses and consumers. "More liquidity in the system is a boost for bonds," said Peter Chatwell, fixed income strategist at Credit Agricole. Portuguese bonds though, which have underperformed this week due to concerns about an investigation into holding companies of the country's largest bank, saw their yields edge up, with 10-year paper at 3.64 percent. WEAK OIL Oil and safe-haven favorite gold were also under pressure as the unrest in Iraq and between Ukraine in Russia - supportive factors for both in recent weeks - remained in a lull. Brent crude held steady above $111 a barrel but was set to post its biggest weekly loss since early January. U.S. oil futures were down for a seventh straight day and heading for their longest such run since 2009. "Supply fears are easing somewhat, but Iraq is setting a high floor on prices," said Victor Shum, vice-president of energy consultancy IHS Energy Insight. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan ended up 0.2 percent, touching its highest levels since May 2011 after a weekly gain of 1.7 percent. Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.6 percent to hit a 5-1/2-month high, and gained 2.3 percent for the week. It came after U.S. employment growth jumped in June and the unemployment rate declined to near a six-year low of 6.1 percent, effectively dispelling fears about the economy's health after a weather-hit start to the year. The headline gain of 288,000 jobs was well above forecasts of 212,000 and was the first time since the technology boom in the late 1990s that the gains topped 200,000 for five straight months. The report helped the Dow Jones industrial average pass the 17,000 milestone and the benchmark S&amp;P 500 rise to within 1 percent of the 2,000 level. Benchmark U.S. Treasury yield hit a two-month high, which in turn burnished the dollar's appeal. The benchmark 10-year yield last stood at 2.641 percent, not far from its U.S. close of 2.648 percent. The dollar edged slightly down against the yen to 102.00 yen, but remained close to a two-week peak after a jump on Thursday. The dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of rivals, stood just below a one-week peak at 80.225 while the euro nudged lower to $1.3589.   (Additional reporting by Marius Zaharia and Francesco Canepa; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
AP Travelers aren't the only ones who should be worried about Congress' next big economic crisis.  Political analysts and groups with an interest in the outcome are starting to become anxious about the battle brewing this summer over the Highway Trust Fund – and they're not convinced any of the likely solutions being floated on Capitol Hill will solve the problem one leading lawmaker has dubbed a potential "construction shutdown."  The Highway Trust Fund, which is financed by gasoline taxes and pays for transportation and infrastructure projects, is set to run out by the end of the summer. The federal highway money will begin to dissipate at the beginning of next month and stop altogether by Sept. 30. In a letter to state transportation officials sent Tuesday, Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said funding for transportation projects would begin to be affected Aug. 1 if Congress does not take action. Foxx also warned states should expect about a 28% cut in federal funding for construction projects. The fund is headed towards insolvency because the government now spends more money on those transportation and infrastructure projects than it collects from the gas tax, which has not been raised in over two decades. If the fund dries up, it could have dire consequences for the economy and cost the country hundreds of thousands of jobs, according to some estimates. These consequences make the fund's expiration date one of a few deadlines, including the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank's charter, that has analysts worried about the economic headwinds coming out of Washington this year. These fears intensified when House Majority Leader Eric Cantor stunningly lost his Republican primary battle to a Tea Party insurgent.  In an email to Business Insider, Guggenheim Securities analyst Chris Krueger indicated the so-called construction shutdown is one of the main potential economic headwinds coming out of Washington this year. He also described the climate on the Hill as the "new hysteria" and warned it could make a solution "difficult" to reach. "The new leadership slate has a difficult challenge in the ~140 days to the midterms, with many conservative/Tea Party groups pushing for a more aggressive/confrontational leadership style," Krueger wrote. "Thankfully for the markets, there are few fiscal fights on the horizon this year, though. However, the highway bill and the Export-Import Bank could well fall prey to this new hysteria, as both face expirations before the midterms." Thus far, Congress has failed to agree on a solution, and the federal government has begun amping up its warnings to states. The Obama administration has estimated as many as 700,000 jobs could be lost and about 112,000 active construction projects could be affected by either being delayed, deferred, or halted. Sen. Patty Murray (D-Washington), who has been the Democratic leadership's point person on the issue, has warned of the potentially disastrous "construction shutdown."  President Barack Obama, sounding rather exasperated on Tuesday, pushed the four-year, $302 billion plan his administration has advocated as a solution to the problem — which has no chance of passing through Congress. "It’s not crazy, it’s not socialism," he said in remarks in front of the Georgetown waterfront with the Key Bridge in the background. "It’s not the imperial presidency — no laws are broken.  We’re just building roads and bridges like we’ve been doing for the last, I don’t know, 50, 100 years." During testimony before the Senate Finance Committee earlier this year, Joseph Kile, the assistant director for microeconomic studies at the Congressional Budget Office identified two possible solutions to what the CBO has described as an "impossible situation." Kile suggested Congress could either drastically cut spending in the fund's two accounts or increase the gas tax by at least 10 cents per gallon.  In an election year, lawmakers are loath to support either of these options. The gas tax hasn't been raised since 1993. Last month, two senators talked about the unthinkable solution — they introduced a bipartisan plan to save the fund by incrementally raising the 18.4 cents-per-gallon gas tax. But with voters heading to the polls this November, the prognosis for the proposal is grim as there little political appetite for raising taxes on drivers among both the Republican-controlled House and the White House. The most likely solution is a short-term extension to boost the fund through the end of the year. Right now, the proposal that has the most "energy," according to one Senate Democratic aide, is one unveiled last week by Senate Finance Committee Chair Ron Wyden. Wyden's proposal would infuse about $9 billion into the fund through offsetting methods aimed at increasing revenue through tax compliance and higher taxes on heavy trucks, among others. Senate leadership is open to a short-term solution. REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstAn exasperated-sounding Obama said a solution to the highway problem is "not socialism." In an email to Business Insider, Murray, the No. 4 Democrat in the Senate, expressed support for a short-term fix for the Highway Trust Fund. "The most important thing we can do right now is prevent this looming and completely unnecessary crisis, so I’m hopeful Republicans will push aside the Tea Party fringe, and find a way to get a deal with us that would, at the very least, avoid a construction shutdown this summer," Murray said. "And as soon as we’ve ensured workers and businesses across the country won’t pay the price for another manufactured crisis coming out of Washington, D.C. we should absolutely look for a longer term solution." However, Wall Street analysts are unconvinced a short-term solution would do much to solve the overall problem.  The reason: States cannot plan any long-term infrastructure projects in a three-month window, which they would be working with if the Highway Trust Fund is extended only through the end of the year. There would be no guarantee federal dollars would continue to flow to the states for these projects in 2015. Krueger said this would effectively kill any largescale infrastructure projects for the time being. "This means state departments of transportation are basically left filling potholes because it takes a lot longer than three months to build large bridges, overpasses, etc.," Krueger explained.  Furthermore, even a short-term plan to save the fund might not be able to get off the ground.  The Senate Finance Committee is expected to vote on Wyden's measure soon after they return next week from Congress' July 4 recess. There is no guarantee, however, it will pass muster with the Republican-controlled House, whose leadership until recently had pushed a plan that would have offset a new cash infusion to the Highway Trust Fund by limiting U.S. Postal Service deliveries on Saturdays.  That plan fizzled amid resistance from conservative groups and some of the House's more conservative members. House Speaker John Boehner is waiting to see a plan from Republican House Ways and Means Committee Chair Dave Camp (R-Michigan) next week. Like the Ex-Im Bank fight, the debate over replenishing the Highway Trust Fund has created some strange alliances in Washington. Conservative groups like the Club for Growth and Heritage Action oppose throwing more federal money into the Highway Trust Fund, viewing it as another broken program in Washington. They have advocated devolving highway funding to individual states to let them decide their own infrastructure needs.  The White House, meanwhile has found common ground on the issue with Republican-leaning, business-friendly groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that have strongly advocated finding a solution. The Chamber even put out an explainer on its website about the issue that pushed Foxx's message. It seems only one thing is certain as Congress barrels towards its next big economic crisis — the business world is worried.  "If Congress does not act, states should expect to see reduced and delayed reimbursements for projects," the Chamber's explainer read. "Some states have decided not to start construction, due to the probable chance that there will be bills they can’t afford and unfinished projects without funding. By failing to improve transportation systems, the conditions of roads will not improve, let alone be maintained. Not only will the population be in danger, but the economic opportunities that highways provide will suffer, too." FREE AppDownload
Soccer fans don't just buy jerseys and shoes when the World Cup comes around. They buy balls. This chart from Bloomberg LP Chief Economist Michael McDonough tracks China export volume for footballs (soccer balls), basketballs, and volleyballs over time. The red dotted line indicates years when there is a World Cup. Ball export volumes spike every time summer hits the northern hemisphere. But not quite like World Cup summers. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Noah Berger Tight supply across the housing market is keeping would-be buyers and renters on the sidelines. Those in the market have been paying up for what they want. Renters have it particularly bad. Despite the construction boom in multi-family units, rent prices have continued to surge as demand outpaces supply. A recent Reis report featured by Calculated Risk states that the apartment vacancy rate has remained unchanged at multi-year low of 4.1% in the second quarter of 2014. The only time the vacancy rate was lower was in 1999 and 2000 during the dot.com boom-and-bust. Consequently, rent prices in the immediate future should remain high. Reis Senior Economist Severino writes that demand, nevertheless, remained resilient even as "asking and effective rates both grew by 0.8% during the second quarter". Even though the rent growth looks weak by historical standards — primarily because of the low vacancy rate — it continues to accelerate. ReisOn a more encouraging note, the report indicated that the vacancy rate drop is decelerating and that the construction market is trending upward. In the last twelve months the national vacancy rate "has declined by 20 basis points, slightly below the pace of the last few quarters".  Severino writes that this has been anticipated because demand growth is moderating a bit while supply growth is accelerating. Regarding the construction market, Q2 levels of construction showed a rebound after the "muted" construction activity in Q1 (which Severino attributes to the severe winter). Severino states that the market's overall trend is "clearly upward" and it continues to deliver "the highest level of new units since 1999 when the economy was growing at a far faster pace than it is today".  Renter demand has been stronger than buyer demand. Even though there are claims that mortgage lending is easing up, it actually remains much tighter than it was during the early 2000's. Additionally, people have not forgotten the pain of the housing bubble burst, and thus they are not comfortable with buying new homes. To see the full report on Calculated Risk click here. FREE AppDownload
Stock prices have been rallying faster than earnings are expected to grow. This has caused the S&amp;P 500's forward 12-month price/earnings ratio to climb to 15.7, a sign that valuations are getting less attractive. FactSet's John Butters offers some context: The current forward 12-month P/E ratio is above both the 5-year average (13.3) and the 10-year average (13.8). The P/E ratio has been above the 5-year average for more than a year (since January 2013), while it has been above the 10-year average for the past ten months (since August 2013). With the forward P/E ratio well above the 5-year and 10-year averages, one could argue that the index may now be overvalued. If you go further back, it's possible to make the opposite argument. On the other hand, the current forward 12-month P/E ratio is still (slightly) below the 15-year average (15.8). During the first two years of this time frame (1999 – 2001), the forward 12-month P/E ratio was consistently above 20.0, peaking at around 25.0 at various points in time. With the forward P/E ratio still below the 15-year average and not close to the higher P/E ratios recorded in the early years of this period, one could argue that the index may still be undervalued. Keep in mind, this ratio is based on analysts' forecasted earnings, which are often very inaccurate and could eventually prove to be to optimistic. Assuming the latter, stocks may actually be much more expensive than they appear. "It is interesting to note that the forward 12-month P/E ratio would be even higher if analysts were not projecting record-level EPS for the next four quarters," added Butters. "At this time, the Q4 2013 quarter has the record for the highest bottom-up EPS at $28.80. However, industry analysts are projecting EPS for each of the next four quarters to exceed this record amount. In aggregate, they are calling for 11.7% growth in EPS over the next four quarters (Q314 – Q215), compared to the previous four quarters (Q313 – Q214)." FactSet FREE AppDownload
AP PhotosRichard Mellon ScaifePITTSBURGH (AP) — Richard Mellon Scaife, the billionaire heir to the Mellon banking and oil fortune and a newspaper publisher who funded libertarian and conservative causes and various projects to discredit President Bill Clinton, has died. He was 82. Scaife died early Friday at his home, his newspaper, the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, reported. Scaife's death comes less than two months after he announced in a first-person, front-page story in his Pittsburgh Tribune-Review that he had an untreatable form of cancer. "Some who dislike me may rejoice at the news," wrote Scaife, who acknowledged making political and other enemies. "Naturally, I can't share their enthusiasm." He was the grand-nephew of Andrew Mellon, a banker and secretary of the Treasury who was involved with some of the biggest industrial companies of the early 20th century. Forbes magazine estimated Scaife's net worth in 2013 at $1.4 billion. The intensely private Scaife became widely known in the 1990s when first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton said her husband was being attacked by a "vast right-wing conspiracy." White House staffers and other supporters suggested Scaife was playing a central role in the attack.Several foundations controlled by Scaife gave millions of dollars to organizations run by critics of Clinton, including $1.7 million for a project at the conservative American Spectator magazine to dig up information about his role in the Whitewater real estate scandal. Scaife rarely gave interviews, but in a sit-down with George magazine editor John F. Kennedy Jr. in 1998, he called President Clinton "an embarrassment." In the interview, Scaife denied that his money helped support an effort to hurt the president, but he suggested Clinton might be linked to the deaths of dozens of administration officials and associates, including White House Deputy Counsel Vince Foster and onetime Commerce Secretary Ron Brown. Foster's death was determined to be a suicide; Brown died in a plane crash. Scaife also accused Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel whose investigation led to Clinton's impeachment in the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal, to be a "mole working for the Democrats." Scaife's stance toward the Clintons softened years later. In an interview published in early 2008, he told Vanity Fair magazine he and the former president had a "very pleasant" lunch the previous summer, and "I never met such a charismatic man in my whole life." Clinton gave Scaife an autographed copy of his book, and Scaife said he later sent $100,000 to the Clinton Global Initiative. (Scaife also said philandering "is something that Bill Clinton and I have in common.") Scaife's newspaper also endorsed Hillary Rodham Clinton's bid for president in 2008. Despite funding many causes dear to conservatives, Scaife was libertarian on many social issues. He supported Planned Parenthood and abortion rights, supported legalizing same-sex marriage and marijuana, and opposed the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Scaife bought the Tribune-Review in suburban Pittsburgh in 1969, using its editorial pages to trumpet his views. "I fell in love with newspapers as a boy, when my father bought me editions from around the country and abroad," Scaife told readers in the column announcing his cancer diagnosis. "The day I became a newspaper publisher, buying the Tribune-Review, remains one of the proudest, happiest moments of my life." Scaife was a longtime supporter of Republicans, backing presidential candidate Barry Goldwater in 1964 and heavily funding the 1968 campaign of Richard Nixon. In 1972, Scaife donated $1 million to Nixon in 334 separate checks to avoid paying gift taxes. After The Associated Press wrote a story about the money, Scaife insisted the Tribune-Review get rid of its AP service. "He ordered us to come in and take out the wire machines that night," Pat Minarcin, then AP's Pittsburgh bureau chief, told The Wall Street Journal for a 1995 story. Scaife also made headlines in recent years during a bitter divorce battle with Margaret Ritchie Battle Scaife, his second wife. The divorce was finalized in 2012. His first marriage, to Frances Gilmore Scaife, also ended in divorce. A Pittsburgh native, Richard Mellon Scaife was born in 1932, the son of Sarah Cordelia Mellon and Alan Magee Scaife. His mother was an alcoholic, and his upbringing has been described as cold and unhappy. He and his sister were raised by nannies. He went to Yale but was expelled during his freshman year after a he rolled a beer keg down a flight of stairs, breaking the legs of a classmate, according to a 1999 story in The Washington Post. Scaife admitted to becoming an alcoholic, and he had a reputation for having a fiery temper. He reportedly quit drinking in 1990 after going to the Betty Ford Clinic. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
NASA NAGS HEAD N.C. (Reuters) - The first hurricane of the Atlantic season has hit the North Carolina coast, a wet and windy spoiler of the July Fourth holiday for thousands of Americans as authorities ordered them to evacuate exposed areas. Hurricane Arthur crossed the coast near Cape Lookout at the southern end of North Carolina's Outer Banks at 11:15 p.m. EDT (0315 GMT) on Thursday, with maximum sustained winds of 100 miles per hour (160 kph). This earned it Category 2 status on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale of hurricane intensity, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. Moving northeast at 22 mph (35.6 kph), Arthur is the first hurricane to hit the United States since Superstorm Sandy devastated parts of New York and New Jersey in October 2012 and caused $70 billion in estimated damage. "It (Arthur) is moving through very quickly. That's good news because the wind and the rain and the surge is not going to stay over eastern North Carolina for a long time," said Chris Landsea, a meteorologist at the National Hurricane Center. "We're expecting the eye of the storm to move back over the Atlantic Ocean by morning," he said. As of early Friday morning Arthur's eye was moving near mainland Dare County and northern Pamlico Sound with hurricane conditions spreading northward along the Outer Banks, according to the NHC. More than 18,000 customers were without power near North Carolina's coast as Arthur rushed through early on Friday morning, according to utility Duke Energy. However, Arthur remained a medium-sized storm with hurricane force winds extending outward only up to 40 miles (65 km) and lesser tropical storm-force winds 150 miles (240 km). After scything through the Outer Banks, Arthur was expected to move northeastward over cooler water on Friday, diminishing in strength and posing little risk to the densely populated northeastern United States, forecasters said. Tropical storm warnings would be in effect throughout Friday for eastern Massachusetts, including Nantucket. Arthur would be around western Nova Scotia in Canada early on Saturday. The storm disrupted Independence Day festivities and fireworks for holiday beachgoers and others ordered off low-lying North Carolina barrier islands in its reaches. Tourists and some residents packed ferries and crowded the only highway off Ocracoke and Hatteras islands, where voluntary and mandatory evacuations were in effect, though some people stayed behind to look after their homes. North Carolina officials warned of life-threatening rip currents and a storm surge of up to 5 feet (1.5 meters) that could render the narrow 50-mile (80 km) Highway 12 connecting Hatteras Island to the mainland impassable. Part of the highway was washed out by storm surge for two months after Superstorm Sandy, forcing people to use ferries to reach the mainland. North Carolina was putting extra heavy equipment in place to remove sand and the overwash as soon as possible after Arthur passes. Hundreds of military and state police officials were deployed to help with storm preparation, safety and evacuation efforts. Farther north, the beach resort of Ocean City, Maryland, and more than a dozen communities in New Hampshire and Connecticut put off their July Fourth fireworks display to Saturday. (Additional reporting by Gene Cherry in Raleigh, David Adams in Miami, Ted Siefer in New Hampshire and Richard Weizel in Connecticut, editing by Mark Heinrich; Writing by Eric M. Johnson) FREE AppDownload
NASAHurricane Arthur from space.  Good morning! Here are the top headlines around the world right now.  1. Hurricane Arthur makes landfall on the North Carolina coast. The first hurricane of the Atlantic season slammed into the Outer Banks as Category 2 storm on Thursday night, forcing thousands of vacationers to scrap their July fourth holiday plans. Arthur is expected to lose strength as it moves up the northeastern U.S. on Friday, bringing rain to the East Coast. (Continue reading at Reuters) 2. Two people killed after an unfinished highway overpass collapses in Brazil. Twenty others were also hurt after a bridge collapsed in Belo Horizonte, where the first World Cup semi-final will be held next Tuesday. The front of a bus, two trucks, and car were crushed. The tournament has been plagued by construction delays and chaotic preparations. Brazil spent over $11 billion on the World Cup, but several stadiums and other infrastructure projects were incomplete at the start of the games. (Continue reading at The Financial Times) 3. New video appears to show the moment a murdered Palestinian teenager was kidnapped. Relatives of Mohamed Abu Khdeir, the 17-year-old believed to have been killed by Israeli extremists in retaliation for the killing of three Israeli teenagers, claim that CCTV footage shows the youth being snatched outside a mosque while sitting alone. The body of the teen will be buried on Friday. (Continue reading at The Guardian) 4. Former editor of News Corp.’s News of the World Andy Coulson jailed for 18 months. Coulson, 46, was sentenced on Friday for conspiring to hack phones. Former News of the World executive Rebekah Brooks was cleared of charges in the phone-hacking scandal last week. (Continue reading at BBC News) 5. The Dow Jones closed above 17,000 for the first time. This comes after a better-than-expected jobs report and is seen as a the result of a combination of "economic recovery and central bank support." The Dow rose 1.3%  to 17,068.26 before the market closed for the holiday weekend. (Continue reading at Bloomberg) 6. Google restores "forgotten" search links after widespread criticism. After a European Union ruling in May that gave citizens the "right to be forgotten" by removing web links to articles on Google, the tech giant has made articles that were removed from The Guardian's website earlier this week searchable again. The change comes after public complaints from the newspaper. (Continue reading at NBCNews.com) 7. Putin sends Obama an Independence Day message. In a statement published on the Kremlin website on Friday to the U.S. president, Russian President Vladamir Putin said he hoped that the two countries could "successfully develop relations on pragmatic and equal grounds." Tensions between the U.S. and Russia continue to run high over the crisis in Ukraine. (Continue reading at the Associated Press) 8. The Iraq army forces Islamist rebels out of Saddam Hussein's home village.  The victory is part of an effort to prevent the jihadist militant group, Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham, from continuing to overtake territories in Iraq and Syria. (Continue reading at Reuters) 9. Experts will attempt to tow away the wrecked Costa Concordia cruise liner within 10 days. The ship, which sunk off the Italian coast in 2012, was righted last September and experts have been waiting for calm summer weather to remove the vessel. (Continue reading at The Independent) 10. The Pope gives his blessing to exorcists in the Catholic church. The Vatican officially recognized the International Association of Exorcists. The practice of saving those believed to be possessed by demons is now recognized under canon law. (Continue reading at Agence-France-Press) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe spring and summer housing market data has for the most part been coming in strong, prompting talk of a snapback after a bleak winter. Existing home sales, new home sales, pending home sales, and homebuilder confidence are all on an upswing. But, this past week we got a data point that prompted Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics to write: "Housing finally falters." Construction spending climbed just 0.1% in May. A breakdown showed that private residential construction was down 1.5% on the month, albeit up 7.5% on the year. "The details show new housing construction, ex-home improvement, fell 1.2% in May, the first outright decline since Sep 11," he wrote. "New housing construction has been running ahead of the pace implied  by new home sales so we have been waiting for this decline for some time." This comes with continued weakness in mortgage demand. While there appears to be enough evidence of a snap back to allay Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen's concerns about the housing market posing a risk to the U.S. economic recovery, this construction report — which some economists warn can be very volatile from month-to-month — does put a bit of a dampener on all the enthusiasm. FREE AppDownload
In honor of the Fourth of July, here are 27 great things about America. Weber Brewer's Association PWC Forbes BrandZ Alexa AEI/Mark Perry AEI/Mark Perry BP EIA Mark Perry/AEI Bloomberg Mark Perry/AEI Pew OECD via Willisms World Climate Report EIA BCG IMF Wikipedia Wikipedia The Economist World Bank via Google Wikipedia Wikipedia Wikipedia FREE AppDownload
