AP Photo/Neal UlevichHSBC China manufacturing PMI came in at 49.4 in May. This was below the flash reading of 49.7, but up from a reading of 48.1 in April. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. New export orders however climbed to a 49-month high of 53.2 and were in expansionary territory. "Data suggested that muted domestic demand hindered overall new work wins, as new export orders rose at the fastest rate since April 2010," according to the press release.  Meanwhile, the employment sub-index continued to decline and has now been falling since November 2013. "The final PMI reading for May confirmed that the economy is stabilizing, but it is too early to say that it has bottomed out, particularly in light of a weaker property sector," Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief China economist said in a press release.  "The lack of a sustainable growth momentum warrants stronger policy support. We expect both monetary and fiscal policy to be loosened gradually over the coming months." Here's a look at the trajectory of HSBC China PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC The official PMI report showed manufacturing hit a five-month high of 50.8 in May. Meanwhile, China's service sector PMI climbed to 55.5 in May showing some signs of stabilization. Beijing announced a mini-stimulus to help stabilize growth. And on May 30, the State Council announced additional policy easing measures. This is expected to have helped business sentiment. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
NRELYou'd think expanding solar energy in Arizona, the state with the country's highest level of solar insolation, would be a breeze.  But last year, the state's Department of Revenue ruled that existing statutes suggest homeowners who install solar panels on their roofs are subject to a $140 surcharge on their property taxes.  Last month, the department further clarified that only homeowners who lease panels would face the tax — little comfort to those taking part in the fastest-growing segment of residential solar installations.    What prompted that first ruling remains unclear to this day. Whatever its origins, it is still in place.  Today, TUSK, a pro-renewables conservative group whose members include SolarCity and SunRun, launched its latest salvo in a campaign to reverse the department's interpretation, releasing an ad that calls on Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer to override the department's ruling. The coalition also announced last week that there will be a rally at the state capitol to protest the interpretation.  "It's a terrible tax for Arizona and a political gift for the Democrats," Barry Goldwater Jr., the head of TUSK, says in the ad. A recent TUSK-sponsored poll found 77% of Arizonans would be less likely to vote for an election candidate if they proposed ending support for solar. The utility industry's opposition to solar has been well documented, but it seems to have grown most intense in Arizona, where the solar industry has accused the chairman of the state's electric utility, Don Brandt, of personally lobbying in favor of a bill that would codify the department's interpretation into law. The group that owns the utility spent more than $3 million last year on a campaign to peel back solar subsidies. The utility argues non-solar customers are hurt by the incentives. We just wrote about how Barclays believes it's already too late for utility companies to achieve anything more than short-term speedbumps to solar adoption. "While they may slow the penetration of solar, any relief they offer utilities is likely to be short lived," lead author YC Koh wrote in the firm's note. "In Arizona, the fee increases the cost of a rooftop solar installation about 5%. With the costs of solar installations falling about 10% per year, we expect the pace of installations to recover before the end of 2014." Apparently, utilities are trying anyway.  Here's the ad:   FREE AppDownload
A lot of Wall Street economists found themselves rewriting and resending their reactions to today's ISM manufacturing report after ISM corrected its numbers twice over the period of two and a half hours. Many of the notes that crossed the Business Insider Markets desk were completely rewritten. And many economists took jabs at ISM. Wells Fargo's John Silvia, however, was a bit more forgiving. "That’s why pencils have erasers," he said. Silvia circulated a note that looked like an edited draft in MS Word. "In our collective memory we can think of few instances where the wrong number hits the wire; but it can happen from time to time," wrote Silvia. "In the following paragraphs we reprint text from our original report with corrections to the new numbers. Old text is crossed out like this and new text reflecting the third set of numbers is in blue italics like this." Cute. Check it out: Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
By Jimmy Lovaas SEATTLE (Reuters) - The Seattle city council voted unanimously on Monday to approve a sharp increase in the city's minimum wage to $15 an hour over the next seven years, marking the first time a major U.S. city has committed to such a high base level of pay. A business group immediately announced plans to sue to try to prevent the wage increase from going into effect. Under the terms of the plan, businesses with fewer than 500 workers must raise wages to the $15 mark in the next seven years, an increase of more than 60 percent from Seattle's current minimum wage of $9.32 an hour.    Larger businesses must meet that level within three years, or four if they provide health insurance. "We have worked alongside organized labor in Seattle who have campaigned vigorously for $15 (an hour)," said socialist council member Kshama Sawant, a supporter of the measure. "We forced the establishment to lift the wages of 100,000 low-wage workers in Seattle, to transfer $3 billion from business to workers at the bottom of the pay scale over the next 10 years. We did it. Workers did it," Sawant said. The plan is a product of a committee convened by Seattle Mayor Ed Murray, including labor and business leaders, that spent 16 weeks negotiating a compromise deal. The long lead-in time for implementation of the Seattle wage measure appears in part a compromise to placate businesses that had wanted to count tips and employer contributions for healthcare benefits toward the wage target. The International Franchise Association, a Washington, D.C.- based trade organization, said it would sue to stop the wage increase from taking effect, calling it unfair to businesses run as franchises. “The Seattle City Council and Mayor Murray’s plan would force the 600 franchisees in Seattle, which own 1,700 franchise locations employing 19,000 workers, to adopt the full $15 minimum wage in 3 years, while most other small business owners would have seven years to adopt the $15 wage,” the group's president, Steve Caldeira, said in a statement. “These hundreds of franchise small business owners are being punished simply because they chose to operate as franchisees. Decades of legal precedent have held that franchise businesses are independently owned businesses and are not operated by the brand’s corporate headquarters.” Seattle is among several cities leading the way in a national push by Democrats to raise minimum wages. The Seattle suburb of SeaTac approved an initiative last year enacting a $15 minimum wage for many workers, although airport employees were later excluded. President Barack Obama has pushed Congress to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour from $7.25, but has failed to win the backing of the Republican-controlled U.S. House of Representatives. Proposals to raise the minimum wage have been considered in nearly three dozen states in 2014, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.   (Reporting by Jimmy Lovaas; Writing by Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Jim Loney and Peter Cooney) FREE AppDownload
Good morning, and welcome to Tuesday! Here’s what you need to know. 1. ISM data disaster. In an extraordinary sequence of events, the Institute for Supply Management was forced to correct the data for its May manufacturing report, an important economic data point in the US, twice overnight. Initially it was 53.2 – below expectations – and the markets sold off a bit. Then ISM’s Brad Holcomb told Bloomberg the number should be 56.0 not 53.2 – which would be a big beat on the 55.4 expected. Guess what? Wrong again! Almost three hours after the initial release, ISM corrected their data one more time, bringing the final reading to 55.4. Here’s a chart showing how it played out: 2. Markets are flat. In the end, the US markets finished the day flat with the Dow up 26 points to 16,743.6 (+0.1%), the S&amp;P up just a point and the Nasdaq down 0.1%. The Nikkei had a huge day yesterday, up more than 2% for the session, amid signs the Chinese economy is stabilising. The ASX staged a late rally yesterday and futures are pointing to a slight rise on the open. 3. The global data week. Today in the region we get China’s non-manufacturing PMI and the HSBC manufacturing PMI for May – both important numbers. With Germany being the critical part of the continental European economy, there was some concern at data showing deflation in some regions overnight. Tonight we get Eurozone CPI, with the inflation outlook a critical backdrop to the ECB’s rates announcement tomorrow night. 4. Retail sales today. Everyone’s looking to the Australian consumer at the moment for an indication on whether the collapse in consumer confidence that started in mid-April – around budget leaks – might have turned into something more than just a feeling or a mood. Today we get retail sales data for April, which takes in the Easter period but also wouldn’t have accounted for the budget leaks, the most austere of which started in the middle of the month. Still, it’s going to be fascinating. A Bloomberg survey of economists last week found a median expectation of a 0.3% rise. So that’s the number to look for at 11.30am AEST. 5. Here comes the RBA. The board of the Reserve Bank of Australia meets this morning and will announce its monthly cash rate decision at 2.30pm AEST. There’s no change expected to the current 2.5%, but the market will, as usual, be looking carefully for any changes in the statement for signs on the RBA’s view of the state of the economy – especially any commentary on the impact of the federal budget – and the value of the dollar. 6. Swiftkey for your iPhone. Finally, Apple is allowing integration of third-party keyboards into its iOS system for mobile devices. The swiping functions on the apps, like Swiftkey and Swype, save you masses of keystrokes and it also predicts what you’re going to type next. It’s the coolest thing on Android phones (I have it on my GS4 and love it) and an important move in what could be a defining year of product releases for Apple. 7. Origin equity raising. The big mover in the Australian market yesterday was Karoon Gas, whose shares rose more than 40% after it announced the sale of Browse basin permits to Origin Energy for around $800 million. Origin announced it would be engaging in a $20 million equity raising, with a $1 billion rights issue. The investment banks will be lining up. 8. Outsourcing everything. An Australian startup founder used Freelancer.com to outsource the production of his Neknomination video – an internet challenge in which people need to down a beer on camera – to two guys in Mexico. Sure, it had amusing results, but it’s also a great example of how all sorts of tasks are being outsourced on digital platforms. 9. Incredible China. 30 million people in China live in caves, and the Datang District, known as “sock city”, makes 8 billion pairs of socks a year. These and 28 more mind-blowing facts about what will soon be the world’s largest economy are here. (See also, item 10 below.) 10. Chinese guys built this Batmobile. And not just any Batmobile, Christian Bale’s Tumbler – for about $11,000. Bat fan Li Weilei is a 26-year-old prop maker who enlisted four of his mates and a heap of scrap metal to make the Tumbler. Sadly, it’s a replica. Happily, it’s generating up to $11,000 a month as local business owners line up to rent it for $1600 a day. Bonus item: Someone put a GoPro in a running dishwasher. Go on, I dare you not to look:    This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Dividend Stocks Are The Worst Performers When Interest Rates Rise (Morningstar)  After studying dividend stocks and interest rates between 1927 and 2013, Timothy Strauts at Morningstar found in that time frame high-dividend stocks had the highest returns of all other equities. "But in the periods of rising interest rates they actually were the worst-performing category, and actually companies that didn't pay a dividend outperformed by a substantial margin," Strauts writes. "Although dividend stocks may be a great investment for the long term, if rates rise quickly they may perform poorly." How To Pick Social Impact Investments For Your Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  There are four key steps to finding social impact investments — investing that has a social impact and has a financial returns — that work for clients writes Christina Alfonso, founder of Madeira Global in a new WSJ column.1. "Create an investment mandate" — This involves "helping a client refine their geographic and industry preferences for investments, their risk profile, and their financial and social expectations."2. Search for the right investments — "identify suitable investment opportunities and have a conversation with the client about whether it is something they want to pursue."3. Figure out how to deploy capital — "Clients can invest by way of debt, equity, impact funds, and even funds of funds. While ultra-high-net-worth clients tend to want to make direct deals, as the marketplace for social-impact investing expands, we're seeing more opportunities for investors of different economic backgrounds."4. "Actively manage the impact investments" — "Ten years down the line, clients should be able to look back and see what the financial and social impact of their investment has been." PIMCO Experienced Its 13th Straight Month Of Outflows (Business Insider)  PIMCO's Total Return Fund, managed by Bill Gross saw a new outflow of $4.29 billion in May, according to the latest data from Morningstar. This is the 13th consecutive month of new outflows bringing the total to $59.55 billion. The bond fund has been in the spotlight in part because of its performance but also because of  CEO Mohamed El-Erian's sudden exit. Jim Rowley Doesn't Get The Claims That The Agg Isn't A Good Bond Index Because It Overweights U.S. Treasuries (Vanguard) Recently, some have criticized the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index for having too heavy a weighting of U.S. government bonds. "The argument is that too much U.S. government bond exposure leads to lower yields, thus hurting investors," writes Jim Rowley, senior investment analyst in Vanguard Investment Strategy Group (the Agg).  "Regardless of how the sectors are officially classified, market participants determine the amount of compensation they demand for credit and prepayment risk in the form of 'spread,'" writes Crowley. The spread, as Crowley charts it, shows the difference between the yield-to-worst of the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and the yield-to-worst of the Barclays U.S. Treasury Index. "Yes, the spread fluctuates, and, yes, there was a big spike at the time of the global financial crisis. However, the current amount of spread seems to be around the long-term trend, maybe, actually, a bit higher," Crowley writes. "As Vanguard has noted before, investment-grade¹ bonds remain a good source of diversification. Low-cost index funds and ETFs that track the Agg are a great way to access that exposure. As for the notion that the Agg is vastly different today than it was in the past? I just don’t get it." Wells Fargo Gets $1.5 Billion Team From JPMorgan (Investment News) John Bueno, John Raetz, and Noah Robinson, who together managed $1.5 billion in client assets at JPMorgan Private Client Service Group, are leaving for Wells Fargo Advisors, reports Alessandra Malito at Investment News. "We moved because there was a lot of changes occurring at our former employer, and a lot of those changes weren't to the benefit of our clients or us as employees," Bueno told Malito. FREE AppDownload
HBarrison/FlickrThe nine-story penthouse at the iconic Woolworth Building in Lower Manhattan is expected to hit the market for a record $110 million. The new unit is one of 34 apartments being developed by Alchemy Properties, with prices ranging from $3.5 million for a 1,200-square-foot apartment to the nearly 9,000-square-foot penthouse that will take up floors 50 to 58. The development is particularly exciting since the famous building hasn’t undergone a major renovation since the 1970s. Originally built in 1913, the Woolworth Building has outlived its namesake (The Woolworth Company went out of business in 1997) and housed the Irving National Exchange Bank, Columbia Records, the Witkoff Group, and many others. Photographer Martin Doudoroff recently got a rare glimpse inside the building's opulent lobby (visitors can also pay $15-$45 for a tour) and shared his snapshots of the atrium's  neo-Gothic details. The building was completed in 1913 by architect Cass Gilbert, who was also responsible for the Minnesota State Capitol building, the Detroit Public Library, and the United States Supreme Court building.Photography by Martin DoudoroffThe tower was commissioned by Frank W. Woolworth, the CEO of the F.W. Woolworth Company and owner of over 300 5- and 10-cent stores across the U.S., Canada, and England. He famously paid the $13.5 million in cash.Photography by Martin DoudoroffThe lobby looks like a Romanesque Cathedral, with mosaics, gilded details, and a marble stairway. It was even nicknamed "the Cathedral of Commerce.”Photography by Martin DoudoroffOnce the tallest skyscraper in the world, the Woolworth Building is 792 feet tall, taking up a full city block on Broadway between Park Place and Barclay Street in lower Manhattan.Photography by Martin DoudoroffThe Woolworth Building in numbers: 60 floors, 15 acres of floor space, 3,000 windows, 24,000 tons of steel, 48 miles of plumbing, 17 million bricks, and 7,500 tons of terra cotta.Photography by Martin DoudoroffThe lobby's gorgeous stained glass ceiling features important dates from the Woolworth company's history.Photography by Martin DoudoroffWhen it was first completed, the building's major selling point was its amenities. The building had a shopping arcade, health club, doctor's office, barber shop, and restaurant, as well as high-speed, innovative elevators.Photography by Martin DoudoroffThere was also famously an indoor pool and Turkish bath in the basement. The pool was drained in 1999 to make way for a larger retail space, but the long-abandoned pool may be restored for luxury tenants.Courtesy of joevare/FlickrThere are a lot of gorgeous small details in the lobby, likes these carved faces and figures. Many of these faces were of the real workers who toiled on the building, including architect Cass Gilbert and Frank W. Woolworth.Photography by Martin DoudoroffHere's another example.Photography by Martin DoudoroffThe Woolworth Building was officially named a National Historic Landmark in 1966 and a New York City Landmark in 1983. It is still one of the 50 tallest buildings in the United States as well as one of the 20 tallest in NYC.MD111/Flickr FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ulises RodriguezHank Gaskell surfs during the final of the Association of Surfing Professionals 3-Star Copa Quiksilver El SalvadorSurfing apparel company Quiksilver just reported results for its fiscal second quarter and the company's stock is down about 30% after hours. The company reported a quarterly net loss, excluding certain items, of $0.15 per share, steeper than the $0.02 loss that had been expected by analysts, according to data from Yahoo Finance.  Quiksilver's sales also came in lite, with revenue totaling $408 million, well below expectations for $448.6 million. Sales for the company's namesake label fell 7% for the quarter.  The company also gave a less-than-stellar outlook, saying it expects recent sales trends to continue into the second half of the year, and saying it now expects to become profitable at the end of fiscal 2017. The company just completed the second quarter of its 2014 fiscal year. It's been an ugly quarter for retailers, as we've chronicled in part here and here.  FREE AppDownload
Turns out you can't have your "pi," and eat it too. In January 2014, a Brooklyn artist named Paul Ingrisano trademarked the 3,000-year old mathematical symbol "p" followed by a period, and is actively protecting his mark, Wired's Kevin Poulsen reports. Ingrisano, who uses the design on shirts he sells through his company, PI Productions Corp., reportedly discovered that the custom t-shirt printing site Zazzle was selling merchandise featuring the pi symbol, and had an attorney send a cease-and-desist letter to the site (see below).  Zazzle initially complied with the request by banning thousands of "pi"-related garments from its shop, but reversed course after receiving complaints, according to Wired. Sellers in Zazzle's online forum were understandably infuriated by the temporary removal of their merchandise. One user wrote, "Again, please explain how one person's trademark which incorporates a generic, untrademarked mathematical symbol can be justification to remove all designs using this generic symbol?" "I am enraged! Here many of us are trying to spread the mathematical truth ... and some lunatic thinks he owns part of the Greek language and its usage as part of the language of the universe!" another wrote. According to Wired, Ingrisano and his lawyer are planning their next move. Zazzle Pi Trademark Letter  FREE AppDownload
BIIBitcoin's greatest potential is as a global payments network, to power transactions that are extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless, and easily flow across national borders. In a recent report from BI Intelligence, Business Insider's paid research service, we looked into all the reasons why Bitcoin shows promise as a technology that may one day threaten other forms of payment, including cash, credit cards, and money transfers.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Consider:  In full, the report: For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial. BII  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSKrispy Kreme doughnutsKrispy Kreme is out with its first quarter earnings report, and the stock is getting crushed, falling as much as 10% in the after hours. For the quarter, Krispy Kreme's profit and sales both missed expectations.  Krispy Kreme reported profit of $0.14 per share, short of the $0.23 analysts were expecting, according to data from Yahoo Finance.  In the first quarter, Krispy Kreme's revenue grew 0.8% to $121.58 million on domestic same-store sales that rose 2.3%.  The doughnut and coffee shop also cut its full year earnings outlook. Krispy Kreme now expects to earn $0.69 to $0.74 per share, down from expectations for earnings of $0.73 to $0.79.  In its earnings press release, Krispy Kreme's executive chairman James Morgan said: "[S]evere winter weather adversely affected both on-premises and wholesale sales throughout our Company store base in the Southeast, and contributed to a 1.5% decline in same store sales at Company shops against a very tough 12.2% same store sales gain in the first quarter last year. Notwithstanding the increase in first quarter earnings, we are revising our full-year outlook but still projecting a double-digit increase in adjusted earnings per share. The change reflects, among other things, our first quarter performance, higher than anticipated investment in a new enterprise resource planning system and higher costs than we had planned associated with executive management succession." The company announced in May that Morgan would transition out of the CEO role to be succeeded by Anthony "Tony" Thompson, effective June 1. This is the second time in three quarters that the stock has fallen sharply following an earnings report. In December, Krispy Kreme shares lost more than 15% after giving an full-year outlook that disappointed.  Its been a wild ride for Krispy Kreme investors since the start of 2013. Excluding today's after hours losses, Krispy Kreme shares have roughly doubled since the start of 2013. But since closing north of $26 in November 2013, the stock is down more than 30%. In after hours trade, Krispy Kreme shares are trading just above $17.  FREE AppDownload
Morningstar, Business InsiderPIMCO flagship Total Return Fund saw another month of net outflows. According to new data from Morningstar, the fund managed by Bill Gross saw net outflows of around $4.29 billion in May. That's the 13th straight month of net outflows for a cumulative total amount of $59.55 billion. PIMCO has attracted a lot of attention in recent months, largely due to the unexpected departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian and revelations of Co-CIO Gross's unorthodox management style. For investors, however, the top concern continues to be performance. On this end, PIMCO delivered in May. According to a spokesperson for PIMCO, the Total Return Fund beat 79% of its competitors. Outflows are not an industry-wide phenomenon. Competitor DoubleLine Funds, led by other bond king Jeff Gundlach, saw $485 million in net inflows in May into its flagship Total Return Fund. With performance improving and the bond market seeing a bit of bid lately, maybe Gross's fund will finally see flows turn around. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipIt looks like Apple has updated its app developer guidelines today to allow for Bitcoin apps. The new clause under section 11.17, which was flagged by folks on Twitter like investor Bill Lee today, reads: Apps may facilitate transmission of approved virtual currencies provided that they do so in compliance with all state and federal laws for the territories in which the app functions. That sounds like Bitcoin! Apple had previously banned developers from creating Bitcoin apps for the App Store. Back in February, Apple pulled a popular Bitcoin app from the store. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arko Datta This morning, the Institute for Supply Management, or ISM, issued its latest May manufacturing report.  And then it had to correct itself. And then it had to correct itself a second time. ISM is a supply management industry group, known in the business world for its monthly data reports.  ISM's reports include the Report on Business and the Manufacturing and Non-Manufacturing data reports. The ISM manufacturing report has data from 18 manufacturing industries, including furniture, transportation equipment, chemical products and wood products, among others. The report is made up of 10 subindexes, which include prices paid, production, new orders, backlog, supplier deliveries, inventories, customer inventories, employment, new export orders, and imports. In a statement, ISM said the errant report was due to a software error that applied the wrong seasonal adjustment to the data. Following the initial 9:55 a.m. EDT report of a 53.2 reading, the markets sold off a bit because that reading was weaker than expected. But at 10:27 a.m. EDT, analyst firm Stone &amp; McCarthy on Twitter said it believed ISM had made a mistake with its data and that the headline reading should be 55.4, not 53.2. Specifically, Stone &amp; McCarthy claimed that the ISM had screwed up its seasonal adjustments, incorrectly applying the April formula to May data. Then at 11:27 a.m. EDT, Bloomberg's Vonnie Quinn reported that ISM's Brad Holcomb said ISM was 56.0, not 53.2.  And then at 12:26 p.m. EDT, ISM corrected their data for a final time, bringing the final reading to 55.4, in line with what the firm had postulated was the correct reading nearly two hours earlier.  Business Insider's Andy Kiersz captured the day's market action following the data releases in chart form: Google Finance The ISM reports are part of a subset of economic-data reports based on anecdotal surveys, which include NFIB's Small Business Optimism Index and The University of Michigan's Consumer Confidence report, and the Federal Reserve's Beige Book.  Following the second revision to ISM's May manufacturing index to a reading of 55.4, Wall Street economists are chiming in and doing a little soul searching. Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, wondered if this controversy should prompt us to think about how we interpret anecdotal information on the economy (emphasis ours): "Another revision, the only question is whether two wrongs make a right? 53.2, 56.0, now 55.4. What the heck, ISM did not fall 1.7 points in May to 53.2, it increased 0.5 points to 55.4. A big 2.2 point swing. Great. ISM made a mistake, another reason not to trust anecdotal information on the economy. They cannot tabulate the survey results correctly and apply the right seasonal adjustment factor. ISM manufacturing is more unreal than ever, more unreal than actual dollar and cents counting of orders, production employment. It makes you wonder if some of these errors are sometimes not caught." At Pantheon Macroeconomics, Ian Shepherdson said, "Amateur hour at the ISM strikes again."  But despite discussion surrounding the realease, and rerelease of the data itself, economists saw the final reading as a positive indicator for the economy. Cooper Howes at Barclays said: "After releasing corrections for these factors, however, the ISM reported that the index actually showed a modest rise to 55.4 that was in line with our forecast and the consensus (both 55.5). Looking at the underlying detail, the new orders (56.9, previous: 55.1) and production (61.0, previous: 55.7) indices now show increases after using the appropriate seasonal factors… Overall, this revision puts the index more in line with our view of a rebound in activity in the second quarter and more closely matches the signal from the May reading of the Markit manufacturing PMI." Overall, economists see the employment subindex as the only reading in this report that isn't great. The employment subindex fell to 52.8 in May from a 54.7 reading in April.  Last week, U.S. GDP was revised to show the economy shrank an estimated 1% in the first quarter.  In his note on the ISM report, Rupkey said this report means, "a 3%-plus GDP number is in the bag." Paul Ashworth at Capital Economics said the revised headline reading is consistent with GDP growth just below 3% annualized.  And this Friday's May jobs report will be closely watched as an indicator of whether the economy has really shaken off the winter and returned to growth. It's been quite a day for economic data, and the busy week is only getting started. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriA child runs past a grand piano that has been left by the East River underneath the Brooklyn Bridge, in the Manhattan borough of New York May 31, 2014.All eyes were on the monthly manufacturing reports. And then one data provider made an error. Actually, two errors. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
APIn this Oct. 17, 2010 file photo, Los Angeles Clippers team owner Donald Sterling watches his team play in Los Angeles.Embattled business magnate Donald Sterling is suing the NBA for a whopping $1 billion for allegedly "forcing" him to sell the Los Angeles Clippers, but his lawsuit has one major flaw. Sterling will struggle to prove he was been damaged by the sale now that former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer has offered to buy the Clippers for $2 billion, which is significantly more than its recently projected value, two experts in sports law told me. Sterling filed the suit in federal court on Friday, accusing the NBA of breaking antitrust law, violating his constitutional rights, conversion (which means the NBA allegedly took his property away from him), and breach of contract. He filed the suit because the league fined him $2.5 million and tried to terminate his ownership of the team after the gossip site TMZ published an audio tape with him making racist comments. In order to succeed in a civil suit like Sterling's, a plaintiff has to prove he's been injured by the defendant and therefore entitled to monetary damages. "The Achilles heel with all of these claims is that Sterling will have a nearly impossible time proving damages," law professor and sports business expert Marc Edelman told me. That's because the same day he filed his suit, the NBA announced a deal with Sterling's estranged wife, Shelly Sterling, to allow her to sell the Clippers to Ballmer. The Sterlings own the team together through the Sterling Family Trust, so he stands to make a lot of money from the deal. Given how much he paid for the team in 1981, Sterling will get a 15,900% return on the sale, as The New York Times reported. "The real significant issue is, how has he been harmed, given that the sale price is $2 billion, almost four times what any other franchise has sold for," Matt Mitten, director of the National Sports Law Institute at Marquette University, told me. While the damages issue will probably doom Sterling's suit, the case does have some strengths. Sterling says the NBA violated his rights under the California constitution because it based its termination proceedings against him on a recording that his ex-girlfriend illegally made of him asking her not to bring black people to his games. California law specifies that no evidence obtained from an illegally recorded telephone conversation can be used in any "judicial, administrative, legislative, or other proceeding." The NBA's termination proceeding could arguably fit into that last category. If damages weren't an issue, Sterling could also make a good argument that the NBA violated its contract with him "given the ambiguity in the language of the league constitution about what grounds would lead to the termination of an owner," Marc Edelman told me. For its part, the NBA says the lawsuit is "entirely baseless." Here's what NBA Executive Vice President and General Counsel Rick Buchanan said in a statement quoted by the Wall Street Journal: Among other infirmities, there was no ‘forced sale’ of his team by the NBA—which means his antitrust and conversion claims are completely invalid. Since it was his wife Shelly Sterling, and not the NBA, that has entered into an agreement to sell the Clippers, Mr. Sterling is complaining about a set of facts that doesn’t even exist. Indeed, Mitten, the sports law professor, said Sterling may have been better off suing his wife. "One of the questions I have is whether he sued the appropriate defendant," Mitten said. "It is his wife who entered into the agreement, and my question is whether she had the authority to do so." FREE AppDownload
WWDCApple CEO Tim Cook at today's event.Apple held a two-hour keynote today to kick off its weeklong developers conference, WWDC. The big stories: its operating systems for Mac, iPhone, and iPad are getting updates.  There's a new version Mac OS X, the operating system for Macs. It's called Yosemite and features a refined look similar to the colorful design found in iOS 7 for the iPhone. It also has an update to the search function Spotlight that lets you search the internet, Wikipedia, movie times, and more. You can activate Spotlight by typing while on desktop. Mac OS X is available in beta starting today. The final version will be ready for everyone in the fall. Apple is giving it away as a free download for Macs. Click here for a full breakdown of the new features in Yosemite &gt;&gt; iOS 8 will be the new version of the operating system for iPhones and iPads. It's not a radical upgrade, but there are several useful new features. For example, you'll be able to respond to incoming notifications like text messages without having to exit the app you're using.  Apple will let developers create widgets — tiny programs that update in real time — to the notification center that drops down from the top of your screen.  Click here for a full breakdown of the new features in iOS 8 &gt;&gt; Other highlights from today: Apple has a new online file-storage service called iCloud Drive. It's very similar to Dropbox, and lets you store files virtually from your iPhone, iPad, Mac, or even your PC.  There's also a new feature that lets your iOS and Mac devices talk to each other called Handoff. For example, you can work on a document on your Mac and pick up where you left off on your iPhone or iPad. That's barely scratching the service of what Apple unveiled during the two-hour keynote. So, in sum, Apple announced: You can also check out the rest of the WDDC news and analysis here: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin Jairaj-USA TODAY SportsDallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban shoots baskets before a Mavericks game.Mark Cuban, tech mogul and owner of the Dallas Mavericks, has weighed in on reports that Phil Mickelson, Carl Icahn and Billy Walters are facing an insider trading investigation.  In 2013, Cuban beat an insider trading case that was brought against him by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Following the acquittal, Cuban appeared on CNBC and said the case was "personal." The whole interview is really worth watching, as Cuban gives his thoughts on the various failings of the SEC, namely saying that they use "lawyer-think," bringing more and more cases but failing to build investor confidence, which he says is the SEC's tasks of ensuring fair markets and building investor confidence. This morning, Cuban tweeted out some of his thoughts on the reports involving Mickelson, Icahn and Walters. Carl Icahn has never met or spoken to Phil Mickelson, yet he is in the middle of a media firestorm re Insider Trading. #headlineporn Nov 2008 I found out I was being charged w Insider Trading by turning on @cnbc. ESPN couldn't cover it enough. They had it 100% Wrong. I went to a Mavs gm shortly thereafter and heard chants of "Insider Trading" the process matters. Ethics matter. #headlineporn doesn't. I looked at the bus that people were throwing me under and it had every major media logo on it. When it came time for my trial,where they could get all the facts,they were missing. When I won unanimously in a few hours it was a crawl. Cuban then had some thoughts for Jeff Schultz, sports blogger for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, after Schultz tweeted: Of course what @mcuban ignores is the core of NYT story is true: Feds are looking into series of trades. Period. http://t.co/qv1AdWeRmV . @JeffSchultzAJC how would you even know what authorities are looking into? U have something u haven't published? . @JeffSchultzAJC explain how a series of well timed trades is illegal? And explain why they haven't pressed charges. #headlineporn . @JeffSchultzAJC they said my trades were well timed as well. They also ignored all the facts surrounding the trade Tom Rotunno, a newsdesk manager at CNBC, also got into the fray after tweeting a link to a CNBC story that said Cuban's tweets were slamming media coverage of the Mickelson story. .@TomRotunno@CNBC funny. I never said media should back off #headlineporn#youcanthelpyourself This afternoon, Cuban concluded his thoughts, and deftly noted how high-profile legal cases are tried in two courts: the legal court and the court of public opinion.  Until you have woken up to headlines accusing you of wrong doing by the government or others you have no idea how Important due process is ESPN says Mickelson is scheduled to play this weekend at the St. Jude Classic in Memphis before heading to the U.S. Open at Pinehurst in North Carolina on June 12. At these events, Mickelson will be chided by some fans and supported by others.   But as Cuban knows, due process means that what we think about Mickelson, as well as Icahn and Walters, right now doesn't really matter. Which is better for everybody.  FREE AppDownload
Increasing numbers of young Americans are heading to college, where they're racking up debt to pay for rapidly increasing tuition costs. Those graduating are being confronted by a challenging job market, which eventually leads many to just drop out of the labor force altogether. This in turn has led to an increasing delinquency rate for student-loan borrowers. So it's no surprise that young people are increasingly opting, perhaps out of necessity, to live at home with their parents. In his latest monthly chart book, Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok tracks the rise of 18- to 34-years-olds currently in this position. And there are a lot. Slok sees this as a bullish force to come in the housing market, characterized by a homeownership rate at a 19-year low. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Jaclyn BouchardJaclyn Bouchard sent us her story about her semester at sea.Are you doing something incredible this summer? Maybe you're volunteering in a far away place, studying at a school abroad, or spending your 3 months off traveling the world. We want to hear about it for Business Insider's education section.  We're looking for great stories about the interesting and unique stuff you're doing this summer. For inspiration, check out these photos of what it's like to do a semester at sea, and an ex-banker's sabbatical trip around Asia. If you think your summer plans fit what we're looking for please document it and take lots of photos. Then shoot us an email at colleges@businessinsider.com. Give us a brief summary of your experience and attach a photo or two. If we're interested in hearing more, we'll follow up. FREE AppDownload
Capital EconomicsIn this housing recovery, we've seen single-family home construction lag the boom in multi-family (apartment) building construction. This has been driving America's shifting preference toward renting over buying. This of course has implications on the economy at large. "Building a new single-family home adds more to the economy than the recent alternatives of building apartments or remodeling," writes Maury Harris at UBS. According to Harris, each single-family home adds about 3 jobs, and that is about 2.5 times the jobs that an apartment unit in a multi-family apartment building creates. "The absolute job formation associated with likely home and apartment building this year is not trivial," writes Harris. "Using job creation multipliers provided by the National Association of Home Builders, last year, the 618,000 single-family starts created 1,806,000 jobs and 307,000 multifamily starts created 347,000 jobs for a total of 2,153,000 jobs. " "For 2014, our 625,000 estimate for single-family starts would require 1,856,000 jobs and the projected 425,000 in multifamily starts would generate 480,000 jobs for a total of 2,336,000 jobs. The 183,000 difference between 2013 and 2014 housing-related job formation is equivalent to adding around 15,000 jobs per month to nonfarm payroll growth." Multi-family housing starts already account for a third of homebuilding, writes Paul Diggle at Capital Economics. For now, with rental demand slated to stay strong in coming years, it looks like multi-family homebuilding will continue to "dominate the recovery in starts." While the contribution is not nothing, the trend towards multifamily means fewer jobs will be created than if we were to see a stronger recovery in single-family starts. FREE AppDownload
Rent in San Francisco is high.  Really, really high. The median rent for an apartment is more than $1,463 per month, which is higher than every other major city in the country.  Chris Rutherford at The Bold Italic talked to the folks at Zillow.com to gather data for San Francisco rent over the last three years. Then he created an awesome visual showing how the rent in each neighborhood has changed and how it will continue to change. The Bold Italic / Chris Rutherford We decided to break the numbers down by year, focusing on each December's rents/averages. Let's take a look! In December 2010, the average rent in San Francisco was $3005 The Bold Italic / Chris Rutherford In December 2011, the average rent was a little lower at $2836 The Bold Italic / Chris Rutherford But in 2012, it shot back up, hitting $3215The Bold Italic / Chris Rutherford In 2013, it was up again by a little under $200The Bold Italic / Chris Rutherford The data was pulled up until April 2014, just 30 days ago, and the rent is already higher. The Bold Italic / Chris Rutherford  Here's the entire video:  Three Years of San Francisco Rent Prices by Neighborhood from The Bold Italic on Vimeo.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerSeconds ago, the Institute of Supply Management (ISM) corrected the headline number of its manufacturing index to 55.4 against a previously corrected reading for 56.0. To be clear, this is the second correction today. At 10:00 a.m., ISM said the index fell to 53.2 in May from 54.9 in April. And then just before 11:30 a.m., ISM's Bradley Holcomb (according to Bloomberg's Carlos Torres) said "There was a software error that applied last month's seasonal adjustment factor to the new data." At that time, ISM said the correct May number was 56.0 And now they're saying it's actually 55.4. Following the second revised print, Ian Shepherdson said, "Amateur hour at the ISM strikes again." Shepherdson added: "The headline has now been corrected twice; first to 56.0 from 53.2, and now to 55.4. The new and, perhaps, final, numbers show orders up 1.8 points while production leaped 5.3 points to a five-month high of 61.0. But supplier deliveries, the order backlog and employment are still reported down from April. ISM orders now look elevated relative to the signal from China's PMI, perhaps because domestic U.S. demand is strengthening. Either way, we expect seasonal distortions - as opposed to spreadsheet gremlins - to lift the index further in H2." Shortly after the 10:00 a.m. report, research firm Stone &amp; McCarthy tweeted that it believed ISM used the wrong seasonal adjustment, and as a result, the headline May ISM reading was incorrect. Bloomberg's Vonnie Quinn was the first to report that ISM was correcting its report.  On its Twitter page, Stone &amp; McCarthy has replied to users confirming they are the source of rumors regarding an incorrect ISM print. Earlier today, Markit's May manufacturing PMI came in at a three-month high of 56.4, up from 55.4 in April. Along with that report, Markit's Chris Williamson said, "With the exception of a brief spell in early-2010, output is growing at the fastest rate seen since prior to the financial crisis." Some economists were a bit baffled by the conflicting Markit and ISM reports. "The unexpected decline in the US ISM manufacturing index to a three-month low of 53.2 in May, from 54.9, contrasts with the improvement in the regional activity surveys and the national Markit PMI," said Capital Economics' Amna Asaf. "Even global manufacturing activity has been gradually improving. All this suggests that the ISM index will rebound in June." It seems Asaf's rebound came much earlier than expected. We've reached out to ISM for comment, and this post will be updated as we learn more.  FREE AppDownload
HBarrison/FlickrManhattan’s famous Woolworth Building — once the tallest skyscraper in the world — could soon be home to a nine-story penthouse valued at $110 million, according to Bloomberg News. The upper floors of the 58-story Woolworth Building in Lower Manhattan are being converted into 34 luxury apartments by developer Alchemy Properties. Plans show that the ceilings will range in height from 11 to 14 feet, and residents will have their own separate lobby and elevators (the rest of the tower consists of office space). The penthouse apartment will be at the pinnacle of the tower, and will no doubt have breathtaking views of the city. Its staggering nine-figure price tag also makes it the most expensive condominium in downtown Manhattan's real estate history, according to Bloomberg. So what makes it worth the price? The nearly 9,000-square-foot, four-bedroom penthouse will have nine floors, its own private elevator, and a 584-square-foot terrace. There’s also a library, wine cellar, and a private observation deck. Bloomberg reports that sales for the building are scheduled to take place in fall of 2014, with new tenants moving into the luxury residence in 2016 once construction is complete. There will be a range of condos hitting the market, with prices starting at $3.5 million for a 1,209-square-foot apartment on the 44th floor to the $110 million penthouse. The Woolworth Building was completed in 1913 and is 792 feet tall. It was the tallest building in the world until 1930, when a nearby tower on 40 Wall Street was built, followed closely by the Chrysler Building (1930) and the Empire State Building (1931). Though the Woolworth Building’s $110 million penthouse is pricey, it’s not the most expensive home to ever be listed in New York City. The Residence at River House was listed for $130 million before it was taken off the market, and an Upper East Side mansion was listed for $114 million in December of last year. Looks like nine-figure apartments in New York City could be the new norm. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Elegant, rustic, and exquisite — French cuisine both intimidates and inspires diners around the world. Adaptations of French cooking here in the States have garnered no shortage of recognition. Le Bernardin, New York's high-end seafood restaurant helmed by Chef Eric Ripert, recently topped our list of the 45 Best Restaurants In America. In fact, 11 French restaurants secured spots. For the list, we looked at five notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and combined these rankings to create the ultimate list of the Best Restaurants. (You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here). We pulled the top French restaurants from our list, and ranked them here so you can see the best places to get your foie gras on in America. Bon appétit! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveThe markets are mixed, but off their worst levels of the day after ISM corrected its manufacturing report from earlier Monday morning. The Dow is up 25 points (0.1%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 1 point (0.05%), and the Nasdaq is down 15 points (0.4%). ISM's manufacturing reading for May came in at 55.4, up from this morning's earlier incorrect reading of 53.2. Following ISM's report, analysts at Stone &amp; McCarthy on Twitter said they believe ISM used April's seasonal adjustments and not May's, resulting in an incorrect headline print. Seasonal adjustments include weather conditions and differences attributable to certain holidays, among other factors.  Also Monday morning, Markit's May manufacturing PMI increased to a three-month high of 56.4, better than April's 55.4 reading and the 56.2 reading expected by economists.  U.S. consumer spending also hit a six-year high, according to data from Gallup.  The market is also abuzz following reports that Carl Icahn, Phil Mickelson, and Las Vegas sports bettor Billy Walters are the subject of an insider trading investigation.  We've got more on Walters here, the least-known member of the three.  Apple is also kicking off its annual developers conference, WWDC, today in San Francisco, with a keynote address expected for 1 p.m. ET.  FREE AppDownload
         This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;     Kimball Studios, courtesy Pebble Beach Concours d'EleganceBusiness Insider is the fastest-growing business news site on the Web. We're looking for a reporter who wants to spend his or her days writing about all things transportation-related. We cover the entire space — from cars and trains to planes, yachts, motorcycles, and even space travel. Here are the kinds of stories this reporter would cover: There's no need to have tons of experience writing about transportation to apply for this position. It's more important that this person has a love for cars, planes, trains, and boats, and is a solid writer who's eager to learn. Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed and a tour of our new office in the Flatiron district. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Nir EliasThe vast scale of China’s landmass and its population means that China produces and consumes copious amounts of natural resources and food. It also means that China houses a large chunk of the world’s billionaires. We dug around to find some interesting statistics. Did you know that China's railway lines could loop around earth twice? Here are some interesting facts about the world's second-largest economy, which could soon eclipse the U.S. to become the world's largest this year. FREE AppDownload
ISMUPDATE (11:29 a.m. ET): ISM published a correction to its 10:00 a.m report. It's now saying that the headline index climbed to 56.0 from 54.9 a month ago. EARLIER (10:00 a.m. ET): The May ISM manufacturing report is out, and it's a miss. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 53.2  from 54.9 in April. Still, any reading above 50 signals growth, and this is the twelfth straight such reading. "Slightly disappointing but it just brings the ISM into line with the signal from China's PMI, which has softened since the end of last year," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "China is not the biggest market for U.S. exporters but has a disproportionate influence on short-term movements in the ISM. From ISM: Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 17 are reporting growth in May in the following order: Furniture &amp; Related Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; Paper Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Wood Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Plastics &amp; Rubber Products. No industry reported contraction in May. Here are some of the anecdotes that the ISM collected in its survey. Earlier today, we learned that Markit's manufacturing PMI climbed to 56.4 in May from 55.4 in April. "With the exception of a brief spell in early-2010, output is growing at the fastest rate seen since prior to the financial crisis," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "The unexpected decline in the US ISM manufacturing index to a three-month low of 53.2 in May, from 54.9, contrasts with the improvement in the regional activity surveys and the national Markit PMI," said Capital Economics' Amna Asaf. "Even global manufacturing activity has been gradually improving. All this suggests that the ISM index will rebound in June." FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Carolyn KasterConstruction spending climbed 0.2% month-over-month, missing expectations for a 0.6% rise. But there was a huge upward revision to March's data, with construction spending up a revised 0.6%, compared with an initial reading of 0.2%. Private residential spending was up 0.1% on the month, and up 17.2% on the year. Meanwhile, public residential spending was down 6% on the month and 29.3% on the year. Homebuilder confidence unexpectedly declined to 45 in May. New home sales however beat after a strong revision March's data and housing starts surged. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesPro golfer Phil Mickelson, reportedly the subject on an insider-trading investigation.Friday night, The Wall Street Journal reported that Carl Icahn, Phil Mickelson, and Billy Walters are the focus on a Securities and Exchange Commission and FBI investigation into insider trading.  The Journal's report said the authorities are examining whether Mickelson, a three-time Masters champion, and Walters, a Las Vegas-based sports gambler, traded on information given to them by Icahn regarding about his investments. The report focuses on trades made in Clorox in 2011.  Icahn and Mickelson are names familiar to anybody that follows business or golf, and perhaps both, but Walters' mention in this group has many asking, who's that guy? The Journal reported on Sunday that its own story has caused a snag in the authorities' investigation. This story is obviously far from over, so as we start the first workweek since the story broke, here's what we know so far. Carl Icahn Carl Icahn is a famous hedge-fund manager and activist investor. Icahn rose to prominence in the 1980s as "corporate raider," taking stakes in companies and agitating for change. Icahn still employs similar tactics today. Some of Icahn's most notable recent corporate fights have been in Herbalife (a multilevel marketing company that sells nutritional supplement shakes), Apple, and Dell. Phil Mickelson Phil Mickelson is one of the most successful golfers of his generation. Mickelson, who was Tiger Woods' chief rival for most of the mid-2000s, has won five major championships, including three Masters tournaments, considered by many to be the most prestigious golf tournament.  Mickelson was confronted by FBI agents after his round at a golf tournament on Thursday but instructed the agents to speak to his lawyers, according to The New York Times and The Journal. The same report from The New York Times said Mickelson first spoke to regulators regarding the investigation last year after a Mickelson landed at New Jersey's Teterboro Airport. During that meeting, The Times said, Mickelson met with regulators for "no more than an hour." Mickelson finished tied for 51st at this week's tournament, and ESPN notes that Mickelson "is essentially having the worst season of his 22-year professional career." Mickelson told reporters at a tournament in Ohio this weekend that he has done "absolutely nothing wrong," according to ESPN.  CBS / 60 MinutesBilly Walters.William "Billy" Walters Most of what we know about Billy Walters is from this 60 Minutes profile in 2011. At the end of the profile, CBS' Lara Logan said one of the reasons Walters agreed to speak with the news magazine was his disdain for Wall Street.  The Journal said that Walters "is a legendary sports bettor." CNBC's Jane Wells said Walters is "unanimously" known as the best sports gambler in Las Vegas.  In the "60 Minutes" profile, Walters said he once bought "a lot" of stock in Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco, and said he's met more bad guys "with suits and ties on" than he has gamblers.  The profile also said Walters has been indicted four times. When Logan asked Walters if the hustler from Vegas got hustled by Wall Street, Walters said, "No doubt about it." What's The Trade? Both The Journal and The New York Times reports said regulators are looking into trading in Clorox in the summer of 2011.  In February 2011, Icahn took a roughly 9% stake in Clorox and said he believed Clorox's shares were undervalued, "in light of [Clorox's] emphasis on 'mega-trends' and its portfolio's focus on innovative brands that are number one in their respective categories," according to a filing with the SEC.  In the summer of 2011, Icahn made a $76.50 per share offer for Clorox. The Times and The Journal said the investigation is focused on trades in options contracts ahead of that offer. Both reports also say investigators are examining trades in shares of Dean Foods. What's The Connection? The Journal said Icahn and Walters met when Icahn owned the Stratosphere hotel in Las Vegas. Icahn sold the hotel in 2008 and "have talked on occasion since then, including about stocks." Walters and Mickelson reportedly play golf together, and, citing a source, The Journal said Walters has suggested stocks for Mickelson to consider buying.  The New York Times said trading records showed that "at least one other investor connected to Mr. Walters and the golfing world."  Icahn and Mickelson have said they don't know each other.  The most recent report from The Journal said the government's investigation has hit a snag following the Journal's earlier report regarding the probe. The report said regulators were weighing the use of wiretaps, among other methods, in their investigation. The New York Times said that in the case of the Clorox trades, "the authorities initially planned to secure cooperation from one of Mr. Icahn's top employees, the people briefed on the matter said, but shifted gears when they lacked the leverage to do so." What Now? This story is not over by a long shot, as Mickelson and Icahn are two prominent figures in sports and business, respectively. Mickelson now has just one tournament before the U.S. Open, one golf's four major championships, on June 12. Icahn told CNBC's Scott Wapner on Friday that he doesn't know of any investigation, has gotten no subpoena, has never given inside information to anyone, and has heard of Mickelson but never met him. You can read The Journal's initial report here and its follow-up here. The New York Times' reports can be found here and here. FREE AppDownload
"60 Minutes" Prominent sports bettor William "Billy" Walters is being investigated in a possible insider-trading scheme involving pro golfer Phil Mickelson and billionaire investor Carl Icahn, according to reports in The Wall Street Journal and Reuters.  The three men haven't been accused of any wrongdoing. It's not even clear if a case will ever be made against them.  Walters, a Kentucky native who resides in Las Vegas, is known for being the "world's biggest sports bettor," a former pro sports bettor tells us. "Billy Walters is legitimately the 'godfather' of Las Vegas sportsbetting; the single most successful sports bettor of the last 30+ years," another prominent sports bettor tells us. "Walters is known for his ability to deceive the markets that he's working to beat, often placing smaller wagers on one side to get the line to moving in the 'wrong' direction, then coming back with HUGE bets on the other side at a better pointspread; 'positive expectation' wagers."  Walters, 67, is known for being incredibly private. However, he opened up in a "60 Minutes" interview with Lara Logan back in 2011. In the sports-betting world, Walters has a reputation for being a "whale" and a "shark," according to the "60 Minutes" report. He has supposedly never had a losing year betting on sports.  Walters is also secretive when it comes to his sports-betting strategy. According to "60 Minutes," people have tried going through his trash to get his edge. He uses a network of anonymous sports bettors with code names to place bets on games in Las Vegas sportsbooks remotely from his home. Those in his network don't even know one another, according to the report.  Walters grew up poor in Kentucky. He was raised by his grandmother.  These days, Walters is worth hundreds of millions of dollars. He's an avid golfer and owns four golf courses. He also owns seven homes, eight car dealerships, and a $20 million private jet, according to the "60 Minutes" report. In the past, Walters has had some bad experiences with Wall Street. He said he got swindled on Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco stocks. He told "60 Minutes" that in the sports-betting world he's run into "a lot of bad guys," but he's run into "many more with suits and ties on."   Watch the "60 Minutes" clip below:   FREE AppDownload
AP PhotosMarkit's May manufacturing PMI increased to a three-month high of 56.4 in May from 55.4 in April. This was stronger than the 56.2 expected by economists. Any reading abover 50 signals growth. New export orders jumped to 52.2, the fastest pace since July 2013. "Purchasing managers reported a further surge in business activity in May," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "With the exception of a brief spell in early-2010, output is growing at the fastest rate seen since prior to the financial crisis. "The household sector in particular is leading the upturn, with demand for consumer goods rising at the fastest rate for four years. This is therefore very much a domestic led upturn, but it is encouraging to also see that growth of export orders picked up in May, pointing to an improved trade balance in the second quarter." FREE AppDownload
More evidence that the economy is starting to come out of the duldrums. US Consumer Spending just hit a 6-year high, according to Gallup, which constantly tracks this. Gallup (Via @bondscoop) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe points to a reporter during a news conference at his official residence in Tokyo March 10, 2014.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's government will adopt a new corporate governance code, promote technology from service-sector robots to hydrogen stations for cars and court private investment for infrastructure, according to a draft plan of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's growth strategy. Those measures and dozens of others aimed at boosting Japan's growth after a decade and a half of deflation are outlined in a 60-page draft plan that will form the basis of Abe's "third arrow" reform update due to be announced later this month. Reuters reviewed an early-stage draft of the government's growth plan, which has not been made public. The document does not detail plans for cutting Japan's corporate tax rate or reforming the nation's public pension system, two of the most closely watched policy measures for investors. But the plan includes a raft of broad commitments aimed at reshaping key aspects of Japan's economy, from supporting venture capital to encouraging the promotion of women and the appointment of outside corporate directors at banks.  (Editing by Kevin Krolicki and Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
Learn to create pivot charts in Excel to quickly and easily analyze large data sets. Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
The strength of the S&amp;P 500 Transportation index also confirms my secular bull market thesis. This index is now 66% above its previous record high on June 5, 2008. As I noted last week, the S&amp;P 500 is 23% above its previous record high on October 9, 2007. This is a bullish development according to Dow Theory, which posits that as the DJIT goes, so go the economy and the DJIA. The former is up 9.5% ytd, while the latter is up 0.8%. Industry analysts recently have been raising their 2014 and 2015 earnings estimates for the S&amp;P 500 Transportation Composite. Its forward earnings rose to a record high last week, up 16.4% y/y. Its forward P/E is up to 16.3 from a recent low of 12.0 during September 29, 2011. That’s not frothy, but it isn’t cheap either. In any event, the fundamentals remain bullish. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Chugging Along. (1) Transportation stocks on steroids. (2) Confirming secular bull thesis. (3) High correlation between business inventories and transportation indicators. (4) Shipping oil by rail is a big business. (5) Another record high for the S&amp;P 500 profit margin. (6) It has been different this time for margins, so far. (7) Industry analysts remain upbeat on margins. (8) Core inflation rebounding in US. (9) Abenomics delivers higher inflation and unintended consequences. (10) ECB struggling to do whatever it takes. (11) “Ida” (+ + +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Nikolay DoychinovBulgarian high school students arrive for their graduation party in the centre of Sofia, on May 27, 2014Honking limousines and cheerful shouts by boys in suits resound across downtown Sofia as girls in lush evening gowns totter around on high heels or dance to loud music. At the end of May, thousands of graduating high-school students, aged 18 to 19, hold their extravagant proms -- a vanity fair in the EU's poorest country. Bulgaria's average monthly salary stands at about 400 euros ($545) and over 12-percent unemployment has left many families struggling to make ends meet. But even the poorest make sure to put something aside -- often two or three months' salary -- for this expensive tradition. Parents often go into debt ensuring the children get to enjoy their "big night out", as well as the traditional, wedding-like reception for their relatives that goes with it. "It's terribly overdone but everyone does it," student Stefka Drenova said in her splendid hairdo and strapless sequin dress one recent evening. "I would not have minded wearing a T-shirt but that would have made sense only if it was done by everyone," said Hristina, wearing a studded silver-and-blue bodice that glittered in the evening sun. Preparations for the prom start early in the school year. "The restaurant has been booked since last October, dresses dominate all talk and as the feast draws nearer, girls have hairstyle and make-up trials to avoid any fault on D-Day," Rositsa Lozanova, a high-school literature teacher, told AFP. The prom tradition dates back to the days of communism but is becoming "more and more exotic" with every passing year, said Nikolay Ovcharov, casting a proud glance at his daughter standing nearby in a bright yellow tulle dress. "I lost count of how much money went into all that but it is a very serious expense, to be frank." It is easier with the boys. "One suit will do and they can wear it afterwards," said Todor Todorov, adding he was happy his son Ivan had chosen to walk to his prom, instead of renting an expensive ride. Rows of retro convertibles, huge limousines, SUVs and even trucks decorated with bunches of balloons make traffic and noise on Sofia's streets unbearable on prom evenings, almost all held in one week at the end of May. Police warnings are also repeatedly broadcast on the radio and in the media ahead of the event, as students lean out of car windows and sunroofs, counting to 12 at the top of their lungs to mark the end of their 12 years in school. But many feel the spending sprees have grown out of hand, and for the first time this year, campaigns have appeared calling for students to donate part of their prom money to good causes. "We went to our last-day-of-school ceremony in white T-shirts and donated the money to 'butterfly children'," said Ivan Todorov, a student at the French language school in Sofia. Other schools in the capital also joined the initiative to help children suffering from epidermolysis bullosa -- a rare genetic skin disease. But the tradition of the "big night out" remains a beloved one, as a symbolic break between the carelessness of the high-school years and the responsibilities of early adulthood. "There is no other night like this one and I hope we'll have a great time," said Bogdana, who will soon be heading to Britain for her studies. AFP Photo/Nikolay Doychinov "Whatever it costs, my prom is worth it. After that I'll earn my living all by myself," said Nikoleta Kirilova, although she looked a little embarrassed in her long dress garnished with a huge ribbon. For now, the usual emotions that come with the end of schooldays were on display. As well as joy and excitement, there were tears and uncertainty as most students said they would apply to universities abroad and may not see their friends again for a while. "I do not know if I will return to live in Bulgaria," said Maria Yanakieva in a solemn black lace dress. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
John Moore / Getty ImagesFor the past few years, brick-and-mortar retailers didn’t have a fighting chance to compete with the personalization and convenience provided by online shopping. By cultivating mountains of rich customer data, online retailers had the upper hand. Every action and inaction -- from what customers clicked on and how much time they spent looking at certain products to their social activity and response to email programs – helped online retailers tailor each email, pop-up or recommended product to drive sales and provide a superior experience. For consumers, it was a welcome reprieve from the antiquated task of visiting a store, being treated as a stranger and receiving often-questionable customer service.  This new customer journey had new engagement touch points across marketing, sales and service, and traditional retailers struggled to keep up. The tides are turning, however. After years of showrooming and online retail commanding more attention along with emerging technology like iBeacons and immersive personalized mobile experiences, the data-driven shopping experience is set to land inside brick-and-mortar stores. The lines between the physical and digital worlds are blurring, and the ease, convenience and excitement previously reserved for online shopping will soon be pillars of tomorrow’s shops. Below are nine mainstays of the future of retail:   1. Personal shoppers for all: Retailers will focus on transforming mobile apps into a personal concierge of sorts when shoppers enter a store. In-store beacons will automatically wake up consumers’ apps to deliver highly relevant and personal content. Shoppers will be welcomed upon entering a store or department. The “personal shopper” app features will point out where they can find favorite products, alert them of products they might like and tell them about items being considered, like which celebrity wore the sunglasses in question. 2. Fewer (foot) traffic jams: In-store mapping and smart navigation will become highly accurate, thanks to real-time data generated from beacons. By tracking the whereabouts of shoppers, managers can better design layouts to streamline the flow. If a person has a shopping list, at a grocery store, say, the best route to pick up everything will be provided through a mobile device the second that person walks through the door. It will account for real-time situational factors like current movement throughout the store or congested aisles. If the shopper veers off course or adds anything to the list, the recommended route will automatically be refreshed. 3. Juicy bait hooks passersby. Retailers will target people who walk by their store through highly personalized offers or messages about things like new styles or reminders about items saved on a wish list. A woman passing a beauty store may be prompted to enter after receiving an alert that she is likely running low on moisturizer, given the date of her last purchase and previous buying behavior. 4. Self-checkout 2.0. One of the most frustrating parts of in-store shopping, is waiting in a line to check out. More retailers will follow retail pioneer Apple’s lead with its EasyPay self-mobile checkout. The customer find what he or she needs, scan it, selects a payment method and finalize the transaction, without waiting in a line or talking to an associate if not needed. As consumers become increasingly comfortable with contactless payments, the ability to control when and where the checkout happens will become more prevalent. 5. On-demand customer service. Previously a customer might have searched to no avail in a store for a sales associate for help in finding a size or answering a question. Leveraging mobile applications, retailers will maximize staff resources and enhance the customer experience by allowing shoppers to virtually request assistance. Through point-of-service applications or mobile or tablet devices, sales associates will instantly and automatically access a shopper’s profile, customer preferences and buying history to provide a better and efficient experience. Predictive analytics will be leveraged to know what a customer wants before he or she asks for it. From the floor, associates will be able to order out-of-stock items seamlessly and select a shopper's preferred delivery method while also making personalized recommendations on other products. 6. Virtual fitting rooms and aisles. The rich virtual world will continue to supplement the physical world via consumers' phones and connected wearable devices. Shoppers will access information and special offers through augmented reality while moving through a store or seeing how they would look wearing something without trying it on. Plus consumers will be able to opt in to access recommendations, such as for bathing suits based on their body shape and size, virtually try them on and then walk to the counter where a sales associate will be waiting with them.  7. Out-of-store, out-of-home shopping and flexible fulfillment. To compete with Amazon, eBay and other vendors with short-wait and free deliveries, more retailers will offer a menu of flexible fulfillment options, whether it's a preorder and pickup in a store or shopping in a store offering free home delivery. Companies will introduce shopping capabilities in other arenas, similar to the Tesco Homeplus virtual shopping experience in the Seoul subway system. As consumers continue to hunt for speed and convenience, retailers will seek opportunities that grant customers the ability to shop, pay and schedule delivery in unique environments, from parks and airports to bus stations and stadiums. 8. Power to the consumer. In the palm of their hands, consumers are carrying around their own big data tools. They can scan bar codes and compare prices, check reviews or snap a picture and ask their friends for advice. Consumers have more power than ever before in the shopping experience and as a result, companies will provide rich information and social capabilities optimized for every screen, while integrating scanning and other tools to unlock content in their apps. Customers will shop around and more retailers will take broader steps toward transparency. 9.The power of tribes. Powerful communities are being formed around brands and experiences -- from runners and cross-fitters to foodies and gamers. More communities will be tied to brands and experiences as never before and will influence major buying decisions. The in-store shopping experience is on the verge of great transformation Forward-thinking marketers have undertaken inspiring experiments in the effort to enhance store offerings. Retailers of all sizes, though, will soon adopt data-driven strategies to compete with their online cousins on convenience and personalization. As overhead costs stay high, retailers will adopt mobile-first approaches -- that leverage beacons, augmented reality and cross-channel customer profiling -- to bridge shoppers’ online and offline worlds. In the age of mobile-dominant consumers -- who have expectations of real-time, highly relevant and personalized experiences -- omni-channel innovation is no longer a merely something nice to have at a physical store. It's a must-have. Shoppers, then, are poised to be the big winners. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robin UtrechtSpanish Crown Prince Felipe (R) and his wife Princess Letizia arrive at a gala dinner organised on the eve of the abdication of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands and the inauguration of her successor King Willem-Alexander at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam April 29, 2013. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Things Are Looking Up In China: China's official Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) climbed to 50.8 in May from 50.4 in April. This was better than the 50.7 expected by economists. The new orders sub-index increased to 52.3 from 51.2, the biggest increase in nine months. "The below-51 PMI is still weak, and there are still strong headwinds due to the downturn of the property sector and the anti-corruption campaign," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "We expect Beijing to step up targeted measures, but we believe Beijing will resist calls for universal measures such as cutting benchmark rates and cutting RRR for all banks." Korea's Exports Drop: South Korea's exports unexpectedly fell by 0.9% in May. Economists were looking for a 3.4% gain. Korean exports are often referred to as the global economic "canary in the coalmine" since it's the first major May economic report to be released, and it's very sensitive to activity in Asia. Europe's Manufacturing Stats Disappoint: Economies across the eurozone released their May manufacturing PMIs, and the numbers weren't great. Italy's PMI fell to a 2-month low of 53.2, France's PMI fell to a 4-month low of 49.6, Austria's PMI fell to a 10-month low of 50.9, and Greece's PMI fell to a 2-month low of 51.0. Spain's PMI climbed to a 49-month high of 52.9, but it missed expectations for 53.0 print. "The May drop in the manufacturing PMI will inevitably add to the clamour for policymakers to provide a renewed, substantial boost to the region<U+201F>s economy and ward off the threat of deflation," said Markit's Chris Williamson. Germany Is The Big Red Flag: Germany's PMI fell to a 7-month low of 52.3. "In Germany, the pace of expansion eased, possibly linked to some concerns over the situation in Ukraine, or perhaps simply due to the timing of Easter," noted Williamson. "Without any clear cause, the slowdown in the region<U+201F>s largest economy will perhaps be the biggest concern for the eurozone<U+201F>s growth trajectory if a rebound is not forthcoming in June." The country also saw month-over-month price declines. What Would Apple Do: Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) kicks off. "At 10 a.m. local time, it will have a keynote to preview new software for the Mac and the iPhone," says BI's Jay Yarow. "It's also going to have some sort of new hardware, but don't expect something like the iWatch. " Markets Are Up: Everythings in the green. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.3%, Germany's DAX is up 0.3%, Spain's IBEX is up 0.6%, and Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.5%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 2.0% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng ended up 0.3%. Spain Of Thrones: The King of Spain Juan Carlos unexpectedly abdicated the throne. His son Crown Prince Felipe will take over. Carl Icahn, Phil Mickelson, And Some Other Guy: According to the WSJ and then later Reuters, the FBI and the SEC are investigating activist investor Carl Icahn, pro golfer Phil Mickelson, and gambler William Walters for possible insider trading involving private information provided by Icahn. Icahn vehemently denies any involvement, saying he's never met Mickelson and he's never heard of Walters. "I have done absolutely nothing wrong," Mickelson said, according to Reuters. "I have cooperated with the government in this investigation and will continue to do so. I wish I could fully discuss this matter, but under the current circumstances it's just not possible." U.S. Manufacturing Update: We'll get the Markit (9:45 a.m. ET) and ISM (10:00 a.m. ET) monthly manufacturing reports shortly after the opening bell. Economists estimate the Markit PMI climbed to 56.2 in May from 55.4 in April. Economists estimate the ISM index climbed to 55.5 in May from 54.9 in April. "Regional manufacturing surveys all remained in expansion territory in May and manufacturing capacity utilization has also been trending upward," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia. "We expect ISM manufacturing to continue to improve in May and gradually edge higher in the coming months." Construction Spending: Economists estimate construction spending (10:00 a.m. ET) climbed by 0.6% in April. "The residential category probably picked up modestly, mirroring the rise in housing starts," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "However, public projects probably continued to hold down the total." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriModels take part in the "Trashion" fashion show on the roof of a building in the Brooklyn Navy Yard in the Brooklyn borough of New York May 31, 2014. The show featured designers who used recycled items such as coffee filters, tissue paper, grain sacks and window screens. It's jobs week in America. Economists estimate U.S. companies added 215,000 nonfarm payrolls in May. Meanwhile, stocks continue to close at all-time highs, interest rates continue to tumble to lows of the year, and inflation continues to heat up. There's lots to talk about. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary On Friday, the S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high of 1923.57. Among other things, investors may be banking on robust earnings growth expectations. "Earnings growth rates are then expected to jump to 9.6% in Q3 2014 and 10.1% in Q4 2014," said FactSet's John Butters. But Butters warns that estimates for those quarters have a history of being too optimistic. From Butters: "Looking at projections for earnings growth for Q3 on June 1st over the past four years (2010- 2013), analysts overestimated actual earnings growth for the third quarter in three of the past four years. Over the four-year period, analysts overestimated earnings growth for Q3 by an average of 43%. If this average overestimation is applied to the current earnings growth estimate of 9.6% for Q3 2014, actual earnings growth for Q3 2014 would be 5.5%." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Paul Krugman has a nice, short post about the persistence of ultra-low interest rates, and how they're taking people by surprise. His basic argument: It's kind of different this time. The world is transitioning to a permanently slower pace, in part fueled by demographics. He posts this chart of the growth of the working age population in Europe. FRED As you can see, Europe is quickly turning Japanese, with a shrinking population. This helps explain why European bond yields keep grinding lower and lower, despite all the debt and concerns about the lasting durability of the Eurozone. The US population is still growing (though not like the old days), but ultimately similar factors are at play. FREE AppDownload
Quick heads up: There are two major datapoints coming out today. Here they are from Calculated Risk: • At 10:00 AM ET, the ISM Manufacturing Index for May. The consensus is for an increase to 55.5. The ISM manufacturing index indicated expansion in April at 54.9%. The employment index was at 54.7%, and the new orders index was at 55.1%.• Also at 10:00 AM: Construction Spending for April. The consensus is for a 0.7% increase in construction spending. Also, US PMI comes out at 9:45 AM. We'll be covering each LIVE. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokCharles Evans, President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of ChicagoISTANBUL (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to complete the tapering of its stimulus plan by the end of this year, Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said at a conference in Istanbul on Monday. Fed policymakers began in April to lay groundwork for an eventual retreat from their extraordinarily easy monetary policy with a discussion of the tools they could employ to accomplish the task, but no final decisions were taken, according to minutes of the session released last month. "The expectation is that tapering will be completed by the end of this year," Evans told the conference. Evans also said the Fed's 2 percent inflation target should not be seen as a ceiling and could be higher. Fed officials have been worried that inflation is running well below the central bank's 2 percent target. But there are signs it is starting to tick up. Prices rose 0.2 percent in April, pushing the year-on-year reading up to 1.6 percent - the largest gain since November 2012. Evans said that labor force participation had declined more than expected and that an uptick in the U.S. unemployment rate would not be a surprise, but that this is incorporated in the central bank's outlook.   (Reporting by Asli Kandemir and Seda Sezer; Writing by Nick Tattersall; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/J.J. Guillen/PoolSpain's King Juan Carlos (R) and Spain's Crown Prince Felipe wait for a meeting with Japan's Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida (unseen) at Zarzuela palace in Madrid January 8, 2014.  The prime minister of Spain, Mariano Rajoy, has just announced the king of Spain, Juan Carlos, 76, will unexpectedly abdicate the throne. His son, Crown Prince Felipe, 46, will take over the role. The government must now craft a law creating a legal mechanism for the abdication as well as for Felipe's assumption of power.  There are two competing storylines for why Juan Carlos, who has had health problems in recent years, was ultimately forced out. The Spanish royal family has been in scandal for some time due to the King's alleged affairs and excessive spending, while the country has remained mired in a terrible economy. The other story is that there's a rise of an anti-monarchist element in Spain that did well in the last election, forcing some kind of big institutional change. King Juan Carlos came to power in 1975, two days after the death of longtime dictator Francisco Franco, and oversaw Spain's transition from dictatorship to democracy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBillionaire activist-investor Carl Icahn gives an interview on FOX Business NetworkÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s Neil Cavuto show in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Questions about how to apply securities law to activist investors could complicate any potential insider trading case against billionaire Carl Icahn, pro-golfer Phil Mickelson and Las Vegas gambler William Walters, legal experts said. U.S. federal investigators are looking into whether Mickelson and Walters may have traded illegally on private information provided by hedge fund manager Icahn, a source familiar with the matter said on Friday. None of the three men has been accused of any wrongdoing, the source said. Icahn's style of investing is to aggressively buy stock with the aim of changing the direction of corporate boards, which makes him an outsider when federal insider trading laws have traditionally focused on corporate insiders, according to legal experts. The federal probe centers on trades in Clorox Co by Walters and Mickelson as Icahn was making moves to access the company's board in 2011, the New York Times reported. After accumulating a 9.1 percent stake in Clorox, Icahn made a bid valued at more than $10 billion to buy the consumer products company, which sent stock soaring. Even if Icahn did leak information about his plans regarding Clorox, he may not necessarily have violated the law. Prosecutors would have to show he had breached a fiduciary or confidentiality duty by disclosing material, nonpublic information that was later traded on. "A true quirk of insider trading rules is that the person who creates the information that's material and confidential has the freedom to use that for themselves and to authorize others to use it," said James Cox, a professor of securities law at Duke University. "That’s part of our capitalistic spirit, that people who create the ideas should be able to exploit them,” he said, noting that this could complicate a potential government case. The regulations also raise the issue of who Icahn would have a duty to in his investing role, said Reed Brodsky, an expert in white-collar crime at Gibson Dunn. Since Clorox rejected the hostile bid, Icahn would not likely be breaching a duty to the public company's shareholders unless he had entered into some kind of non-disclosure agreement, Brodsky said.   'GRANULAR FACTS' Roland Riopelle, a former government prosecutor, said Icahn may have had a duty to his own investors to keep certain information confidential. If that duty was breached, the government could argue he violated insider trading laws, he said. "It could come down to whether (Icahn's fund) had written rules that would prohibit this kind of disclosure or conduct," Riopelle said. "If they didn't have any rules, then (they) are not going to have a case." "Every case of this kind really comes down to the granular facts," he said. Icahn sent a letter in July 2011 to Clorox's chairman offering to purchase the company for $76.50 a share and saying he could arrange debt financing for the deal. He later raised the bid to $80.     If Icahn had launched a formal tender offer, it would have triggered a different standard of disclosure rules under the SEC's 1968 Williams Act, said John Coffee, an expert in corporate governance at Columbia Law School. Prosecuting Mickelson and Walters would present a different set of challenges, the experts said. A case against them could hinge on a pending decision expected from the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that could make it harder for the government to prosecute insider trading cases.     Two hedge fund managers brought the appeal in an effort to overturn their insider trading convictions.         The U.S. Supreme Court in 1983 held that the recipient of nonpublic information - a "tippee" - can only be found to have engaged in insider trading if the tipper benefited from the disclosure. The appeals court is being asked to address whether prosecutors must show the tippee knew of the tipper's benefit, which can be financial or non-monetary. Mickelson and Walters, if they were alleged recipients of inside tips, could be helped by a ruling that toughens the standards for government prosecutors, the experts said.   In response to Friday's news of a federal probe into possible insider trading Icahn told Reuters he was unaware of any investigation and said his firm always followed the law. Mickelson, a Masters champion, said he has done nothing wrong and is cooperating with the investigation. Walters did not respond to requests for comment. Officials with the FBI and the SEC declined to comment.   (Additional reporting by Nate Raymond and Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Ted Botha and Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
There's lots of evidence this morning that the German economy isn't looking so hot. Earlier we mentioned how the country's manufacturing industry has fallen to a 7-month low. Now it's seeing outright deflation in several regions, with prices falling on a sequential basis. The numbers are causing the Euro to tumble this morning, as this only puts more pressure on the ECB to ease policy this week (something which was already likely in the cards). From FinViz, here's the euro: FinViz FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Manufacturing data is fresh out from Europe, and it's fairly weak looking. While some countries are doing well (EG Spain), the big powerhouses like Germany and France aren't so great. German manufacturing has slowed to a 7-month low. Meanwhile, France is at a 4-month low, and it remains in contraction. The following table and chart from Markit tell the story: Markit Markit Also out this morning is weak inflation data from Germany, which is helping to confirm a story that perhaps the German economy is really running low on gas. All this will only put more pressure on the ECB to ease policy, which it is expected to to this week. The Euro is sliding. FREE AppDownload
