Thomson ReutersA man rides a bicycle past a Barclays bank in London(Reuters) - Trading firms and employees raised concerns about high-speed traders at Barclays Plc's "dark pool" months before the United States accused the bank of favoring its high-frequency trading clients, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the firms. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed a lawsuit last month, accusing the Barclays dark pool of giving high-frequency traders an unfair advantage, even though the bank had promised investors they would be protected from "predatory" and "toxic" traders. The lawsuit alleges that Barclays executed nearly all of its customers' stock orders on its LX Liquidity Cross dark pool alternative trading system instead of on exchanges or other venues that might have offered better prices. Some big trading firms noticed that their orders weren't getting the best treatment on the dark pool and began to grow concerned that the poor results were due to high-frequency trading, the Journal said. Dark pools let institutional investors trade large blocks of shares anonymously and only make trading data available afterwards so that investors with large orders are not at a disadvantage. A number of Barclays employees also privately expressed concerns to top stock-trading executives that the London-based bank was giving high-frequency traders too much access to its dark pool without fully informing clients, the newspaper said. Barclays is expected to respond to the attorney general's civil complaint this week, the report said, adding that the bank is expected to argue that certain emails and other documents cited in New York's complaint were taken out of context. Reuters reported last month that Barclays had hired external lawyers to help it investigate the allegations, including Matthew Martens, formerly the chief litigator at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Representatives from Barclays could not be immediately reached for comment outside regular business hours.   (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray Fox is close to an agreement to sell stakes in two European pay-TV companies, Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland, to British Sky Broadcasting for $13.5 billion, Bloomberg's Matthew Campbell, Alex Sherman and Manuel Baigorri report. (UPDATE: A source close to the situation tells us the reported $13.5 billion sale price is much too high and that, net of tax, the cash proceeds to Fox will be about half this amount. Thus, the proceeds would allow Fox to raise the cash portion of its bid for Fox by about half of the $15 per share we estimated based on the original figure.) The company is reportedly considering using some or all of this cash to increase its bid for Time Warner. This cash infusion could allow Fox to raise its bid for Time Warner significantly without taking on any new debt or issuing new shares. Time Warner has about 900 million shares outstanding. If Fox used all the cash from the asset sales, an estimated $7 million, net of taxes, to boost its bid, our source suggests that the increase would amount to $7-$8 per share. The cash portion of the new bid for Time Warner would then be about $40 per share (up from $32.42). The initial bid also included 1.531 shares of Fox shares per share, or about $50 at Fox's current price. If Fox kept the share portion of the bid the same, therefore, the current value of the offer would be about $90. Fox does have unused borrowing capacity that would allow the company to borrow cash to raise the bid further. Using the asset sale proceeds to boost the bid would also have the effect of increasing the cash percentage of the purchase price, which would dampen another concern that some Time Warner shareholders had about the offer—the fact that too much of it was coming in the form of Fox stock. After Fox announced its bid for Time Warner last week, Time Warner shareholders had two primary concerns: Price, and cash/stock mix. The early consensus was that, to get a deal done, Mr. Murdoch would have to increase his bid to about $100 per share and increase the cash portion of the purchase consideration. The expectation was that he would soon do both. The cash proceeds from Fox's European asset sales could allow Fox to easily raise its bid close to that level and increase the cash portion of the purchase price, all without having to take on more debt. And if that isn't enough, Credit Suisse suggested last week that Fox could also sell its 39% ownership of British Sky Broadcasting for another $10 billion. SEE ALSO: FOX-TIME WARNER: Here's What Insiders Say Will Happen Next  FREE AppDownload
Some parts of Europe are now threatening to impose sanctions on Russia as Moscow-supported rebels stand accused of shooting down an airplane carrying citizens of four different European countries, including 192 Dutch. Other parts aren't, however — because they probably couldn't afford to, as Russia could retaliate by disrupting their gas supplies. Deutsche Bank has just released the following chart showing percent breakdown of gas dependence among European countries. Eight get at least 80% of their fuel from Russia: Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark MakelaRevelers sleep in a group on the concert grounds during the Firefly Music Festival in Dover, June 21, 2014. The four-day festival is set at the 105 acre grounds on the Dover International Speedway where many well known bands will perform. The weekend is over and stocks are doing nothing. The Nikkei is closed for a holiday. U.S. futures are flat, as is the New Zealand stock exchange. Korea's Kospi is up 0.4%.  Natural gas futures were almost 2% lower.  Click here for Sam Ro's full-week preview » FREE AppDownload
Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox Inc. is considering using proceeds from the sale of its Italian and German pay-TV assets to boost its offer for Time Warner Inc., according to two people familiar with the matter.  Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox Inc. may reach an agreement to sell its holdings in Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland AG to British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc in the next two weeks, people said asking not to be identified because the deliberations are private. Close Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox Inc. may reach an agreement to sell its holdings in... Read More Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox Inc. may reach an agreement to sell its holdings in Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland AG to British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc in the next two weeks, people said asking not to be identified because the deliberations are private. Bloomberg reserves the right to remove comments but is under no obligation to do so, or to explain individual moderation decisions. Please enable JavaScript to view thecomments powered by Disqus. Advertisements ©2014 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved 
The EconomistBACK in the mid-1990s, America's economic prospects suddenly brightened. Productivity soared.  Immigrants and foreign capital flocked to take advantage of what was quickly dubbed the "New Economy".  The jobless rate fell to 4%, yet inflation remained low. All this led economists to conclude that America's potential rate of growth--the speed at which the economy can expand while keeping unemployment steady and inflation stable--had risen sharply from its decades-long average of 3%, to 3.5% or even higher. Sadly, the New Economy is no more. The recovery from the recession of 2008-09 has been the weakest of the post-war era, and evidence is mounting that America's potential growth rate has plummeted. Its two big determinants, the supply of workers and the rise in their productivity, have both fallen short. Performance in the past year has been particularly feeble: America's labour force has not grown at all and output per hour worked has fallen. The IMF recently cut its estimate of the country's potential rate of growth to 2%. Other economists put it as low as 1.75% (see "America's economy: Jobs are not enough"). So far, the slide in potential has had little practical impact. Because the recession was so deep and the recovery so weak, the economy is still operating below its capacity. But in the long term a halving of the economic speed limit would have grim consequences. Living standards would rise more slowly, tax revenues would be lower and the burden of paying today's debts heavier. Solving the short-term problem means boosting demand, so the Federal Reserve should keep interest rates low. But to pep up long-term growth, America also needs to address the supply side. In particular, it needs more workers and faster increases in productivity. Getty Images The number of working-age Americans rose by an average of 1.2% a year in the 1990s, and by a mere 0.4% in 2013. The proportion of them actually in the workforce has fallen from over 67% to less than 63%. The recession is partly to blame, because after years of joblessness some people have given up looking for work. That is one reason why boosting the recovery is important. The ageing of the baby-boomers is another reason. The number of people in their late 50s (when participation in the workforce starts to drop) and older is rising fast. Both these vulnerabilities are exacerbated by a self-inflicted problem: policies that depress the supply of workers. Most damaging is America's broken immigration system. Getting into the country has become much more difficult. The number of visas issued today for highly skilled people is a fraction of what it was in the 1990s, even as the number of unfilled vacancies for skilled workers soars. Deportations have surged and the southern border has become far harder to cross. Obamacare, though good in other respects, tends to shrink the labour force because it helps people get health care without working. There is less to be said for the outdated social safety net, which manages both to be stingy and to discourage work. America spends a smaller proportion of its GDP than other rich countries on retraining the jobless and helping them find work. It has not raised the retirement age and it has allowed its disability-insurance system to become an ersatz welfare scheme. The number of workers on disability, hardly any of whom will work again, has doubled since 1997 to 9m. For once, Europe could teach America some labour-market lessons: thanks to welfare reforms, the proportion of Europeans in the workforce is now rising. In the long run, the most powerful way to boost growth is for workers to become more productive, as they did in the 1990s. But raising productivity is hard, and the recent slump puzzling. Innovation drives productivity growth, and a dizzying array of new developments, from "big data" to the "internet of things", suggests that innovation is speeding up. Yet the growth in the average worker's output per hour was slowing before the 2007 crisis and has fallen further since. That may change, because it takes a while for firms to react to disruptive technologies. Computers started to spread in the 1980s but their impact did not show up in the data for more than a decade. The latest surge in innovation will also take a few years to translate into higher output per hour. The slow recovery from the recession may have lengthened this delay, by deterring many firms from investing in information technology. But here, too, politicians have made matters worse. There is much America's government could do to boost investment. It could, for instance, increase public spending on infrastructure. It could reduce the sky-high corporate tax rate which encourages firms--such as AbbVie, which is proposing to shift its base to Britain by buying Shire (see "Drugmakers: A new home for orphans")--to move abroad rather than invest at home. And it could start cutting the endless sprawl of job-destroying regulations that companies say is a worse problem even than taxes. It is doing none of these things. The impact of a supply-side revolution, with immigration reform, an overhaul of disability and training schemes, infrastructure investment, deregulation and corporate-tax reform all high on the agenda would be gradual. But even the prospect would strengthen the recovery, by encouraging investment and deterring the Fed from raising interest rates too soon. Thoughtful politicians have produced schemes for radical change in almost all of these areas, but their plans--like so much else--have fallen victim to America's polarised politics. The Republicans stand in the way of loosening immigration rules, while Democrats fear that supply-side reforms are a plot to hurt the average Joe. Both sides hoover up cash from special interests keen to keep anticompetitive regulations in place. Barack Obama, the least business-friendly president for decades, has devoted far too little attention to the problem. So the odds rise that America's economy will continue to lumber along at an underwhelming pace, and Americans will have no one to blame but their leaders. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The EconomistWhat a Scotsie 100 would look like INDEPENDENT countries tend to have their own stockmarkets; of the last 32 nations to be created in Europe and Asia, all bar Kosovo and Turkmenistan have set one up. All current 28 EU members have their own exchange. So if Scots vote to leave the United Kingdom on September 18th they can be expected to follow suit. What would a Scottish stockmarket look like? Paul Marsh of the London Business School and Scott Evans of Walbrook Economics have compiled a list of companies that are headquartered or registered in Scotland and currently trade on the London Stock Exchange. The result is a list of stocks that might make up a future "Scotsie 100" that would form the core of any Caledonian portfolio (along, of course, with inflation-linked gilts, or "index-linked kilts" as they would doubtless be dubbed). The result would be a heavily financial market, with banks and insurance companies making up 28% of the index by value and investment trusts a further 26%. The market would also be highly concentrated, with just three large companies (SSE, a power utility, Standard Life, an insurance company and Royal Bank of Scotland) comprising 40%. This financial focus has weighed on the hypothetical index in recent years. Messrs Marsh and Evans compiled an index of Scottish stocks dating back to 1955; the real return since then has been 5.7% a year against 6.8% for the rest of the UK (see chart). All the underperformance has occurred since 2007 and is mostly a result of the collapsing share prices of Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS, another bank, during the credit crisis. Excluding financial companies, a Scotsie 100 would have outperformed the rest of the country. If all Scottish-based stocks transferred their listing to a Glasgow (or Edinburgh) exchange, the Scotsie 100 would rank as the world's 28th largest market, with a value of £73 billion ($125 billion) as of the start of the year. But the authors doubt many companies would move. FTSE, the body that compiles the London indices, would be obliged to treat Scottish companies as foreign stocks; they might as a result drop out of the FTSE 100, the premier British index. That would make them less appealing to international investors. And Royal Bank of Scotland might be forced to move by EU rules that require a bank to have a headquarters in the country where it is most active; that would be England, not Scotland. Finally, companies tend to want to be listed on the most liquid available market. Ireland has been independent for nearly a century but some of its largest companies have moved from Dublin to London in recent years; the Irish stock exchange now has just eight companies with a free float (shares available for private investors to buy) of more than EUR1 billion. Perhaps history is instructive. Until 1964 Scotland had four stock exchanges, in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee; by 1973 all had been merged into the London exchange. For investors, liquidity tends to trump patriotism. Click here to subscribe to The Economist REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA Scotland soccer fan waves a Scottish saltire flag with Big Ben seen behind in Trafalgar Square in central London, August 14, 2013. Thousands of fans gathered in the city centre ahead of the international friendly soccer match between England and Scotland at Wembley. The oldest fixture in world soccer has disappeared from view in the past decade but at Wembley on Wednesday Scotland have the chance to give the auld enemy a bloody nose as the Football Association marks its 150th anniversary. Gone are the days when Scotland would regularly qualify for World Cup finals and European championships and the domestic game north of the border has hit hard times compared to the glamour and glitz of the English Premier League.   FREE AppDownload
Jim Edwards / BIA peek inside our new London office. There's lots of light and good company!Business Insider is opening a newsroom in London this summer and we're immediately looking to hire paid interns! These talented folks will have the exciting opportunity to build a brand from the ground up. As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features. You'll get an author byline for every post you write.  We’re looking for interns who are ambitious, smart, funny, fast, and consume huge amounts of digital media. You should be comfortable working on multiple stories per day and building your own audience and personal brand through social media. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site with a focus on finance, tech, and politics, always helps. Light HTML and Photoshop experience, and knowledge of social media (are you super active on Twitter?) is useful, too. If you are interested in applying for a paid internship position at Business Insider U.K., please send us your resume and tell us, in no more than five sentences, why we should hire you. And, please note: this internship requires that you live in the U.K. and work in our London office, located near the Old Street tube station. Interns are encouraged to work full-time (40 hours a week) for a six-month period from the start date. FREE AppDownload
The latest round of U.S. sanctions on Russia and the tragedy of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 in eastern Ukraine have everyone on edge about tensions on the Russia-Ukraine border. "Core issues in the Ukraine crisis remain unresolved," said Deustche Bank analysts Raj Hindocha and Marcos Arana in a presentation before the MH17 incident. "[T]he risk of escalation into a wider regional military conflict can't be ruled out." Hindocha and Arana included this slide laying out three scenarios for the region. Under their worst-case scenario, warn that "Russia’s relationship with Europe comes into play" with the "Potential for disruption of Russian gas supply to Europe." The European Union has substantial trade ties with Russia, and petroleum trade is arguably the most important. Deutsche Bank
Here's a short list of the richest oil barons in the world and how they made their fortunes. Brendan McDermid/ReutersThe bogeymen of the Democratic Party inherited their fortunes, along with the family business, from their father, Fred. But they’ve since shown a keen entrepreneurial spirit. Koch Industries’ claim to fame initially was a proprietary oil refining technique, but the brothers soon diversified the product portfolio to encompass refineries, pipelines, and the manufacturing of chemicals, polymers and fibers. This wide swathe of business interests is still focused on oil, but Koch Industries has now become America’s second largest private company, behind Cargill. Its main oil and gas subsidiary, Flint Hills Resources, processes well over 300 million barrels of oil a year. That figure is one reason the Kochs are vilified by environmentalists: Combined, their companies emit more than 300 million tons of greenhouse gasses a year, the equivalent of over 5 percent of the U.S. carbon footprint.  But the reputations of Charles and David Koch are less based on their business success than on their staunch support of the Republican Party. The Koch’s political action committee is consistently the largest oil- and gas-money contributor to the Republican Party. Reuters/Amit DaveBarons who obtained their fortunes from dearest dad occupy the top two spots on the list. Mukesh Ambani currently oversees India’s Reliance Industries. Having begun as a textiles maker, Reliance Industries created a dedicated subsidiary, Reliance Industries, which has had a spectacular run since it burst onto the world scene in 2008. It owns the world’s biggest refinery at Jamnagar in Gujarat, with a capacity of 1.24 million barrels per day. The mother ship of Reliance Industries is also the world’s foremost polyester producer, but it has taken steps to mitigate its environmental impact by opening the largest polyester-recycling center in existence. The power of running India’s second largest company has given Ambani a major pulpit from which to pursue his business and philanthropic ideals. However, his rise may not have been to everyone’s liking: one of the first actions of Narendra Modi’s new government was to hit Reliance with a $579 million fine, only the latest in a series of penalties stemming from the corporation’s failure to meet legally binding gas production commitments from the gas fields it operates in India. AP/Sergei KarpukhinRussian mogul Viktor Vekselberg’s list of friends is enviable, as it includes Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mikhail Fridman, his predecessor on this very list. Vekselberg also directly benefited from the rise and eventual sale of TNK-BP, having once been its deputy director as well as acting as chairman of TNK. His early wealth came from aluminum after he capitalized on the opportunities brought about by perestroika and glasnost to emerge as one of Russia’s first successful private entrepreneurs. He co-founded the Siberian-Urals Aluminum Company and took a nice profit when this company was absorbed by RUSAL, the largest company in the sector. His interest then turned to oil and gas when his holding company, Renova Group, founded TNK-BP with Alfa Group, in a merger with BP’s oil assets in the country. He has long had a keen interest in IT and telecoms, having been appointed by Putin in 2010 as the director of Skolkovo, a project seeking to build a Russian rival of Silicon Valley. Interestingly, Vekselberg’s oil profits have been poured into the world’s largest collection of Fabergé eggs: he owns 15 at an estimated cost of $100 million. AP/Alexander ZemlianichenkoA wise man once said that the friendships you make in college last for life. While there’s no record of how close Mikhail Fridman was in college with classmates German Khan and Alexei Kuzmichev, the three together run Russia’s Alfa Group conglomerate. In 2013, Alfa Group’s revenue came in at $16.8 billion. Today, Fridman’s interests are now mostly in industries such as banking and insurance, but most of his personal wealth can be traced back to last year when Alfa Group sold a 90 percent stake in TNK-BP to Rosneft. At the time, TNK-BP was Russia’s third-largest producer and the deal netted the three college buddies a combined $14 billion.   AP/Thierry CharlierVagit Alekperov stands alone among the world’s five richest oil and gas barons as the only one who worked his way up in the trade. The current CEO of LUKoil, Russia’s second largest oil company, rose from the bottom: Emerging from Azerbaijan during the Soviet era, he worked as a drilling operator, then an engineer and on up until he became deputy director general of Bashneft and deputy minister for oil and gas for the Soviet Union. His fortune has skyrocketed since the fall of the Soviet Union. As head of LUKoil, Alekperov owns 20 percent of the company, which accounts for his billions. He has also engineered the company’s international expansion to over 40 countries, its listing on the New York Stock Exchange, and has used his links to Putin to secure LUKoil’s future as a pillar of support of the Russian economy. And just so the Alekperov name continues to be associated with the company, he has instructed his son Yusuf to hold on to his shares in LUKoil and is grooming him to take over as CEO. FREE AppDownload
Raise Cache via David TischFred WilsonIf you still don't understand what the deal with Bitcoin is, don't worry: Even it's biggest boosters admit it is probably too early to be useful to the mainstream. In a talk this week sponsored by the NYC Foundation for Computer Science Education, Union Square Ventures founder Fred Wilson identified the two key hurdles Bitcoin still must overcome to be useful to an average consumer. The first is the cryptocurrency's chicken and egg problem: Nearly six years after Satoshi Nakamoto published his Bitcoin spec paper, demand for Bitcoin remains largely speculative, or induced. And even then, it's still cumbersome to get your hands on some. Here's what Wilson told his audience: We said, If you come tonight, you're either a student, in which case we have sponsors who were making donations to cover the students, or you're buying a $25 ticket...But you had to pay it in Bitcoin. And I got a lot of emails from people, particularly in the last few days, who said, I don't have any Bitcoin, I would have to buy the Bitcoin, it's going to take me three days for the Bitcoin to show up in my account. So I'm not going to be able to get the Bitcoin in time to make it to the event. If you had Bitcoin in your account it was simple, you just gave 1/20th of a Bitcoin and you come. So, not enough people have it. And forcing people to buy the Bitcoin to give the money to the charity isn't a great model, and we actually saw that in this event.  He continued, explaining how most Bitcoin users are simply sitting on their holdings, and that this results in price volatility:  People need to feel comfortable that if they hold onto a Bitcoin for a week it's going to be worth pretty much the same as when they got it. And that's going to take a long time. I also think we need to see real transaction volume happen. Right now, most people who get Bitcoin hold it, they don't transact with it. That’s part of what causes all of the volatility — if there was a very vibrant system where Bitcoin was just getting swapped around like crazy, the velocity of the money would cause Bitcoin's price to stabilize, and there would be a much more liquid market. The other obstacle Wilson identified to mainstream adoption is that the security systems surrounding Bitcoin remain — though he also says this is in itself represents a huge investment opportunity, as it will help address the first issue:    One of the real issues with Bitcoin right now is that it's not that secure, and the reason it's not that secure is, it's easy to hack into people's computers, if they have a wallet on their own computer, it's easy to get in there and steal the Bitcoin. Bitcoin theft is a big issue. Bitcoin fraud is a big issue. And what will have to happen is we will need to see companies like Coinbase and others merge that can invest heavily in security. And that's both technological security, and also process security — to make you comfortable to keep your Bitcoin there. And I think that that's probably going to be first big commercial opportunity in Bitcoin, is to create secure systems. Because without that, I don't think we'll ever get enough confidence and trust in the system for people to really start using it.   This is a big deal. Wilson, who was one of the earliest investors in Twitter and Tumblr, was also one of the first major VCs to get into Bitcoin. He was among a tiny handful of investors to be asked to speak before the New York Department of Financial Services in January as the agency prepared to craft BitLicenses (they just announced proposed guidelines this week). So for Wilson to admit that there still aren't immediately tangible reasons to get into Bitcoin is perhaps a reassuring sign that hardcore Bitcoin evangelists are starting understand that a lot more work needs to be done before the cryptocurrency can truly break out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaWe are getting a little sick of the bad data that has resulted in some very misleading headlines this month, so I am going to share some proprietary information from our June survey of 228 local building execs overseeing 12% of all US new home sales. We distributed this to our clients on Monday, July 6. Here is the truth: •    Eroding confidence. Builder confidence eroded slightly in June and did not spike as reported by the NAHB. We ask the same 3 questions and believe the Housing Market Index should have fallen by 1-2 points instead of risen by 4 points. Very few of our clients are far more confident in the market than they were earlier this year. •    Rising starts. SF starts actually rose 4% this month in comparison to the 1% usual seasonal decline and did not decline 9% as reported by the Census Bureau (CB). The South, which the CB reported as the primary reason for the decline was essentially flat, with the Southeast up 2%, Texas flat, and Florida down 2%. We have four offices in the South, and none of our local team members are seeing declining starts. Also, SF permits have been rising, and builders don't pay for permits and not start the home unless there is a weather issue. Permits are the most accurate data but do not get as much headline attention because it is a start that generates economic activity. •    Slightly falling sales. The Census Bureau will report sales next week. The CB's reported margin of error is so high (last month's 90% confidence level was +/- 17% ) that this data should always be taken as suspect and viewed over a 3-month period, as the CB even states in the press release (link). June new home sales in our survey fell 6% from May, 3% of which was their normal seasonal decline. Your guess as to what will be reported is as good as mine, but I am going to bet on even more negative headlines, since sales were so grossly overstated in May. John Burns Real Estate ConsultingThe bottom line is this: don't make decisions based on newspaper articles. Read the actual press release, including the methodology, and make sure the results jibe with other data points and qualitative feedback you receive. The housing market continues to improve in 2014—but at a much slower pace than almost everyone expected. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThomas Laresca, a 52-year-old market-maker and father of three, said he lost his Wall Street job because of CYNK Technology — a penny stock that's shocked the internet with its 25,000% rise in just a few weeks. CYNK Technology is connected to a "social network" site called Introbiz that purports to help people connect to celebrities and business leaders for a fee. However, CYNK does not appear to have ever had assets, revenue, or more than one employee. It has also been a mystery who is behind the company. CYNK's surging stock drew the attention of the SEC, which halted trading in the stock last Friday citing "concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK's common stock." The SEC's move was too late for Laresca, who is now critical of the regulatory agency for being too late to act on CYNK. Laresca, who first shared his story with Bloomberg News, told us on Tuesday that he resigned from his job as a market-maker with Buckman, Buckman &amp; Reid after racking up "insurmountable" losses from shorting CYNK. As a market-maker, Laresca's job is to provide liquidity and help match up buyers and sellers of stocks.  Laresca said he watched CYNK go from six cents to $6. Laresca, who has spent 25 years on Wall Street, told us that he thought the stock was a "scam." He shorted the stock thinking the SEC would step in.  "I'd be glad to sell some," he recalled. "When you sell it, you're caught in it." Eventually, he got caught in a short squeeze as the stock continued to skyrocket. That's because market-makers have to buy back shares every five days, which sends the stock price higher, he explained. "The day it went from $5 to $15, I was short. The stock kept running. As it runs, there's nothing you can do. You're selling it." Eventually, his firm decided they didn't want the risk anymore, he said. As a result, he had to buy back the stock and that locked in a loss that was "insurmountable."  "[My firm] did what was right. They took the stock from me. I'm not allowed to trade anymore. I can't have any positions. I don't fault them. They are doing what they had to do."  If he stayed short, he thinks he would have been OK.  Now he's questioning the SEC and why they didn't halt the stock sooner. "I came home and was trying to explain [CYNK] to my oldest son; he's a smart kid. He'll be a senior at William &amp; Mary. That's when my 10-year-old jumped in and said it was a scam. If a 10-year-old knew it was a scam, why didn't the SEC know?"  He's also going to be looking for another job now. It's unclear if he'll stay in financial services. "It isn't the end of the world. I've been through cancer and things like that. You just pick your head up and know that God is going to do the right thing," said Laresca.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ansa/Giuseppe LamiGDP: A Brief But Affectionate History  “Measurement theory shows that strong assumptions are required for certain statistics to provide meaningful information about reality. Measurement theory encourages people to think about the meaning of their data. It encourages critical assessment of the assumptions behind the analysis. “In ‘pure’ science, we can form a better, more coherent, and objective picture of the world, based on the information measurement provides. The information allows us to create models of (parts of) the world and formulate laws and theorems. We must then determine (again) by measuring whether these models, hypotheses, theorems, and laws are a valid representation of the world.” – Gauri Shankar Shrestha “In science, the term observer effect refers to changes that the act of observation will make on a phenomenon being observed. This is often the result of instruments that, by necessity, alter the state of what they measure in some manner. “It was, perhaps, the most unusual episode in the long running duel between the two giants of twentieth century economic thought. During World War Two, John Maynard Keynes and Friedrich Hayek spent all night together, alone, on the roof of the chapel of King’s College, Cambridge. Their task was to gaze at the skies and watch for German bombers aiming to pour incendiary bombs upon the picturesque small cities of England…. “Night after night the faculty and students of King’s, armed with shovels, took it in turns to man the roof of the ornate Gothic chapel, whose foundation stone was laid by Henry VI in 1441. The fire watchmen of St. Paul’s Cathedral in London had discovered that there was no recourse against an exploding bomb, but if an incendiary could be tipped over the edge of the parapet before it set fire to the roof, damage could be kept to a minimum. And so Keynes, just short of sixty years old, and Hayek, aged forty-one, sat and waited for the impending German onslaught, their shovels propped against the limestone balustrade. They were joined by a common fear that they would not emerge brave nor nimble enough to save their venerable stone charge.” – Nicholas Wapshot in Keynes Hayek: The Clash That Defined Modern Economics The problem we have today in economics is that many people, and not a few economists, seem to regard economics as “pure science,” as described above by Gauri Shankar Shrestha. If you delve deep into measurement theory, you find that all too often the way in which you measure something determines the results obtained from your experimental model. How you measure the effectiveness of a drug can sometimes determine whether it gets approved – apart from whether it actually does any good. The FDA actually works rather hard at measurement theory. And if you’re using models, as we do in economics, to determine policies that govern nations, your efforts can result in economic misdirection that seems for a time to work but that all too often can lead to a disastrous Endgame. A short-sighted economic policy is not unlike a drug that makes one feel good for a period of time but ultimately leads to further weakness or collapse. In this week’s letter we look at the construction of gross domestic product (GDP). As we will see, GDP is a relatively late-to-the-party statistic, thoroughly malleable in its construction and often quite contentious in its application. Yet the mainstream media regularly releases GDP numbers with the implicit assumption that they are in fact an accurate reflection of the general economy. We shall soon see that GDP is instead a fuzzy reflection of the economy, derived from a model that is continually readjusted in a well-intentioned effort to understand the scope of the economy. GDP is one economic model among several that could serve the purpose, but its use conveniently leads to policies that reflect the thinking of a particular school of economic monetary and fiscal policy advocates. We all know that in operating a business we need to be able to measure the profits of our company and then adjust our prices and production to make sure that there are enough profits to adequately fund the company. That is a relatively straightforward process, since the amount of money in the bank at the end of the month is a real number. Hayek versus Keynes When most people see the release of the GDP number, they equate the precision of that statistic with the bottom right-hand number in their bank accounts. And news anchors and journalists rarely acknowledge the rather significant caveats that the Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes along with that data. What we are going to find is that developing the concept of gross domestic product was more than a dry economic and accounting undertaking. At its very core, GDP is John Keynes versus Friedrich Hayek writ large. And their debate explains a great deal of the current tension between those who would make final consumption – or what we call consumer spending – the be-all and end-all of economic policy, and those who feel that productivity and income should instead be the focus. The very act of measuring GDP as we do gives the high and easy intellectual ground to those of the Keynesian persuasion. Let me hasten to note that I have no problem with the concept or the calculation of GDP in general. It is absolutely a number that we need to have in order to understand the workings of a part of the economy. But it is just one tool in the economic toolbox. If the only tool you use to affect (determine, guide – choose your word) economic growth and the creation of jobs is the hammer of GDP, the world ends up being a very strange-looking, rather deformed nail, bent time and time again by the imprecise blows of those wielding the hammer. GDP is an important concept, perhaps one of the more important that we have looked at in quite a few years. I urge you not to roll your eyes at the attempt to understand yet another dry economic statistic, but instead to look deeply at how the attempt to measure GDP affects everything in our lives. But before we jump deeper into our topic, let me call your attention to a Mauldin Circle Member Exclusive. We have now made the Newt Gingrich and Niall Ferguson Strategic Investment Conference videos available. Two weeks ago we made select presentations from the Strategic Investment Conference, including those of Kyle Bass and David Rosenberg, available to Mauldin Circle members. This week, we are happy to provide even more material from this incredibly informative event. Newt Gingrich and Niall Ferguson were the two highest rated presenters at a conference packed with some of the finest economic and investment minds in the world. Both Newt’s insights into the opportunities offered by the remarkable technological evolution underway (and the roadblocks to progress thrown up by our bureaucracies) and Niall’s analysis of the monetary and geopolitical “tapering” currently in progress are well worth a watch. You can access both videos, absolutely free, just by becoming a Mauldin Circle member. In addition to these select videos, you’ll get access to summaries and presentations of many more speakers from the conference. In order to join, you must be an accredited investor. Register here to be qualified by my partners at Altegris and added to the subscriber roster. Once you register, an Altegris representative will call you to provide access to the videos, presentations, and summaries from selected speakers at our 2014 conference. If you are already a Mauldin Circle member, simply log in to the “members only” area of the Altegris website at http://www.altegris.com. Click on the “SIC 2014” link in the upper left corner to view the videos and more. If you have forgotten your login information, simply click “Forgot Login?” and your information will be sent to you. And now back to our letter. GDP: A Brief But Affectionate History The title of this week’s letter is taken from the title of a recent book by Diane Coyle. (For economic wonks, she writes an interesting blog at http://www.enlightenmenteconomics.com.) GDP: A Brief But Affectionate History is a fascinating 140-page book that I cannot recommend highly enough. This is simply the best book on GDP that I’ve ever seen. You can read it on a few hours’ plane ride or a lazy Sunday afternoon. And Ms. Coyle actually makes a relatively dry subject interesting and at times a page-turner. She has a true gift. (Now that she has conquered the GDP mountain, might I suggest she move on to CPI?) Wikimedia CommonsAdam SmithMs. Coyle starts with the predecessors to Adam Smith and takes us through the 17th century right up until today with the development of GDP, so we see the ebb and flow of ideas through time. Who knew the early developers of the model did not want to include defense spending, as they saw it as a wasteful, nonproductive activity? Or that Adam Smith thought the inclusion of services in the concept was misleading. “The provision of more services was a cost to the national economy, in his view. A servant was a cost to his employer, and did not create anything. Importantly, money spent on warfare or the interest on government debt was also being used unproductively. The nation’s wealth was its stock of physical assets less the national debt. National income was what derived from the national wealth.” (I read this book on my iPad using my Kindle app, an extremely useful tool. As it turns out, if you highlight passages in the book you read [and even make notes and comments], you can go to your Kindle web page and see all the passages you highlighted. I regularly do that now and find it an extremely useful exercise, one that I would suggest to any serious researcher, as notes in a book tend to get buried and lost; and often you just can’t quite (at least at my age) remember those connections five or ten years later, especially if you’re reading more than a few books a year. Now my notes are in the cloud. Wow. And when I access the notes, I can touch a link to go back to the original passage in the book, making sure I have the context. How cool is that? I found myself highlighting more than the normal number of passages, as seemingly every page had something I wanted to be able to remember for future use. Just for fun I cut and pasted my highlights into a Word doc and found that they ran to some 15 pages, or more than 10% of the book.) And while I would suggest you read Coyle’s book, I know that many of you don’t have the time or inclination, so I’m going to try to summarize the highlights and arguments and quote somewhat freely from the text here and there. (Unless otherwise noted, all quotations below are from the book.) Will the Real GDP Please Stand Up? Let me note up front that Ms. Coyle takes us through not just the development of GDP but also the problems inherent in the concept. She delves into its misses and its misfires, some regularly discussed in public circles and a few new to me. There is no such entity out there as GDP in the real world, waiting to be measured by economists. It is an abstract idea…. I also ask whether GDP alone is still a good enough measure of economic performance – and conclude not. It is a measure designed for the twentieth-century economy of physical mass production, not for the modern economy of rapid innovation and intangible, increasingly digital, services. How well the economy is doing is always going to be an important part of everyday politics, and we’re going to need a better measure of “the economy” than today’s GDP. GDP is a huge undertaking, full of rules, with almost as many exceptions to the rules, changes, fixes, and qualifications, so that, as one Amazon reviewer noted, GDP is in reality so complex there are only a handful of people in the world who fully understand it, and that does not include the commentators and politicians who pontificate about it almost daily. The quarterly release of GDP statistics is more akin to a religious service than anything resembling a scientific study. The awe and breathlessness with which the number is discussed is somewhat amusing to those who understand the sausage-making process that goes into producing the number. Whether the GDP reading is positive or negative, it often changes less in a given quarter than the margin of error in the figure itself, and it can be and generally is revised significantly – often many years later when almost no one is paying attention. When’s the last time the mainstream media reported a five-year-old revision? If you pay someone to mow your lawn and report wages paid, that adds to GDP. If you pay that person under the table, it doesn’t. If you pay your maid to clean your house, it adds to GDP. Except if you marry her, then it doesn’t. Unless of course she gets access to the credit card, in which case spending probably increases GDP dramatically. In England, sex with your wife does not add to GDP, but sex with a prostitute does – even if it is unreported. Go figure. There are so many jokes and one-liners that I could add to this litany, but I’m going to resist. Okay, just one. Can you imagine the reception if you came home with a blonde hair on your dark suit and your excuse was, “Honey, I was just doing my bit for the national economy. We all have to make sacrifices.” Housekeeping, cleaning, cooking, and other such duties do not get counted in GDP, although without them GDP would suffer significantly. Perhaps that is because when the original discussions about what constituted GDP were underway, “woman’s work” was significantly undervalued. But we are getting ahead of ourselves. Before we discuss how GDP is constructed (and abused), let’s take a look at the history of how it came about. It will not surprise most readers to know that governments decided they need to know what the gross domestic product of the country was in order to be able to both tax that productivity and decide about a nation’s capabilities to wage (and pay the wages of) war. Ms. Coyle starts her book with the rather dramatic story of the calculation (or rather the miscalculation) of Greek GDP upon that country’s entry into the European Union. The Greek group responsible for creating such numbers worked in a dusty old apartment without any computers and seemingly engaged in little activity. The real work was done by politicians, who did not appear to feel the need to be burdened by anything so aggravating as actual numbers. When the European Commission and the IMF decided to send someone to create an actual statistical agency in Greece, they selected a well-respected Greek economist, who within a year was charged by the Greek government with the crime of betraying the national interest, an offense that theoretically carries a life sentence. Essentially, he was charged for not cooking the books, which the Greeks had perfected as an art form. Evidently, in Greece economics is a full-contact sport, and the “calculation” of GDP had real-world implications for whether the government would get desperately needed money from its Eurozone lenders and for how many government workers would lose their jobs, not to mention the impact it would have on the living standards of millions of Greeks. GDP is the way we measure and compare how well or badly countries are doing. But this is not a question of measuring a natural phenomenon like land mass or average temperature to varying degrees of accuracy. GDP is a made-up entity. The [current] concept dates back only to the 1940s…. According to Benjamin Mitra-Kahn, “The Wealth of Nations introduced a new idea of the economy, and through the effort of Adam Smith’s students and admirers, it was adopted almost instantly.” In Smith’s own words: ‘There is one sort of labour which adds to the value of the subject upon which it is bestowed: There is another which has no such effect. The former, as it produces a value, may be called productive; the latter, unproductive labour. Thus the labour of a manufacturer adds, generally, to the value of the materials which he works upon, that of his own maintenance, and of his master’s profit. The labour of a menial servant, on the contrary, adds to the value of nothing…. A man grows rich by employing a multitude of manufacturers: He grows poor, by maintaining a multitude of menial servants.’ The idea of a distinction between productive and unproductive activity, adopted by Adam Smith, dominated economic debate and measurement until the late nineteenth century.” (A side note: Karl Marx agreed with Adam Smith, and up until the collapse of communism in 1989, the Soviet Union’s economic statistics ignored service activities. Go figure.) Simon Kuznets was a Russian-American economist and a true giant in the field. Much of what we regard as economics today was developed under his aegis. Wikipedia notes: “His name is associated with the formation of the modern economic science … as an empirical discipline, the development of statistical methods of research, and the emergence of quantitative economic history. Kuznets is credited with revolutionising econometrics, and this work is credited with fueling the so-called Keynesian revolution” (even though Kuznets had significant disagreements with Keynes). Kuznets himself was influenced by Schumpeter, Pigou, and Pareto; and he early on introduced Kondratiev to the West. Kuznets, when he originally developed an approach for measuring GDP for the American economy, did not want to include expenses on “… armaments, most of the outlays on advertising, a great many of the expenses involved in financial and speculative activities, and much of government activity,” including the building of subways, expensive housing, etc. Such thinking could not stand the scrutiny of politicians, however: With this aim, in fact, Kuznets was out of tune with his times. Welfare was a peacetime luxury. This passage [and his early work on GDP] was written in 1937, when his first set of accounts was presented to Congress. Before long, the president would want a way of measuring the economy that did indicate its total capacity to produce but did not show additional government expenditure on armaments as reducing the nation’s output. The trouble with the prewar definitions of national income was precisely that, as constructed, they would show the economy shrinking if private output available for consumption declined, even if the government spending required for the war effort was expanding output elsewhere in the economy. The Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply, established in 1941, found that its recommendation to increase government expenditure in the subsequent year was rejected on this basis. Changing the definition of national income to the concept of GDP, rather than something more like Kuznets’s original proposal, overcame this hurdle. There was a “heated debate between Kuznets and other economists, especially Milton Gilbert of the Commerce Department, about the right approach. The discussions were highly technical, but the underlying issue was profound: what was the meaning of economic growth and why were statisticians measuring it? Gilbert and his colleagues were clear that the aim was to construct a measurement that would be useful to the government in running its fiscal policy.” The inclusion of business taxes and depreciation [in GNP measured at market prices] resulted in a production measure that was more appropriate for analysis of the war program’s burden on the economy. Kuznets was highly skeptical: “He argued that Commerce’s method tautologically ensured that fiscal spending would increase measured economic growth regardless of whether it actually benefited individuals’ economic welfare.” In the policy tussle in Washington, Kuznets lost and wartime realpolitik won. [And that those arguing against Kuznets were heavily influenced by Keynes is rather difficult to deny. –JM] … This decision was a turning point in the measurement of national income, and it meant that GNP (or later GDP) would be a concept strikingly different from the way the economy had been thought about from the dawn of modern industrial growth in the early eighteenth century until the early twentieth century. For two centuries, “the economy” was the private sector. Government played a small role in economic life, and featured mainly because it looked to raise taxes to pay for wars. Its role expanded steadily over the centuries, however. In Victorian times this began to extend to the provision of other services, those we take for granted now such as roads and water as well as the historic government roles of defense and justice.” Keynes himself, on the other side of the Atlantic, was arguing for an extended role for statistical analysis in government planning. He set forth his case in a 1940 pamphlet called How to Pay for the War. Coyle notes (emphasis mine): Crucially, the development of GDP, and specifically its inclusion of government expenditure, winning out over Kuznets’s welfare-based approach, made Keynesian macroeconomic theory the fundamental basis of how governments ran their economies in the postwar era. The conceptual measurement change enabled a significant change in the part governments were to play in the economy. GDP statistics and Keynesian macroeconomic policy were mutually reinforcing. The story of GDP since 1940 is also the story of macroeconomics. The availability of national accounts statistics made demand management seem not only feasible but also scientific. Understand what this means. One thing that Paul Krugman and I can agree on (and I say this with utmost confidence) is that we both believe that real economic growth is necessary to get us out of our current situation. (I am sure there are some other things that we could agree on, such as our mutual love for science fiction, but nothing else leaps to mind just yet.) However, if your measure of economic growth overweights the contribution of government spending to growth and underweights private production by focusing on final consumption, then when you are looking for “policy dials” to turn on the economic control panel in order to increase growth, the dials you reach for will be the two largest ones in your equation for measuring success: final consumption and government spending. GDP Is a Political Construction Coyle underlines the inherently political nature of GDP measurement: We are now awash with macroeconomic models and forecasts, published by official agencies and central banks, by investment banks, by think tanks and researchers, as well as by commercial forecasters such as DRI’s successors. Indeed, the idea of the economy as a machine, regulated by appropriate policy levers, took firm hold…. Debate rages in particular about the multiplier, because the issue of whether extra government spending or tax cuts (a “fiscal stimulus”) will boost GDP growth turns on its size. If it is greater than one, a stimulus will help growth, while austerity measures will hurt it. Its actual size is hotly contested among macroeconomists, especially in the context of the present political debate about how much “fiscal stimulus” the government should be applying to get the economy growing faster. There is an unsurprising alignment in the “multiplier wars” between macroeconomists’ answer to the technical question about the size of the multiplier and their political sympathies…. It will be clear by now that the ambition of measuring national income has a long history, with correspondingly many changes in how people have thought about it. As Richard Stone put it, national income is not a “primary fact” but an “empirical construct”: “To ascertain income it is necessary to set up a theory from which income is derived as a concept by postulation and then associate this concept with a certain set of primary facts.” There is no such entity as GDP out there in the real world waiting to be measured by economists. It is an abstract idea, and one that after a half century of international discussion and standard-setting has become extremely complicated. [emphasis mine] Today, as Coyle notes, the process of comprehending GDP is somewhat akin to what happens when my kids play a videogame. The basic concepts are simple, but as you master each level and move on to the next, complexity increases almost ad infinitum. There is now an entire international community of statisticians (a surprisingly small one at that) that actually determine what is accepted as statistically relevant to GDP. The first United Nations guide on national accounts was 50 pages. The latest edition has 722. It should not surprise readers that every few years new rules are created for the figuring of GDP. British statisticians just this year declared the UK economy to be 5% bigger than previously thought. What brought about this magical boost in productivity? There was no discovery of buried treasure hidden away in the vaults of the Bank of England. Instead, statisticians turned to counting the economic contribution of prostitution and illegal drugs (along with a few other odds and ends). If you are borrowing money and your creditworthiness depends on cash flow and your debt-to-GDP ratio, you tend to look for sources of income that weren’t previously accounted for. Did the size of the US economy increase by 3% last summer? According to the statisticians it did. They decided to include music and entertainment and make adjustments to how we deal with investments. These changes were then calculated for all previous years, and suddenly the economy was 3% bigger! Small positive annual changes can add up over 40 years. GDP has always been a political construction, subject to the ebb and flow of the intellectual and political climate, the need to raise taxes, and the military needs of the day. It is also a tool used to argue for or against income inequality (depending on what country you’re in). GDP is particularly bad at detecting innovation, as George Gilder’s powerhouse work Knowledge and Power explains. There is a clear consensus emerging in economic circles about that weakness in the formula for calculating GDP, but there is nothing approaching consensus on how you might actually measure the contribution of innovation to GDP. How do you measure the value of Google maps? The voice recognition software that I’m using right now has made me significantly more productive, but how do we measure that? And somewhat provocatively, there is growing disagreement over the contribution of the financial services sector. Depending on how you measure it, you can even determine that the actual contribution of the financial services sector is negative, although I would not make that argument. But was the contribution of financial services in 2005-2006 as positive as their impact on GDP suggests? Or was it part of the destructive process? GDP is a financial construct at its heart, a political and philosophical abstraction. It is a necessary part of the management of the country, because, as with any enterprise, if you can’t measure it you can’t determine if what you are doing is productive. That said, the act of measuring GDP precipitates the observer effect writ large. But as we will see next week, there are additional (note, I am not saying alternative) ways to measure growth and the size of the economy. Those measures would actually lead to policies more favored by Hayek, as the largest “dials” on the control panel would become productivity and income rather than consumer spending and government. Conveniently, the Bureau of Economic Analysis will be giving us a new “Hayekian” statistic in its release next Friday. I am looking forward to seeing what this new measure says about the growth of the economy in the first quarter. Stay tuned as next week we ponder the question of “How in the name of all that is righteous and holy could Hayek lose the argument?” His proponents are right to argue that the match was rigged and the judges were bought. If you have a few minutes, watch these two brilliantly done, hilarious, and instructive YouTube videos, here and here. I think you will come away smiling but also gain an understanding of the true terms of the debate. At the end of the day, I keep coming back to how central the arguments between Hayek and Keynes are to almost every economic discussion. Minneapolis, Vancouver, and Maine Wasn’t it just a few weeks ago that I was talking about how much time I would get to spend at home this summer? Monday I will leave for a day trip to Minneapolis to do an on-site visit with my friend Pat Cox, who writes our Transformational Technology Alert letter. It’s really an easy trip, and Minneapolis is nice this time of year. Then, as a last-minute thing, I will leave on Thursday evening to spend the weekend with Louis Gave and his friends to celebrate his 40th birthday and christen his new home in Whistler, a few hours north of Vancouver. I always enjoy my time with Louis, as he is one of the most intellectually stimulating thinkers I know and a genuinely nice guy. I’m sure many of my friends will be flying in from around the world as well. My only problem with Louis is that this is just his 40th birthday. I hadn’t even figured out where the restroom was in the economics building when I was 40. I’m not sure what kind of inequality this is, but it just doesn’t seem fair. Admittedly, he did grow up with one of the finest French economists this century has seen (and one of the few), his father Charles. That might have been a small advantage. He says he is going to make me do something called rope climbing. It can’t be any worse than the hour I spent “boxing” with The Beast this afternoon. It’s a good thing I use voice recognition to do this letter, because my arms are too weak to type. Then I am back for a few days before I leave with my young son Trey to go to Maine for our annual fishing trip at Camp Kotok. I’m not quite sure how to deal with how pleasant the weather is here in Dallas in July. The highs the last two days have been in the mid-70s. That is some 20°+ below the average high at this time of year. I spent my days in New York this past week, meeting with my partners in Mauldin Economics (and George Gilder drove down to meet with us) and outlining a new documentary we want to do on Bitcoin. I had extensive meetings with new team members and potential partners who will be part of a major project with me, one I’ve been working on for several years that is getting close to the point where I can actually talk about it in public. All in all, this has been a great week, and I expect an even better one next week. New friends, old friends, and a few challenges. I’m curious as to what a ropes course is. And whether someone my age should be doing something like that. I have always been somewhat “coordinationally challenged” (to use a polite term). Since it would be rather bad form for Louis to have his guests come away plastered with bandages or hobbling on crutches, I am going to assume the best. You have a great week. Your thinking about the The Road to Serfdom analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Regis DuvignauChina's crackdown on corruption, under the watchful eye of president Xi Jinping, is only gathering steam. French cognac maker Remy Cointreau continues to suffer from China's anti-graft campaign.  The alcoholic beverage company reported a 5.7% fall in revenues to €214.8 million in its first quarter. Remy Martin brand, which primarily makes cognac, saw organic sales plunge 15.3% in Q1. Sales in Asia Pacific were still impacted by destocking in China. Remy took a huge hit on Cognac sales last year, falling 32% in Q4, and 30% in Q3. "Rémy Martin was adversely affected throughout the financial year by the Chinese government’s anti-extravagance policy, which had a negative impact on the consumption of premium spirits," it said in its last earnings statement. "Cognac accounts for 80 percent of the company's operating profit, with China contributing half of cognac profits," according to Dominique Vidalon at Reuters.  Remy does expect Cognac sales to pick up in coming quarters however. We've seen China's anti-graft campaign hurt catering and sales of luxury goods. Chinese officials became nervous about being caught playing golf. And now officials are starting to think twice about their investment decisions. FREE AppDownload
isafmedia/flickr The primary driver of future projected debt and deficits has been the growth of federal healthcare spending, something that has alarmed economists as a wave of baby boomers retires and more people are added to the Medicare and Medicaid rolls.  But over the last four years, healthcare spending has grown at a historically slow rate. Economists credit the Affordable Care Act in part, as well as other reforms. And according to new projections from the Congressional Budget Office, the trend could continue. In in its annual 25-year forecast of the federal budget, the CBO projected growth of federal spending on healthcare programs will continue to slow at a healthy rate over the next 25 years. In a startling but continuing reversal of projection, the CBO said Tuesday that the federal government would spend about $250 billion less on major federal healthcare programs than it had forecast in 2010, the year the Affordable Care Act was signed into law.  The CBO's new projections say federal spending on major healthcare programs — Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program, and federal subsidies for people buying insurance on the new Obamacare-established exchanges — will rise from about 4.9% of GDP this year to about 7.5% in 2035. The latter number is 2.2 percentage points lower than the CBO projected five years ago.  Medicare, in particular, is on an even better path. In 2006, the trustees who monitor the Medicare and Social Security programs said the trust fund that pays hospital bills would be broke by 2018. Now, that trust fund is expected to be solvent until at least 2030, according to the CBO. Overall, Medicare expenditures in 2035 are 2.6 percentage points of GDP lower than the office projected in 2009. Projected Medicare spending is down 35% from five years ago. Peter Orszag, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget, told Business Insider it's the equivalent of the "biggest fiscal development" in more than three decades. "Healthcare spending has always been the core fiscal problem facing the United States," Orszag said. "If we had passed legislation that knocked down long-term Medicare spending projections by 35% it would easily qualify as the biggest fiscal development since the early 1980s — and the fact that the changes are occurring for multiple reasons doesn’t alter that conclusion." From the Brookings Institute, here are two charts where you can see the healthcare and Medicare spending slowdown in action: Brookings InstituteBrookings Institute What's behind the continued healthcare slowdown? The CBO attributed it to many different causes, including slower overall projected economic growth and lower-than-projected interest rates in the future. But the CBO also suggested for the first time that the federal government may be able to keep growth costs in line with overall inflation, based on requirements set in the Affordable Care Act. "Other evidence suggests that hospitals and other providers may be able to achieve significant productivity gains or to restrain the growth of their costs in some other way," the CBO report read. Here's the big caveat: Though the healthcare spending growth decline is expected to continue, it doesn't mean the federal government is out of the woods. The "silver tsunami" of baby boomers will soon begin to retire, adding to an already aging population that will add more to the Medicare rolls and make healthcare spending the federal government's biggest expense by about 2030. Congressional Budget Office Overall, the CBO says federal debt is still on an unsustainable path and projects it to reach 102% of GDP by 2039. The primary reason for that will be spending on the healthcare programs and Social Security, which are still projected to grow to about 14% of GDP together by 2039.  Orszag, though, thinks the projections might still be a little too pessimistic, despite the sudden stroke of optimism in the CBO report. Medicare spending is up about 1.2% this fiscal year, significantly lower than projections. "If that continues," Orszag said, "the fiscal picture looks even brighter." FREE AppDownload
As it stands now, if Argentina doesn't pay a group of hedge fund managers over $1.3 billion by July 30, the country could go into default. For the Republic, that means money printing, inflation, and general disaster. For investors, like Michael Novogratz of Fortress Investments, that means buying, buying, buying. "If something doesn't happen and there's a default we're going to see a sell-off," said Novogratz at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha conference on Wednesday, "but that's an opportunity for capital coming in." To Novogratz, Argentina follows his macro-investing theme of looking at countries that are "so bad, they're good." These are countries that could very well be on the road to improvement — he mentioned India (where a recent election brought in a reform government), Japan (still experimenting with "Abenomics"), and Brazil (where President Dilma Rousseff could soon be on the way out). Argentina fits this bill because, even if it does manage to avoid default, its current regime will be on the way out by 2015. If it does default, though, everything will hit rock bottom. This was when the group of "vulture" hedge fund managers, who Argentina refuses to pay, bought the country's sovereign debt. So if it does default, history repeats itself, and Argentina will set itself up to be "vulture" food yet again. "We're long stocks, long bonds, long currency," said Novogratz. "We'll know [if the country will default] in two weeks." FREE AppDownload
Everybody wants to move up in this world. A big part of the American Dream is the idea that anyone can make it, regardless of where you start out. Children born to lower income families should be able to make it big, and children of the rich shouldn't automatically have success handed to them. Of course, this is not always the case. A study by the Equality of Opportunity Project, a collaboration among a number of prominent economists, found that there's a wide variation in economic mobility across different places in the U.S. One of the main measures of social mobility in the study is called "absolute mobility" by the researchers. Absolute mobility measures where a typical child who starts out in a family in the bottom half of the income distribution will end up in the income distribution among people his or her age when he or she grows up. The researchers calculated this measure of mobility for almost all counties in the U.S., and put their data online. Here's a map showing the outcomes, where darker counties have less mobility, and lighter counties have more: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Chetty et. al. June 2014 There are some pretty interesting regional patterns. Most notably, the Southeast has a pretty big lack of economic mobility: children from families in the lower parts of the income distribution are, on average, staying in those lower parts.  Meanwhile, in most of the Great Plains (excepting southern South Dakota, which the authors of the paper note include large Native American reservations that have suffered from long-term poverty), children from families earning less than the national average have much better chances of moving to higher income brackets. Aside from these broad regional trends, the authors note, and the map shows, that there is also plenty of variation within regions and states. Formally, the absolute mobility measure for an area looks at outcomes for children from that area whose parents are in the 25th percentile of income, or right in the middle of the bottom half of the income distribution. Absolute mobility is defined by the authors of the paper to be the average percentile rank of these children's incomes when they've grown up. This is a good measure of social mobility, since the higher the measure is, the more likely children coming from the bottom half of the income distribution are to move up in the world. In a completely egalitarian world, where your parents' income had no effect on your income, this absolute mobility measure would be about 50: children whose parents are in the bottom half of the income distribution would be equally likely to land in any part of the distribution when they grow up, and so when we average their ranks, we should end up in the middle. Conversely, in a completely aristocratic world, where children end up in exactly the same social place as their parents, the absolute mobility measure would be 25. We're looking at the average rank of children whose parents are in the 25th percentile, so if everyone ends up in the same part of the income distribution as their parents, these children would stay in the 25th percentile. For much more detail, check out the Equality of Opportunity Project website.
REUTERS/Jason ReedFor a long time, as we saw it, tapering and the threat of tapering (as in last year’s taper tantrum) did not constitute tightening. Today we explore why we believe the situation has now changed. In order to understand why tapering was not tightening initially, we must momentarily set aside all influences on US Treasury note and bond interest rates that fall outside of the Federal Reserve’s program. Pretend for a minute that foreign exchange flows, geopolitical risks, inflation expectations, deflation expectations, sovereign debt biases, preferred habitat buyers, and a million other things are all neutral. They never are, but for this exercise pretend that they are so. We have observed and commented on QE and the expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet for several years, as the Fed emphasized intermediate- and long-term maturities as a mechanism by which to absorb the net issuance of US Treasury securities. Let’s think of it this way. The federal deficit was $1 trillion, and the Fed was buying securities at the rate of $85 billion per month, or approximately $1 trillion yearly. Thus, the Fed purchased the entire amount of issuance that the federal government presented to the market. If all things were otherwise neutral, the market impact was zero. There was no influence to change interest rates; hence they could stay very low. But in the economic recovery phase, the federal deficit commenced shrinking sooner than the Fed commenced tapering. There reached a point at which the Fed was acquiring more than 100% of the net new issuance of US government securities. At that point, the Fed’s buying activity was withdrawing those securities from holders in the US and around the world. Essentially the Fed was bidding up the price and dropping the yield of those Treasury securities, and it was doing so in the long-duration end of the distribution of those securities. The Fed has taken the duration of its assets from two years prior to the Lehman-AIG crisis all the way out to six years, which is the present estimate. It is hard to visualize the Fed taking that duration out any farther. There are not enough securities left, even if the Fed continues to roll every security reaching maturity into the longest possible available replacement security. We can conclude that the duration shift, otherwise known as a “twist,” is over. A six-year duration of the Fed’s balance sheet is about all one can reasonably expect them to obtain. Now the Fed commences the tapering process, incrementally stepping down its purchases of $85 billion per month to lesser amounts. The Fed has said that it will complete that task and reach zero before the end of this year. The target month is October. The current rate of purchases is $35 billion a month, or approximately $400 billion at an annualized run rate. The federal deficit has declined as well. Because of the shrinkage of the deficit, the run rate of Fed purchases and issuance by the US government are still about the same as the amount of Fed purchases. Before, the balance was $1 trillion issued and $1 trillion absorbed by the Fed. Presently, it is approximately $400 billion issued and $400 billion absorbed by the Fed. The Fed is on a glide path to zero, but the deficit remains a long way from zero. In July, August, September, and October of this year, for the first time, the net issuance of US government securities will exceed the absorption by the Fed as it tapers. The process of tapering is a gradual one that has been discussed by Fed officials continuously, and it is clear that, in the absence of some extreme reaction, they are going to sustain this path. What does that mean? By autumn, we will see issuance of US government securities at a rate of somewhere close to $400 billion annualized, whereas Fed absorption will be at zero. The Fed will continue to replace its maturities, but that practice will not add duration or supply any stimulus. In July, August, September, and October, for the first time, the change in rate between what the Fed absorbs and what the Treasury issues will result in a shift. That shift is a tightening. Will the markets respond to that tightening? We do not know. Have they responded to similar shifts in history? Absolutely. Could the shift be dramatic? We do not know. Could the response be benign? Yes. Could the response increase volatility and intensify market reactions to other events, many of which we have, for the purposes of this discussion, been assumed to be neutral? Absolutely. We are about to get back to a neutral place. The neutral place means the impact of issuance of debt by the government will again become a significant factor even if the rate is $400 billion per year. The other factors that we listed above and many more that have not been listed here are about to become more direct and substantial influences on interest rates. The reality is that their effects over the last seven years have been dampened by Fed policy. The effect of Fed policy on US-denominated assets has been to create a continued upward bias in the prices of those assets. Stocks, bonds, real estate, collectibles, and any asset that is sensitive to interest rates have had the benefit of this extraordinary policy for five or six years. That support is coming to an end. At Cumberland, we have no idea whether the transition will be benign and gradual or abrupt and volatile. There is no way to know. Therefore, we have taken a cash reserve position in our US ETF and US ETF Core accounts. We are maintaining that position as we navigate this transition period of July, August, September, and October. After years of stimulus, we’ve reached a tipping point that remaps the investing landscape in ways we cannot clearly foresee: for the rest of this year, tapering will be tightening. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedFor a long time, as we saw it, tapering and the threat of tapering (as in last year’s taper tantrum) did not constitute tightening. Today we explore why we believe the situation has now changed. In order to understand why tapering was not tightening initially, we must momentarily set aside all influences on US Treasury note and bond interest rates that fall outside of the Federal Reserve’s program. Pretend for a minute that foreign exchange flows, geopolitical risks, inflation expectations, deflation expectations, sovereign debt biases, preferred habitat buyers, and a million other things are all neutral. They never are, but for this exercise pretend that they are so. We have observed and commented on QE and the expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet for several years, as the Fed emphasized intermediate- and long-term maturities as a mechanism by which to absorb the net issuance of US Treasury securities. Let’s think of it this way. The federal deficit was $1 trillion, and the Fed was buying securities at the rate of $85 billion per month, or approximately $1 trillion yearly. Thus, the Fed purchased the entire amount of issuance that the federal government presented to the market. If all things were otherwise neutral, the market impact was zero. There was no influence to change interest rates; hence they could stay very low. But in the economic recovery phase, the federal deficit commenced shrinking sooner than the Fed commenced tapering. There reached a point at which the Fed was acquiring more than 100% of the net new issuance of US government securities. At that point, the Fed’s buying activity was withdrawing those securities from holders in the US and around the world. Essentially the Fed was bidding up the price and dropping the yield of those Treasury securities, and it was doing so in the long-duration end of the distribution of those securities. The Fed has taken the duration of its assets from two years prior to the Lehman-AIG crisis all the way out to six years, which is the present estimate. It is hard to visualize the Fed taking that duration out any farther. There are not enough securities left, even if the Fed continues to roll every security reaching maturity into the longest possible available replacement security. We can conclude that the duration shift, otherwise known as a “twist,” is over. A six-year duration of the Fed’s balance sheet is about all one can reasonably expect them to obtain. Now the Fed commences the tapering process, incrementally stepping down its purchases of $85 billion per month to lesser amounts. The Fed has said that it will complete that task and reach zero before the end of this year. The target month is October. The current rate of purchases is $35 billion a month, or approximately $400 billion at an annualized run rate. The federal deficit has declined as well. Because of the shrinkage of the deficit, the run rate of Fed purchases and issuance by the US government are still about the same as the amount of Fed purchases. Before, the balance was $1 trillion issued and $1 trillion absorbed by the Fed. Presently, it is approximately $400 billion issued and $400 billion absorbed by the Fed. The Fed is on a glide path to zero, but the deficit remains a long way from zero. In July, August, September, and October of this year, for the first time, the net issuance of US government securities will exceed the absorption by the Fed as it tapers. The process of tapering is a gradual one that has been discussed by Fed officials continuously, and it is clear that, in the absence of some extreme reaction, they are going to sustain this path. What does that mean? By autumn, we will see issuance of US government securities at a rate of somewhere close to $400 billion annualized, whereas Fed absorption will be at zero. The Fed will continue to replace its maturities, but that practice will not add duration or supply any stimulus. In July, August, September, and October, for the first time, the change in rate between what the Fed absorbs and what the Treasury issues will result in a shift. That shift is a tightening. Will the markets respond to that tightening? We do not know. Have they responded to similar shifts in history? Absolutely. Could the shift be dramatic? We do not know. Could the response be benign? Yes. Could the response increase volatility and intensify market reactions to other events, many of which we have, for the purposes of this discussion, been assumed to be neutral? Absolutely. We are about to get back to a neutral place. The neutral place means the impact of issuance of debt by the government will again become a significant factor even if the rate is $400 billion per year. The other factors that we listed above and many more that have not been listed here are about to become more direct and substantial influences on interest rates. The reality is that their effects over the last seven years have been dampened by Fed policy. The effect of Fed policy on US-denominated assets has been to create a continued upward bias in the prices of those assets. Stocks, bonds, real estate, collectibles, and any asset that is sensitive to interest rates have had the benefit of this extraordinary policy for five or six years. That support is coming to an end. At Cumberland, we have no idea whether the transition will be benign and gradual or abrupt and volatile. There is no way to know. Therefore, we have taken a cash reserve position in our US ETF and US ETF Core accounts. We are maintaining that position as we navigate this transition period of July, August, September, and October. After years of stimulus, we’ve reached a tipping point that remaps the investing landscape in ways we cannot clearly foresee: for the rest of this year, tapering will be tightening. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr - wanderingzThere is little more frustrating for us as consumers than really bad customer service. The topic is fresh on our minds thanks to that nightmare call recorded by a journalist trying to cancel his comcast service. Usually, bad customer service experiences aren't as public, but they happen all the time and can have a significant impact on a business' success. A 2009 study in China, noting that there wasn't a wealth of research tying customer satisfaction to profit, tried to get to the bottom of it. Their conclusion is powerful. "The results show that non-financial measure, customer satisfaction, is significantly associated with contemporary and future financial performance. Furthermore, the enterprises with higher-level customer satisfaction than others will enjoy higher profitability." Put simply, customer satisfaction has been proven to have a direct relationship with financial success. We got curious about who consumers think are the absolute worst, and found some answers. The website Ranker.com, with more than 14 million fans has a comprehensive crowd-sourced ranking on the subject. There have been more than 23,000 votes and over 4,000 voters. Here's how they're voting.   The consumer electronics giant comes in at number eight on the list. This is interesting given that Best Buy reportedly has plans to better train their staff to compete with companies like Amazon. One of Best Buy's biggest customer service offerings is their "Geek Squad," that helps people install and set up gear they buy at the store.     Citibank comes in at number 7. Citigroup has been in the news a lot lately thanks to a $7 billion fine and settlement over investigation into pre-crisis mortgage practices. Citigroup is the third largest holding company in the United States as of March 31, 2014. You might think based on the recent service call mayhem that the communications company would be first on this list, but that's not the case. It will be very interesting to see how the customer service experience changes as the purchase of Time Warner shakes out. Since the merger with US Airways, they are now the world's biggest airline. But according to this list, at least, that hasn't meant great customer service. It's still all very new, though, and time will tell how much better or worse the customer experience will be on the heels of this merger. According to the NRF, Wal-Mart is the biggest mass merchant in the United States. When you're that large it's a real challenge to keep everyone happy, and Wal-Mart has had varying success. We recently wrote about a man who discovered Wal-Mart refused to price match their online prices in stores. The Charlotte-based banking giant comes in at number three. Forbes ranks Bank of America as the 13th biggest company in the world. Recently, they announced they were lowering their threshold for people qualifying for loan discounts and other benefits. Now that the company is set to merge with Comcast, we'll have to wait and see if Time Warner Cable is able to improve their customer service. Of course, according to the American Consumer Satisfaction Index, subscription television service doesn't have a great reputation. Number One on Ranker's list is the second-largest wireless phone carrier in the United States (note that Verizon, number one, did not make this list). And they're set to get even bigger with a DirecTV merger.     FREE AppDownload
DFM.aeStocks in Dubai got crushed on Sunday. The Dubai FMG Index fell a whopping 5.99% on the day. This is the biggest downward move since June 24, when the FMG Index fell 6.5%. Once again, the catalyst for the sell-off appears to be Arabtec Holding Co, the biggest property developer in the UAE. "Arabtec’s shares, which fell 9.9 percent, the most since June 30, were halted from trading at the end of last week pending clarification of its ownership," reported Bloomberg's Sarmad Khan and Shoshanna Solomon. "Aabar is in talks to buy at least half of a 28.9 percent stake held by the construction company’s former Chief Executive Officer Hasan Ismaik, a person with knowledge of the situation said July 15." Aabar released a statement Sunday, which only stated that these talks were confidential. In other words, they offered no clarity. Dubai has one of the hottest property markets in the world. REUTERS/Steve Crisp"Dubai has had a spectacular performance over the past two and a half years. Its latest performance was an amazing 31.57% annual house price rise during the past year to Q1 2014," said Global Property Guide in June. "Property demand is surging and the economy remains strong." Some warn that Dubai's property market is a full-blown bubble that is at risk of bursting. And trouble at the property developers could be an indicator of this. "Chief Executive Officer Hasan Ismaik’s resignation in June and the subsequent dismissal of top managers threw into doubt an expansion plan that saw Arabtec shares quadruple during the CEO’s 15 months in charge," reported Bloomberg's Zainab Fattah. "Concerns that the company was losing state support, followed by the CEO’s departure, caused Arabtec to drop by 59 percent in Dubai trading from June 5 to June 30." FREE AppDownload
Turning 30 is a major step in life. Most will bring on more responsibilities and have less time to enjoy what the world has to offer. Try to fit these 15 things in before you turn the big 3-0 — you'll be happy you did.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
VimeoThe Doha skyline. Qatar is purchasing $11 billion in Patriot missile batteries and Apache attack helicopters from the United States, according to AFP. It's the largest single sale of U.S. weaponry in 2014, and it's to a country with only 278,000 citizens (and about 1.5 million expatriates). With this purchase, Qatar might be swapping soft power for military might. The gas-rich emirate gambled on the region-wide success of the Muslim Brotherhood in the years after the "Arab Spring" protests. But its strategy toppled with the military coup that removed Mohammed Morsi in Egypt. Qatar's neighbors also became increasingly suspicious of its support for Islamist movements throughout the Middle East, leading to one of the biggest diplomatic crises in the history of the Gulf monarchies. Qatar's been unable to insulate itself from regional chaos through its diplomatic outreach, which has had substantial blowback. But Patriot missiles will do just fine: They're perhaps the most advanced projectile of their type, and have the ability to intercept incoming missiles and destroy enemy tanks and planes. AFP The Qatari monarchy has yet another hard power asset insuring its survival: Qatar is home to Al Udeid Air Base, one of the most important U.S. military installations in the Middle East. This purchase is a sign that Qatar's ambitions haven't dimmed in spite of its inevitably unsuccessful approach to the region's post-Arab Spring turbulence. It's also a sign of how little a price in terms of its relationship with the U.S. Qatar has paid for its support of groups like Hamas, or its citizens' alleged assistance for extremist groups in Syria. Qatar is still a favored U.S. partner in the region, perhaps because of this ability to provide an opening to extremist groups: The emirate played a major role in mediating the Bowe Bergdahl prisoner swap in June. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA photograph taken using long exposure shows a goalpost which has been illuminated with torches at a leisure facility in front of the ECB headquarters in FrankfurtBRUSSELS (Reuters) - A week on from its World Cup soccer victory, Germany may return to center stage, though this time not with fan celebrations but concerns over the health of Europe's economic motor. Investors saw dark clouds building on Friday after a Malaysian airlines jet was shot down at the Ukraine-Russia border and Israel launched a ground offensive in Gaza. That depressed shares and other risk assets, but the events are yet to disturb economic forecasts. "We've seen a delayed impact of China and the Ukraine crisis," said ING economist Carsten Brzeski. "This is an explosive cocktail, but right now with limited impact on growth. The Ukraine/Russia issue was already there." In a week relatively light on U.S. indicators, economists are looking for further signs that Europe's recovery and even German growth may be stalling, putting more pressure on the European Central Bank to act. Across the Channel, minutes from the Bank of England may be the last to show unanimous backing for a stable bank rate of 0.5 percent. The case for tightening may then be reinforced by second quarter GDP estimates likely to show solid growth. For Germany, the views of purchasing managers (PMIs) on Thursday and of company chiefs surveyed for Friday's influential Ifo report should show whether a slowdown of Europe's largest economy detected in the second quarter has spread to the third. Weakness in German industrial output and both domestic and foreign orders have pointed to a poor April-June period after 0.8 percent expansion in the first three months of the year, the fastest rate in three years. Last week's ZEW index of analyst and investor morale for July, which dropped this month to its lowest level since December 2012, suggested that the third quarter had also started shakily. Forecasts for German manufacturing and services PMIs are broadly stable this month from last, with a third consecutive decline expected for Ifo's business sentiment index, albeit only a slight dip following a sharper than expected fall in June. "Latest data have been on the soft side and it has really raised people's attention," said Reinhard Cluse, chief European economist at UBS. "But we believe the German economy is still very solid and healthy and we believe this is a breather, not the first signs of a clear deceleration." The Bank of England publishes minutes of its July meeting on Wednesday which will be scrutinized for any signs of growing unease among policymakers at the prospect of keeping interest rates at a record low while Britain's economy recovers quickly. The bank last month expressed surprise at some financial market prices it said implied a relatively low probability of a rate increase this year. Many economists expect some members of the Monetary Policy Committee to break ranks and vote for a rate hike, especially if a jump in inflation in June proves not to have been a blip. British inflation surged to a five-month high of 1.9 percent in June and house prices rose at their fastest pace in a year, prompting investors to increase bets on a rate rise before the end of 2014. The consensus is for a first hike in November. Gross domestic product data due on Friday is expected to show that Britain's economy finally regained its pre-crisis size in the second quarter of this year, much later than the United States and other big European economies. A Reuters poll of 25 economists forecasts a repeat of the 0.8 percent quarterly expansion of the first three months of 2014, though some economists have said growth may fail to match that level after some weaker than expected data in recent weeks.  Across the Atlantic, consumer price inflation is seen pulling back to 0.3 percent month-on-month in June from 0.4 percent in May. May's price rises, the largest in more than a year, may have reassured Fed officials who had expressed concerns that inflation was too low. However, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen told the Senate last week that early signs of a pickup in inflation were not enough for the Fed to accelerate its plans to raise interest rates, a move currently expected in mid-2015. While data on economic activity and jobs have been broadly positive, there are mixed signs from the housing market, struggling since a rise in mortgage rates caused it to stall in late 2013. New home starts fell in June to a nine-month low, but permits are running ahead of starts, which suggests building activity will pick up in the months ahead. Housing price figures for May are due on Tuesday after declines of annual home price inflation for eight of the nine months to April. In China, the first round of monthly PMIs, due on Thursday, should show whether the world's second largest economy is stabilizing thanks to Beijing's measures to shore up growth. The preliminary HSBC PMI survey showed in June that factory activity expanded for the first time in six months. The July index will come a week after data showing China's economy grew slightly faster than expected in the second quarter while new home prices fell in June for a second straight month, prompting speculation about further state stimulus. For actual central bank action, New Zealand offers the best hope. Its Reserve Bank increased rates in March for the first time since 2010 and is seen carrying out a 0.25 percentage point hike on Thursday, although a dip in inflation could make it a close call.  (Additional reporting by William Schomberg in London; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Keith Bedford/ReutersRealty Income Corp. is a REIT that has paid investors monthly dividends since 1970. It is consistent, conservative, and dependable. The company launched its IPO in 1994, but its origins began much earlier through a unique deal with Taco Bell. In 1969, Bill and Joan Clark wanted to start a real estate company. They had a unique strategy: Find a tenants that had a good reputation and steady free cash flow every month, but lacked the large amount of capital required to buy real estate to expand. Once a tenant with this profile was found, the Clarks would sit down and negotiate with them. If the tenant was willing to commit to a long-term lease agreement, The Clarks would buy the commercial real estate the tenant needed and lease it back, and the monthly rent would be collected and distributed to shareholders. Thus, the "sale-leaseback" method was born. While the Clarks might not have been the first company to implement this strategy, they perfected the model and built one of the largest publicly traded REITs in the world. Taco Bell has more than 6,500 locations nationwide today, but back in the 1960s, it was a small taco chain that was strapped for cash. To grow meant to invest a lot of its capital toward real estate. In 1969, founder Glen Bell met with the Clarks and negotiated its first sale-leaseback deal. The terms? They would provide Taco Bell the commercial retail real estate it needed to expand in exchange for a 20-year lease agreement. Both parties agreed and Taco Bell could begin focusing on expanding its restaurant footprint without worrying about spending a good amount of its capital on real estate. The strategy worked. By 1970, Taco Bell had 325 locations and went public. PepsiCo bought the company in 1978 and eventually it became a part of Yum Brands. Today, Realty Income still has a several Taco Bell locations in its portfolio. Retail is the core focus of the company. The Clarks convinced other retailers to adopt the sale-leaseback method and the company began building a diverse portfolio of properties. It began as a regional strategy, and eventually grew nationwide. By 1994, the number of properties in its portfolio ballooned to 630. But the company believed it could grow more. However, it needed a lot more cash in order to accomplish this goal, so management decided going public was the best option at the time. In the company's 45-year history, it has only had three CEOs. Its founder, William Clark, led the company from 1969 until 1997. However, Clark still had an active role as the Chairman of the company until he retired in 2009. Following his reign, Tom Lewis stepped in. Despite a succession in leadership, there was little change in management's vision and principals. Mr. Lewis outlined the company's goals every year, providing investors clarity in what the company was all about. In 2008, he was a finalist for Morningstar's CEO of the Year, losing only to Warren Buffett. In 2013, Lewis announced he was retiring, and John Case became the new CEO. Bringing decades of real estate experience with him, investors can be assured that the company is in good hands today. From its IPO in 1994 to today, the company has made numerous acquisitions, including American Realty Capital Trust in 2013, a deal valued at $3.2 billion. Today, the company has more than 4,200 properties. The formula still remains the same: negotiate sale-leaseback deals via long-term lease agreements, generating reliable cash flow through monthly rents. The rents will be collected and distributed monthly to shareholders. Despite its rapid growth over the decades, the company will continue to make strategic acquisitions in the future. The best days lie ahead for "The Monthly Dividend Company." FREE AppDownload
CPSL via VimeoFew sayings are as universally applicable as "experience is the best teacher". Just ask Jeremy Grantham. From an outsider's perspective, it seems that Grantham,  who co-founded GMO in 1977, knows what he's doing. But he's made mistakes along the way. In the GMO Quarterly Letter, he describes major mistakes he made as a novice investor. During business school, Grantham says that he was "seduced" by the "excitement" of investing — especially after quickly making money by investing over summers. He felt that "he had the touch for short-term investing." After business school, his "plan was to suffer and save and invest brilliantly in order to be able to return to Europe rich, or nearly so, and in a hurry". In the summer of 1968 he joined Keystone, and was "fascinated, indeed, almost overwhelmed by the story du jour: American Raceways", which was a company planning on introducing Formula 1 Grand Prix to the U.S. Although this seemed like a great investment in the beginning, American Raceways failed to generate long-term interest.  After American Raceway's bust, Grantham was "neither totally broke nor fully chastened, and was eager to make back [his] losses". So he joined Market Monitor Data Systems which was "breakthrough technology", but "ahead of its time". It didn't do well. Grantham managed to "leap out two weeks before bankruptcy". After his failures, Grantham needed to learn how to live frugally, and had "lots of painful lessons to absorb." He also needed to reorient his thinking from short-term investing, to long-term. However, he does say that one thing was "at least not so painful" — having his wife's support during the trying times following his failures. So here are the lessons that Grantham learned as a novice investor: 1. You can't know how people who are important to you will behave under pressure. And if you have to pick one who will outperform, pick your wife. 2. Local cultural differences can be very enduring even between Britain and the U.S. Formula 1 is trying again in the U.S. as I write, 46 years later. Soccer here has also been just around the corner for 50 years. 3. Sometimes even a great idea will fail, like Market Monitor, because the technology infrastructure is just not there; that it is simply ahead of its time. 4. Much more importantly, investing is serious. It can and often is intellectually compelling. But it should not be driven by excitement, as it is for many individuals, and when treated that way will almost always end badly. My experience with American Raceways and Market Monitor and, more important, my experience at painfully wiping out myself and my wife financially did far more than teach or reteach some of the basic rules of investing. It turned me profoundly away from the speculative and gambling possibilities of investing and turned me permanently, and pretty much overnight, into a patient, long-term value investor. Luckily, the new lifestyle fitted nicely with my nature conservative and frugal upbringing. The value perspective is pretty much baked into the Yorkshire culture. Happily, it also seems to work most of the time. Rolling the dice, however, was appropriate, it seems, when applied to the question of whether or not to start a new investment firm, for the period 1970 to about 1990 was particularly favorable to the start-up of new, small firms. For a while then, institutional investors actually seemed to prefer start-ups to the giant banks, which dominated the business but that had done so badly in the 1974 decline. And my willingness to take the risk of a start-up had been strongly influenced by the very brief existence of my substantial nest egg. So, once again... 5. It is better to be lucky than good, but of course appropriate to aspire to both. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGoldman Sachs Specialist Michael Urizzo (L) takes orders for Time Warner's stock at the post where it's traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange July 16, 2014.A long hoped for improvement in the economy appears to be manifesting itself in second-quarter U.S. earnings, but the next two weeks could be the real test. Companies such as General Electric Co &lt;GE.N&gt; and Intel Corp &lt;INTC.O&gt; have reported solid results. In addition, GE believes now is a ripe moment to spin off its private label credit card division in the hopes growing consumer demand will make it more attractive. Intel declared that personal computer sales have stabilized, while it forecast third-quarter revenue above Wall Street's expectations. Profit growth for the second quarter is now estimated at 6.7 percent - excluding results from Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt;, which was hit by a big adjustment from a mortgage settlement - better than where they stood at the end of June. In addition, 68 percent of S&amp;P 500 companies so far are beating analysts' profit expectations, above the 63 percent long-term average, according to Thomson Reuters data. A similarly high percentage of companies are beating revenue forecasts. "Analysts may be underestimating the level of prospective improvement in the second quarter," wrote Carmine Grigoli, chief investment strategist at Mizuho Securities in New York. The latest profit estimate is up from a July 1 forecast of 6.2 percent, while revenue growth, now 3.2 percent, is on track to be the highest since the third quarter. Still, it's easy to overestimate the excitement. Many of the early reporting is by financial companies, not always the best barometer of Main Street activity. The next two weeks, however, will see 60 percent of the S&amp;P 500 release their results. That is key for investors looking for confirmation the anticipated economic rebound from the first quarter is more than just weather related. Among the companies set to release figures are Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt;, McDonald's Corp &lt;MCD.N&gt;, Coca-Cola Co &lt;KO.N&gt; and Caterpillar Inc &lt;CAT.N&gt;. So far in July, six of 10 S&amp;P sectors - particularly healthcare, consumer staples and energy - have shown upward revisions from June, according to Citigroup. "The second quarter is going to be much stronger than the first for the reasons we all know, the weather. Investors are trying to decipher whether this improvement is a weather-related bounce or if there's actually internal growth happening," said Bucky Hellwig, senior vice president at BB&amp;T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama. The U.S. economy contracted at a 2.9 percent annual pace in the January-March period, its worst performance in five years. Recent jobs and other economic data suggest the economy was growing briskly heading into the second half, with growth forecasts for the second quarter now topping a 3 percent annual pace. June's payrolls report showed a surge in job growth and the jobless rate closing in on a six-year low. One promising sign for the second quarter: typically pessimistic analysts' forecasts, which most S&amp;P 500 companies still tend to beat, declined just 2.2 percentage points between April 1 and July 1. That is the smallest overall decline since the first quarter of 2011, Thomson Reuters data showed, and about half the average decline seen in the last five years. Mike Jackson, founder of investment firm T3 Equity Labs in Denver, said his research shows eight out of the 10 S&amp;P sectors - all but staples and utilities - should post surprises this quarter. "It probably suggests the earnings increases are occurring across a broader sector of the economy than what was previously believed," he said. GE's quarterly report on Friday showed the profit margin for its industrial businesses, a closely watched barometer by Wall Street, expanded 0.2 percentage point to 15.5 percent. To be sure, not all reports are positive. Container Store Group Inc &lt;TCS.N&gt; and Lumber Liquidators Holdings Inc &lt;LL.N&gt; both warned about upcoming results, suggesting that retail weakness remains.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
