REUTERS/Yuya ShinoPedestrians stand in front of a stock quotation board displaying various stock prices outside a brokerage in Tokyo.TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares were supported on Tuesday after Wall Street stocks extended gains into a fifth day, though investors continued to see tensions in Ukraine as a threat to risk appetite. Japan's Nikkei share average opened up 0.5 percent. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was almost flat in early trade, but not far from a six-month high hit earlier this month. Asian shares took their cue from the S&amp;P 500 index, which rose for a fifth straight day on Monday to mark its longest winning streak since October. "U.S. markets were optimistic yesterday on a solid gain in U.S. leading indicators and signs that earnings are improving," Barclays analysts said in a note to clients. All of Monday's U.S. corporate results showed upside earnings surprises, they added, boding well for a series of earnings reports this week. While tensions over the situation in Ukraine appeared to be playing less of a role in markets for now, some investors think markets will remain vulnerable to more shocks. "I don't think this will lead to a military conflict. Nonetheless, towards the presidential election in Ukraine (planned for May 25), more tensions are likely and there will be phases where share prices will be hit," said Soichiro Monji, chief strategist at Daiwa SB Investments in Tokyo. Following a gunfight that killed at least three on Sunday, Washington and Moscow each continued to put the onus on the other to ensure tensions are eased. Washington threatened to impose additional sanctions against Russia "in days" if Russia does not implement an agreement struck last week. Oil prices, in fact, were supported by worries over Ukraine. U.S. crude futures stood at $104.29 per barrel, near a six-week high of $104.99 hit on Thursday.  In the currency market, the yen stood near a two-week low against the dollar, smarting from Japanese trade data on Monday showing soft exports in March and a record trade deficit in the fiscal year that ended in that month. The dollar fetched 102.65 yen, near Monday's peak of 102.71 yen, which was its highest level since April 8.  The euro traded at $1.3793, also near its lowest level in almost two weeks, after European Central Bank officials expressed concern that a strengthening currency could damage the euro zone's nascent recovery. The offshore yuan stood at 6.2290 to the dollar, after hitting a 14-month low of 6.2325 on Monday on worries over a slowing Chinese economy and following Beijing's clamp-down on one-direction bets on the yuan's gains since February. Elsewhere, gold prices fell to a nearly three-week low on sharp outflows from SPDR Gold Trust, the world's biggest bullion-backed exchange-traded fund. (Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil NobleA television reporter prepares to broadcast from a media position at Uluru April 21, 2014. Britain's Prince William and his wife Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge are set to visit the site tomorrow as part of the the second leg of a 19-day official visit to New Zealand and Australia with their son George. Good morning, and welcome to Tuesday! Here’s what you need to know. Markets are up. Trading volume was at its lowest level of the year overnight on the NYSE, with many markets around the world enjoying the Easter Monday holiday. The hard-working US markets were still at it, and the Dow (+0.2%) and the S&amp;P500 (+0.4%) finished up for the session while the NASDAQ was up just over 0.6%. Inflation week. It’s only a three-day week in Australia with the ANZAC Day public holiday on Friday, but it’s a potentially mammoth one on the economic calendar, with Q1 CPI out tomorrow at 11.30am AEST. The market expects 0.8% for the quarter giving an annualised rate of 3.2%. This is outside the RBA’s target band of 2-3% for inflation through the cycle; if it prints above 3% and prices keep rising at the same rate over the coming months the current “period of stability in interest rates” the bank has settled on will be under pressure and rate increases will be back on the table. The other big data point this week is HSBC Flash manufacturing PMI for China, also out tomorrow. RBA tension. The AFR reports this morning that the Reserve Bank of Australia’s decision to switch to that more neutral policy stance has angered the government, and that this has been made clear to the bank. The change in policy has helped the Aussie dollar’s rally this year with the signal that the period of rate cuts was likely over. Budget doctoring. It’s three weeks today until Australia’s federal Budget and we can expect the leaking and expectation management – probably better termed “softening up” – to ratchet up in the coming weeks. Today it’s reported there’ll be a $6 payment for all bulk-billing visits to GPs (currently no money changes hands at all). With the revenue collected and the reduction in some unnecessary visits it’s expected to save around $750 million over four years – a drop in the ocean of the nation’s budget deficit. Samsung’s social monitoring. Over the weekend we published an interview with Arno Lenoir, Samsung’s CMO in Australia, where he revealed the company constantly monitors social commentary about the brand, and shared his use of a marketing framework developed by Google known as the Zero Moment of Truth – in which purchasing decisions are made long before going into a store – as a way of thinking about modern consumers. You can read it here. Packer rolls again. Australian billionaire James Packer is sizing up a potential $2 billion investment in a loss-making (yes, they exist!) Las Vegas casino. Packer was burned in a previous investment made just before the GFC. Pinterest matters. It turns out that after Facebook, Pinterest drives much more traffic to websites than Twitter or Reddit, according to data from Shareaholic. Qatar World Cup disasters. Some of the appalling costs of the 2022 FIFA World Cup going to Qatar are starting to become apparent. There are concerns about worker deaths in the thousands, and entire cities that are supposed to host games don’t exist. On top of that, it now looks like the timetable might need to be shifted to the winter because a summer schedule would be too dangerous in the heat: this has the potential to throw the European winter leagues into absolute chaos. More here. Moyes’ doom: Speaking of chaos in football, there’s feverish speculation that Man Utd manager David Moyes will be fired within the next 24 hours, following the team’s disastrous (for this team, anyway) finishing position in the Premier League, 13 points behind Liverpool. There’s more at Sky Sports. Stowaway miracle. The 16-year-old Californian runaway who hitched a ride in a jet’s wheel well to get to Hawaii was incredibly lucky to survive. The conditions at cruising altitude have been likened to spending hours outdoors at the South Pole wearing only street clothes. Bonus item: Meetings are a necessary evil – try these tips from top executives for making them better. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Opinions Are Bifurcated At The Market Continues To Go Without A Correction (BMO Capital Markets)  Investors view of the market is becoming increasingly bifurcated writes Brian Belski of BMO Capital Markets. Clients he speaks to are now "either very nervous that any eventual correction will be severe and protracted, or are becoming desensitized to the prospects of sharper weakness given the shorter duration and depth of market dips over the past few years." "Indeed, the S&amp;P 500 has gone over 500 days since correcting roughly 8% in 2012 and during that time has delivered an impressive 39.7% return to its most recent closing record high on April 2. Unfortunately, the path has not been a smooth one this year. As we have frequently mentioned over the past several months, we anticipated that 2014 would be a volatile year and one where the S&amp;P 500 would struggle to maintain the momentum exhibited over the prior two years. On the other hand, we also do not expect any prolonged or severe periods of market weakness since everything we track suggests we are in the midst of a secular bull cycle." Belski expects that as the U.S. economy recovers, earnings growth will support higher stock prices that have got "a little ahead of themselves." Belski says he wouldn't be surprised if the market gives up some of its gains in the near term but that investors should view it as an "opportunity to add select exposure to U.S. stocks. No Portfolio Is An Island (Morningstar)  A new report from Morningstar's David Blanchett and Philip Straehl, titled 'No Portfolio is an Island', argues that investors tend to focus on the risk associated with financial assets like stocks and bonds, and that these are only one aspect of an investor's total economic worth. Instead they ignore "risks associated with other assets they effectively “own,” such as human capital, real estate, and pensions." Human capital refers to the "total economic value of an individual’s set of skills and talents. "In many cases, the value of these overlooked assets may exceed the value of the individual’s financial (i.e., liquid) wealth."   "The optimal allocation for an investor’s financial assets varies materially based on different total wealth risk exposures. The absolute differences in the total wealth optimized and the non-total wealth optimized portfolios varied by simulation, but exceeded 20% for many simulations. The differences were the largest for those scenarios where human capital was the dominant asset, i.e., for younger individuals. These results suggest that there is not a single set of portfolio weights for all individuals (or investors) and that allocations should vary based on each individual’s unique assets and risks." DoubleLine Hires PIMCO's Sosa For Bond Product Unit (DoubleLine) DoubleLine Capital has hired PIMCO's Ignacio Sosa as director for the new Product Solutions Group. The unit will develop investment products and build new businesses outside of the U.S.. "Start-ups of equity boutiques happen all the time, but for decades, fixed income assets have remained largely concentrated among a few investment firms because launches of new bond managers are rare events," Sosa said in a press release.  "DoubleLine has proven the happy exception since its founding a little more than four years ago. Jeffrey and his team have built a growing, nimble, client-focused company, with diversified strategies in fixed income and equities. Their track record of risk-adjusted returns speaks for itself. So joining DoubleLine at this early stage in its development is especially compelling." Sosa has over 30 years experience in asset management at PIMCO. It Hasn't Been This Hard To Pick Stocks In 20 Years (JP Morgan Funds) Traditionally it is argued that low correlations between stocks makes it a better market for stock pickers. If stocks are moving roughly in tandem investors might as well go with an index fund. But just because correlations are low at the moment and conditions are better, it doesn't mean it's easier to pick stocks. JPMorgan Funds' David Kelly argues that it is becoming more challenging for stock-pickers.  "Specifically, valuation dispersion as measured by the standard deviation in S&amp;P 500 constituent price to earnings ratios, may suggest a wide or narrow opportunity set for investors, with low dispersion pointing to fewer opportunities for managers to find relatively attractively valued stocks," said Kelly. "As the chart of the week depicts (see below), valuation dispersion has fallen after last year’s multiple-driven-cyclical recovery, implying identifying relatively “cheap” stocks is the most difficult it has been in 20-years." JP Morgan FundsThe One Metric That Stock Investors Need To Pay Attention To (The Wall Street Journal) It's easy for investors and advisors alike to be caught up in the noise of the markets. But they need to take a step back and look at the long term picture, writes Darryl Poisson, president of DJP Wealth Management, in a new WSJ column. Instead they should look at valuation metrics. "One of these metrics stems from the fact that the single largest determinant of U.S. stock market performance over any future 10-year-period is simply the starting valuation of stocks at the beginning of that period." "Empirical evidence gathered by a number of researchers and analysts including Ed Easterling, John Hussman, and Robert Schiller has shown that if valuations are low and stocks are trading cheaply at the start of that 10 years, the average annual return over the following decade will be high. The opposite will be true of returns if stocks' beginning valuations are high. Though each of those researchers determines valuation using different methodologies and formulas, that relationship between valuation and returns over 10 years remains consistent." FREE AppDownload
Why are household formations so low? Because 1.2 million more adults live with their parents than just 8 years ago! Nearly 4% of US households had an oldest child aged 25–34 living at home in 2012. Compare this to 2006, when approximately 3% of households fit this category. John Burns Real Estate ConsultingWhile the jump from 3% to 4% may seem small, the net result of this shift is 1.2 million additional households with an adult child in this age group. And it isn't just confined to those under 35. The share of US households with an oldest child aged 35 or older living at home is approximately 3% and has been rising as well. This major demographic shift is creating a lot of pent-up demand that someday will be unleashed. Most of these young adults will rent first, except for those who have taken this time living with mom and dad to save up for a down payment. As we showed previously, today's young adults have achieved homeownership at a lower rate than their parents at the same age, and we believe that they will continue to do so for some time. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Jack CusanoShares of pharmaceutical company Allergan are exploding in the after hours session. The Wall Street Journal reported that activist investor Bill Ackman of Pershing Square is partnering with Valeant Pharmaceuticals to pursue a takeover of Allergan. Ackman later filed a 13-D securities filing with the SEC disclosing that Pershing Square owns 28,878,538 shares of Allergan.  That works out to be about a 10% stake in the company. His stake was worth more than $4.1 billion at today's stock close. Allergan makes Botox and eye care products. Allergan's was last up more than 19% in the after-hours session. Meanwhile, Valeant's stock was last up about 9%. Here's Allergan's trading activity today:  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek PrkashCiti's army of analysts and strategists have examined the universe of stocks they cover and screened them for what they considered to be the 50 "World Champions.'' These companies boast "leading business models and market share," wrote Citi's Robert Buckland, Robert Garlick and the global equities research team. The analysts' considered three selection criteria: market cap of at least $3 billion; at least a top 3 market share in a third of their businesses; and a global reach as measured by significant revenue outside of their home market. To narrow it down to the top 50, Citi analysts then looked at both historical financial performance and forecasts of the same measures between 2014-2016.  We've highlighted 20 of the U.S. buy rated stocks and ranked them by estimated total return (ETR). We also pulled a few key quotes from the 212-page note that highlight what makes each of these companies a world champion. Note: Closing price as of April 17. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderMeb Keflezighi of the U.S. reacts after winning the men's division of the 118th running of the Boston Marathon in Boston, Massachusetts April 21, 2014.It was a pretty quiet day in the markets today. But stocks managed to squeak out a gain. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: Don't Miss: CITI: Here Are The 20 Best Stocks In America » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonFollowing the U.S. housing bust, it got harder for households to get a mortgage. It was especially hard for folks with lower credit scores. However, lending standards have been loosening, and this is largely considered a good thing. But it also means it's becoming easier for people with lower credit scores to get a mortgage. Remember before the bust, lenders threw money at folks with poor credit, and who were at high risk of defaulting on their loans. While we're not seeing a repeat of that, this is a trend to watch closely. Nick Timiraos at The Wall Street Journal points out two key findings about easing mortgage-lending conditions. First, we're seeing lower down payments on lending: For jumbo loans (those above the conforming loan limit and that are not securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac) the downpayment is down to 10 or 15%, down from 20% a few years ago. For conforming loans ($417,000 for single-family homes in most states), the share of loans with a downpayment under 10% hit a five-year high, according to Black Knight Financial Services. Last week, TD Bank announced that it would take down payments as low as 3% from first-time buyers and low- and moderate-income buyers, down from 5% when the program first launched last year, report Timiraos and AnnaMaria Andriotis at The WSJ. Second, following the housing bust, lenders had been using overlays — basically, stricter requirements — to protect themselves. But some lenders have started to ease up on these overlays. The share of FHA borrowers with credit scores below 650 rose to 20% at the end of 2013, from 15% in August. Earlier this year, Wells Fargo announced that it would lower its minimum credit score for certain mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration to 600, from 640. This is the more worrisome trend. Many are concerned that the credit quality will decline as lenders get more competitive and try to gain market share. Tighter lending left many Americans out of the housing recovery, and looser lending standards could help get them back into the market. While a credit score of 650 isn't ideal, it'll be interesting to see which way this goes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Anthony BolanteFidelity Investments Contrafund manager Will DanoffBOSTON (Reuters) - Will Danoff, who runs Fidelity Investments' behemoth Contrafund, is frustrated by his lagging performance this year and is pruning his exposure to cloud software stocks that got clobbered recently in a swift and hard-hitting downturn. Steering the mutual fund equivalent of a battleship, with $109 billion in assets, Danoff has been one of the best stock pickers over the past 20 years. And that is partly because of his lopsided bets on so-called momentum stocks, particularly big tech companies that don't need a lot of capital to fuel growth. But that hasn't worked well in recent weeks, and while he retains a technology bias he said he is also looking for undervalued stocks outside of the sector. "I'm not complacent," he said on Friday in an exclusive telephone interview with Reuters. "I've had a tough first quarter. I'm looking at each stock in my portfolio and asking, 'How good is this story.'" As it turns out, the valuations of some of the cloud software companies that Contrafund, has been holding, such as Workday Inc and Cornerstone OnDemand Inc, were too good to be true. Workday has dropped 20 percent and Cornerstone has fallen 28 percent in a momentum stocks sell-off during the past month. As a result, Contrafund is down 1.24 percent this year through April 17, lagging the benchmark S&amp;P 500 Index's positive advance of 1.49 percent for the same period. Contrafund beat the index by 1.76 percentage points last year. But while some portfolio managers have run for cover and have been buying the steady earnings of big oil companies like Exxon Mobil Corp and utility stocks, Danoff says he's not ready to play it safe. "You can play that game, buy Hamburger Helper and buy more integrated oil stocks. But I prefer to test my thesis," he said. Danoff said he has trimmed some positions in the cloud software sector, but not the leaders. He didn't provide any details about what he has sold. But he was optimistic about human resources software company Workday's growth trajectory and said the company has a good management team. HUMAN CURIOSITY Contrafund had an $8.8 billion position in Google Inc and a $2.6 billion stake in Facebook Inc at the end of February, according to the latest available fund disclosures. Danoff still gives both companies a vote of confidence. He described Google's Internet search engine as a proxy for human curiosity. "Do I want to underweight human curiosity? I don't think so," Danoff said. Meanwhile, he conceded that Facebook's February announcement that it would spend $19 billion in stock and cash for WhatsApp, a mobile texting company, raised doubts about Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder and chairman. "Should I doubt a 29-year-old who's running a $150 billion company?" Danoff said. "He saw an important asset and he sees the future more clearly than I do. He thinks it (WhatsApp) is worth it. Well, we will see." Danoff says he expects to use the current earnings season as one way to identify companies on a strong growth trajectory, including those outside the tech and biotech sectors. He declined to give any names. He said he's asking Fidelity's army of 150 stock analysts if there are any stocks that other investors have put in the trash can that could be valuable. PRUNING SOME STOCKS He isn't used to running behind the pack. "I'm a little frustrated with my performance," Danoff said. Over the past 10 years, Danoff has outperformed 94 percent of his peers in the large-cap growth fund category, according to Morningstar Inc. His 9.85 percent average annual return over that period easily beats the 7.42 percent average advance of the S&amp;P 500 Index. Still, he has seen enough not to panic when there is a sudden reversal in a sector. The sell-off in the software as a service sector reminds Danoff of how Home Depot Inc plunged in the late 1980s when he was a retail stock analyst at Fidelity. Since then, Home Depot's stock has risen to about $87 a share from about 60 cents a share, on a split-adjusted basis. "I don't want to get shaken out of a stock if I like the long-term story," Danoff said. "There are big opportunities in the next couple years. We don't want to batten down the hatches and say we're closed for business. We're definitely open for business." (Reporting By Tim McLaughlin; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Charles PlatiauThomas PikettyEditor's note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Mac Robertson, an independent portfolio manager and macro strategist who recently Tweeted a critique of Thomas Piketty's new book, "Capitalism in the 21st Century." This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: Your main point of criticism was Piketty's data set. What was wrong with it?  MR: National account income data is, by definition, made up of many subaccounts which have various weights waxing and waning. So as particular weights suddenly surge while others decline, the aggregate summation is not reflective of these dynamics. This is especially problematic with household income, both annual income or accumulating net worth. In particular income is a "fat tail" with extreme skew — a Pareto distribution — or is actually a bimodal or multi modal distribution.  This means policy acting upon one part of the distribution will often have little impact on another part. Policy changes for, say, the top decile will have no impact on the lower quartiles.  Or, if top decile, which might actually be a separate distribution, is reduced by tax, the lower quartiles may drop. The connectivity implicit when one discusses inequality does not really exist.  So, to use the aggregate tells you nothing and provides no prescription. BI: You go on to say he erred in trying to compare nations' outcomes. What did you mean?   MR: Nation states, as far as macro economics, are really a fiction. The real aggregations are among hegemonic powers which set economic policy for their group or are a constantly morphing alliances of regions that transcend national borders.  And currently there is only one true hegemon which is the USA, but regional hegemons have defining capability if the USA has benign indifference in a certain region. For example Brazil has much clout in South America now. This is always a fact of life now and the usefulness of examining many nations hasn't really been useful since Metternich.  In fact many of the wars in the last 150 years have been caused by one power thinking that there was a balance of power and one could, by strategy, dominate. Germany and Japan made that mistake in the 1940s and China may be doing the same now. What this means is there is little relevancy or usefulness in comparing Italy in the 20th century to the USA, for example.  Some economic histories are useful as they produce a laboratory of unique events, like Weimar inflation or Sweden's solvency crisis of 1990s, but then only in terms or organizing ex ante thesis. The empirical record is useless. BI: Piketty described a "fantasy world." What are you referring to? MR: The fantasy world is the same as Rogoff and Reinhart offer: that there is a scientific theorem that can be developed from this analysis of many national accounts. But that assumes there is equivalency between nations and consistency of the subsector input that makes the national accounts. The above two points do a good job in briefly explaining why that is a fantasy. BI: You said you preferred Henry George's analysis of income distributions. Who was he and what did he say?  MR: Henry George was akin to Keynes and also Locke, that sound economic policy cannot leverage "luck" in being given rare resources from an accident of birth or through lucky stratagems. George called this resource "land," later Keynes would call this capital and land. But the common denominator is one class of folks are "rentiers" who only seek a low risk return on their assets — usually inherited. That income is "rent." Again in George's time that was, for the most part, real rent on land leases. George proposed that all funding of the public purse would be a tax on rent. Keynes went further and proposed that not only would rentiers be disproportionately taxed, but their " euthanasia" should be sought. George would propose that inequality between rentiers' capital accumulation and income of consumers and entrepreneurs is the only inequality to seek reducing or eliminating. Keynes agrees, so do I. To not differentiate this income type, speaking to the first point above, invites disaster. Why would you tax a Bill Gates midstride? It would be very destructive. Yet Bill Gates' income explains much of the income inequality. But would taxing late-stage Buffett be good? Perhaps. Certainly to tax third-generation rentiers and forcing the money back into the hands of future Bill Gateses, perhaps by funding universal education to promote future Bill Gateses, is good. BI: Is there anything Piketty got right? MR: No, there is very little Piketty got right. And his work lacks integrity with solipsism and "pop" so that I suspect he is a careerist. All the above he would know well. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek Prakash Employees walk in the lobby of a Merrill Lynch office building in Singapore September 15, 2008.Merrill Lynch is dangling a new incentive in front of its brokers by creating a "recognition club" for those who bring in $8 million or more a year from clients, more than doubling the top goals set by its securities industry rivals. Until now, Merrill Lynch Wealth Management's top recognition club was its "Circle of Champions" for financial advisers who produced $4 million of commissions and fees, or received 2.5 million of "production credits" for sales of products and services that qualified them for the firm's top sales payout. In a sign that the Bank of America Corp subsidiary expects new account programs and technologies to unleash new sales power, Merrill's new club doubles the criteria for entry as well as the cash awarded to its most elite advisers. The new "Pinnacle Club" will pay its members $10,000 in cash and additional benefits if they produce $8 million of revenue or build up 5 million of production credits. Club membership also gives members bragging rights as elite brokers, the ability to advertise their status on their websites, and priority when accounts of departing brokers are redistributed or when customers are referred to the broker-dealer from other parts of Bank of America, according to a description of the recognition clubs in Merrill's 2014 compensation booklet. Brokers who qualify for Pinnacle as well as for Merrill's seven lower-tier recognition clubs also can participate with their significant others in "Top Advisor Summits" that are usually held over several days in resort areas. In reporting first-quarter earnings last week, Merrill said its 13,725 brokers were on target to produce an average of $1.06 million each this year, one of the highest averages in the brokerage industry. The average is skewed, however, by heavy hitters who could qualify for the new club. Fewer than 5,200 of its advisers had $1 million or more of production in 2013. A Merrill spokeswoman declined to comment about the new club. Spokespeople at competitors such as Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo Advisors and UBS Wealth Management Americas, whose recognition clubs top out for brokers with $2 million to $3 million of annual revenue, did not immediately respond to questions about whether they would raise their top levels. Brokerage firms are sensitive about discussing sales incentives as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission considers imposing a higher standard of customer care on their sales practices and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is warning the firms to vet potential hires more carefully. Broker-dealers can sell any product considered "suitable" for a particular customer's net worth and risk appetite, even if they choose one that is more lucrative to the firm or adviser. Investment advisers who directly manage money are held to a higher standard that requires them to put their customers' interests ahead of their own. The Dodd-Frank financial reform bill directs the SEC to decide whether to conduct studies on the care standards and decide whether to unify them. Merrill's compensation guide notes that advisers who have received internal admonishments or were subject to action by any U.S. securities regulator cannot participate in a recognition club for the year these occurred. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex GrimmIs this or isn't this a "stock picker's" market? Generally speaking, the market becomes more favorable for stock pickers when the stock prices for various companies move independent of each other. Wall Street pros would describe a market with this condition as exhibiting low correlations. Conversely, if stocks are moving hand-in-hand (or exhibiting high correlations), then you might as well just buy an index fund or some other big basket of stocks. When correlations are high, the successful stock-picker will have a very difficult time standing out from the indexers. Currently, correlations are pretty low. But just because the market is better for stock pickers doesn't mean it's easier for stock pickers. JPMorgan Funds' David Kelly argues that it's actually become a more challenging environment for stock-pickers. He notes that the valuation dispersion for stocks in the S&amp;P 500 are actually historically low. In other words, each stock's valuation isn't too far from its long-term average valuation. What is Kelly talking about? For example, let's say Widget Co. on average trades at 10x earnings. If it's trading at 8x earnings it's arguably more attractive. If it's trading at 4x earnings — all things being equal — it's arguably really really attractive. To put it another way, at 4x earnings the valuation dispersion is high. "Specifically, valuation dispersion as measured by the standard deviation in S&amp;P 500 constituent price to earnings ratios, may suggest a wide or narrow opportunity set for investors, with low dispersion pointing to fewer opportunities for managers to find relatively attractively valued stocks," said Kelly. "As the chart of the week depicts (see below), valuation dispersion has fallen after last year’s multiple-driven-cyclical recovery, implying identifying relatively “cheap” stocks is the most difficult it has been in 20-years." But Kelly also believes all hope is not lost for stock pickers. "[W]hile the cyclical sectors are largely responsible for driving valuation dispersion downwards, valuations have widened in the defensive sectors, which should continue to provide opportunities for active managers to outperform." JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
McDonald'sMcDonald's, which has dominated the breakfast market for years, faces more competition than ever before.  Taco Bell started offering a breakfast menu in March with crowd-pleasing items such as the Waffle Taco. Starbucks, Dunkin' Donuts, and Burger King are also revamping their menus to entice consumers.  McDonald's will probably address how it plans to remain the top breakfast chain on an earnings conference call with analysts tomorrow, writes Julie Jargon at The Wall Street Journal.  While McDonald's has hinted that it will expand breakfast hours past 10:30, no official announcement has been made. Taco Bell's breakfast goes to 11 a.m.  And earlier this month, McDonald's gave out free McCafe coffee. That promotion ended April 13.  About 25% of McDonald's total sales come from breakfast, Jargon writes.  The category is thriving even as overall fast-food sales decline.  U.S. restaurant traffic during the breakfast hours increased 3% in 2013 compared to the prior year, according to a study by NPD group. Yet traffic declined by 1% during the lunch and dinner hours.  There's a simple reason why fast-food breakfast is so popular, NPD analyst Bonnie Riggs told QSR Magazine in March.  "It’s the cheapest meal you can get at a restaurant outside of a snack," Riggs said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook Ford COO Mark FieldsFord is close to announcing current Chief Operating Officer Mark Fields as its next CEO, according to Bloomberg. The motor company is expected to announce current CEO Alan Mulally's departure date as soon as May 1, sources familiar with the matter told Bloomberg. Mulally, who is retiring, has previously said that he'd stay with Ford through 2014. Mulally came to Ford from Boeing in 2006 and is credited with saving Ford from bankruptcy and adding fuel-efficient vehicles to the company's lineup. Fields has worked for Ford for 25 years. When Ford directors began discussing a succession plan in 2012, Fields was thought to be the most likely choice for the next CEO of the company. FREE AppDownload
Durand Guion, Vice President and Men's Fashion Director at Macy's, explains what essential suit styles and cuts every self-respecting man should own. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderClockwise from top left: Prince George, Malala Yousafzai, David Karp, Edward Snowden, Michael Jordan, Vladimir Putin, Janet Yellen, and Warren Buffett.From Prince William and Kate Middleton's royal bundle of joy — third in line of succession to the British throne — to 98-year-old David Rockefeller, the oldest billionaire alive, it's evident that authority transcends shape, size, and age. Power is, in fact, relative to a person's capacity to enact change or direct the behavior of others when compared to his or her peer's ability to do the same. In creating this list, we considered three criteria to determine power. A person's sphere of influence was the greatest indicator, followed by potential for acquiring future power, and estimated net worth. If two candidates of the same age seemed equally powerful, their net worth served as the deciding factor. Now it's time to meet the most powerful people in politics, tech, finance, entertainment, sports, retail, and culture, ages 0 to 100. FREE AppDownload
ReutersLike countless college students before them, the class of 2014 has little idea what to expect when they enter the working world. "Whether you know exactly where you're heading or feel a bit lost," writes Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg in "Lean In For Graduates," the latest edition of her popular book, "everyone has this in common: you're all in for big surprises."  College graduates will leave the safe, structured world of higher education and enter a fiercely competitive job market, instantly going from the top of the food chain to the bottom. When they land a job, they enter a strange new world of office politics, power jockeying, and hidden agendas.   To give young people a head start, Business Insider polled some of the world's most successful people to find out what they wish they had known before they graduated.   A few common themes: Take risks, stay focused, don't underestimate the power of relationships, and expect the unexpected.   Arianna Huffington, president and editor-in-chief of The Huffington Post Media Group and author of "Thrive": "In college, just before I embarked on a career as a writer, I wish I had known that there would be no trade-off between living a well-rounded life and my ability to do good work.   "I wish I could go back and tell myself, in my thick Greek accent: 'Arianna, your performance will actually improve if you can commit to not only working hard, but also unplugging, recharging, and renewing yourself.' That would have saved me a lot of unnecessary stress, burnout, and exhaustion."  Scott Adams, creator of syndicated comic Dilbert and author of "How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big":  "I would tell my young self to keep open as many options as possible because the future is wildly unpredictable. The best way to improve your options is to continually learn as much as you can in fields that are complementary to your main interests. It also helps your odds if you stay networked with as many influential people as you can." Kay Krill, president and CEO of ANN Inc.: "The advice I would have given to my college self and any young person entering the workforce today would be to always be authentic and true to yourself and your beliefs. Do not get sidetracked with advice from others that your gut tells you is wrong. By doing this, you will have the clarity of mind to always do the right thing for the business and for yourself." Mark Cuban, billionaire entrepreneur and investor: "I wish that I had known it was just a job and not a mission to make my employer money. I thought I could truly impact the profits of the company — that my ideas were as good on my first day as the most senior executive. I should have been patient and tried to fit in and develop a possible career.  "But I didn't. I was a horrible employee. As it turns out, being bored and deciding to leave after nine months wasn't a bad decision. So I guess the real response is that I'm glad I didn't know it even though I should have. If I had known that, I might still be there…" Denise Morrison, president and CEO of Campbell Soup Company: "If I could give my younger self career advice, it would be this: Don't wait for doors to open. Open them yourself by being persistent and thinking strategically about your career. Plan your career destination, develop a personal mission statement, and build relationships with sponsors and mentors.  "And above all, network, because networking is working. Your ability will only take you so far. Your relationships will take you the rest of the way." Tim Ferriss, host of "The Tim Ferriss Experiment" and author of "The 4-Hour Workweek": "I wish I'd read Warren Buffett's early annual letters. There are so many gems that apply broadly to business and life. I'll paraphrase my favorites: Whether you're playing on Wall Street or Main Street, I think his wisdom is an incredible asset."  Teresa Taylor, former COO of Qwest Communications and author of "The Balance Myth": "When I was in college, I wish I would have known that you need to be more flexible with work life. You will have situations, bosses, and decisions that you cannot predict, and nothing turns out the way you thought it would. That's OK! Let things happen, and open yourself to new opportunities." Dan Schawbel, managing partner of Millennial Branding and author of "Promote Yourself": "As a college student, I never knew that entrepreneurship was a career solution to employment, nor did I consider an entrepreneurial approach to career management. Like most students, I thought that the ideal career path was to work your way up at a big company and then retire, and boy was I wrong.  "Through the years, I realized that the only way you can truly get ahead is by being accountable, networking constantly, and putting yourself out there. I realized that you need to think of a career as a collection of experiences along a journey and leverage everything you can to propel yourself forward." Kat Cole, president of Cinnabon: "What I wish I would have known is that everything will change and eventually work out in your career when you follow your purpose and passion. Don't get too caught up in the 'plan' that you have.  "As a mentor once shared with me, especially when you are young, each career move and choice you make won't be your last, and you can always course correct, so don't waste too much time overanalyzing the next few steps. Take a risk, be the best at the job that you can be, help others along the way, and the next right thing will present itself." FREE AppDownload
(from my colleague, Dr. Win Thin)HSBC China manufacturing PMI flash reading for April comes out on Wednesday and is expected at 48.3 vs. 48.0 final in March. HSBC PMI has been below 50 for three straight months, while the official PMI has held above it (but just barely at 50.2 in February and 50.3 in March). The economy is still slowing, but we do not expect any large-scale stimulus measures. Rather, a targeted approach (such as the recent cut in required reserves for some rural banks) is likely to be maintained. We expected USD/CNY to continue trading in the 6.20-6.30 range for now. Note that PBOC fixed the pair at its highest level since early September, while spot made a new cycle high today near 6.2355 before falling back. Singapore reports March CPI Wednesday, and is expected to rise 1.1% y/y vs. 0.4% in February. It then reports March IP on Friday, and is expected to rise 6.5% y/y vs. 12.8% in February. Note January and February data were distorted by the Lunar New Year holiday, so March will start to offer some clean reads of the economy. The MAS last week kept policy steady, but cut its 2014 inflation forecast from 2-3% to 1.5-2.5%. It also maintained a fairly upbeat growth outlook even as Q1 slowed to 5.1% y/y from 5.5% in Q4. For USD/SGD, support seen near 1.25 and then 1.2450, while resistance seen near 1.2550 and then 1.26. Bank of Thailand meets Wednesday and is expected to keep rates steady at 2.0%. Core CPI has been ticking up, and although it remains well within the 0.5-3.0% target range (at 1.3% in March), the rising trend may keep the BOT a bit cautious. Still, the economy remains weak and seems unlikely to gain much traction as the political uncertainty continues. Most real sector measures are still contracting y/y and so the risks are tilted towards an eventual cut, not a hike. For USD/THB, support seen near 32.00 and then 31.50, while resistance seen near 32.50 and then 33.00. South Africa reports March CPI Wednesday, and is expected to remain steady at 5.9% y/y. Core CPI is seen accelerating from 5.3% to 5.4%, however. March PPI will then be reported Thursday, and is expected to remain steady at 7.7% y/y. Next SARB meeting is May 22, and we do not expect a hike then even though Governor Marcus has tilted more hawkish recently. The economy, while recovering, remains sluggish all around. A firmer rand would also make another hike in May unlikely. For USD/ZAR, support seen near 10.50 and then 10.35, while resistance seen near 10.75 and then 11.00. Mexico reports February INEGI retail sales on Wednesday, expected to rise 0.4% y/y vs. -0.3% in January.  ANTAD sales have already been reported for February at -0.2% y/y and for March at -2.4%, suggesting further weakness ahead for INEGI sales. Mexico then reports mid-April CPI on Thursday, with headline expected at 3.53% y/y vs. 3.89% in mid-March and core expected at 3.0% y/y vs. 2.84% in mid-March. Banco de Mexico then meets Friday and is expected to keep rates steady at 3.5%. We still think the risks are still tilted towards an eventual cut, not an eventual hike, if data continue to come in weak for Q2. For USD/MXN, support seen near 13.00 and then 12.80, while resistance seen near 13.20 and 13.40. Korea reports Q1 GDP Thursday and is expected to rise 3.8% y/y vs. 3.7% in Q4. If so, this would be the fourth straight quarter of accelerating growth, albeit modest. Korea then reports April consumer confidence on Friday, which stood at 108 in March. The economy is in recovery mode, which has kept the BOK on hold since the last 25 bp cut to 2.5% back in May 2013. The strong won is likely a growing concern, but there’s not much to be done if it is within the context of a broad-based EM rally. For USD/KRW, support seen near 1030 and then 1000, while resistance seen near 1040 and then 1050. Central Bank of Turkey meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 10.0%. The lira has stabilized since the emergency hike in January, but inflation is still rising and so it’s too early to look for any easing yet. At 8.4% y/y in March, CPI inflation remains above the 3-7% target range. More worrisome, core CPI rose 9.3% y/y in March, the highest since April 2007. Yet the government is concerned about sluggish growth, and Erdogan has already called on the bank to cut rates. For USD/TRY, support seen near 2.10 and then 2.00, while resistance seen near 2.20 and then 2.25. Central Bank of Russia meets Friday and is expected to keep rates steady at 7.0%. Growth rebounded in Q4 to 2.0% y/y, the strong since Q4 2012. However, the Ukraine crisis and the resulting sanctions have likely slowed the economy in 2014, with Bloomberg consensus for Q1 growth currently at 0.9%. Little improvement is seen ahead, with Q2 and Q3 growth both seen at 1.0%. We would add that the risks are likely to the downside here. Yet rising inflation (6.9% in March was the highest since June 2013) and a vulnerable ruble is likely to keep the central bank on hold for now. Performance of Russian assets will depend in large part on whether or not the Ukraine peace deal is implemented. For USD/RUB, support seen near 35.00, while resistance seen near 36.00. Brazil reports March current account data on Friday, and is expected at -$6.3 bln vs. -$7.45 bln in February. If consensus is correct, the 12-month total would narrow from the -3.69% of GDP reading posted in February. Yet FDI still covers most of this gap, nearly 80% in February. External accounts, while worsening, are not yet at worrisome levels. Instead, we think inflation numbers will be a key factor behind Brazil sentiment. For USD/BRL, support seen near 2.20 while resistance seen near 2.25 and then 2.30. Central bank of Colombia meets Friday and is expected to keep rates steady at 3.25%.  Inflation is moving higher, reaching 2.5% y/y in March, the highest reading since November 2012. While still near the bottom of the 2-4% target range, rising inflation will likely keep the bank on hold for most of this year. Policy rate has been kept at 3.25% since the last cut in March 2013. The economy is in modest recovery mode and suggests no need for further easing. Yet the strong peso is a big wild card, with renewed strength likely to be met with more FX intervention. For USD/COP, support seen near 1900 and then 1875, while resistance seen near 1950 and then 2000. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Youtube ScreenshotDENG HONG’S AMBITION, according to a Chinese newspaper, was to build a city inside a single building; a "temperature-controlled paradise". Last September his dream edifice, the New Century Global Centre, formally opened in the south-western city of Chengdu. China’s official media call it the world’s largest building. Its centerpiece is a shopping mall of such arresting dimensions that many visitors pause on arrival to take souvenir photographs. It boasts a 300-meter indoor beach, a skating rink and an IMAX cinema. The Chinese often say that theirs is a country of too many people and too little land. The cavernous Global Centre building begs to differ. Mr Deng did not attend the launch ceremony. He was in custody, suspected of being involved in a corruption scandal that has also ensnared a former mayor of Chengdu, who in turn may be linked to an even bigger case linked to a former member of the Politburo Standing Committee, Zhou Yongkang. Mr Deng’s troubles are an uncomfortable reminder of the perils of hubris. Massive buildings help to boost local officials’ egos and brand their cities. According to the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, an American industry association, China has about 200 skyscrapers over 250 metres tall, four times as many as America. Close to Mr Deng’s building is an office complex reminiscent of Beijing’s "bird’s nest" stadium that cost 1.2 billion yuan ($175m) to build. It was supposed to become the city government’s headquarters, but after a public outcry over its extravagance its leaders decided to move to more modest buildings nearby. The Global Centre, though, is also a monument to an increasingly essential ingredient of China’s economic development: consumption on a scale that helps to lessen the country’s dependence on infrastructure investment as an engine of growth. China’s leaders want citizens to save less and spend more. Mr Deng’s brainchild is a proud declaration by a local government far inland that it wants a consumer culture like that in mega cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. The capital’s most iconic new structures are stadiums, office buildings and a colossal egg-shaped centre for the performing arts. Chengdu’s is a jaw-dropping shopping experience. Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is a "second-tier" city, a loosely defined category that includes most provincial capitals; yet it is rapidly gaining the "first-tier" status of Shanghai, 1,600km (1,000 miles) to the east. That suits China’s leaders, who are trying to boost consumption in regions that have fared less well in China’s almost uninterrupted boom of the past 35 years. Thanks to massive government investment since the turn of the 21st century, the gap between the wealthy east and the far less developed west of China has narrowed. According to the Economist Intelligence Unit, a sister organization of this newspaper, average GDP per person in China’s western provinces in the late 1990s had dropped to about one-third the figure in the nine eastern coastal provinces; but by 2012 it had recovered to more than half, the highest level since China launched its economic reforms in the late 1970s. Youtube ScreenshotThe interior of the New Century Global CentreThe Global Centre seems to be reckoning on a fair number of wealthy spenders in Chengdu: it provides 15,000 parking spaces. It is also readily accessible by the city’s first metro line, which opened in 2010 (there are now two lines, and plans for an underground network of more than 350km by 2020, close to the length of London’s). But Chengdu’s new middle classes much prefer to drive. The city has more than 3m private cars, second only to the number in Beijing. And at weekends the centre already seems to be packing visitors in. Like the rest of the country, though, Chengdu is beginning to slow down. The city estimates that its GDP last year grew by about 10%, two percentage points less than it was aiming for and the lowest rate since 1999. Nationally the picture is much the same. This year’s overall growth target is for 7.5%, the same as last year’s and a far cry from the double-digit advances of most of the past decade. But that does not mean household spending will falter. Andy Rothman of Matthews Asia, an investment firm, calls China "hands down the best consumption story on the planet". Retail sales last year went up by 11.5% in real terms, after 12.1% in 2012 and 11.6% in 2011. China’s household spending over the past few years was holding up well, he argues. It was just that investment grew even faster. Youtube ScreenshotThe entrance to the waterpark at New Century Global Centre.A "rebalancing" may be under way. Except for a dip last year, the share of GDP growth contributed by households and the government has been rising (see chart 1). In 2011 and 2012 it exceeded that contributed by investment for the first time since the middle of the past decade. Last year China overtook Japan to become the world’s second-largest consumer economy. However, there is a lot more that China’s leaders could do to achieve the goal set by the prime minister in March: that the country should "fully tap the enormous consumption potential of more than a billion people". The Global Centre was not built for the mass market, as attested by a display inviting shoppers to invest in luxury resort property in Thailand. A large group of people living in China’s cities is, in effect, "shut out of the urban consumer economy", says Tom Miller, author of "China’s Urban Billion": the one-third of urban residents who have migrated from the countryside. They make up about 40% of urban labour and the majority of China’s workforce in manufacturing and services, but they spend very little. As Mr Miller notes, this is changing, thanks to a shift in China’s demography. In 2012 China’s working-age population (those between 15 and 59; most Chinese retire young) began to shrink. In response to shortages of young, unskilled labour, local governments have been raising minimum wages. This has been good for inland cities like Chengdu, which have benefited from production shifting westward in search of lower labour costs. It has also been great for migrants: their average wages doubled between 2005 and 2011, to about 2,050 yuan ($322) a month, and last year rose by nearly 14%. But a lot remains to be done to turn these migrants into big spenders. Youtube ScreenshotThe interior of the New Century Global CentreA good start would be to change their official household registration, or hukou, to the city, entitling them to the welfare benefits and access to public services enjoyed by other city-dwellers and thus releasing some of their spending power. Migrants have an unusually high savings rate, far higher than that of either urbanites or rural dwellers, perhaps to compensate for the absence of welfare benefits. According to Chi Fulin of the China Institute for Reform and Development, rural migrants on average spend 2.7 times as much when they move to urban areas as they did at home. But they still need to save to make up for their lack of entitlement to housing and other benefits. If they also change their hukou, their expenditure more than triples. Yet for most migrants changing hukou is next to impossible. They continue to be called mingong (peasant workers) no matter how long they have been living in the city, and so do their children, even if urban-born and raised. For reasons of equity as well as economic advantage, hukou reform has become urgent. The Global Centre is a monument to consumption -- an increasingly essential ingredient of China’s economic development Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Stock markets aren't doing much. But the commodities markets are selling off nicely. Palladium and platinum prices are leading metals prices lower. "In my opinion, palladium and platinum are the solutions to the pollution, and are also two of the most underreported commodities stories at the moment," commodities guru Frank Holmes told Business Insider earlier this month. "The long-term demand needs for palladium are enormous. The commodity is used primarily for catalytic converters in automobiles to aid in clean air emission, but can also be found in electronics, various other clean air and water systems, jewelry, chemicals and even dentistry." Soft commodities like wheat, oats, and coffee are also down sharply. Bloomberg's Ranjeetha Pakiam reports that better rain forecasts may be aiding the drop in prices. All of this should quell some concerns that inflation is coming back. Last week, Chipotle Mexican Grill blamed higher beef, avocado, and cheese prices for putting the squeeze on profit margins. Here's a roundup of the intraday moves of various futures contracts via FinViz. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Screenshot/Harrison JacobsProcter &amp; Gamble Co is getting ready to release a new Gillette razor in the battle for men's faces. Their newest innovation, according to marketing documents obtained by The Wall Street Journal, is a swiveling-ball hinge that allows the blade to pivot. The new ProGlide Flexball is aimed at the high-end market, with the company looking to charge a premium for a complex razor that can supposedly cut hairs 23 microns shorter and miss 20% fewer hairs. The new razor will come in manual and battery-powered versions for $11.49 and $12.59, respectively.  Kyle Stock at Bloomberg Businessweek explains why the new razor is so important.  "Gillette’s new razor will use P&amp;G’s current blades, a total departure from the notorious razors-and-blades model that has characterized the segment since Civil War beards went out of style the first time," Stock writes.  The new product could boost razor sales.  In January, P&amp;G revealed that razors weren't selling as well because of a secular decline in facial shaving.  Gillette plans to ship the razor June 9. FREE AppDownload
Via La MeuseA Belgium-based BNP Paribas banker, his wife, and a nephew were shot dead outside their home in Visé late Friday night, Belgian newspaper La Libre reports, citing police sources via Google translate. Benoît Philippens, 37, who was a director of BNP Paribas Fortis in the Liège area, was fatally shot in the head and stomach. His nephew, a 9-year-old boy named Esteban, was also killed. The banker's wife, Carol Haid, 37, who's the boy's aunt and godmother, died from three gunshot wounds in her back. The incident happened around 11 p.m. Authorities believe that the shooter was waiting in a car for the family to return to their home, the report said. According to newspaper La Meuse, authorities identified the murder weapon as a 9-mm pistol. So far, no arrests have been made.  Newspaper L'avenir reported that the couple had lived in the home for five or six years and had been married for one year. The paper said they're a family "without history." Philippens is also a youth soccer coach in his community. The family was apparently returning home from dinner. The little boy was going to spend the night for the first time at his aunt and uncle's home, La Meuse reported. [via ZeroHedge] FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceU.S. investors and traders are back after the three-day Easter holiday weekend. However, markets aren't doing much early in the U.S. trading session. The Dow and S&amp;P 500 are flat. The Nasdaq is just a little less than flat. Europe, UK, Australia, and Hong Kong are among the markets that remain closed for Easter Monday. When markets do start moving, where will they go? Goldman Sachs' David Kostin reiterated his opinion that stocks still have room to rise from here. His 12-month target on the S&amp;P 500 is 1,950 Deustche Bank's David Bianco, however, think we head lower. From his new note: "April’s high volatility swung the S&amp;P ~5% from an 1890 high to 1815 low. This means that investors are unsure in their macro outlooks. What’s increasingly uncertain is the degree to which growth accelerates and 10yr Treasury yields climb. We think those expecting sustained GDP growth of &gt;3% should prefer smaller growth (high PE) stocks over larger value (low PE) stocks. This outlook aligns more with an 1850 S&amp;P yearend target as yields should more quickly ascend toward normal. Those expecting GDP growth to be &lt;3% should prefer low PE mega-caps as the climb in yields should be limited and support higher fair value steady-state PEs, and could raise the S&amp;P to 2000 within 12 months." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeter Munk, founder and chairman of Barrick Gold Corp attends a news conference in TorontoBy Euan Rocha TORONTO (Reuters) - Talks between Barrick Gold Corp &lt;ABX.TO&gt; and Newmont Mining Corp &lt;NEM.N&gt; about a potential merger have hit a snag, but sources close to the situation say the companies remain keen to reach a deal and discussions are likely to resume. The talks had been on for a few weeks, and the two sides had broadly agreed to a transaction under which Toronto-based Barrick would acquire Denver-based Newmont in an all-stock deal, said one source close to the matter. That source said the deal would offer Newmont shareholders a slight premium to its current share price. Newmont shares were more than 7 percent higher at $25.28 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange, while Barrick's New York-listed shares were largely unchanged at $18.01. The sources, who asked not to be named due to the sensitive nature of the situation, said the talks have stalled over the issue of the spin-out of some assets from the combined entity, which is among the hurdles to a deal. After the close of a tentative deal, shareholders in the combined entity would also get shares in a new company that is likely to include assets in Australia and New Zealand. But the two companies have not yet agreed on a final mix of assets in the spun-out entity, said one source, adding that the new entity could include some assets from outside that region. The companies are also contemplating selling some non-core assets not included in the spun-out new entity, said one source. Barrick and Newmont declined to comment on the matter. Sources said the two companies had hoped to complete a deal this month ahead of the annual shareholder meetings of both companies, but that timetable was now looking unlikely. Newmont's annual general meeting is set for April 23, while Barrick's is being held on April 30. The latest round of merger talks between the two companies, initially reported by the Wall Street Journal, mark the third time that the two miners with large overlapping operations in Nevada have contemplated a merger within the last seven years. Sources familiar with the discussions said talks between the two sides had fallen apart in the past, largely due to personality issues. Analysts and some investors have long thought a deal, particularly involving their big operations in Nevada, was logical from a cost-cutting perspective. The sources said combining the mining giants' operations could lead to nearly $1 billion in annual cost savings with nearly half of those savings coming from reducing overlap in Nevada. "To the extent that a combination improved free cashflows and the ability to service combined debt, we suspect investors would welcome the deal," JPMorgan analyst John Bridges said in a note to clients. "Especially, if the new company was able to use the opportunity to do serious surgery to non-contributing assets." Under the most recent deal being considered, the combined company would be headquartered in Toronto. But the new combined entity would still retain a big operational presence in Denver, said one source. As earlier reported by Bloomberg News, the sources said Gary Goldberg, Newmont's chief executive, would become CEO of the new combined entity with Barrick's CEO Jamie Sokalsky bowing out. Sokalsky has worked for Barrick for over two decades. He served as its longtime chief financial officer before being named CEO in 2012. John Thornton, the ordained successor to Barrick's founder and outgoing chairman, Peter Munk, would become chairman of the new combined entity and head a board comprised of a mix of directors from both companies and possibly some outsiders. (Additional reporting by Allison Martell Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson, Frank McGurty and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoActor Samuel L. Jackson arrives at the UK premiere for the movie Captain America: The Winter Soldier in London, Thursday March 20, 2014.The suiting gods from on-high have decided that double-breasted suits are back this spring.  Imagine a well-tailored English gentleman got his hands on a 1920s gangster's suit and decided he could wear the jacket with a pair of jeans. In other words, there are levels to this stuff. This isn't your grandfather's double-breasted jacket and we strongly (strongly) suggest you forget the fedora. You're going to want to bring this style into 2014 the right way. To elaborate on this, Business Insider caught up with Judah Estreicher, founder of JBD Clothiers, for the run down on how to do that. JBD is a Baltimore-based men's custom clothing shop that suits businessmen and Baltimore Ravens alike. The key with the modern double-breasted look, Estreicher told us, is that it's shorter and slimmer than the traditional cut. You should be able to wear it casually in Spring and Summer too, so think lighter colors — gray, dark blue, white. "But casual or not," said Estreicher, "the double-breasted pitfall will always be the cut and fit. Look out for the bulk of the extra fabric and the boxiness of the shoulders. For best look and fit, consult with a tailor. This is a fit that can be more complex than the regular 1 button suit and will benefit from some expert advice and touch ups to the waist area." So, unless you have your jacket custom-fitted, make sure someone with a tailor's eye gives your jacket a second look. There's no point in doing this unless it's done right. FREE AppDownload
Markets are somewhat in limbo today. There's no major market-moving economic data being released and much of the world is off observing Easter Monday. Earnings season will heat up later this week with Microsoft, Apple, and McDonald's all announcing Q1 financial results. Meanwhile, the stock markets are near all-time highs. With all of that in mind, here are Goldman Sachs' current forecasts for the U.S. economy and every major financial asset class in the world. It comes from David Kostin's new US Weekly Kickstart note. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri U.S. housing starts came in at an annualized pace of 923,000 in the first quarter, missing UBS's expectations for 1.06 million units.  But UBS's Maury Harris attributes this to the exceptionally cold winter saying. Harris and his team now expect a spring rebound in housing starts. He raised his Q2 forecast to a 1.15 million annual pace, compared to previous expectations for 1.10 million starts.  Harris also boosted his Q3 projection to 1.22 million, from 1.15 million. Finally, he maintains his full-year forecast for 1.15 million units.  Not everyone is as optimistic. Bank of America recently cut its housing forecast. Those arguing for slower pace of housing starts point out that mortgage rates are higher than a year ago and that affordability is declining. But "it is worth emphasizing that our housing starts forecasts follow exceptionally low levels in recent years and are well below the previous cyclical peaks," Harris said. "Our updated 900,000 single-family starts forecast for 2015 is only around 52% of its previous cyclical peak 10 years earlier, and our overall 1.35 million unit housing starts forecast for 2015 is still just 65% of its previous peak a decade ago," Harris said. That being said, the mix of housing starts is shifting toward more multifamily starts than single-family starts. Harris now sees single-family starts of 725,000 units in 2014, down from an earlier forecast of 825,000. He also expected 425,000 multi-family starts, up from the earlier estimate of 325,000 units. Here's the chart that shows just how severe this winter was: UBSMeanwhile, here's the chart that shows that housing starts have much more room for recovery: UBS FREE AppDownload
CNBCMorgan Stanley's Adam ParkerMorgan Stanley's chief U.S. equity strategist Adam Parker isn't buying your excuse that you don't have access to email. In a new note to clients, Parker writes that he got an email from someone saying they had "limited access" to their email. He proceeds to explain how that's a lame excuse in this day and age. Here's Parker:  We just got an email from someone we were trying to reach that said they were out of the office with limited access to their email. Where on planet earth can you go and have limited access to your email? We travel a lot. Over 100 flights, to five continents, to more than 15 countries, and 30+ states in the last year. E-mail works on the way to the airport, on the plane, and when you land. It works in tunnels, over bridges, and on trains. It works in Key Biscayne, Boston, Palm Beach, Philadelphia, Wilmington, Baltimore, Washington DC, Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Nassau, London, Charlotte, Winchester UK, Mexico City, Tokyo, rural Yunnan Province, China, Rio and Sao Paolo, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Truckee, CA, Lisbon, Madrid, Senegal (including 4 hours from the capital, Dakar), Montreal, Toronto, Chicago, Kansas City, Des Moines, Mumbai, Bangalore, and all over the Netherlands. We know because we have been to all these places and more in the last several months. Do people think that this excuse, “limited access to my email,” works anymore? It’s an anachronism. I guess magically all these people are vacationing in Easter Island, naming their own icebergs, or on safaris in Tanzania (we have heard it works in these places too). The internet wasn’t readily available in 1994 around the globe – it is now. It’s like saying, “we can’t afford to call grandma because it is a long distance call and that’s expensive.” That was a valid reason in 1979. But now, what people really mean in the first place is, “I am tired or feeling lazy and feel I have earned the right to not check my email.” What they mean in the second place is, “I don’t feel like talking to my wife’s mother right now so I am not going to let my kids talk to her either.” Let’s be serious, access to email is ubiquitous, and the incremental margin of a long distance phone call is zero today. History can sometimes just be irrelevant or misleading. Part of the equity strategist’s job is to make a glossary for investors, to translate certain phrases into more understandable phrases to help investors make better investment decisions, to call “baloney” on management or investor phrases and expose why they might be anachronisms, or where, at least, history might be irrelevant or misleading. Times change. The tone is a bit aggressive. Sounds like somebody didn't unplug from their Blackberry this weekend.  FREE AppDownload
Coffee, Red Bull, whatever. We drink it for energy, but is that really what it gives us?
Business InsiderConsider this a friendly reminder of what really matters — the place you call home. For traders, home is their desk. It's where markets happen (and markets = life). That's why we asked our readers to send us photos of their desks to check out how people are doing this all over the world. They obliged, and we put the photos together in this slideshow. We're ready for another installment, though, so e-mail your trading desk set-up to jlaroche@businessinsider.com or llopez@businessinsider.com Until then, check out these trading spaces. FREE AppDownload
Photo by Matt Sayles/Invision for The Hub/AP(Reuters) - Toymaker Hasbro Inc &lt;HAS.O&gt; reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit, helped by strong demand for its toys for girls. Sales of girls' toys such as My Little Pony and Nerf Rebelle increased 21 percent to $138.7 million in the first quarter ended March 30. The girls' toys business accounted for 20.4 percent of total revenue in the quarter, up from 17.3 percent a year earlier. Revenue from boys' toys, the company's largest business category, rose 2 percent, while revenue from preschool toys and games both fell 4 percent. Larger rival Mattel Inc &lt;MAT.O&gt; last week reported its first quarterly net loss in nearly five years due to a double-digit fall in sales of its Barbie dolls. Hasbro's first-quarter revenue rose 2 percent to $679.5 million, falling short of the average analyst estimate of $690.17 million. International revenue rose 5 percent to $305.5 million. Net income was $32.1 million, or 24 cents per share, compared with a net loss of $6.7 million, or 5 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, the company earned 14 cents per share. Analysts on average had expected a profit of 10 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
Geared to lower- and middle-income earners, the accounts will have the following features: 1. Automatic deduction of contributions from payroll (that’s a good thing). 2. Same income limits, contribution limits and tax treatment as the Roth IRA – post-tax contribution, $5,500 total per year, $129,000 income per individual (that’s fine). 3. A maximum size of $15,000 total before investors need to roll it over to a private IRA (that seems arbitrary). 4. A single investment option, in a variable-rate “G Fund,” that matches the Thrift Savings Plan Government Securities Investment Fund. (that’s a terrible idea). Why that’s a terrible idea I understand the federal government designed the MyRA to sold a set of identified problems, explained in this White House Press Office blog post. First, one half of all Americans have zero retirement savings. Second, half of all full-time workers have no access to an employer-sponsored retirement plan (like a 401K or 403b), and that number climbs to 75% for part-time workers. Third, lots of people who had retirement accounts invested in public markets lost money in the last financial crisis. These are all admirable problems to tackle, although the existing IRA accounts are already available to anyone not covered by an employer’s plan. Will the MyRA actually force small business owners to enroll employees? The most interesting innovation appears to be the automatic enrollment by employers and automatic deduction of employee paychecks feature of MyRAs, although I can already hear the cries of “Nanny State” and “Government Don’t Tell Me How To Run My Small Business Or How To Save Money.” Not one of his best ideas I cannot tell from the White House memo how coercive the MyRA enrollment will be. Does every small business have to enroll their employees if they don’t offer a retirement account? I just can’t believe the current Congress would pass anything that resembles coercion against small businesses. So my guess is that this MyRA becomes an optional program, and this most innovative part of the MyRA program disappears. What remains after Congress eliminates automatic enrollment, however, is a disservice to lower- and middle- income employees. Without automatic enrollment, the MyRA seems to address the first two problems – zero savings and zero employer-sponsored retirement plans – by creating an account with tremendously similar features as the existing Roth IRA plans, but with one terrible feature. The terrible feature Your only option is to invest in US government debt. The interest rate will vary over time according to prevailing interest rates, but, by design, this will be most secure dollar-denominated investment available, and therefore the lowest yielding. The current 1 year rate offered by the “G Fund” is 1.89%. After inflation, the return on your money in a MyRA is close to zero. Although the G Fund rate – and therefore your expected return - will go up or down with changing interest rates over time, the way the income yield on US government debt works is that it will only ever barely exceed the rate of inflation over time, almost by definition, as a result of market forces. The fact that your income will be available upon retirement ‘tax-free’ like a Roth IRA is close to meaningless, since there will be hardly any income to enjoy, tax-free. This is unacceptable as a product for retirement savings, and unacceptable to market as a vehicle for lower- and middle-income employees, who badly need the benefit of higher compound returns, even more than other retirees. The memo describing the MyRA boasts that MyRA investors may rest assured that they cannot lose their principal. They can be confident that their retirement savings will not be subject to the kind of volatility that we’ve seen in recent years. What the memo does not spell out, but that make the MyRA troubling, are the following key ideas about retirement investing: 1. Over longer time horizons – say between 5 years (70% of the time) to 15 years (95% of the time) to 20 years (99.5% of the time) – stocks win. The volatility of the stock market ceases to be a risk when compared to investing in bonds. This is because despite the volatility of stocks in the short run, stocks always offer a superior return in the long run. Retirement savings – the most long-run investing that individuals do – must skew toward higher-risk, higher-return products like stocks, and away from bonds [For more on this idea, see this post on "100% equities for the long run."] 2. The long-run risk of investing in bonds in a retirement account is the terrible loss of purchasing power due to inflation, as well as the missed opportunity of long-term wealth accumulation from higher-risk, higher return investments. In sum, if the MyRA only lets investors earn the “G Fund” rate of return, it’s totally unsuited for anybody’s retirement account. An even more cynical view Now let’s apply a paranoid Wall Street skeptic’s eye for a moment. I do not believe the Obama administration has an evil master plan here. They are not proposing to automatically deduct a portion of salaries from poorly paid, unsophisticated folks with no other retirement money and thereby extract the limited savings of the country’s underclass to fund the nation’s debt, at a good-for-the-government-but-bad-for-the-poor long-term interest rate. I don’t believe that comes from a Dr. Evil plot deep inside the Treasury Department. On the other hand, that would be the actual result of this MyRA plan. One man’s investment is another man’s debt What is obvious to Wall Street folks but less obvious to Main Street folks is that the bonds we buy for investment are the borrowing mechanism of the companies and governments who issue bonds. My bond investment = the (company/government) bond issuer’s borrowing. When I earn a 3% return on a Coca Cola bond over ten years, that just means Coca Cola borrowed money from me at a 3% interest rate for ten years. When you buy a municipal water company bond at 4%, that just means the municipal water company took out a loan at 4% from lenders. When the US Government offers a 1.89% “G Fund” return to lower-income workers in a MyRA, that also means the US Government borrows money from its lower-income workers at 1.89%. Which, while not intended as such, creates an evil result. I will offer you 1.89% on your One. Million. Dollars. While it’s not an evil plot, it is a terrible plan. To encourage lower-income (and presumably less-sophisticated) workers to earn a paltry 1.89% return on their longest-term investment is unconscionable retirement planning for the nation’s poorest, that just happens to, simultaneously, fund US government debt at a cheap interest rate. This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin takes part in a live broadcast nationwide phone-in in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's decision last week to sign a peace accord on Ukraine does not mean that the Kremlin is backing down, rather that President Vladimir Putin is prepared to be patient in pursuit of his ultimate objective. That aim, his own reflections and those of people close to his way of thinking seem to indicate, is one day to re-unite Russian speaking peoples, including those living within the borders of Ukraine, within one common home. As a skilled tactician, Putin knows that to push too fast to achieve this ambition could be damaging for Russia - as demonstrated by the Western threat of tough sanctions and Europe's rush to wean itself off Russian gas supplies. Signing the four-way agreement on Ukraine in Geneva last week, and thereby showing the West that it was willing to compromise, made tactical sense for Russia. With another four years before he needs to seek re-election, and the strong chance of winning another 6-year term after that, Putin can take his time, giving him an advantage over his Western rivals whose policies are driven by more short-term imperatives. "Now the main thing is to keep the powder dry and be prepared for the eventuality that the crisis in Ukraine is going to last a long time," said Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of Russia in Global Affairs, a journal which has the Russian foreign minister on its editorial board. "Agreements will be broken and then made again. Russia, for once, is not on the defensive, it is advancing. That means it doesn't have to get flustered and can keep plowing its furrow." Putin's long game means he is unlikely to actively seek to involve Russian in an armed conflict over Ukraine any time soon. But equally, it means that European states will have to adapt to a long-term future when persistent sanctions complicate their trade relations and with the threat of disruption to their Russian gas supplies hanging over them constantly. PUTIN'S TACTICS The Kremlin's official objectives in Ukraine are limited: protecting Russia's own security, countering NATO expansion, and helping Russian-speaking residents of Ukraine if they come under threat of persecution. Russia denies any plans to invade. Last week at Geneva's InterContinental Hotel, chief diplomats from Russia, the European Union, the United States and Ukraine signed a document calling on illegal armed groups in Ukraine - including the pro-Russian separatists occupying more than a dozen public buildings - to disarm and go home. By Sunday, the deal was already fraying, after several people were killed in a shootout at a checkpoint manned by separatists. Russia blamed Kiev for failing to implement the Geneva deal. Still, people close to the talks said they were notable because it was the first time, in multiple attempts, that Russian's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, has sat down for discussions on Ukraine with a mandate to do a deal. But one European diplomat expressed skepticism, saying the agreement was a feint by Moscow. By showing it was prepared to talk, the diplomat said, the Kremlin relieved the diplomatic pressure that was building, and bought some time before further sanctions were imposed. "Talks and compromises are just part of his (Putin's) tactics," said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity and stressed he was expressing his private opinion. "He wants to have Ukraine." Russia's offer of compromise could widen differences inside the Western coalition assembled against the Kremlin, something that would only benefit the Kremlin. There are already differences between the United States, which is hawkish on sanctions, and a more cautious Europe where many countries are determined to avoid a costly confrontation. A COMMON FUTURE Behind the standard, official Kremlin line on its objectives in Ukraine, when Putin or his associates offer up occasional glimpses of what he is thinking, evidence emerges of a more expansive set of aims. On Thursday, during a question and answer session that was televised live, Putin at one point reflected on how during tsarist rule, large parts of eastern and southern Ukraine belonged to Russia and were known as Novorossiya - literally, New Russia. "All these were territories which were handed over to Ukraine in the 1920s by the Soviet government. Why they did that, God knows," he said. Those remarks were a brief interlude in a program which lasted just short of four hours and covered dozens of topics, but they were noted by Kremlin-watchers as highly significant. "Now the aim is Novorossiya," Andrei Illarionov, a former economic advisor to Putin who is now a critic, wrote on his blog, setting out what he believes is the Kremlin's thinking. "It is the historic mission of the Russian person." Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov, when asked to elaborate on what Putin had meant by his comments on "Novorossiya" and Tsarist-era borders, declined to comment. The thesis of a Russian nation divided by artificial national borders has been developed by people who are close to Putin's way of thinking. These include senior figures in the Russian Orthodox Church. Putin displayed his closeness to the church on Saturday night when he appeared at an Easter service in Moscow's Church of Christ the Saviour, and received a personal blessing from Patriarch Kirill, leader of the church. "Millions of Russian people live, and continue to live, in Ukraine, several million Ukrainians continue to live in Russia," said Metropolitan Hilarion, head of the church's external relations department and one of the patriarch's closest aides. "We have a common language, a common culture, we have a common past and I believe deeply that we have a common future," he said in comments posted on the church's Internet site. "The political state of affairs which replaces simple common sense, interferes in people's fates, destroys them, and like a knife cuts through human relationships, tearing the ties between peoples, is, after all, only temporary in nature." (Editing by Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderA 2014 Boston Marathon runner prays during Easter Mass at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston, Massachusetts April 20, 2014. The 118th running of the Boston Marathon will be held April 21. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Japan's Trade Stats Disappoint. The Japanese trade deficit widened to ¥1.45 trillion yen, or about $14.1 billion in March. Exports climbed by just 1.8%, missing expectations for a 6.5% gain. Meanwhile, energy costs caused imports to jump 18.1%. Markets Are Quiet. Many markets around the world remain closed to observe Easter Monday. And the ones that are open aren't doing much. Japan's Nikkei closed down a fraction of a percent. U.S. futures are modestly lower. European markets are closed. Japan's Controversial Offering. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made a ritual offering to Yasukuni Shrine, an act that is likely to anger China and Korea. The shrine honors 14 Japanese leaders who were convicted of war crimes. Oscar Mayer Recall. Kraft Foods is recalling 96,000 pounds of Oscar Meyer wieners because of a labeling issue. The product labels do not reflect the ingredients associated with pasteurized cheese in cheese dogs. Shoe Worker Strike. Employees of China's Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings are continuing their labor strike, which began a week ago. Workers are hoping for better benefits. Yue Yuen mainly produces shoes for Adidas. NYT: GM Sidestepped Recalls. The New York Times has found evidence that for the better part of a decade GM did everything it could to avoid issuing recalls on vehicles now found to have been fatally faulty. Instead they relied mostly instead on a series of alerts. Suit: Tech Giants Colluded. The Wall Street Journal reports a class-action lawsuit alleges tech giants including Google and Apple colluded to, among other things, suppress wages by avoiding poaching one another's talent. The suit has 64,000 seeking $3 billion in damages.  Barclays' Commodities Unit. Barclays announced it had begun dismantling parts of its commodities unit, the latest megabank to do so in the face of unfavorable margins and strict regulations. Insider Trading Convictions Endangered. An appeal on an insider trading case from 2012 could endanger convictions in a series of other similar cases. Two hedge fund managers argue they should not be responsible if they did not know a tip had been illicitly obtained. WYNN earnings. The casino giant reports its financial results after the bell. Consensus is for $2.06/share.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby Melville(Reuters) - Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; is planning to withdraw from parts of the metals, agricultural and energy markets, echoing moves by other major players like JPMorgan Chase &lt;JPM.N&gt; and Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; away from the commodities business, the Financial Times reported on Sunday. The UK bank is expected to announce the changes on Tuesday, which include heavy cuts to its global commodities trading staff, the newspaper reported. The FT said Barclays is making the move because conditions in the commodities markets have grown unfavorable recently. Revenues have fallen and regulators have increased their scrutiny of the space. Barclays declined to comment. Barclays Chief Executive Antony Jenkins has undertaken a third review of the investment bank in as many years in response to pressure to cut costs and improve returns, which lag other parts of the business such as Barclaycard. Analysts are expecting cuts in areas like credit trading, emerging markets, securitization, structured credit and equity derivatives. The bank has already made some cuts in commodities, and it is considering selling its index business. On Friday, Barclays announced a shakeup of its investment bank management team, including a new head of markets and new co-heads of banking. (Reporting by Emily Flitter in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   Anticipate a very quiet session – with All of Europe and UK Closed – Aussie and Hong Kong as well – for Easter Bank Holiday, combined with Patriot’s Day and Marathon Monday in Boston.   With the Dow coming off the Biggest gain of 2014 last week - US Futures are pacing higher, led by a 26bp pop in Nasdaq – but bear in mind that Monday is the worst day of the week for Equities over the last year.   Russia is only on major European market open today – and their market is off 60bp as the Geneva agreement frays at the edges.   Ukraine’s FX is in rally mode however, and Oil lower, showing no major stress re-building with the Euro players at home.   There was some Stress building in Asia as China seizes a Japanese Ship – “Compensation” for 2 ships leased from a Chinese company before the two countries went to war in 1937.  Shanghai lost 1.5% as a list of 28 upcoming IPOs was released, while Japan was basically unchanged on volume 40% light to average.   Focus will clearly be on earnings this week - We have 50% of the weight of the ITB (Builders) and IBB (Biotech) reporting. The 10YY continues it’s upside trajectory – testing the 200dma at 2.72% right now.   The DXY has some upside trajectory, as the Yen breaks down relative to the $, a capital market tailwind.   We have Gold on 2week lows, and Silver retreating over 1.3% and nearing 9month lows.   We have both Brent and WTI retreating small, helping Gasoline come off 13month highs.   We will keep an eye on Alberta Oil, as the Keystone Decision is delayed for another year.   Wheat is your worst performing commodity, losing over 2% despite weekend headlines talking a killer fungus.  We have a very quiet calendar today, with only Chicago Fed at 8:30, U Leading Index at 10, and a small POMO at 11.   Some major catalysts this week include Regional Fed Indices, Heavy Home Data - FHFA House Price, Existing and New Home Sales for March, Global PMIs, Former Fed Chairman Bernanke Speaks, and the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI for April.   FREE AppDownload
Tensions are relatively high between China and Japan, respectively the world's second- and third-largest economies. Just yesterday, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made a ritual offering to the controversial Yasukuni war shrine, an act that can only worsen relations between Japan and China. Recent rows between the two nations have largely been tied to an ownership dispute regarding a string of islands in the East China Sea. "The islands — called Senkaku in Japan but Diaoyu in China — are largely uninhabited but could yield significant oil and gas deposits for the rightful owner; hence the heated competition to lay claim to this part of the East China Sea," U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan said. "In September 2012, Japan purchased three of the islands from a private Japanese businessman, a transaction vehemently opposed by China. Roughly a year later, China unilaterally declared an East Asian Air Defense Identification Zone over the islands, which effectively requires all aircraft flying over the region to follow the instructions issued by Chinese authorities. Japan, not surprisingly, condemned the move as an infringement on Japanese sovereignty, escalating tensions between the two parties," Quinlan said. It's a messy geopolitical situation that has already affected industries such as automobiles. And it's not just a war of words. Quinlan offered this chart showing the increasing number of instances that Japan scrambled aircraft in response to Chinese aircraft flying too close to the islands, which raises the odds of an accidental clash. Still, most experts don't see war as a base-case scenario. "No one is predicting an armed conflict between China and Japan, but the rising ill will between the two parties hardly engenders investor confidence in a region built on peaceful regional relations and unfettered trade and investment flows," said Quinlan, who characterized all of this as "a dangerous game of military chicken." US Trust FREE AppDownload
ArchivesThe unsettling market plunges of two weeks ago have stopped (at least for now), and stock prices have recovered a bit. So now everyone's getting cautiously bullish again. Everyone except me. I still think stocks are poised to have a decade or more of lousy returns. Why? Three simple reasons: I'll go through this logic in detail below. But first, a quick description of what I mean by "a decade or more of lousy returns" — and a note on how I am positioning my own portfolio in light of this view. To be clear: I don't know what stocks are going to do next. They could go higher from today's already high prices, the way they did from similar levels in the late 1990s. They could crash, the way they did in 2000, 2007, and many other periods in which prices were (almost) this high. They could stay flat for years, the way they did in the late 1960s and '70s. All I know is, unless "it's different this time" — the four most expensive words in the English language — stocks are priced to return only about 2.5% per year for the next decade, a far cry from the 10% per year long-term average. I own lots of stocks, though, and I'm not selling them. Why not? Many reasons, including: And now the details on why I think stocks are poised to have lousy long-term returns ... First, price. Even after the recent drops from the peak, stocks appear to be very expensive. By one measure, they're even more expensive than they were at the peak of the "Great Bubble" in 2000 — the highest stock prices in history! The chart below is from Yale professor Robert Shiller. It shows the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 for the last 130 years. As you can see, today's P/E ratio of 25X is miles above the long-term average of 15X. In fact, it's higher than at any point in the 20th century with the exception of the peaks of 1929 and 2000 (you know what happened after those). Robert Shiller, Business Insider   Does a high PE mean the market is going to crash? No. But unless it's "different this time," a high PE means we're likely to have lousy returns for the next seven to 10 years. By the way, in case some of your bullish friends have convinced you that Professor Shiller's P/E analysis is flawed, check out the chart below. It's from fund manager John Hussman. It shows six valuation measures in addition to the Shiller P/E that have been highly predictive of future returns over the past century. The left scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. The colored lines (except green) show the predicted return for each measure at any given time. The green line is the actual return over the 10 years from that point (it ends 10 years ago).  Today, the average expected return for the next 10 years is slightly positive — about 2% a year. That's not horrible. But it's a far cry from the 10% long-term average. John Hussman, Hussman Funds John Hussman also observes something else that is interesting: The median stock is more expensive now than it was in 2000! That's right. The stock market in the late 1990s was so skewed by the prices of tech stocks and other growth stocks that the median stock wasn't that expensive. Now, small-cap and growth stocks have performed so well for so long that the median stock is more expensive than it was then. Yikes! (Happily, some big slow-growth stocks are reasonably priced right now — less than 15X earnings. If you're desperate to buy stocks, those are probably a good place to start). So that's price. Next comes profit margins. One reason stocks are so expensive these days is that investors are comparing stock prices to this year's earnings and next year's expected earnings. In some years, when profit margins are normal, this valuation measure is meaningful. In other years, however — at the peak or trough of the business cycle — comparing prices to one year's earnings can produce a very misleading sense of value. Have a glance at this recent chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean. And when profit margins have reverted, so have stock prices. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau," as the famous economist Irving Fisher remarked about stock prices in 1929, just before the crash. And, unlike Irving Fisher, you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that what you are really saying is "It's different this time." And then there's Fed tightening. For the last five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not always. But often. Here's a look at the last 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. Note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, let's zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982, which overlaps a bit with the chart above. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening now will likely lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. So those are three reasons why I think stocks are poised to have lousy returns over the next decade and that the stock market might well crash — price, profit margins, and Fed tightening.  None of this means for sure that the market will crash or that you should sell stocks (again, I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) It does mean, however, that you should be mentally prepared for the possibility of a major pullback and lousy long-term returns. SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote   FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Michael McDonoughMonkey Hill near Kowloon.After a three-day weekend, traders will return to the markets where there is little scheduled on the economic calendar. However, earnings season will be in full force. Apple, Microsoft, McDonald's, and Facebook are among the big names that will disclose how business performed in Q1 and how business could perform in the near future. Everyone will be listening for the impact of weather, the effects of currency fluctuations, and the evolving demand dynamics of China. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Deutsche Bank's David Bianco is one of Wall Street's more cautious strategists. Here's a summary of his recommendation from his new weekly commentary: "April’s high volatility swung the S&amp;P ~5% from an 1890 high to 1815 low. This means that investors are unsure in their macro outlooks. What’s increasingly uncertain is the degree to which growth accelerates and 10yr Treasury yields climb. We think those expecting sustained GDP growth of &gt;3% should prefer smaller growth (high PE) stocks over larger value (low PE) stocks. This outlook aligns more with an 1850 S&amp;P yearend target as yields should more quickly ascend toward normal. Those expecting GDP growth to be &lt;3% should prefer low PE mega-caps as the climb in yields should be limited and support higher fair value steady-state PEs, and could raise the S&amp;P to 2000 within 12 months." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Bill PuglianoSquare co-founder Jack Dorsey(Reuters) - Square Inc has been in talks with several rivals for a possible sale as the mobile payments startup looks to stem widening losses and dwindling cash, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The company spoke to Google Inc earlier this year about a possible sale, the Journal reported, adding that it wasn't clear whether the talks are continuing. Square, founded in 2009 by Jack Dorsey, co-creator of Twitter Inc, will likely fetch billions of dollars in a sale. Square insiders sold shares earlier this year on the secondary market, valuing the company at roughly $5.2 billion, the Journal said. The company recorded a loss of about $100 million in 2013, the Journal said, adding that the startup has consumed more than half of the roughly $340 million it raised from at least four rounds of equity financing since 2009. Square makes credit card readers that slot into smartphones such as Apple Inc's iPhone. Square also had informal discussions about a deal with Apple and eBay Inc's PayPal in the past, but those conversations never developed into serious talks, the Journal said. A spokesman for Square told the Journal that the company never had acquisition talks with Google. The report also quoted a PayPal spokesman as saying that the company did not have acquisition talks with Square. Square, Google, Apple and eBay were not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. Square held discussions with banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Morgan Stanley in November about a possible initial public offering in 2014. However, the company's planned IPO has been postponed "indefinitely", according to media reports last month. (Reporting by Arnab Sen in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/KyodoA wooden sign (C) reading "Prime Minister Shinzo Abe" is seen on a ritual offering from the prime minister to Yasukuni Shrine at the shrine in Tokyo in this picture taken by Kyodo April 21, 2014.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe sends a ritual offering to Yasukuni Shrine, seen by critics as a symbol of Japan's past militarism, Japanese media reported on Monday, in a move likely to ruffle already strained ties with China and South Korea. Japanese media said Abe will not visit the shrine, where 14 Japanese leaders convicted as war criminals by an Allied tribunal are honored along with Japan's war dead. Visits by Japanese leaders to the Tokyo shrine have outraged China and South Korea, which suffered under Japanese occupation and colonization in the 20th century. Beijing and Seoul have been highly critical of previous offerings made by Abe as well. Abe's latest offering comes just days ahead of U.S. President Barack Obama's three-day visit to Japan from April 23. (Reporting by Dominic Lau and Edmund Klamann; Writing by Linda Sieg) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers protest during a strike as police stand guard at the factory area of Yue Yuen Industrial, in DongguanSHANGHAI (Reuters) - One of China's biggest strikes in years stretched into a second week on Monday, and spread from a huge shoe production complex in southern Guangdong province to a facility owned by the same company in neighboring Jiangxi province. Workers at the multi-factory Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd complex in the Guangdong city of Dongguan clocked in on Monday morning, but not for work, continuing a stoppage over what they say have been years of inadequate social insurance and housing provident fund contributions by the company. In Jiangxi, more than 2,000 workers from a Yue Yuen factory that mainly produces shoes for Adidas AG went on strike on Friday and planned to continue on Monday, the U.S.-based group China Labour Watch said. "We're continuing the strike," said one worker in Dongguan, surnamed Zhou, contacted by telephone. "We swiped our cards and then went back (home). The other production lines in the same network are striking, too." The strike began a week ago after the company missed a deadline to address workers' concerns. Yue Yuen announced changes to employee benefits on Thursday to try to placate the workers and end the strike [ID:nL3N0N903W], but workers rejected these. Provincial, municipal and township leaders urged Yue Yuen to resolve the workers' demands in accordance with laws and regulations, the government of the town of Gaobu, where the Yue Yuen factory complex is located, said in a statement on Monday. "Company and worker representatives are urged to strengthen communication and consultation, publicize explanations of regulations and policies, and guide the rational expression of the aspirations of the workers," it said. The Yue Yuen facilities in Gaobu comprise the company's biggest manufacturing center, with 1.4 million square meters (15.1 million square feet) of floor space, according to its website. In addition to Adidas, it also makes shoes for Nike Inc, Saucony and other global brands, workers said. A company executive said last week there were about 40,000 employees at the Gaobu complex. Several workers in Gaobu said the entire workforce was on strike. Labor activists say the strike is the biggest in China in recent memory. (Reporting by John Ruwitch; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk along an elevated walkway at the Pudong financial district in ShanghaiSINGAPORE (Reuters) - Selling insurance against a financial crisis should not be difficult, five years after the last one nearly wrecked the global economy. But when it comes to China, the world's second-largest economy, the probability of a full-blown crisis is apparently so remote that hardly anyone will buy an insurance policy against it, no matter how cheap. Financial wizards have been trying to sell peace of mind to investors in China for years, but fewer and fewer of those investors are interested, despite some worrying headlines. In the past few months alone, China has seen its first domestic bond default, a small bank run, its weakest export performance since the global financial crisis, a marked slowdown in its property market and a rise in labor unrest. Steve Diggle, a Singapore-based hedge fund manager who crafts strategies to protect investors against financial catastrophes, says investors have faith that the Chinese government, armed with almost $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, will simply not allow things to get out of hand. He had to close down a fund that used to bet on doomsday outcomes in Asia last year. "There's a sense you are playing poker against a guy who makes his own chips," Diggle said. Before the 2008-09 global financial crisis, he had run a successful fund, Artradis, which thrived on volatility in financial markets. Now, he says, hedging against a catastrophe seems to be passe - and not just for China. Governments and central banks around the world have shown themselves willing to deploy vast sums of money - China alone launched a 4 trillion yuan ($643 billion) stimulus package in late 2008 - to avert a financial meltdown. "You are no longer in an environment where market forces will play themselves out because you have an extraordinarily powerful and motivated intervention in the market process from someone, such as a central bank or government, who has a strong ability to influence those processes," said Diggle. BETTING ON A BLACK SWAN There are still some hedge funds that take out insurance against extreme, improbable events - such as the notion that China's economic miracle will end in tears. Andrew Wong, co-chief investment officer of Fortress Convex Strategies Group, runs a fund that aims to make money from these so-called "black swan" events. "A pattern we've seen through long cycles is that in the period leading up to a systemic crisis, people buy hedges, lose money and unwind those hedges. Because it hasn't been efficient and has lost money, by the time the real thing happens they may end up being completely unhedged," said Wong. "It's very hard to time the market precisely, so in general you need to have the insurance before the house is on fire." For cautious or contrarian investors, taking out insurance on such apparently unlikely events as a China crisis has to be cheap. It is futile to spend large sums of capital on so-called tail-risk bets, waiting for such long odds to pay off. Hedges can be expensive, though one relatively cheap method is to buy put options on the yuan or on Chinese stocks at strike prices well below current market levels. Typically, though, the cheapest hedging strategies can also be the most complex. One such strategy involves variance swaps, a financial instrument that tends to pay the investor when volatility of an underlying bond or stock spikes. In hedging against the risk of a major outbreak of defaults, a straight-forward approach such as buying credit default swaps (CDS) is not the most cost-effective. Instead, funds will offset the cost of buying CDS insurance against a distressed company by also selling CDS protection against a more creditworthy one. "If they want to hedge, it is relatively cheap," said Camiel Houwen, head of equity derivatives trading at ING Asia. "But not too many people are setting up the trade." In China's case, some fund managers think investors may be overestimating the hold Chinese authorities have on markets. "A China hard landing is not our base-case scenario, but if it were to happen, it is one of these events that would have significant implications for a wide number of assets," said Viktor Hjort, head of Asian fixed-income strategy at Morgan Stanley. "So it is a low-probability, high-impact type of scenario, and against those it always makes sense to consider hedges." (Additional reporting by Nishant Kumar in Hong Kong; Editing by Mark Bendeich) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerAn investor sleeps on a bench in front of an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Huaibei, Anhui province.Most world markets were closed on Friday for the Easter holiday. And most won't reopen until Tuesday. The major European exchanges are closed today for Easter Monday. Japan's stock market, which was open today, closed with the Nikkei down 0.03%. U.S. markets will reopen at 9:30 a.m. ET. Futures are a hair higher with Dow futures up 20 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 2.6 points. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA map of China is seen through a magnifying glass on a computer screen showing binary digits in SingaporeBEIJING (Reuters) - China has shut down more than 100 websites carrying pornography and closed thousands of accounts on social media sites in an re-newed effort to clean up the internet, state media reported. The campaign, named "Cleaning the Web 2014", was launched in response to the spread of online pornography despite repeated bans, according to a circular issued by the National Office Against Pornographic and Illegal Publications. Pornography is illegal in China, but some overseas critics are concerned that the crackdown on material deemed obscene is the latest government attempt to tighten its grip on the internet and will be used in broader censorship of websites. In the latest drive, authorities have closed 110 websites and more than 3,300 accounts on China-based social networking services, and deleted more than 200,000 items containing pornography since January, the official Xinhua news agency reported on Sunday. "Disseminating pornographic information online severely harms the physical and mental health of minors, and seriously corrupts social ethos," an unidentified official with the State Internet Information Office was cited by Xinhua as saying. The campaign, set to last until November, comes after a crackdown on Wechat, Tencent Holdings Ltd's social messaging app, which has had dozens of widely read accounts run by outspoken columnists shut down. It also follows a move last year to purge online rumor-mongering, widely seen as a tool to punish critics of the ruling Communist Party, which has chilled political disclosure especially on Weibo, China's version of Twitter. Sina Corp, a major Chinese web portal, temporarily shut down its entire online reading section shortly after the campaign was launched, because "works containing inappropriate content have appeared," the company said in a statement on one of its Weibo microblogs. Last week, a Beijing court sentenced a man to three years in prison for spreading rumors on Weibo that the court said defamed celebrities and the government. (Reporting by Li Hui and Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn exterior view shows the Kraft Research and Development facility in Morton Grove, Illinois(Reuters) - Kraft Foods Group Inc is recalling about 96,000 pounds of Oscar Mayer Classic Wieners because the packages may instead contain Classic Cheese Dogs made with milk, a known allergen. The product labels are incorrect as they do not reflect the ingredients associated with the pasteurized cheese in the cheese dogs, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) said in a statement on Sunday. The products were formulated with milk, which is not declared on the product label, the FSIS said. (http://r.reuters.com/dun68v) The recall is classified a Class I recall - a health hazard situation where there is a reasonable probability that the use of the product will cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. FSIS and Kraft have received no reports of adverse reactions due to consumption of these products. Kraft was not immediately available for comment outside normal U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
