What is cap space? Fans of any professional sport with a salary cap are aware of what that means — it’s the amount of money a team can spend on players before they hit a limit. Whether they can go over depends on the kind of cap it is (a soft cap is more flexible than a hard cap, as one might infer), but the space exists to be filled with players’ contracts. To ensure that teams are at least nominally on the same page, most leagues institute a salary floor, or a minimum amount of money that must be spent on player salaries each year. For 2014, the NFL’s cap is roughly $133 million, and teams are required to spend 89 percent of the cap (that’d be the floor part of the equation). Since the National Football League has a hard cap, every franchise is required to float between $118 and 133 million. While the actual language behind the cap, like the salary contracts themselves, is positively Byzantine, the general rules of thumb are not: More cap space equals more room to get more help; less cap room means less room to do the same thing. So which teams are still holding on to the most space? Certainly not the Pittsburg Steelers, according to the NFL Player Association’s public report, which is updated daily. As of this writing, the Steelers have a little less than $400,000 before they hit the cap. The Redskins are also not on the list, having only $2.5 million to work with. After parting ways with the fastest running back in the league, the Tennessee Titans freed up much of the $8 million that was going to be owed to Chris Johnson, aka CJ2k, aka CJ2YPC. The Titans, who missed the playoffs after going 7-9 last year, are looking to rebuild with the 11th pick in the draft as well as the promising talents of Jake Locker, who played well last season before suffering a foot injury in November. With the free agent market looking dry (with the exception of Chris Johnson, who has not yet signed with a team), Tennessee will look to conserve cap space in order to fill holes in its offense as the need arises — players get cut, waived, and otherwise disassociated from teams all the time, and the Titans need to carefully evaluate the upcoming free agency market, when the cap-friendly rookie deals of the newest CBA expire and players drafted after the 2011 season can have vast piles of money thrown at them. Until then, let’s pour one out for Johnson’s career with the Titans, because he wasn’t as bad as people often thought, even if he wasn’t as good as people thought, either:  No Michael Vick. No DeSean Jackson. The Philadelphia Eagles quietly snagged a free safety in the offseason in Malcolm Jenkins, re-signed Riley Cooper and Jeremy Maclin, and brought in speedy pass catcher Darren Sproles to help with Chip Kelly’s uptempo offense, but otherwise the team has been relatively sedate on the free agency front.. The team is obviously leaving ample room to operate when newfound wunderkind quarterback Nick Foles is in line for a big payday. For now, linebacker Trent Cole and running back LeSean McCoy make up the largest dents in the Eagles’ cap space, taking up $11.3 million and $11.9 million, respectively. One player that won’t be appearing on the Philly squad this season? The infamous Tim Tebow, who was recently shunted aside by LeSean McCoy. The running back, far and away the most successful player at his position last season, said that he would take his 2-year old son over Tebow. Harsh words, LeSean. Words hurt. Tebow is currently a college football analyst for ESPN, the network that contributed heavily to his popularity. Do the Bengals want help? Of course. Have they ever been major free agency players? Not really. The Ohio team has always been content to acquire talent through the draft and making sure those players are well-paid when the time is right. So what’s that going to look like? Well, Andy Dalton and A.J. Green, the two bright spots for the team, are both going to be snagging new deals in 2015, if not sooner, and the Bengals would be loath to have to part ways with either of them — Green is already arguably the best receiver in the league who isn’t named Calvin Johnson. As for the rest of the team, they’re decidedly all right. HeOfManyCapitals, BenJarvus Green-Ellis, aka the Law Firm, has been passable, and sophomore Giovani Bernard has been downright exciting. After suffering a first-round exit at the hands of the San Diego Chargers in last year’s playoffs, the Bengals will look to make it further this year with their young core. The Jacksonville Jaguars are bad. Real bad. They were on pace to be historically bad last year, and after letting Maurice Jones-Drew walk in free agency, they don’t look to be much better. Until they grab a quarterback in this year’s draft, they’re still starting Blane Gabbert, who, if you’re reading this article, needs no further comment (he’s not great). They’re so bad that they forced Madden to remove realistic crowd sizes from their games. But that’s all right. The Jags are going to hold on to their cap space and, in the near future, make someone an offer he can’t refuse. In the meantime, they’ll still have players who mistake old white guys for former presidents. They’re not in any danger of relocating to London. In celebration of that fact, here’s Gabbert’s highlights from 2013 (he finished with 1 TD, 7 INT, and 481 passing yards).  The Jets have long been the laughingstock of the NFL, from Rex Ryan’s tattoo of his wife in former QB Mark Sanchez’s jersey to Sanchez’s buttfumble and beyond. Even when they’re good, they’re goofy. It is what it is. In the AFC , the Patriots are faceless automatons, the Bills are forgotten, the Dolphins are always bad, and the Jets are goofy. What’s not so goofy about the Jets are their free agency acquisitions. They picked up Eric Decker from Denver, and they just picked up Chris Johnson for two years off waivers while this piece was being written. With quarterback Geno Smith having his starting status contested by new arrival Michael Vick, the Jets look poised to be entertaining, if still not entirely successful. Their season will hinge on Smith’s development, how much CJ2K has in the tank, and what Ryan can do to avoid being fired this time next year. Good luck, Mr. Ryan. After starting free agency with a metric ton of cap space, the Cleveland Browns still have the most in the league, even after dishing out “over $55.8 million in guaranteed money,” per ESPN. That’s after signing safety Donte Whitner, matching Jacksonville’s offer on Alex Mack, and signing Karlos Dansbury. So the Browns are spending, augmenting their found money in sophomore tight end Jordan Cameron, even if they haven’t made overtures toward fixing their quarterback problem yet. The problem, of course, is relative. Brian Hoyer, the hometown quarterback who brought the Browns three consecutive victories before promptly tearing his ACL because Cleveland sports are sad and depressing, was a solid starter for the team in his too-short 2013 campaign, and the franchise feels good about him under center, at least in the short term. FREE AppDownload
When I meet with entrepreneurs, I am often asked about the VC “pipeline.” How many deals do we see? How many meetings? How often do we conduct due diligence? How many of those companies do we invest in? I thought it would be helpful to provide visibility about the VC pipeline, while also outlining what helps a company move from an intro meeting into a closed investment. In order to make 10 investments, the average venture capital firm reviews approximately 1,200 companies. Leads: These 1,200 come from network introductions, conferences, in-bound inquiries, proactive efforts, portfolio company referrals, and seed investors. Of the 1,200, we find that approximately 500 lead to face-to-face meetings with someone on the investment team. The most important factor in securing a meeting is the background of the founders. Do they have the skills and experience for the opportunity they are pursuing? Of course, the pitch also matters: Is it concise and compelling? In addition, most venture firms like to make sure that a company is not competitive with a current portfolio company. Personally, the primary reason I don’t meet in person with in-bound requests is that the entrepreneur was not vetted by someone I trust. Meetings: The average venture firm has approximately 500 face-to-face meetings each year, yet only 10 percent progress from that stage. What makes a venture firm want to dig in and spend the time required to do proper due diligence? First, most early stage VC firms look for demonstrated product/market fit. At Emergence, we also want to confirm that the company is solving a problem that is relevant outside of Silicon Valley. Too often only customers are in the Bay Area, and they are friends of the founders, which means no proof of a real market. One of the reasons that a meeting doesn’t go well is that the founding team will say they expect $50 million in revenue in 5 years, but they have difficulty articulating how they’ll get to their first $1million. Due Diligence: Of these 500 meetings, a mid-sized venture firm may perform due diligence on approximately 50 companies in a year. Due diligence consists of a product review, customer references, executive team references, financial modeling, market analysis and competitive analysis. Passionate customers who are very engaged with the product can really make a difference during due diligence. Venture firms also look for at least 100 percent annual revenue growth in the first few years. However, often companies don’t meet short-term projections set in earlier meetings, and firms can lose confidence in their future projections. Venture firms are also wary of high rates of churn and customer concentration. Investments:  In a typical mid-size venture firm, the 50 companies may generate 10 investments. Why do these companies stand out? A couple items are critical, such as efficient customer acquisition and a magnetic CEO that people follow. It’s a huge red flag if former employees don’t want to work with the CEO again. With respect to market size, at Emergence, we like to see a reasonable path to $100 million in annualized revenue. For an industry focused solution, a $300 million market size is sufficient since if they become an industry standard they can get 30 to 50 percent of the market. For a horizontal solution that solves pain points across industries, a company needs $1 billion market size, since the market leader may only get 5 to 10 percent of the market. While it may seem that one percent represents depressing odds for a founder to secure VC funding, in reality, the process tends to help entrepreneurs refine their strategy. If the first meeting didn’t result in moving to the next phase, a good venture firm will provide specific feedback and guidance. Most venture firms stay in touch with founders they have met in the past, and it is exciting when future meetings highlight changes that have led to more traction. Sean Jacobsohn is a venture partner at Emergence Capital Partners. He joined Emergence Capital after being an executive and advisor at portfolio companies Hightail and Doximity, respectively. In addition to being a sales and alliances executive in the technology enabled services space for 13 years, he is cofounder and co-president of the Harvard Business School Alumni Angels, the largest university-affiliated angel group in the world. This article originally appeared at VentureBeat.  Copyright 2014. Follow VentureBeat on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Every man wants to know what will make him irresistible to women — especially when it comes to things he can change and control. How much time should he spend at the gym? What colors look best? Should he shave? We turned to science for answers. References: Color, facial hair, posture, smile, muscles, sweat.
Everyone's different, but generally people are recommended to keep a diet of around 2,000 calories per day. But what does that actually mean? Sometimes it's hard to visualize what that amount of food looks like, so we did the work for you. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Kim Kyung-Hoon/ReutersVenezuela's President Nicolas Maduro and Chinese President Xi Jinping arrive at a welcoming ceremony outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.Venezuela’s political system is based on three foreign imports: socialist rhetoric from Cuba, weapons from Russia and money from China.  The formula, established by the late President Hugo Chávez, has been followed religiously by his successor, Nicolás Maduro. And now, China’s involvement in Venezuelan affairs might go beyond funding. “We owe it to our Comandante Chávez to deepen our strategic relationship with our beloved China,” said Maduro, who held talks with Chinese officials as early as a week after Chávez’s passing in early 2013. The feeling was mutual, as evidenced by Zhang Ping, chairman of China’s National Development and Reform Commission. “Deepening relations between China and Venezuela are the only way to comfort the soul of President Hugo Chávez,” he said in the televised meeting he held with Maduro. China and Venezuela are linked not only by mutual admiration and a common proclaimed ideology. The two nations have entered an economic relationship that shows all signs of being here to stay. Maduro’s visit to Beijing in September 2013 had a clear economic agenda: The two nations signed 27 cooperation deals, as well as agreeing on a new Chinese line of credit to the Caracas government worth $5 billion. There was also a political aspect: Maduro suggested the creation of a binational commission to plan the economic development of Venezuela in the next decade, according to the Caracas newspaper El Universal. Chinese President Xi Jinping called Maduro’s visit an “opportunity to elevate the relations to the next level.” China is currently Venezuela’s second-largest trade partner, after a meteoric spike of their exchange in the last decade: from $350 million in 2010, trade between Caracas and Beijing reached $23 billion in 2012, according to numbers cited by China Daily, a government-backed newspaper. That same year, China absorbed 15 percent of Venezuela’s exports. Two thirds of that was oil, with China importing 500,000 barrels daily, according to government figures, which was 10 percent of total Chinese oil imports. China’s influence in Venezuela runs deeper than an import-export balance sheet. Venezuela has been leaning on China for the past seven years as a money-lender, both in the form of infrastructure projects financed by China and direct loans. There are currently 300 deals signed by Caracas and Beijing, covering everything from major construction projects to agricultural investments. In 2008, China’s Development Bank agreed to lend Venezuela $46.5 billion, according to a study from Tufts University. Almost all of it was backed by oil sale contracts. To date, Caracas has received $36 billion in loans, divided among different funds, and 60 percent of the daily oil exports to Beijing are in repayment of that debt. This oil deal is creating a “fundamental unsustainable cycle of indebtedness and dependency,” according to a 2010 study from the University of Miami. REUTERS/Miraflores Palace/HandoutVenezuela's President Nicolas Maduro greets oil workers during a visit to a facility at the oil rich Orinoco belt at the state of Monagas. Venezuela has the largest proven oil reserves in the world, but production has been steadily dropping: OPEC says it is now 75 percent of what it was in 1998. The national oil company Petróleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA) has been facing problems for a decade, amassing a debt of $43 billion since 2003, according to Oil Minister Rafael Ramírez. This has prompted demands from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank for privatization and austerity that the government rejects. Turning to China, then, is the best option. “Venezuela has a policy goal of trying to limit its exposure to the international debt market,” Mark Jones, Latin America expert at think-tank Baker Institute, told Al Jazeera. “For China, ideology has very little to do with it. They are investing for strategic reasons.” But for Venezuela, ideology is big. Maduro has repeatedly rejected help from international organizations, and accused the United States of trying of trying to bring down the regime. During the riots of early 2014, Maduro time and again pointed at Washington as being behind the protesters. Despite the inflammatory rhetoric, Venezuela’s largest trade partner is still the U.S., which, political differences aside, has many economic relations with Caracas. In 2011, trade between both nations totaled $62 billion, mostly related to oil, according to numbers from the U.S. Trade Representative Office. That imbalance in the relationship between China and Venezuela may work to the former's advantage. Maduro can't really survive without Chinese help, and is seeking a closer alliance with Beijing, faced as he is with few major international allies. China has not made any overtures about having a more direct role in Venezuelan political affairs, but it needs the oil, and its interest in keeping Venezuela close is as strong as ever. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderWhen faced with the decision of choosing between a job you love and a job that pays well, remember this: You can have your cake and eat it too. The second annual list of the best employers in America by PayScale and Business Insider evaluates companies by both pay and happiness. For the second year, New Jersey biotechnology company Celgene Corporation topped the list as the Best Employer in America. In fact, many of the best companies are in the health-care industry. The tech industry was booming last year, with typical top companies such as Google and Yahoo taking the second and eighth spots, respectively. This year, however, tech companies took a noticeable tumble: Google dropped to No. 8 this year, Yahoo fell to No. 17, and Microsoft, which ranked No. 14 last year, fell off the map. In creating this list, companies in the Fortune 500 were ranked using PayScale's salary and survey database. Final scores were determined by multiplying six criteria: high job satisfaction, low job stress, high work-schedule flexibility, high job meaning, experienced median pay, and salary delta (that is, how the median pay compares to other companies in the same industry). Since we think that pay is one of the most important factors, we double-weighted pay in our calculations. Read the full methodology here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeA trainer shows the crowd a killer whale during a show at the animal theme park SeaWorld in San Diego, California March 19, 2014.Something disquieting happened at SeaWorld marine parks this year. Numbers attending the group's popular US centres between January and March dropped, from 3.5 million in 2013 to 3.05 million this year, a decline of 13%. Nor is it hard to guess the cause, say wildlife campaigners. They see a clear link between the attendance slide and the release last year of the documentary Blackfish, which told the story of SeaWorld trainer Dawn Brancheau who was killed by Tilikum, a bull orca. The killer whale, it was also revealed, had been involved in the deaths of other individuals while in captivity. Blackfish focuses on the distress experienced by killer whales who are depicted as complex, highly intelligent creatures which are taken from their families, kept in small pools and given psychotropic drugs to calm them and help them perform tricks that include balancing human trainers on their snouts, rotating in the water to pop music, waving their flippers and tails, and floating on their backs. The film triggered widespread public outrage against marine parks in general and a petition, signed by 1.2 million people, was handed into the California state assembly calling for a ban on killer whale shows. Earlier this month, a bill legalising the ban was put on hold for the next 12 months. Campaigners are still hopeful it will be enacted next year. It has been an abrupt change in fortune. The cheery family charm of marine parks – institutions that have achieved worldwide popularity and become multimillion dollar industries in recent years – have taken a body blow. For their part, their managers strenuously deny that any of their animals suffer and flatly reject the idea that whales, dolphins and porpoises should no longer be kept captive. "That argument is not based on credible, peer-reviewed science. It's based on emotion and a propaganda film," says John Reilly, the president of SeaWorld San Diego. "We believe strongly there is an inspiration benefit to people seeing [killer whales] in our park." This last claim is outdated, campaigners respond. Modern, high-quality natural history programmes, screened on giant plasma TVs in homes, are far more likely to interest young people in wild creatures than marine park shows, they say. "Displays in which killer whales are forced to perform demeaning tricks are anything but inspirational," added Will Travers, head of the Born Free Foundation. According to his organisation, more than 2,100 dolphins and whales are being held in captivity at 343 facilities in 63 countries around the world, with the highest numbers concentrated in Japan, China, the US and Mexico. In North America, many of these parks have become the subject of wildlife campaigns. Vancouver Aquarium is currently under intense pressure to phase out its keeping of whales and dolphins, for example, while lawmakers in New York, Texas and Florida are also considering bans on captive killer whales and other cetaceans. In addition, it was recently reported that Richard Branson's Virgin Holidays, which sells packages to SeaWorld, had decided to begin an "engagement process" to investigate the debate around captive whales and dolphins. Branson also pledged to make his own inspection visits to marine parks, it was said. For good measure, India last year joined Hungary, Nicaragua, Chile and many other countries in forbidding or severely restricting the keeping of whales and dolphins in captivity. For its part, the United Kingdom closed its last dolphinarium in 1993. Wildlife campaigners say they oppose the keeping of cetaceans in captivity because these animals tend to have poor health and suffer stress-related illnesses as a result. "This is not necessarily the fault of the keepers who work with these animals and are certainly not out to mistreat them," says Lori Marino, of Emory University, Atlanta. "These parks provide good veterinary care. The problem is that cetaceans just cannot take captivity. The worst affected is the killer whale, while the beluga whale also does poorly. Bottlenose dolphins probably do best but they still die early of stress-related diseases despite being protected from predators and having food given to them every day." A key factor is related to range. These are animals that travel and they want to travel, biologists point out. "Marine animals evolved to travel to get food," adds Marino. "It is a challenge to hunt for food and they want to be challenged that way. So it is no favour to them to throw them dead fish." In addition, researchers point out that cetaceans have extremely sophisticated social lives which are disrupted when individual animals are caught and separated from their family groups. Killer whales have developed complex matriarchal societies in which sons and daughters live with their mothers even when they are adults. When such a family is broken up, the effect is highly stressful. Marine parks strenuously reject suggestions that they have been involved in breaking up orca families in the wild. "SeaWorld does not collect killer whales in the wild, and has not done so in over 35 years," the company maintains in a statement, The Truth about Blackfish, that it recently put up on its website. "We do not separate killer whale moms and calves, and in the rare occurrences that we do move whales among our parks, we do so only in order to maintain a healthy social structure." Marino disagrees, however. "The only way that these parks can get away with this sort of thing is to claim their shows have educational value or that they stimulate concern for conservation. Yet no one has required them to provide proof that they do. In fact, there is very little evidence that anything of that sort is achieved at these performances. These parks have been allowed to get away with this for decades. It is time to call them to account now." This point was backed by Travers. "What is becoming clear is that these 'entertainments' are only achieved by keeping highly sophisticated animals in cramped artificial environments while they are controlled by chemicals. The public is beginning to understand this. That is why they are turning away." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
    Sharing a cup of Turkish coffee is a way of life across the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. For centuries, this caffeine-concentrated beverage has been the fuel for lively political debate in conference rooms and cafes. A recent study published in Vascular Medicine suggests that it's not just good for relationship building, it's also good for you. Turns out the key is to boil your coffee — watch and learn how. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIf you work on Wall Street, you might realize that life might be just a little better on the buy-side versus the sell-side.  Folks who work for hedge funds tend to get bigger salaries and better hours compared to investment bankers.  Not to mention, they also have a more relaxed dress code (loafers, slacks, and a fleece vest). What's more is some hedge funds have some really sweet perks for their employees. These range anywhere from making sure the employees are well-fed to team vacations in the Bahamas.      We spoke to some hedge fund sources who spilled about which funds have these awesome perks.  We also did our own research on the Web to dig up other perks. If we're missing any bigs ones, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA 1,000 córdoba banknote, which was re-printed with a value of 200,000 córdobas during the inflationary period of the late 1980s.Hyperinflationary episodes have appeared several times over the past century — 55, to be exact — as the world's nations have experimented with fiat currencies backed by the full faith and credit of the governments that issue them. At times, that full faith and credit has been misplaced — and holders of unstable currencies have been caught empty-handed in countries all over the world. Often, this is can be a recurring theme among developing nations like those in Latin America during the debt crisis that struck the region in the 1980s. Even some of the largest economies in the world today, though — like China, Germany, and France — have suffered devastating hyperinflationary episodes. A major historical precursor of hyperinflation is war that destroys the capital stock of an economy and dramatically reduces output — but the misplaced monetary and fiscal policies that ensue are almost always part of the story. Economists Steve Hanke and Nicholas Krus compiled data on all 56 recorded hyperinflations in a 2012 study. We summarize 9 of the worst episodes here. FREE AppDownload
My visit to Washington for the spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank set me wondering whether western democracies are much guiltier than we are prepared to admit. These meetings took place against the surreal background of the US Congress having failed to pass a bill allowing the IMF to reform in the way that was agreed back in 2010 – a strange decision, as the planned changes to the fund were led by the then-US Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner. Those proposals were to increase the IMF’s lending capability as well as to boost the voting share and seats of the major so-called “emerging economic powers” at the expense of others, including Europe. Without the additional firepower, it makes it more difficult for the fund to intervene in economic crises, including the one engulfing Ukraine. It is more than ironic that many of the Congressional figures who are calling for aggressive actions towards Russia over the Ukraine crisis are the same ones blocking the reforms of the IMF. Without foreign financial assistance and economic support, Ukraine’s downward spiral could accelerate, yet there seems to be little recognition of this link. The stalled 2010 agreement is based around the status quo of the world that existed at the end of 2008 . In those five intervening years, the world economic balance has continued to shift. China has seen its nominal GDP double since 2008, so any agreements based on the relative size and balance of trade prevailing then are already very much out of date. It is bigger than the combined GDP of France, Germany and Italy, three European countries which also have an intransigent stance about more substantial global reform. Even though Brazil and Russia have especially disappointed in the past couple of years, both are within the top 10 economies by size. Collectively, the Bric countries are now nearly as large as the US and already quite a bit larger than the eurozone. While the other Bric countries probably don’t have much sympathy with Russia on the specifics of the Ukraine issue, they might have broader sympathy with the notion that emerging economies are not allowed a relevant voice in global affairs. Such thoughts might serve to undermine the legitimacy of global organisations such as the IMF and World Bank, the G20 itself as it morphs into clubs within a club, and encourage the growth of their own club. My impression, for example, is that there is renewed energy surrounding previous plans to form a Brics Development Bank, and later this year the funding and location for such a body seems set to be announced. It is not impossible that providing capital for such a new bank might take precedence over additional funding for the IMF if the US Congress continues to stall on the reforms. Europe is more than a mere bystander in these issues. Obviously as it relates to Ukraine, this crisis is on Europe’s immediate borders and some of the EU’s most eastern members – notably Poland and the other Baltic states – have particularly acute concerns about the crisis. It continues to be quite tricky for European countries to pursue aggressive sanctions against Russia when many of their leading companies want to do more business there. I recently attended a well-known economic and financial conference in Italy where delegates were asked about their plans to invest in a variety of economies. Russia came a close second to China in a list of about six emerging economies. Just before that event, I read of a visit by the chief executive of German industrial giant Siemens to President Vladimir Putin, soon after the annexation of Crimea. It is things like this that mean I cannot imagine either Germany or Italy leading a push to be really tough with Russia. European companies need to export beyond their borders to grow their revenues and recover from the economic malaise of recent years. Being tough and making sacrifices when your own economic challenges suggest the exact opposite requires a grander vision. Does the EU really have a true vision for the Ukraine? Does it really have a true vision for the shape of the world in which the EU is going to be positioned? It seems eager to export to China and Russia, but doesn’t really want to engage with them on an equal footing. In March, I published a paper co-authored with Alessio Terzi for the Brussels-based Bruegel think-tank that discussed the rapidly changing nature of world trade, and the contrasting absence of global economic governance. In it, we argued that it would be in Europe’s long-term interests to give up its national seats of representation within global organisations and to volunteer either EU or EMU combined seats. By doing so, it would allow the space for the emerging powers, as well as making it more difficult for the US to not be more adaptable to change. Indeed, it might even lead to questions as to why the IMF and World Bank would need to be located in the US unless they supported more reform themselves. The integration of the largest emerging economies into the world economy has been one of the most important positive developments of the past 20 years. It has allowed hundreds of millions of people in developing nations to escape poverty, as well as permitting western multinationals to develop markets that were unimaginable beforehand. This continued integration is a very positive thing for the world economy, despite some ongoing adjustment costs for some that struggle to adapt and change. However, it will not be able to continue unless we can also advance our organisations that are supposed to provide optimal global economic governance. As I was leaving after my trip to Washington, I was led to believe that Congress might end up passing the IMF bill after November, seven long months away. I was told this to be encouraged, but I would hope for more. Jim O’Neill is former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and chairman of education charity Shine (www.shinetrust.org.uk)  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRengan Rajaratnam, the younger brother of imprisoned hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, departs Manhattan Federal Court in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Rengan Rajaratnam, the younger brother of imprisoned hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, on Friday lost a bid to dismiss some of the insider trading charges leveled against him last year. U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan ruled that the indictment adequately alleged the essential elements of the crimes charged. Buchwald agreed that four securities fraud counts were "internally inconsistent" with a conspiracy charge contained in the indictment. But she withheld ruling on whether to dismiss them in order to allow the government to decide whether to proceed on those charges. (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
