Port of Los AngelesLOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Crippling cargo backups at U.S. West Coast ports stretched into a third month amid industry reports on Thursday of prolonged shipment delays for goods ranging from yoga apparel and rice to NBA bobblehead collectibles and frozen french fries. The congestion crisis has been most pronounced at the twin ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, the nation's two busiest cargo hubs, where marine officials reported 11 ships anchored on Thursday waiting for berths to open. The number of freighters kept waiting outside the two ports has fluctuated from about eight to 18 on any given day since the slowdown began there around mid-October, said Phillip Sanfield, spokesman for the port of Los Angeles. Smaller backups have hit other West Coast ports, including Oakland, California, and the ports of Seattle and Tacoma in Washington state. The slowdowns have coincided with prolonged labor talks between 20,000 dockworkers and the Pacific Maritime Association, representing terminal operators and shipping lines at 29 West Coast ports. Their latest contract expired June 30. Management has accused the International Longshore and Warehouse Union of orchestrating some work slowdowns on the docks to increase its leverage at the bargaining table. Union officials deny organizing protest delays but acknowledge that individual dockworkers may have acted out of frustration over the pace of contract talks. They point to other factors that port officials cite as the main reasons for gridlock. Chief among them has been a shortage of tractor-trailer chassis used for hauling cargo containers from the ports, a situation created when shippers decided to sell off their chassis to equipment-leasing companies. Union and port officials also cite record import levels at the peak cargo season, rail service delays and the advent of super-sized container vessels delivering greater cargo volumes. Port slowdowns have rippled through the commercial supply chain. Vancouver-based retailer Lululemon Athletica Inc blamed West Coast port congestion, particularly in Los Angeles and Seattle, for its lower sales forecasts on Thursday. The yoga wear seller said about 1 million of its garments were stuck in port, delaying shipments to stores for up to 10 days. Similar shipment delays were reported by Ann Inc and Ascena Retail Group Inc, parent companies of women's apparel chains Ann Taylor and the Loft, and Lane Bryant and Justice, respectively. Even professional sports franchises have felt the pinch. The Oakland-based Golden State Warriors earlier this month had to hand out vouchers to 10,000 basketball fans after shipments of the team's Sarunas Marciulionis bobblehead figures were delayed for several weeks. Exports have been squeezed as well. Fast-food giant McDonald's Corp said its Japan outlets are among that country's eateries grappling with a shortage of french fried potatoes blamed on U.S. West Coast port delays. Most U.S.-processed frozen potato products bound for Japan and other Asian countries are shipped in refrigerated containers through Seattle-Tacoma and Portland, Oregon, said John Toaspern, chief marketing officer for the U.S. Potato Board. Japan is the biggest Asian market for U.S.-made french fries, importing $336 million in frozen potato products last year. Toaspern said the port backups have at least doubled transit times for french fry shipments to Japan from two to four weeks. Container shipments of California-grown rice bound for Japan, South Korea and Taiwan have likewise been delayed two week or more at the port of Oakland at the height of growers' winter shipping season. "You start running short on warehouse space. It's a mess," said Tim Johnson, president and chief executive of the California Rice Commission. Delays also were taking a toll on container shipments of corn and soybeans, forcing the Illinois-based Prairie Creek Grain Company to offer some customers in Southeast Asia discounts of up to 6 percent. A roughly $700 discount per $12,000 container of soybeans is the difference between making a profit and breaking even, said Robert Briscoe, Prairie Creek president. He said his company is now turning away business to avoid paying late fees and fears losing some of its hard-won customers to larger bulk shippers. "We've slowed up our sales considerably, probably by 50 percent," he said. "We can't keep taking late-ship discounts and we don't see any end in sight."   (Additional reporting by Karl Plume in Chicago; and Solarina Ho and Euan Rocha in Toronto; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCitilink chief executive Arif Wibowo poses for a picture in the cabin of an Airbus A320 at its hangar facility in JakartaJAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesian state-owned airline PT Garuda Indonesia Tbk  appointed Arif Wibowo, the head of its budget carrier unit Citilink, as its chief executive to replace Emirsyah Satar, its spokesman said on Friday. Satar said on Thursday he had resigned before his term ends in March 2015 to give the new management more time to prepare for the year ahead.  (Reporting by Cindy Silviana; Writing by Eveline Danubrata; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - Brent crude continued its march downwards on Friday and dropped to a 5-1/2-year low of $63 a barrel, bringing this week's losses to more than 8 percent amid persistent concerns over a supply glut and a bearish demand outlook. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which accounts for a third of global oil output, cut its 2015 demand forecast to the lowest in more than a decade earlier this week. "The recent bout of weakness has been a function of the concerns shifting a little bit more to the demand side now," said Mark Keenan, head of commodities research in Asia for Societe Generale in Singapore. "There has been perhaps a little bit of neglect of what the demand profile's going to be like next year." Front-month Brent crude slipped 35 cents to trade at $63.33 by 0322 GMT (10:22 p.m. EST), after touching $63.00, the lowest intraday level since July 2009. Brent traded above $115 in June. January U.S. crude was down 75 cents at $59.20, after falling more than a dollar to a low of $58.80, also the weakest since July 2009. The contract has lost more than 10 percent so far this week. Oil markets are now waiting for top energy consumer China to release monthly crude output and refinery data as well as money supply data later in the day for more trading cues. Weak economic indicators could put further downward pressure on oil prices, which have been hammered this year and plunged around 40 percent over the past five months. Remarks by Saudi Arabia's oil minister reiterating that the kingdom will not cut output and a surprise jump in U.S. crude and distillate inventories have driven crude down prices this week. OPEC exporters are locked in a battle for market share. Kuwait has set the official selling price for its crude sales to Asian buyers for January at $3.95 a barrel below the average of Oman/Dubai quotes, a trader said on Thursday, the lowest it has been since December 2008. The market outlook is uncertain with some speculating that other OPEC members such as Algeria and Venezuela may convince the group to hold an emergency meeting early next year. Yet others doubt that Saudi Arabia would agree to production cuts even if such a meeting is held.   (Additional Reporting by Meeyoung Cho; Editing by Himani Sarkar) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Mira ObermanHalliburton, the world's second biggest oil services company, is slashing 1,000 jobs in its eastern hemisphere offices amid tumbling global oil pricesNew York (AFP) - Halliburton, the world's second biggest oil services company, said Thursday it is slashing 1,000 jobs in its eastern hemisphere offices amid tumbling global oil prices. The layoffs, which are effective immediately, represent 1.25 percent of Halliburton's 80,000-person workforce.   The layoffs will take place in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Australia, but jobs in the Americas will not be affected. The company said the decision was not an easy one, but necessary amid tumbling oil prices.   "The decision to eliminate jobs is never easy. Our talented workforce is the foundation of everything we accomplish," spokesman Chevalier Mayes told AFP.  "Yet, we believe these job eliminations are necessary in order to work through this market environment." At a conference Wednesday, Halliburton's chief financial officer Mark McCollum said the company expected a restructuring charge in its fourth quarter in relation to the job cuts. "We are right now anticipating a restructuring charge in the quarter, probably to the tune of about $75 million, as we trim out some headcount and activities around the world," McCollum told investors. Oil prices have dropped 44 percent since June, forcing companies to scale back exploration activities, which has reverberated with contractors such as Halliburton.  The oil services company is in the midst of finalizing the acquisition of Baker Hughes, which agreed to be bought by Halliburton in November in a $34.6 billion deal.  Halliburton said news of the layoffs was not related to the acquisition. "No layoffs have occurred or are presently planned as a result of the pending Baker Hughes acquisition," Mayes said.  Analysts say the deal could pave the way for more takeovers in the industry as falling oil prices put pressure on exploration companies to cut spending.       FREE AppDownload
Mexico City (AFP) - Mexico unveiled rules Thursday for the first phase of its historic opening of the oil sector to foreign investors, pledging transparent auctions in July for 14 shallow-water fields. The highly-anticipated guidelines were made public four months after Congress gave final approval to legislation allowing foreign companies to drill for oil for the first time since 1938. "It represents, without a doubt, the coming of a new era in energy in our country. It will be for the good of Mexico," Energy Minister Pedro Joaquin Coldwell said at an event outlining the bidding process. "The reform arrived on time. Mexico will put an end to its oil and gas decline and will reincorporate the world energy market with more strength and certainty." Mexico has never had auctions for oil exploration contracts. Before the sector's nationalization 76 years ago, contracts were awarded on a discretionary basis. Companies will be able on Monday to file applications for access to data on the 14 oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico. They will then have six months from January 15 to prepare their bids, ending with an auction on July 15, when the winner will be announced during a public session of the National Hydrocarbon Commission shown live online. "Mexico will conduct itself with the highest international standards of fairness and transparency," Coldwell said. The 14 oil fields cover an area of 4,222 square meters (one acre) and are located off the states of Tabasco, Veracruz and Campeche. To qualify for a contract, a company must show at least $1 billion in capital, but if it is part of a consortium, the minimum for the lead firm is $600 million, said Juan Carlos Zepeda, head of the National Hydrocarbon Commission. Companies must also own assets worth $10 billion and have participated in at least three exploration projects in the past, Zepeda said. "These restrictions guarantee the participation of solvent and healthy companies," he said. The production-sharing contract will last 25 years, renewable for up to 10 more years. Companies will pay a 30 percent income tax, plus 1,150 pesos ($78) per square kilometers explored in the first 60 months of the exploration phase. The government will charge 6,000 pesos ($405) per square kilometer where oil is extracted. The 14 oil fields are the first of 169 that will be up for auction in the first round. The reform aims to reverse declining oil production, which has fallen from 3.4 million barrels per day a decade ago to 2.4 million today. The state oil monopoly, Pemex, has been hit by huge losses in the past year. With global oil prices falling dramatically in recent weeks, Coldwell said foreign firms will be "more selective in the areas and countries they invest in." "The current instability in the world price of oil highlights the opportunity that Mexico has seized with the reform," he said. "Faced with this unfavorable environment, the Mexican state will not be the only one taking risks."   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee of a foreign exchange trading company walks past monitors displaying the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar rose on Friday after upbeat U.S. data suggested weaker oil prices are providing additional momentum for the American economy, which also underpinned Asian shares. U.S. crude futures continued to drop after falling below the key psychological support level of $60 a barrel for the first time in five years, and stood at $59.15 in Asia, down more than 1 percent on the day. Global crude prices have plunged in recent weeks on massive oversupply, raising fears that deflation could hit economies around the world. But data on Thursday showed that cheaper gasoline prices apparently helped U.S. consumer spending mark broad rises last month, and jobless claims also fell. Wall Street ended higher on Thursday, but Asian investors have mostly focused on the downside of lower energy costs, which dragged down equities here this week. "The relentless decline in oil prices continues to unsettle risky asset markets. Oil prices have fallen to levels last reached in mid-2009, as OPEC cut its demand forecast to a 12-year low despite lower prices, and U.S. crude inventories rose," Barclays strategists said in a note. "Falling oil prices have provided little relief to Asian equities, most of which were down yesterday," they added. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; was flat in early trade, though on track for a loss of over 2 percent for the week. Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; was up 0.4 percent in early trade, as a weaker yen helped exporter shares, but was poised to book a loss of more than 3 percent for the week. The U.S. data helped the dollar wrest itself off a two-week low of 117.44 yen, and was last up 0.3 percent on the day at 119.04 yen &lt;jpy=&gt;. The euro slipped about 0.1 percent to $1.2393 &lt;eur=&gt;, after top-rated euro zone bond yields inched lower on Thursday following a tepid response by banks to the European Central Bank's second round of long-term loans. Investors awaited Chinese retail sales data, to gauge the strength of the world's second-largest economy. Any signs of weakness are likely to raise expectations that Beijing will deliver further easing steps.     (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban chatted with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014 conference. He told us how he thought Steve Ballmer would fare as owner of the Los Angeles Clippers. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook   IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
It looks like Box was backed up against a wall this summer after its delayed IPO. The last round of investors in Box demanded some very strict terms that will give them a guaranteed minimum return if Box goes public after July 7, 2015. That return increases the longer Box delays. Here's the background: In July, Box announced that it had raised $150 million from a new round of investors, including hedge fund Coatue Management and private equity firm TPG Growth. The round was unusual because Box had filed for an IPO in March, but was forced to delay that IPO after market conditions soured for public tech companies who sell subscriptions — called software-as-a-service (SaaS) companies — like Workday and Salesforce.  The terms of that Series F round were first published in a July filing, but were more clearly explained in the latest amended S1, filed yesterday. Basically, if Box goes public before July 7 of next year, these investors can convert their shares into normal shares at a minimum price of $20 per share (with some pretty standard downside protection). But if Box delays its IPO past that date, these investors' shares will be worth a minimum of $23 per share. Every quarter after that, the minimum value goes up another $0.75. In other words, the investors get a guaranteed minimum return, starting at 15% the first year, and slightly less each year after that. The special preferences for these investors mean that the longer Box delays its IPO, the more diluted earlier investors — and the founders and employees who hold early shares — will be. This won't be a problem if Box prices its IPO higher than $23 per share after July 7 next year. But based on the company's own internal valuations, that's looking unlikely. In March, when Box first filed to go public, it valued its shares at $17.85 to calculate stock-based compensation expenses. In October, it valued its shares at only $13.05. Here are the relevant passages from the latest filing (emphasis ours): In connection with any conversion of the Series F Preferred, if we consummate an initial public offering on or prior to July 7, 2015, each share of Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock will convert into shares of Class A common stock equal to $20.00 divided by the lesser of 90% of the price per share of Class A common stock or $20.00. If we consummate an initial public offering after July 7, 2015, holders of Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock will receive shares of Class A common stock with a value equal to the Series F Return (see definition in the “Liquidation” section below). From slightly later, here's the definition of "Series F Return":  In the event of any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of Box, Inc., whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Series F Preferred shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution of any of the assets of the company to the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock and Common Stock, (i) an amount equal to $20.00 (as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations, splits, or recapitalizations), plus (ii) an additional amount equal to $3.00 per year, which additional amount shall accrue quarterly following the original issue date for the Series F Preferred on the basis of a 360 day year with no compounding (the sum of (i) and (ii), the “Series F Return”), per share of Series F Preferred, plus (iii) all accrued or declared but unpaid dividends on such shares.   FREE AppDownload
Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP"I would crawl on broken glass dragging my exposed junk to get this deal." That's what an eager equities analyst at Needham &amp; Company wrote in an email to a colleague, upon learning that a rival firm would be gunning for some much-desired IPO business from Toys'R'Us. Crain's called that gem "the Wall Street quote of the year," but it was actually written back in 2010. That's when Toys'R'Us first started planning their IPO, and a handful of research analysts began pandering to the company in hopes of winning some business. We're hearing about it now because FINRA today announced it would fine Needham and nine other firms for the incident. The toy giant actually sponsored the 10 firms to compete for roles in the IPO. They didn't ask the firms to overvalue them, but nonetheless each firm chose to use research analysts in their bids — many of whom met with and made presentations to Toys'R'Us. This sort of behavior from equity analysts, who are meant to be unbiased researchers, is not unprecedented. But Eliot Spitzer made a solid attempt to wipe it out when he was New York's attorney general. Back in 2003, Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan were fined $110 million and $80 million, respectively, for similar brown-nosing incidents. This time around, they're being fined $5 million each for their Toys'R'Us coverage. (They must have learned something from those FINRA run-ins, because their violations were a bit less graphic than Needham's.) Altogether, FINRA will collect $43.5 million from the firms, which also include Barclays, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche, Merrill Lynch, and Wells Fargo. Jokes on them because Toys'R'Us never ended up doing the IPO. But they certainly did leave these guys – and their junk – exposed. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Investors Are Betting On A US Energy Boom, Even As Oil Continues To Plummet (Reuters)  "US investors are zeroing in on exchange-traded funds that track master limited partnerships as a way to bet on long-term North American energy boom even as oil prices slide, convinced that these funds look relatively cheap and promise growth," reports Ashley Lau.  These MLPs invest in energy infrastructure such as pipelines and storage facilities — which are not as significantly affected by a decline in oil prices. "MLPs are in a good spot," Rob Glownia, quantitative analyst with RiverFront Investment Group, told Reuters. A Small Firm Is Challenging New York After Luring Away Talent From Powerhouse Rivals (The Wall Street Journal)  Raymond James, a small St. Petersburg, Florida, firm, just opened its first New York office and is aiming to compete with the financial powerhouses. The firm "will be run by a team of brokers led by Howard Franzblau who were lured away from JP Morgan Securities, where they had managed nearly $1 billion in assets and generated $6.7 million a year in fees and commissions," reports Michael Wursthorn. Even though Raymond James is still small relative to its big city rivals, the firm has been extremely ambitious as of late: they've also opened branches in Boston, Seattle, Portland and others recently and are looking to grow further. Merrill Is Changing Up Its Adviser Pay For The Next Year (Wealth Management)  Merrill Lynch came out with of a list of changes that will be happening to adviser pay, including "enhanced payouts for new fee-based assets and new clients, while eliminating provisions on mass affluent accounts and reducing payouts on bank deposits," reports Megan Leonhardt. This is something that is rarely received well by advisers. Even if the change doesn't directly affect someone, it still signifies a curtailing of an adviser's ability to manage client relationships. "There's no question there was handwriting on the wall here," consultant and recruiter Mindy Diamond told Wealth Management. "I can tell you top teams have rallied against policies like this. It's about control." For The First Time Since 2009, Fiscal Policy Won't Be A Drag On Growth (Charles Schwab) "Budget plans for the world's major economies in 2015 show that for the first time since 2009, fiscal policy won't be a drag on economic growth," writes Jeffrey Kleintop. Over the last few years, fiscal policy has made monetary policy less effective. However, without the significant pull, monetary policy should be even more effective, which should lead to a boost to economic growth in 2015.  Investors Shouldn't Fear The Fed (Advisor Perspectives) "Investors should not fear the Fed," writes Scott Brown. "The first hike in short-term interest rates should be views as a natural consequence of the improvement seen in the overall economy." "There is some danger that the markets might overreact [from investors' fears], but the Fed is likely to take that overreaction into account as it considers possible further action," he adds. Right now investors are incredibly anxious as they wait for the rate hike — especially following the stellar November jobs report. Fed officials are expected to decide monetary policy based on their interpretations of the job market data. FREE AppDownload
Inequality in the US is a huge issue, and this inequality can be seen by looking at New York City's neighborhoods. The Census Bureau recently released data from the 2009-2013 American Community Survey. The survey provides an amazingly comprehensive look at the demographic, social, and economic makeup of the country. In this data set, for the first time, the Census Bureau has released ACS estimates at the block group level. A block group for an urban area is essentially a block, a small group of blocks, or a small neighborhood. Previously, data at this fine geographic scale was only available from the results of the full Census, performed every ten years. Data at this level allows us to put our cities under a microscope. We decided to take a look at the geographic distribution of income within New York City. The following map shows the median income by block group for the whole city. As a caveat, it should be noted that, as comprehensive as the American Community Survey is, block groups are still areas with very small populations, and so these are just estimates, subject to a fair amount of uncertainty. Darker blue areas have higher median incomes, and grey areas have no data. The latter are mostly uninhabited parts of the city, like parks: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau At the city-wide level, we can see that the southern half of Manhattan and parts of Brooklyn and Staten Island have the highest incomes in New York, while eastern Brooklyn and the Bronx are struggling. We can also take a look at each borough in turn to see how income is spread out within each part of the city. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau In Manhattan, we can see that incomes are pretty high stretching from the financial district at the far south of the island up through the Upper East and Upper West Sides surrounding Central Park. The Lower East Side still has much lower median incomes, as does much of Upper Manhattan. Especially stark is the drop off between the UES and East Harlem. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Northwest Brooklyn features two affluent regions: a stretch from Downtown to Park Slope, and the frequently discussed gentrifying neighborhoods around Williamsburg. Further east are the rather poorer neighborhoods of Bedford-Stuyvesant and East New York. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Queens is more of a patchwork than Manhattan or Brooklyn. Eastern Queens has slightly higher incomes than the central parts of the borough, and the western half of the Rockaways also has more affluent communities. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau The Bronx has been the poorest of the five boroughs for decades, and this shows in the swath of white and light blue on the map. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Staten Island is less densely populated than the other four boroughs, leading to its block groups being somewhat larger in area than elsewhere in the city. The borough also largely has block groups with fairly high median incomes, but with low-income pockets scattered throughout. 
Slaven Vlasic/Getty ImagesNoted financial analyst Cher. The Wall Street Journal has an explainer, though we'd go with Peter Eavis' explanation. At issue, he says, is "an arcane banking regulation that has yet to take effect and whose impact was always going to be slight." Anyway, here's Cher: IF PRES.SIGNS HORRENDOUS BILL.I LOSE“ALL”RESPECT<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A4> BAILING OUT BANKS &amp; STICKING IT 2 THE PPL“AGAIN”! CITI BANK“WROTE” THAT IN2 THE BILL! WTF Remember,PPL LOST HOUSES,JOBS &amp; SAVINGS<f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+00B0>#CITIBANK IS DOING IT AGAIN<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B1> #CITIFUCKINGBANK LOBBYISTS WROTE LAW MAKING IT OK &amp; PUT IT IN NEW BILL— >These R Your Houses, Your Dads Pension, Your Sisters Job.GO Online,Read,Don’t B SENT 2 The Slaughter House,Deaf,Dumb,&amp; Blind Like LAST TIME<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A4>—  GOD! R There Only 8 ppl In GOV.Working 4 WELFARE Of THE PPL. IN NEW BILL,BANKS CAN TRADE IN RISKY STOCKS AGAIN &amp; IF THEY CRASH,U PAY 4 IT<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B1>— C <h3 lass="embed-spacer"> strong>     tyle="font-family: Helvetica Neue, Arial, sans-serif; color: white; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 100; line-height: 20px; margin-top: 23px;">FREE AppDownload</d
Chris Kilham makes his living as a so-called "Medicine Hunter." He travels the globe in search of exotic plants and herbal remedies. His adventures are often funded by pharmaceutical and cosmetic companies looking for natural treasures that could potentially enhance their products.Kilham also hunts psychoactive plants, which cause hallucinations and other psychedelic effects. His forthcoming book details the psychoactive brew known as Ayahuasca, which is native to the Amazon Rainforest. Kilham describes what it's like to drink the bitter brew and describes how it can possibly act as a spiritually healing substance when taken correctly in the proper environment. Produced by Graham Flanagan Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Crude oil just broke $59! On Thursday, stocks finished higher, but oil broke down again, bonds rallied, and after the US market closed, futures and oil were continuing to grind lower.  Here's the chart of oil in after hours trade, with WTI crude oil cracking $59 at around 6:20 pm ET. FinViz Dave Lutz at JonesTrading circulated an email after the close, writing that, "Oil is breaking down another 1% after the 4pm equity close (nearing $59), and no deal from Congress yet has peeps buying protection hard  — with VXX up $1 and UVXY up $2. That hedging is hitting futures 6 points after the close."   Lutz added that traders are also worried about developments out of Washington, DC, where lawmakers on Thursday failed to pass a preliminary measure keep the government funded.  The government is currently funded only until midnight tonight.  Lutz wrote: Last we heard: "Could be a very late night/early morning on Capitol Hill, with midnight deadline for some short or long-term budget action necessary to prevent a government shutdown. House Republican leaders, clearly shaken by their razor-thin victory on a key procedural vote earlier today, are delaying a final vote on a $1.1 trillion fiscal year 2015 spending package. House Republicans are expected to meet shortly and the GOP leadership will spend that session counting votes. It may be clear after that meeting when the House will vote on the spending bill." FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce One of the most common problems with all laptops is storage. You buy one that you think will have enough space to last a lifetime, and then you take a bunch of photos and videos, and all of a sudden you're out of room and faced with having to delete something.  One solution is an external hard drive, but they can be inconvenient to carry around when you're on the go. HyperDrive is a great solution for MacBooks. It's a plug and play microSD adaptor that sits flush, blends right in thanks to its aluminum finish, and is easy to remove if needed. HyperDrive comes with a free 8GB microSD card, but works with any standard microSD, so you can upgrade the size. You can grab it here with a discount thanks to Insider Picks and our friends at Stack Commerce. Get 25% off the HyperDrive MacBook Storage Expander ($29.99+Free Shipping). Full specs: Get 25% off the HyperDrive MacBook Storage Expander ($29.99+Free Shipping). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Blake SeaWorld just announced that its CEO Jim Atchison is out, effective January 15.  Atchison will take a role as vice chairman of the board, serve as a consultant to the company, and will be chairman of the SeaWorld &amp; Busch Gardens Conservations Fund.  Atchison will be replaced on an interim basis by David D'Alessandro, the company's chairman. SeaWorld also announced that it will initiate a restructuring program across its company, which it says will "result in the loss of some positions." The company did not provide specifics on how many jobs would be cut.  The company also announced that Ellen Tauscher, who previously served as a Member of Congress and as an under secretary of the U.S. Department of State, and William Gray, the former co-CEO of Ogilvy North America of Ogilvy &amp; Mather will join SeaWorld's board.  Atchison has served as CEO of the company since it went public back in April 2013.  Since its debut, the stock is down more than 50% as the company has dealt with the fallout from the "Blackfish" documentary, which brought to light questions about the treatment of the company's Orca whales.  Here's the performance of Seaworld shares since "Blackfish" was released in the US on July 19, 2013. Bloomberg Back in August, SeaWorld shares fell more than 30% in one day after its quarterly earnings missed expectations, and in November, shares of SeaWorld fell another 10% after yet another disappointing quarter. In a statement to Business Insider following the news, PETA deputy general counsel Delcianna Winders said: "Jim Atchison's watch has meant lawsuits, tanking stock, canceled performances by musical acts, falling ticket sales, and continued deprivation and isolation for Orcas at SeaWorld. Public opinion has turned solidly against SeaWorld, and the park can't turn back time." However, all is not lost for Atchison, who will enjoy quite a "golden parachute" on his way out the door. As the folks at Footnoted alerted us to, per the company's filing with the SEC, Atchison will receive: Now, these types of agreements are common in the case of executive departures.  But for such a controversial company that has had such poor stock performance over the last year, critics are unlikely to be thrilled with these terms.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew CullenStocks finished the day higher on Thursday but crude oil made new lows, with WTI crude falling below $60 for the first time since July 2009. Despite finishing way off session highs, the S&amp;P 500 broke its three-day losing streak as the benchmark index still hasn't had four straight losing days this year. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Oil did it again. In afternoon trade on Thursday, oil plunged to new lows, with WTI crude cracking $60 a barrel for the first time since July 2009. On Wednesday, oil fell below $61 a barrel for the first time since 2009, and another dollar came off the price of oil on Thursday. Unlike Wednesday, however, Thursday saw the overall market hold up well, with the Dow gaining more than 100 points after a 268 point plunge on Wednesday. 2. As the price of oil as has plunged, people have talked about the "breakeven" price for oil drilling projects around the world. But a new note from Morgan Stanley says that the "cash cost" of oil projects is really the more important measure. "Cash cost" is what it takes, basically, to keep the lights on at a drilling project, while "breakeven" prices are more reflective of what price companies would find it attractive to continue funding projects and governments would be able to hit their budget targets. 3. The big economic data release on Thursday was the retail sales report for November, which topped expectations. Retail sales grew 0.7% in November, better than the 0.4% that was expected, and up from a revised level of 0.5% last month. In a note to clients following the report, analysts at Capital Economics said, "The strong rise in retail sales in November shows that we were right to dismiss all the reports that holiday sales have been weak. The truth is that the rapid rises in employment mean that this holiday shopping season will be the best in nine years."  4. Despite the broad improvement in retail sales, sales at gas stations are declining. November marked the sixth straight month that sales at gas stations declined, the most since 1998. This decline doesn't come as a total surprise, however, as retail sales measure gross sales, and with the decline in oil prices, gas prices have also followed, cutting total receipts at gas stations.  5. Also on the economic data front, we got the latest report on weekly initial jobless claims, which showed that claims totaled 294,000 for the week ending December 6, less than the 297,000 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said, "While initial claims have resumed their downward trend following volatility in recent weeks, we look to next week’s report to better gauge the near-term trend in continuing claims." 6. Lululemon was a big winner on Thursday, with shares of the yoga apparel maker rising almost 9% after the company reported better than expected third quarter profit and raised its full-year forecast.  7. The Federal Reserve released its latest Z.1 "flow of funds" report — now called the Financial Accounts of the US report — which showed that household net worth fell by 0.2% during the third quarter. The report showed that the value of directly and indirectly held corporate equities held by US households fell by $700 billion during the quarter, while household debt rose at an annualized rate of 5.2%.  Don't Miss: The 16 Hottest Property Markets In The World » FREE AppDownload
 Warren Buffett could never stand school.  He was a pain to teachers in grade school, and just as bad in high school.  As a teen, he was already a hustling businessman, raking in $53,000 by age 16. So while he didn't see the need to go to college and study business, he dutifully attended the University of Pennsylvania when his parents told him to.  But in the spring of 1950, when he was just a few credits away from graduating, he found something to love about formal education.  Its name was Harvard Business School, minter of tycoons, US presidents, and oligarchs. By this time, Buffett already knew what he wanted to do with his life: become ridiculously wealthy, ridiculously quick. He wanted to be a millionaire by age 35, with all the security and freedom that comes with that kind of dough. Alice Schroeder writes in her biography, "Snowball," that HBS offered Buffett things he couldn't get by teaching himself: connections and prestige. So he took the train from Omaha to Chicago, where he'd have his Harvard interview. It felt like a sure thing — Buffett had already told a friend, "Join me at Harvard." But the certainty was, in Schroeder's account, misplaced. She writes: Warren was relying on his knowledge of stocks to make a good impression in the interview. So far his epicureans had been that whenever he started talking about stocks, people could not help but listen. His relatives, his teachers, his fellow students — all wanted to hear him discourse on this subject.  But he had misunderstood Harvard's mission, which was to turn out leaders. Buffett, a 19-year-old whiz kid obsessed with a single subject, was not ready to be one. "I looked about 16 and and emotionally was about nine," Buffett recalled. "I spent 10 minutes with the Harvard alumnus who was doing the interview, and he assessed my capabilities and turned me down."  Yet this might have been the most helpful spurning in business-school history. Schroeder says that Buffett would "later come to consider his rejection by Harvard as the pivotal episode of his life."  Barred from Cambridge, he was forced to look elsewhere.  Leafing through the catalog for Columbia University, his eyes fell upon a life-changing name: Benjamin Graham. "I had just read Graham's book," Buffett recalled. That book was the "The Intelligent Investor," a guide to stocks analysis. Buffett would later say that finding that book at age 19 was one of the luckiest moments of his life, since it gave him the framework for his investing.  All of a sudden, Buffett could go meet the teacher whose insights had already changed his life. If he went to Columbia, he could surely convince Graham to become his mentor. "It was like [Warren] had found a god," said his housemate at the time.  So he applied to Columbia.  Thankfully for Buffett, it was a written application, allowing him to tailor the way he presented himself. Even better, Columbia wasn't trying to create mature leaders of society; Graham and his colleagues taught the craft of investing. And Buffett was a young craftsman of exceptional ability.  He got in.  Now he's worth an estimated $74 billion, making him the second-richest man in America.      FREE AppDownload
 It seems Russian President Vladimir Putin just found an ally. On Thursday, Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met in New Delhi to improve the energy, military, and trade alliances between their two nations. For starters, Russia and India will be exploring a stronger relationship in the energy sector. The two countries will build at least 10 nuclear power plants in India over the next 20 years, and will have a joint venture in exploring hydroelectric power projects in Asia. Additionally, Russia's state-owned Rosneft signed a preliminary agreement to supply India with 10 million tons of oil over the next 10 years. And the most eyebrow-raising move of all is that Russia invited India to "work on projects" in the Arctic. "Rosneft and Gazprom, our biggest companies, together with their Indian colleagues, are preparing projects for the development of Russian-Arctic shelf [and] the expansion of liquefied gas," Putin said. Why is this point important, exactly? In September, Rosneft discovered a huge amount of oil in the Arctic — an amount that's comparable to the resource base of Saudi Arabia. But there was also a huge problem: Russia doesn't have the ability to drill in cold offshore conditions without Exxon's expertise. But because of the ongoing sanctions, Exxon can't drill there anymore. And “as Russia’s existing fields in Siberia run dry, the country needs to develop new reserves as it vies with the US to be the world’s largest oil and gas producer,” Bloomberg reported in September. So Russia really needs that oil in the Arctic. The partnership was also key for Exxon. Since Russia is the company's second-biggest exploration area, this is a critical loss. Wikimedia CommonsThe red area is where Rosneft found oil. Putin and Modi didn't just cover energy agreements. The two countries strengthened their military alliance. The leaders signed a document allowing Indian military to train in Russian military training camps, and Modi said that Russia will remain India's top arms suppler. While the West is punishing Russia with the ongoing sanctions, India just agreed to double its trading with Russia, up to $20 billion in 2015.  All this is part of Russia's larger strategic plan called "turning to the East," according to Vesti, as the country looks to establish partnerships outside of the eurozone and US. Over the past few months, Russia has strengthened its relationship with China. Putin and President Xi Jinping signed a 30-year contract for a gas pipeline in May. Additionally, the two nations have started to work toward building a stronger military alliance. If that weren't enough, Putin announced that he's interested in having closer ties with North Korea. Given Russia's economic woes, it'll be interesting to see how, exactly, Russia's turning East plays out.    FREE AppDownload
Mike Rowe, the host of "Dirty Jobs," tells some compelling (and horrifying) real-life job stories. Listen for his insights and observations about the nature of hard work and how it has been unjustifiably degraded in society. WATCH MORE: The Full Interview With Mike Rowe   Behind The Brand takes you behind the scenes at some of the coolest brands as well as talk with world-class thought leaders and entrepreneurs so you can get an inside look at how they do it.  Follow Behind The Brand: On YouTube Follow host Bryan Elliott: On Twitter
"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle After teaching high-school theology classes in Ohio for two years, Pyle decided to move to New York City to pursue creative work. He got here in 2008 for an unpaid TV-production internship and noticed it was a different world than the one he left. "The most important thing I learned was to stay out of everyone's way," the 31-year-old told Business Insider last year. "Assume everyone's trying to get somewhere important and have spatial awareness."  Pyle noticed that New Yorkers are constantly thinking about 10,000 things as they navigate their daily lives. He wanted to create a guidebook of easy tips, covering everything from how to tell the difference between the East and West villages to the acceptable food to eat on the subway. And, most important, where to never, ever stop on the sidewalk.  "I knew GIFs would create viral attention," said Pyle. "Viral art doesn't usually sell well, but I knew I had a really deep well of resources that would be useful for people."  He said one of the most under-used tips he offers city dwellers is to always have cash, especially if you want to avoid that awkward moment at a group dinner when you have to split the bill seven ways on credit cards.  His 136-tip book, "NYC Basic Tips and Etiquette," offers tons of great advice. Pyle has shared some GIFs that are particularly relevant as New Yorkers head into winter (and to any tourists visiting the city as well). You can buy the printed book at Amazon, or the animated e-book through iTunes. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				  					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle									Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle									Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle									Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle									Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle									Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						"Basic NYC Tips and Etiquette," Nathan Pyle				 Click here to buy the book at Amazon. Paige Cooperstein wrote an earlier version of this post. Edited by Julie Zeveloff. FREE AppDownload
Marcus Samuelsson, the multi-award-winning chef, restaurateur, and author of "Marcus Off Duty: The Recipes I Cook at Home," has come a long way from his Swedish hometown of Göteborg.  Nevertheless, the lessons he learned from his uncle while selling mackerel to tourists have become the foundation for the small empire he's building in New York City. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional Camera by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
WTI crude oil just broke $60 per barrel for the first time since July 2009. Investing.com Earlier on Thursday, WTI went as low as $60.09 before bouncing back, though WTI was still volatile all day. And in afternoon trade on Thursday, oil broke down, marking a new multi-year low.  US stocks followed oil lower on Wednesday, with the Dow falling 268 points and the S&amp;P 500 having its worst day since October. On Thursday, however, US stocks were surging higher with the Dow adding as many as 200 points. After oil touched new lows, US stocks were paring some gains, with the Dow up about 150, the S&amp;P 500 up 20, and the Nasdaq up 55 near 2:15 pm ET.  The drop in oil on Thursday comes after what has been a terrible two weeks for the commodity, which started its most recent leg lower on Thanksgiving Day after OPEC declined to cut production in an effort to battle declining oil prices.  And on Wednesday, Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi said to reporters, "Why should I cut production?" Al-Naimi chalked up the swings in oil prices to the way that market treats commodities: "It goes up and down and up and down," he said. As Business Insider's Shane Ferro noted on Wednesday, it was an interesting comment from Al-Naimi, as the ostensible goal of OPEC is to control oil prices, given that the group is an economic cartel.  The decline in oil over the last few months, which has seen WTI and Brent crude prices fall more than 40%, has had many wondering about the "breakeven" price for oil drilling projects all over the world. The "breakeven" price is the price at which a project is deemed economically feasible.  On Thursday, we highlighted research out of Morgan Stanley that said the "cash cost" of oil production, not the "breakeven" price of projects, is where the market should be focusing, as cash cost is basically what it costs to keep oil production going, not what it takes to make a project profitable or economically attractive.  Morgan Stanley   FREE AppDownload
WikimediaPaul Singer blames income inequality on the Fed. He blames the Federal Reserve for this.  Singer has been critical of the Fed's monetary policy, particularly in his letters to investors.  "We do not think this optimism is warranted," he wrote in a recent letter. "We think a lot of this data is cooked or misleading..."  He still feels the same way. We just added 320,000 jobs in the latest jobs report for November.  He said that the jobs number is "part of the distortion." "It's one of the misleading, fake economic figures."  Singer said that since the crisis, we've had basically 0% interest rates everywhere in the developed world. That, along with quantitative easing, has been the principle for growth. "What that has created is a series of distortions and an unfair recovery. A distorted recovery meaning the beneficiaries of the asset price levitation are bond holders, stock holders, investors. The middle class is not doing great."  Sorkin asked Singer if the Fed should be blamed for income inequality.  "My answer is yes."  He called them "enablers."     FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesEditor's Note: Earlier it was reported that the Central Bank's gold reserves decreased by $4.3 billion, quoting Vesti Finance. However, in actuality, it is international reserves assets that have decreased — not gold. Appropriate changes have been made. Russian international reserves assets decreased from $420.5 billion to $416.2 billion, according to the central bank. This is down, following a slight increase the week before — when they inched up from $420.5 from $420.4, according to Vesti Finance. Gold reserves, which are included in international reserves, have remained unchanged — despite the drop in international reserves. Right now, Russia's facing a slew of economic problems — following the sanctions and dropping oil prices. In an attempt to arrest the ruble's collapse, the Central Bank of Russia raised rates from 10.5% on Thursday, up from 9.5%. So far, this has not had the intended effect: the ruble dropped to a new low of nearly 56 rubles to the dollar on Thursday. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew CullenStocks finished the day higher on Thursday but crude oil made new lows, with WTI crude falling below $60 for the first time since July 2009. Despite finishing way off session highs, the S&amp;P 500 broke its three-day losing streak as the benchmark index still hasn't had four straight losing days this year. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Oil did it again. In afternoon trade on Thursday, oil plunged to new lows, with WTI crude cracking $60 a barrel for the first time since July 2009. On Wednesday, oil fell below $61 a barrel for the first time since 2009, and another dollar came off the price of oil on Thursday. Unlike Wednesday, however, Thursday saw the overall market hold up well, with the Dow gaining more than 100 points after a 268 point plunge on Wednesday. 2. As the price of oil as has plunged, people have talked about the "breakeven" price for oil drilling projects around the world. But a new note from Morgan Stanley says that the "cash cost" of oil projects is really the more important measure. "Cash cost" is what it takes, basically, to keep the lights on at a drilling project, while "breakeven" prices are more reflective of what price companies would find it attractive to continue funding projects and governments would be able to hit their budget targets. 3. The big economic data release on Thursday was the retail sales report for November, which topped expectations. Retail sales grew 0.7% in November, better than the 0.4% that was expected, and up from a revised level of 0.5% last month. In a note to clients following the report, analysts at Capital Economics said, "The strong rise in retail sales in November shows that we were right to dismiss all the reports that holiday sales have been weak. The truth is that the rapid rises in employment mean that this holiday shopping season will be the best in nine years."  4. Despite the broad improvement in retail sales, sales at gas stations are declining. November marked the sixth straight month that sales at gas stations declined, the most since 1998. This decline doesn't come as a total surprise, however, as retail sales measure gross sales, and with the decline in oil prices, gas prices have also followed, cutting total receipts at gas stations.  5. Also on the economic data front, we got the latest report on weekly initial jobless claims, which showed that claims totaled 294,000 for the week ending December 6, less than the 297,000 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said, "While initial claims have resumed their downward trend following volatility in recent weeks, we look to next week’s report to better gauge the near-term trend in continuing claims." 6. Lululemon was a big winner on Thursday, with shares of the yoga apparel maker rising almost 9% after the company reported better than expected third quarter profit and raised its full-year forecast.  7. The Federal Reserve released its latest Z.1 "flow of funds" report — now called the Financial Accounts of the US report — which showed that household net worth fell by 0.2% during the third quarter. The report showed that the value of directly and indirectly held corporate equities held by US households fell by $700 billion during the quarter, while household debt rose at an annualized rate of 5.2%.  Don't Miss: The 16 Hottest Property Markets In The World » FREE AppDownload
Wonderlane/FlickrHousehold net worth declined by $140.9 billion in the third quarter.  According to the Federal Reserve's latest Z.1 Financial Accounts of the US report — formerly known as the flow of funds report — household net worth fell by 0.2% from the previous quarter.  Here are the highlights from the Fed's report: You can read the Fed's full report here » FREE AppDownload
 The economics blogosphere is atwitter over an interesting thought experiment: Is it better to be middle class today, or much more wealthy in an earlier time. Here's Professor Scott Sumner: OK, so ask a millennial whether they'd rather live today on $100,000/year, or back in 1964 with the same nominal income. ... I recall getting cavities filled in 1964, without Novocaine. Not fun. No internet. Crappy TVs, where you have to constantly move the rabbit ears on top to get a decent picture. Lame black and white sitcoms ... Now against all that is the fact that someone making $100,000/year in 1964 was pretty rich, so your social standing was much higher than that income today. So it's a close call ... In which period does $100,000 buy more happiness? We don't know. And Professor Tyler Cowen, commenting on Sumner: I say I prefer $100k today to $100k in 1964... But here’s the catch: would you rather have net nominal 20k today or in 1964?  I would opt for 1964, where you would be quite prosperous and could track the career of Miles Davis and hear the Horowitz comeback concert at Carnegie Hall. And with a slightly different hypothetical, Bloomberg's Joe Weisenthal: Would you rather be middle class in the United States now, or be in the top 1% of income in 1900? I used to always think the answer was clear, that you'd rather be middle class now with all of our modern wonders. But now I'm not sure, and in fact I increasingly lean the other way, that relative wealth is the name of the game ... Relative wealth confers clear benefits. Relative wealth is likely to come with power and status and other things that humans strive for. Before you get too nostalgic for the past, the problem with all of these is that they evaluate economic choices assuming a linear societal structure (working backward). Only one group of people has had a consistent level of respect and rights over the past 115 years. Coincidentally, it's a group to which all the authors above belong. For them, perhaps, being wealthy in an earlier era would have brought power and prestige (also, still a world without toilet paper). For the rest of us — anyone who is not a white, heterosexual male — asking about utility in the early 20th century is a nonstarter. Money doesn't mean much when you don't have freedom of choice. Let's consider just a slice of what life was like for women and African-Americans in these two eras: This was the era of Jim Crow. There were more than 100 lynchings in the US. Just four years earlier, the Supreme Court upheld legal segregation in Plessy v Ferguson. Wealth doesn't make up for systematic disenfranchisement. Women did not even nominally have the right to vote. Birth control was illegal. As a wealthy women, life probably would not have been unpleasant, but would still probably be largely controlled by the men around you. For women, life was much better but still not great (I refer you to "Mad Men"). Would you rather be Betty Draper than middle class in 2014? At the same time, the civil rights movement was heating up. Segregation was still institutionalized. Consider this piece from Ta-Nehisi Coates' essay on the case for reparations: From the 1930s through the 1960s, black people across the country were largely cut out of the legitimate home-mortgage market through means both legal and extralegal. Chicago whites employed every measure, from "restrictive covenants" to bombings, to keep their neighborhoods segregated. What is the point of being wealthy if society doesn't allow you to choose how you spend your money? Nostalgia is useful only for those with freedom of choice in the past in question. And that is a very small group indeed. By all means, they should think about it — it's indeed an interesting economic question — but also consider the experience of those whose experience might be different. For another view, the ello user @richdhw had this really smart comment on Weisenthal's original post: This raises a big problem I have with these sort of questions: we could imagine an impersonal version: was group of people x happier/better off etc. than group y according to some criteria. Or you can ask whether a person in group y would want to be in group x. They're not nearly the same question.In this case, given the actual preferences of group y (i.e. ppl alive today) I think we can all agree no one would choose to go back to 1900. So, then we start abstracting away certain facts about ourselves, like desire for modern technology/medicine, beliefs about what constitutes a good life etc. And what quickly happens is you lose all grip on this being a question on what "you" would rather do.It rather reminds me of Rawls' veil of ignorance, and one of the major (and I think correct) criticisms of it as an intellectual device is that there's no principled basis to decide what should be put behind the veil of ignorance, or what decision criteria you should use to adjudicate the different possibilities. And what happens is that what does or does not get put behind the veil ends up being to do with what answer you are trying to get.   FREE AppDownload
Carl Court/Getty ImagesRussell Brand has come a long way since showing up for work dressed as Osama Bin Laden on the day after the Twin Towers were grounded. The comedian-turned-political activist is now fighting for a much more radical change that involves scrapping international corporations and even abandoning the very idea of the nation state. Brand's recent book Revolution contains the core of his political manifesto: [Our] ultimate aim is to live in self-governing, fully autonomous, ecologically responsible, egalitarian communities. Where like-minded people, or people with compatible cultures (because all our minds are ultimately alike), can live together without fucking around with what other people are up to. The organs, both ideological and practical, are already in place: we have accommodation, hospitals, transportation and communication networks. All we have to do is disband the corruption that skews them for the advancement of an elite. To construct a roadmap for reaching this anarcho-utopian society, Brand looks to author and filmmaker Helena Norberg-Hodge. She suggests a three-point plan: 1. Rein in the power of big business by renegotiating trade treaties to insist that multinational corporations be place-based and accountable to nation states. 2. Re-localise food and farming by taxing food miles and removing subsidies for intensive agriculture. 3. Priorities life over profit by rejecting GNP in favour of indicators that measure [...] personal well-being. The plan would require a wholesale change the way we imagine 21st century business or, as Brand prefers to put it, we would need "to kill [the] corporation". He takes his inspiration for this idea from the Canadian anti-capitalistic media organisation Adbusters (emphasis added). Adbusters propose a return to the earlier corporate incarnation: with a limited function which expire at the completion of that function. This would mean a completely different cultural and economic landscape; corporations and brands would be relegated to a functional position in the society, where they serve us instead of dominating us. The idea is that a CEO should not work just to deliver a profit at the end of the year, like in the modern capitalist system, but instead focus on the function they were created for. As long as the iPhone is a great phone, Tim Cook should be happy regardless of how much money Apple makes. Unfortunately we are given precious few hints for how this would be achieved. But, then again, maybe that's the point. In a column for the Guardian written after his interview with then-Newsnight anchor Jeremy Paxman that he credits with beginning his journey from comedian to revolutionary, Brand makes clear he's only laying the seeds rather than delivering the victory: "As I said to Paxman at the time "I can't conjure up a global Utopia right now in this hotel room". Obviously that's not my job and it doesn't need to be, we have brilliant thinkers and organisations and no one needs to cook up an egalitarian Shangri-La on their todd; we can all do it together." So perhaps, given the lack of detailed proposals or even claims to leadership, what Brand is really selling here is Revolution-lite. FREE AppDownload
 A group of first-year Harvard Business School students has raised over $5,000 for a local food bank after one of their professors gained internet notoriety this week for a series of tense emails with a Chinese restaurant . HBS associate professor Ben Edelman criticized local Chinese restaurant Sichuan Garden and Ran Duan, who manages the connecting Baldwin Bar, for overcharging him $4 on a recent takeout dinner order. Edelman said he had alerted local Boston authorities about the out-of-date menu on Sichuan Garden's website and Duan's initial offer to only refund him $3. HBS student organizer Jon Staff told Business Insider that he first saw the article about Edelman and Duan's emails on Boston.com, and quickly realized that the story was going to go viral. He said he wanted to make sure that the public realized there were good people at HBS.  According to Staff, he reached out to Duan before launching the fundraising campaign, telling the restaurateur that the emails "represent one person in our community, not everybody." From his fundraising page: Negative stereotypes of Harvard and HBS were reinforced by an article in Boston.com about a $4 dispute between an HBS professor and a small business owner. In accordance with our community values, we are calling on all Harvard students to flip the script by donating $4 to provide food for those in need.   All donations will be given to The Greater Boston Food Bank, which will match all donations received before December 31. In a statement from Sichuan Garden to Boston.com on Wednesday, Duan praised the HBS students' fundraiser, writing, "I support Jon Staff and will contribute to the Greater Boston Food Bank." Edelman apologized for the email exchange in a statement on his website Wednesday, writing, "It's clear that I was very much out of line ... I am sorry, and I intend to do better in the future." Staff said that he was glad that Edelman apologized, calling the apology "appropriate." "The point he was making was probably a valid one, he just didn't do a good job of making it," Staff said. According to Staff, no one expected to raise this much money. "I was hoping to make a couple hundred dollars," he said. Most of the money is coming from within HBS, Staff said. The food bank will match all funds raised before Dec. 31, and told Staff that each dollar can pay for three meals. The students decided to raise money for the food bank because the holidays are coming up and "this was originally a story about food," according to Staff. "Some people don't have the luxury of worrying about four dollars," he said. "They're just worried about where their next meal is coming from." You can donate to the Harvard Business School students' fundraising campaign for the Greater Boston Food Bank here &gt;&gt;      FREE AppDownload
520 Park Avenue520 Park Avenue will one day house a $130 million penthouse.Back in September, it was revealed that New York City’s new most expensive condo will be a $130 million triplex penthouse in the yet-to-be-completed 520 Park Avenue building. And though the city’s real-estate community was all abuzz, there were no renderings available of what the aforementioned penthouse will look like. Until now. BuzzBuzzHome reports that the 520 Park Avenue website is now live, giving all of us regular people a look at how the world’s billionaires will live. 520 Park AvenueThis mansion in the sky will have over 12,000 square feet, a 1,257-square-foot terrace, and gorgeous views of Central Park. It will go on sale with other units beginning early next year, according to Bloomberg, and will be completed with the rest of the building in 2017. The 54-story tower is being designed by Robert A.M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) and developed by Zeckendorf Development Co., the same firms behind the celebrity haven 15 Central Park West and 18 Gramercy Park. 520 Park AvenueIt will be nearby other luxury high-rises on the so-called Billionaires' Row, sitting between 60th and 61st Street. That makes it close to all of the things wealthy New Yorkers love to visit, from the Metropolitan Museum of Art to Barney's. 520 Park AvenueThere will be a total of seven duplexes in 520 Park Avenue, with over 9,000 square feet each and starting at $67 million. Twenty-three single-floor units will make up the rest of the building's condos and will be priced at a more modest $16.2 million with 4,600 square feet, according to the company press release. 520 Park AvenueNeedless to say, the residences will have only the finest marble, wood, and appliances. 520 Park AvenueAnd the view will be incredible. 520 Park Avenue The building itself will also have plenty of amenities, including a swimming pool, bi-level health and fitness center, sauna, children’s playroom, and screening room. 520 Park AvenueThere will also be an airy "salon" for residents to relax in, and a garden area. 520 Park AvenueBoth locations will be perfect for socializing with your wealthy neighbors. 520 Park Avenue The $130 million triplex will join the Woolworth Building’s $110 million penthouse and the $118 million trio of penthouse apartments at Battery Park City’s Ritz-Carlton Residences as some of the most expensive homes ever listed in New York City. Looks like 520 Park Avenue will fit right in. 520 Park Avenue FREE AppDownload
 China is backpedaling. The Chinese government now wants the country's banks to boost lending to help its slowing economy grow, according to Reuters. When people can borrow more cash, they invest it or spend it. That's just logic. The problem is that this is exactly the kind of activity China has been trying to avoid as it rebalances its economy. Boosting lending means easy money; standards relax, putting more debt on bank balance sheets. And those balance sheets are already weighed down with crushing amounts of debt. This summer the country's debt-to-GDP ratio hit 250%. Most of that comes from the corporate sector, which is already suffering. We can see that in inflation data released this week. The key number to watch is Producer Price Index (PPI). It tells us how much money producers are getting for their goods. In this case the producers are Chinese companies, and in November PPI fell 2.7% from the same time last year. It's the 33rd straight month in which PPI has fallen. This shows that demand in the country is slowing. But Chinese companies have already taken on a lot of debt to survive — debt they may not be able to repay banks. Societe Generale See the vicious cycle? That's why asking banks to lend more is just adding to a gigantic mess, not addressing the real issue. "This measure is not able to address the primary causes of not-so-fast bank lending, which are rising NPLs [non-performing loans] and weak credit demand," Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao told Business Insider. "That is, commercial banks are unlikely to hit 10 trillion yuan. Or, if called to, they may ramp up bill-financing (very short-term credit) to fulfill the target, which offers little help to domestic investment demand." In other words, banks will probably try to wiggle around this measure and save themselves a little pain by engaging in short-term lending — by issuing loans with a quick turnaround. "For commercial banks, short-term lending carries less credit and liquidity risk and long-term lending," Wei continued. "Because they are more risk averse nowadays, they would prefer to lend short term if they have to lend. But that does not meet Beijing's wish of supporting investment demand." The only thing that will really help Beijing, according to Yao, is a full-scale restructuring of the corporate sector. That, however, is painful. It takes time. And China's economy is slowing faster than expected.    FREE AppDownload
 Inflation is rampant in Russia, and the collapsing value of the ruble has triggered panic-buying and food-hoarding among ordinary Russians. Food prices in Russia will have shot up by 25% over 2014 as Russians' confidence in their country's future starts to evaporate, according to the Association of Retail Companies (ACORT). The prices are reacting to preemptive food hoarding by worried Russians, our sources say. It's not that there's an actual shortage of food. Rather, the price of food is so unstable that Russians are worried that their neighbors are going to start hoarding it — so they're hoarding it first. One Muscovite told Business Insider that ATMs in the city are being routinely emptied by people eager to withdraw as much cash as they can, either to change into dollars or purchase goods with before the ruble's value falls even further. He said the mood there is unlike anything he had ever seen, "including during the crash of 2008-9". The prices of pork and sugar have risen by 25%, while the price of fish and seafood has also leapt up by more than 15%, according to Russian newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta. The latest data from the official Russian statistics service Rosstat shows that in the first week in December the price of Russian staples continued to rise. Buckwheat leapt up by 5.7% while eggs, tomatoes, cucumbers, and cabbages rose by between 4.3 and 6.2% over seven days. Food prices are helping to drive headline inflation in the country even higher, hitting 9.4% last month according to the Russian central bank. While the press has been focused on a leap in Russian purchases of high-end cars — a not-terribly-surprising trend considering that the falling ruble effectively allows rich Russians with large stacks of dollars to purchase them at a discount — it has overlooked the real story: Buckwheat. Buckwheat is something of a leading indicator of Russian consumer sentiment. The grain is used to make bread, porridge, pancakes, and local delicacy cutlets. Fears over the future can (and have) resulted in panic buying. Indeed, such is the concern that the Russian state has frequently considered building up strategic buckwheat reserves to try to mitigate acute shortages. Yet these efforts have not been sufficient to hold down the price of the commodity, which rocketed by 65% this year. And it's having a massive impact on Russians' confidence in the future. A study conducted by VTsIOM in late November found that only 51% of those surveyed felt confident in the future, compared to 58% in the third quarter of the year and 61% between April and June. Around 7% of respondents said that they could no longer tolerate the situation. BloombergThe dollar versus the ruble. The price rises are predominantly being driven by a 40% collapse in the ruble, according to ACORT Executive Director Andrey Karpov. Russia imports a significant amount of its food from abroad and this has become much more expensive due to a combination of the falling ruble and tit-for-tat sanctions imposed by the Russian government against imports from the European Union. In 2013, Russia imported $6.7 billion (£4.3 billion) worth of meat and meat products in total, with more than 20% purchased from countries now on the blacklist. USDA With no end in sight to the sanctions and inflation continuing to rise, it seems the Russian consumer is set to be squeezed even more over the next few months. If sentiment on the street turns even more against the ruble, the central bank may have a much harder task on its hands than it currently expects.   FREE AppDownload
 Ray Dalio, who runs the $150-billion hedge fund Bridgewater Associates, said that the firm records all its employees' conversations. Dalio spoke about his firm's eccentric culture at the Dealbook Conference on Thursday. Recording the conversations is part of the fund's culture of transparency, he explained.  "So yes, everything is taped so that everybody can hear every conversation."  The only conversations Bridgewater doesn't record might be related to a proprietary trade or a personal issue not related to the business, he added. He explained that having recorded conversations means people won't have spin. They can express what they're thinking. He also believes it builds trust.  "It's fantastic," he said.  He also said that 35% of employees don't get through the first 18 months at Bridgewater.  So hearing yourself speak probably is not for everyone.      FREE AppDownload
McDonald's is offering up a degree of transparency with their new “Our Food, Your Questions" campaign. The restaurant is inviting consumers to ask questions about their food on social-media platforms in an attempt to dispel myths surrounding the fast food chain.   Video courtesy of McDonaldsFollow BI Video: On Facebook
November retail sales were strong. On Thursday, the November report on retail sales topped expectations, showing that sales rose 0.7% over the prior month, better than the 0.4% increase that was expected.  Analysts at Capital Economics said following the report that, "The strong rise in retail sales in November shows that we were right to dismiss all the reports that holiday sales have been weak. The truth is that the rapid rises in employment mean that this holiday shopping season will be the best in nine years." But there is one place where sales are hurting: gas stations.  In November, sales at gas stations fell 0.8% month-on-month and 2.1% year-on-year. This marked the sixth straight monthly decline for gas station sales, which according to Bespoke Investment Group is the longest streak since 1998.  Yesterday we highlighted the declining price of gas in the US, which many see as a massive tax cut for US consumers heading into the crucial holiday season.  Gas station owners, however, likely aren't as excited. FRED FREE AppDownload
BlackRock Blog I travel to Japan every year, normally around early December. The more time I spend there, the more I come to realize what a uniquely distinct country it is.  On my trip last week, one of my Japanese colleagues pointed out that Tokyo was starting to allow taller office buildings. I assumed the previous limitation was a function of Japan’s location in a geologically active part of the Pacific. My friend politely laughed. The injunction was due to the fact that no building was supposed to look down on the Imperial Palace. BlackRock BlogTokyoWhereas city ordinances kept Japanese office buildings relatively shorter, up until recently economic stagnation, deflation and sclerosis had kept Japanese stocks from soaring. BlackRock BlogLots of construction for a country in recession This has obviously changed in recent years. Japanese stocks have been among the best global performers over the past couple of years. I have been positive on this market for some time now, and despite a shaky start to the year and the current recessionary environment, I maintain that view. I would highlight three arguments: Value. Japanese stocks remain some of the cheapest in the developed world. While Japanese equities rallied sharply in 2013, unlike the United States the gains came from earnings growth rather than multiple expansion. This has left Japan’s stock market a relative bargain in a world where few asset classes are cheap. Multiple Catalysts. Undervaluation without a catalyst may just be a value trap, but there are several potential catalysts for further gains in Japanese equities: ultra-loose monetary policy, which should continue in 2015, aggressive buying of domestic shares by Japanese pension funds, and rising profitability thanks to share buybacks. BlackRock BlogIf reforms pick up, will the Japanese Consumer buy more lattes?Reforms. Although I would agree that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has under-delivered on the so-called ‘Third Arrow’ of structural reforms, there have been a few, notable accomplishments. Corporate governance has improved with more outside directors, and female workforce participation is on the rise. Another potential positive development: A Republican Senate makes the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a regional free-trade agreement, marginally more likely to pass. Should it pass, this would be a major victory for Japanese consumers and the economy. One final point. One of the risks to my view on Japan is that the early election on December 14 could produce a nasty surprise for Prime Minister Abe and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) coalition. While market participants see the LDP losing a few seats in the lower house of the Parliament, they are not expecting the ruling party to give away its majority, something that could be a risk factor. BlackRock BlogLDP vs. DPJ, which will emerge as the victor?But on the contrary, based on my conversations with Japanese investors and a recent article in a local newspaper, a seemingly lack of viable candidates from the rival Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) suggests that the LDP may actually increase its majority. To the extent that a bigger majority emerges and the prime minister uses the mandate to push forward more aggressively on structural reforms, I believe Japanese stocks may continue to rise. Source: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
The U.S. Air Force considered trying to detonate a nuclear device on the moon during the late 1950s. A physicist who worked on the project said a single explosion would have been "microscopic," with little impact. But what if the plans had been bigger—do we have enough nuclear weapons to push the moon out of orbit? This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
As he contemplates running for president, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) has reportedly also been quietly building a portfolio of business interests that could be toxic in a national campaign. These investments have led some observers to doubt he's serious about a potential 2016 White House bid. According to a new report in Bloomberg Businessweek, Bush recently set up three funds, including a new offshore private equity fund that future rivals could portray as a tax shelter. Additonally, he has ties to foreign investments in China could also ding his political brand and make him vulnerable to attacks such as those Mitt Romney faced on his tax rate and private equity background during the 2012 presidential race. His "flurry of ventures doesn’t suggest someone preparing to run for president, according to a dozen fund managers, lawyers, and ­private-placement agents who were ­apprised of his recent activities," Businessweek's Joshua Green wrote. Green also spoke to political operatives who outlined the challenges Bush's portfolio could pose for him.  "Running as the second coming of Mitt Romney is not a credential that’s going to play anywhere, with Republicans or Democrats," GOP consultant John Brabender said. "Not only would this be problematic on the campaign trail, I think it also signals someone who isn’t seriously looking at the presidency or he wouldn’t have gone down this path." According to the report, records list Bush as chairman and manager of BH Global Aviation, which is incorporated in the United Kingdom and raised $61 million in September. He's also "chairman of a $26 million fund, BH Logistics, established in April with backing from a Chinese conglomerate, and a $40 million fund involved in shale oil exploration." It's relatively uncommon for businessmen to raise millions of dollars only to quickly turn around and abandon his or her recent investors, as would likely be necessary to run a presidential campaign free of conflicts of interest. On the other hand, Bush has reportedly been laying the groundwork for a White House bid, including making "secret visits" to Wall Street donors. Bush spokeswoman Kristy Campbell insisted to Businessweek his financial interests would not get in the way of his political ambitions.  "If Governor Bush were to become a candidate, he would certainly review all of his business engagements," she said. "There is nothing related to Governor Bush’s business interests that would hinder a run for president in any way should that be his decision." Read the full Bloomberg Businessweek report here. FREE AppDownload
In 2014, US stocks forged ahead, international developed and emerging-market stocks lagged, bonds did better than expected, and the IRS took a bigger bite. Here are some lessons for US investors to carry forward into 2015. Lesson 1: The US Market Keeps on Ticking Geopolitical crises were in the headlines throughout 2014: the threat from ISIS in Syria and Iraq, tensions between Russia and Ukraine, fighting in Gaza, the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, slower growth in China, and economic stagnation in both the Eurozone and Japan. Yet the US equity market still motored ahead. We are living in a global economy. If the rest of the world is struggling, can US companies continue to prosper? In the medium term, the answer could be yes. The US is still in the early stages of a cyclical expansion, and we think the overall growth rate will be supported by key trends among consumers, governments, and companies. US consumers paid down debt after the financial crisis and are now beginning to spend again—cautiously. Similarly, US federal and local governments pared back during the immediate post-crisis years, and they are now able to increase their budgets. Finally, US companies are gaining market share globally, and US manufacturing is now undergoing something of a renaissance. We think that these trends could continue for a while and that they are positive for US stockholders. It would be a serious mistake to think that the US market is invulnerable, but it would be just as erroneous to underestimate its resiliency. Lesson 2:  Diversification Means Owning Laggards After leading globally in 2013, in 2014 through November the US stock market beat developed international stock markets by 15.5 percentage points in US dollar terms; it beat emerging markets by 11.5 percentage points, as shown in the first Display, below. This outperformance by US stocks has some investors ready to throw in the towel on global investing. The AllianceBernstein BlogWe think selling an asset after a stretch of lagging performance is a bad decision. Often, the lagging asset may be more attractive looking ahead. And that’s what we’re seeing in developed international stocks markets, where valuations are more attractive than in the US stock market. Since 1990, non-US stock markets have outperformed the US market more than half the time. Since no one can be certain just when this will occur, we think it’s wise to own stocks in all regions. A similar argument can be made for diversification by size. Large-cap US stocks trounced small- and mid-caps by 8.4 percentage points so far in 2014, but large-caps trailed smaller stocks by 11.7 percentage points annualized from 2001 through 2003. The key is to hold stocks across the size spectrum. Diversification remains a fundamental tenet of smart investing—both as a way to manage risk and as a way to maximize return. Lesson 3: Eat Your Bonds—They’re Good for You! High-quality intermediate bonds in a portfolio serve, above all, as a counterweight to stocks. When stock values tumble, bond values typically rise and help to offset the declines. As the second Display, below, shows, when the stock market dipped from mid-September to mid-October, a 60% stock/40% bond portfolio gave investors a smoother ride than an all-stock portfolio—smooth enough that some might have stayed in the market rather than fleeing in fear. The AllianceBernstein Blog Of course, investors also like the income bonds provide. And through November 2014, core bond strategies delivered about 4% in total return—less than bonds have returned over the past 30 years, but a bit above the 3.5% we project for them over the next 30 years. Don’t neglect bonds. Even with today’s lower yields, they can help you sleep at night. Investors should have enough bonds on their plate to be confident they will be able to withstand the next market downturn—whenever it happens. Lesson 4: If You’re Afraid to Invest, Dollar-Cost Average In 2014, too many investors sat on the sidelines in cash, convinced that they’d missed the bull run and afraid that if they invested now, the market would soon tumble and afflict them with buyer’s remorse. Dollar-cost averaging can reduce the odds of experiencing these painful regrets. Our research shows that investing all at once has historically been the more effective approach, as shown in the third Display, below. But if the market turns volatile, dollar-cost averaging can help to dampen the effects. If stocks fall right after your first purchase, you’ll take a hit, but you’ll also be able to buy your next installment at a lower price. If you average into the market within a limited period of time—say six months or a year—you’ll likely be better off than if you’d stayed on the sidelines. The AllianceBernstein Blog You can think of dollar-cost averaging as a kind of regret insurance. Beyond this emotional benefit, the key advantage is that it gets you to your strategic asset allocation target, albeit after a delay. Like all insurance, dollar-cost averaging has a price—lower returns, typically, during the period of averaging in. But the longer-term benefits of being fully invested can outweigh this cost. Lesson 5: Be Tax Savvy In April 2014, taxpayers in the top bracket saw their final 2013 tax bills at new, higher rates. There may be further unpleasant surprises ahead for the 2014 tax year. The rising stock market has left investors with few or no remaining capital loss carry forwards, so to rebalance or spend from their portfolios, they have to realize capital gains. Smart strategies can help minimize the resulting tax bills that will arrive next year. There are two ways to reduce taxes: avoidance and deferral. Avoidance permanently eliminates or reduces a tax, while deferral puts off payment into a later tax year. Avoidance is worth more to your bottom line.  By diligently tracking and timing trades, you can ensure that capital gains will be long-term and dividends will be qualified. This permanently reduces the rates at which they are taxed.   Another way to avoid taxes in the current year is through charitable contributions. Cash gifts avoid taxes by creating a tax deduction, but savvy taxpayers can further avoid tax by giving appreciated securities, thereby also eliminating an embedded capital gain. Additional techniques, such as converting a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA and contributing to a 529 plan, can provide tax benefits further into the future. While not as valuable, tax deferral can also help reduce the current year tax bill. First, to the extent you can defer taking gains until after January 1, you can delay the tax hit. Next, volatility could create an opportunity. If the price of a stock falls below your basis in it, you can harvest the loss to reduce your tax bill in the current year. Some investors seized this opportunity in mid-October, but rising stock markets since then have limited loss harvesting opportunities for the remainder of 2014. You also can defer taxes by making larger contributions to retirement vehicles such as 401(k), IRA, and Keogh plans. Timing is important: In a rising market, making contributions early next year can help you shelter more growth over the course of 2015. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. The views expressed herein do not constitute and should not be considered to be, legal or tax advice. The tax rules are complicated, and their impact on a particular individual may differ depending on the individual’s specific circumstances. Please consult with your legal or tax advisor regarding your specific situation.  MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations, and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Anton_Ivanov / Shutterstock.comUnidentified Venezuelan people walk in Caracas, Venezuela. 51,6% of people in Venezuela belong to the Mestizo ethnic group.Caracas, Venezuela once again topped a list of the most expensive cities for expats. The ranking, released by global consulting firm ECA International, is intended to help companies calculate living expenses for employees who are sent to work abroad. But it also offers an interesting insight into the cost of living for anyone thinking of moving to a new country. The top 10 remained relatively unchanged from 2013; only Seoul, South Korea jumped 12 spots, to number 10, and Juba, South Sudan dropped 5 spots, to number 4. While Venezuela remains extremely expensive for expats, it can also be considered the world's cheapest city for expatriates, depending on which exchange rate you use. ECA explains: Venezuela’s official fixed exchange rate greatly overvalues the bolivar, making Caracas by far the most costly in the world for the second year running for companies paying expatriates on that basis. However, expatriates now have access to the much fairer and better value Sicad 2 rate, introduced to enable a more regular supply of US dollars to importers at an exchange rate much closer to the black-market rate. When this rate is applied the cost of items in ECA’s basket of goods and services plummets and Caracas becomes the cheapest city in the world for expatriates. The firm calculates cost-of-living expenses by looking at a basket consumer goods and services in more than 440 locations around the world.  FREE AppDownload
David McNew / GettyOil is hovering around $60 a barrel, a 40% decrease in price since the height of summer. This is widely thought to be a supply issue, with the US producing far more oil than it traditional has, and OPEC refusing to cut production to stabilize prices. US Trust's chief market strategist Joseph Quinlan sent out a note this week showing just how much US energy production has expanded in the last five years. He writes: The ingredients of the U.S. energy revolution were threefold: (1) Pro-market policies at the state and local levels, combined with (2) revolutionary technologies like horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, and (3) good old American entrepreneurship and risk taking that upended the energy patch. By combining the three, the United States became the largest natural gas producer in 2013 and is on its way to becoming the world’s leading oil producer. Here are six key charts showing how this is unfolding: US Trust US Trust US Trust US Trust US Trust US Trust FREE AppDownload
McDonald's is losing market share in America.  The brand's sales have been declining as customers seek out fresher options.  Management at McDonald's is starting to make necessary changes to improve business, according to a recent note by Morgan Stanley. The brand just announced it would start paring down the overloaded menu.  Morgan Stanley's analysts describe the biggest issues plaguing the brand — and what McDonald's is doing to fix them. McDonald's menu is confusing because it features dollar menu items alongside premium offerings that are too expensive for many customers, according to Morgan Stanley.  "Consumers have therefore been gravitating to the value tier, impacting quality perceptions and average check," Morgan Stanley's analysts write.  Bloomberg reported earlier this year that the high prices on items like the Quarter Pounder are driving away McDonald's key demographic.  McDonald's is going to be cutting some premium items from the menu and work to offer better value.  McDonald's is a huge corporation, and was too "risk-adverse" to make necessary changes, according to Morgan Stanley.  While competitor Burger King trimmed the menu and offered promotions, McDonald's continued adding items. Many of these, such as the Mighty Wings, flopped.  McDonald's is now working to roll out a program that lets customers customize their burgers and chicken sandwiches with toppings. McDonald's has added 100 new menu items over the past decade, according to the analysts.  This bogged down workers and slowed down operations.  McDonald's drive-thru wait times are now at an all-time high.  The fast food company will be rolling out pared-down menu in January.  Management is also auditing each menu item and ingredient to see where else it can trim.  FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - For the Federal Reserve, deciding when to raise rates for the first time in nearly a decade has become the easy part. The harder call, and one increasingly preoccupying U.S. central bankers, is how fast to move after that, navigating stuttering global growth and nervous markets on the Fed's long journey back to pre-crisis policies. Betting on the "lift-off" of rates from near-zero has become less of a gamble, particularly after an exceptionally strong jobs report last Friday. After months of wavering as the global economy appeared to weaken, investors have pegged that first rate rise to the middle of next year, and seem to have accepted that the U.S. economy can go its own way. Recent conversations with Fed policymakers, staff and economists point to an internal debate shifting from the first rate move to the pace of increases thereafter. Stagnant inflation has become less of a concern in light of continued improvement in labor markets. Barring a serious shock, policymakers have indicated they will press ahead with liftoff in coming months, then move cautiously to ensure they do not stifle the recovery by acting too fast. "Getting started is probably helpful... Otherwise you keep deferring and keep deferring and then the market just keeps pushing this further out... You want to break the glass," said one former Fed official familiar with the debate. From that point on "if inflation stays low you can be in a little bit less of a rush... You don't have to go every meeting." That sentiment is taking root at the Fed and narrowing the differences among the 7 governors and 12 regional bank presidents, who only a few months ago appeared broadly split over issues such as the amount of slack in the labor market. Fed officials will update their forecasts after meetings that conclude on Dec. 17, possibly marking a further convergence of their views. Naturally, some disagreement remains. Inflation hawks feel the Fed should be acting sooner to prevent crisis-era stimulus feeding into asset price bubbles and excessive price increases. Others, most notably Minnesota Fed chief Narayana Kocherlakota, worry the central bank is too complacent about a risk of inflation fading. A financial crash in China or some other shock could also turn the Fed's timetable on its head. But with an economy less dependent on trade and with strengthened banks, the United States looks more robust than recession-prone Japan and Europe. More jobs, rising wages and stock prices and other positive domestic news, meanwhile, may set the stage for households to play a larger role in the recovery. "Everything is coming together for pretty solid consumer spending growth," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics. Even the Fed's more cautious members are eager to deliver a modest rise in the benchmark rate, according to interviews with officials, staff and analysts. A zero interest rate leaves policymakers no simple way to react if conditions weaken; it is also increasingly out of step with data that has boosted the Fed's confidence about the economy's momentum. In fact, central bankers have become so confident that even a clear acceleration in prices is no longer seen as a precondition to liftoff, Fed policymakers and staff have indicated in interviews and public statements. There is wide recognition that cheaper oil and the strength of the dollar, for example, mean the Fed's preferred inflation measure may remain stuck at around 1.5 percent in coming months. That is considered far below the central bank's 2 percent target given the glacial pace at which U.S. prices and wages are now thought to move.   BEYOND OIL In a recent series of interviews with Reuters and in public statements, policymakers have said they are trying to look beyond oil's direct impact on inflation to other factors that will ultimately drive prices and wages higher. Cheaper oil is likely to dampen energy sector investment and hiring in the short-run, for example, but over time will boost overall demand, perhaps boost profits and hiring among other firms, and ultimately produce stronger growth. Fed officials are also looking for confirmation of longer term price and wage trends in factors such as capacity utilization, job turnover, the time it takes to fill jobs, and a range of surveys and measures of inflation expectations. “We may have to disentangle short term influences of energy prices from the underlying trend... But I really do believe we will see the underlying core pace of inflation accelerate,” Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart told reporters last week. Lockhart, a centrist member who will have a vote next year on the Fed's policy committee, said that while a mid-2015 lift-off was not "carved in stone," he saw the data increasingly backing that scenario. Now the question is where rates will be at the end of 2016 or even farther into the future. The initial hike, probably a small, quarter point move, may have little effect on what companies or consumers pay for credit, the patterns of lending among banks, or cross-border capital flows. But the quicker the Fed moves from there, the faster will be the adjustments and the greater the potential for dislocation. Indeed if Fed policymakers and the markets are coalescing around liftoff, they remain far apart about what happens next. The most recent projections by Fed officials, provided in September, anticipate a median federal funds rate of 3.75 percent by the end of 2017. However, some futures contracts show investors do not expect the benchmark rate to reach such levels until well into the 2020s. As Fed chief Janet Yellen and other Fed officials have noted, that gap could reflect a number of things - from divergence in economic forecasts to differing views about how the Fed may respond to economic data. Some analysts have noted, for example, that Fed economic projections have tended to be optimistic; others speculate that Yellen's personal rate projection is probably on the lower end, and weight their predictions to account for her more influential voice.   (Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty and Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
Here is some interesting commentary from Willem Buiter, CitiBank’s Chief Economist: “The gold bubble, is, of course, pretty impressive … It has had a positive value for nigh-on 6,000 years. That must make it the longest-lasting bubble in human history….Even though I view gold as a pure bubble, that bubble may well be good for another 6,000 years … investing a vast amount of money in something whose value is based on nothing more than a set of self-confirming beliefs will make for an exciting ride.” This will sound pretty familiar to anyone who’s read my book or read some of my commentary on gold. Gold, in my opinion, is a standard commodity with some intrinsic value as far as its industrial usage, however, it commands a price premium due to its usage as a currency. That is, there is a price premium in the price of gold due to people’s belief that it has value above and beyond its industrial value. I don’t know what the value of this premium might be, but here’s some perspective on how the price of gold often commands a premium over commodities: Pragmatic CapitalismSo, is Buiter right that gold is in a historic bubble?   I think we have to be careful with the term bubble because it implies that the current price is unsustainable. But I do agree with Buiter that the price of gold is based, to a large degree, on an irrational belief in its value as a currency. This doesn’t necessarily mean it’s in a “bubble”, but it does mean there is some potential risk in its value in the case that people were to believe, like I do, that the future of money is in electronic money and not physical forms of money. Of course, it doesn’t matter much what I think. It only matters what the market thinks. And if the market disagrees with my opinion then my opinion is meaningless as it pertains to gold’s actual value. And as long as people continue to believe that this yellow metal has value as a currency then it will continue to have value as a currency. And given the amount of persistent fear over the sustainability of fiat money and governments I don’t see any reason why this belief will cease any time soon. FREE AppDownload
Instagram/@fasinfrank Go back to Long Island, all of you. It doesn't matter that bars tried to ban it, and it doesn't matter that there are horror stories upon horror stories about things that have happened on this fateful day. It's coming. And the problem with it — the real problem — is that on SantaCon, New York City gets hazed, and New York City has no choice in the matter.  The city gets hazed by hundreds of drunken fools escaped from the Donkey Island where Pinocchio lost all semblance of shame. It gets hazed by immature children hiding behind a costume (because let's be real, no one who does this is over 25). It gets hazed by girls who are crying because they lost their jacket. It gets hazed by the boyfriend holding that jacket who can't stop saying, "You always get this way when you're drunk, Lindsey." The problem with SantaCon is that it isn't about fun, it's about control. The same control a sorority girl exerts when she tells a freshman to get on their knees and quack like a duck. These Santas want to watch New York City quack. It could be an awesome event. New York can handle St. Patrick's Day's coordinated outfits. It can handle the all-day drinking involved with the World Cup. New Years Eve, even. This is a town that survives tons and tons of outsiders coming in for New Year's Eve. Yet we can't do SantaCon. Folks, a bar owner actually saw a midday knife fight one year. This is why Bushwick took a stand and would not allow SantaCon near its cocktail bars, DIY art spaces, or farm-to-table restaurants. Roberta's Pizza is a citywide treasure, and we cannot have a swarm of drunken morons, say, urinating in the back yard. We need to protect what's ours. SantaCon will try to play the victim. The organizers hired a civil rights lawyer to defend and protect the festival, the same way protestors hire lawyers to protect them from police brutality. This is an insult. It is not your civil right to have sex in a dumpster in broad daylight. It is not your civil right to get in a 20-person brawl outside a diner where families are eating. It is not your right to get a hand job in a Duane Reade, and then pretend to be a lawyer so you can (with some pretend shred of credibility) demand that sites like Gawker take down a story about it so that you are not publicly shamed. You should be publicly shamed. You should also stay home on Saturday. During SantaCon, the moment someone puts on that Santa outfit, they do not decide to be a jolly, twinkle-eyed gift-giver with a love of sweets. They become the biggest, jerkiest frat star on the planet on the eve of pledge night. There is a true sense of nastiness and mischief in the day. This is only natural, as SantaCon is used as an excuse to competitively drink hard liquor the same way people drink beer on Super Bowl Sunday. Now the rest of us New Yorkers can hide, or we can go about our business. By going about our business, though, we implicitly participate in the day. We give these drunken Santas people to torment. We are the reindeer, the elves, and our town is the North Pole. We are the pledges. There is no containing this, really. All we can do is be glad that Mayor Bloomberg was so strict about concealed weapons. SantaCon isn't about being merry or a sense of holiday community; it's about the kind of debauchery that causes people to light cars on fire after hockey games — the wild, immature desire to invade, overrun, and destroy a space that doesn't belong to you. People do this because they want to feel powerful, they want to feel in control. In that way it is a perfect haze. And it has to stop. We obviously can't handle it.      FREE AppDownload
www.facebook.comLululemon did better than expected this quarter. The yoga-apparel company's net income declined 8.5% to $60.5 million, or 42 cents a share, in the third quarter ending Nov. 2. Analysts had expected 38 cents a share.  The company now expects per-share profit this year of $1.74 to $1.78, up from its previous forecast of $1.72 to $1.77 per share. Lululemon's shares were up as much as 10% Thursday morning.  But the earnings report wasn't all good news. The company also trimmed its full-year sales target, citing delayed store openings and a lower Canadian dollar.  In the third quarter, comparable store sales decreased by 3%, while direct-to-consumer revenue increased 27%. Yahoo Finance "Many customers have left and it's hard to get them back, especially given the focus on the women's active apparel business from brands such as Nike and Under Armour, and retailers such as Athleta, Sweaty Betty, Victoria's Secret, and others which have bitten into LULU," Sterne Agee analyst Sam Poser wrote in a research note last month.  But others have faith that the company will make a comeback. "Lululemon is one of the most attractive growth stories in retail, in our view, helped by the tailwind in athletic apparel," Wells Fargo analyst Paul Lejuez wrote in a Dec. 9 research note cited by Bloomberg.       FREE AppDownload
CNBCLloyd BlankfeinGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein just finished speaking at the Dealbook Conference at One World Trade Center with Andrew Ross Sorkin.  He's talked about a number of topics from the US economy, oil, China and 2016. He also cracked a few jokes, too.  As he walked out on stage, Sorkin pointed out that he's grown a beard (He's actually had that beard for a long time now). "I thought you said 'since then you've grown,'" Blankfein joked.  The conversation began with the US economy.  "I say in the US it feels like the economy is in good shape. The markets may be more supported than warranted...because we are in a situation where we have trend or above trend growth and money policy...that's a good combination."  Lower oil prices:  Sorkin asked him if lower oil prices can be bad. "Well you can make a short term or sector bad call, ah bad aspect to it. So for example, a big percentage of capital investment in the US is in the oil sector, if they withdraw that, that in the short term is a negative." You can also look at lower oil prices as a "blessing" and think of it like a tax cut.   China:  Sorkin pointed out that China appears to be slowing down. He asked Blankfein if he believes the econ numbers coming out of China. "Do I believe the numbers? I believe there are numbers," Blankfein said.  "I would say that it's very hard to gage," he said. "I'm not sure what they're measuring. I think it's a less sophisticated capital allocation system. I'm not sure that they are collecting the data we would..." "You don't think they're manipulating the numbers?," Sorkin asked.  "I don't know. How do you I know?... I'd say my overall view of China is that over the long term they are going to do very well. I've said this other times before. This could very well be the Chinese century the way the 20th Century was the American century." "Their economy is going to be bigger than our economy even though they are going to be poorer on a per capita basis."   2016:  Sorkin said he heard that Senator Rand Paul will be visiting Goldman's offices next week. Blankfein explained that they have a speaker program and recently had former Yankees player Derek Jeter and Cardinal Timothy Dolan at the 200 West headquarters.  Sorkin asked him who he is supporting. Blankfein joked that he's supporting Jeter.  Sorkin pointed out he has been a strong supporter of Democrats in the past.  Blankfein did say that he's "always been a fan of Hillary Clinton." What's more is Blankfein said he doesn't see Clinton's relationship with Wall Street as a liability.  FREE AppDownload
Oil is crashing. On Thursday, WTI crude oil was falling again, moving back below $61 a barrel.  Much has been made of the "breakeven" oil price for the world's drilling projects. This is the level at which the price of oil covers the cost of extracting the oil. A simpler way to look at when the biggest oil players will start feeling the squeeze from lower prices is the "cash cost." "Without OPEC action, an outage, or other response, cash cost is the only true floor," Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Longson said. Cash cost is basically what it takes to keep oil production going, not what it takes to make oil production profitable or for a government to hit its budget projection. If you drop below your cash cost on a project, you've got to turn out the lights. As you can see on the far right, the Canadian oil sands and the US shale basins are very expensive to tap. Meanwhile in the Middle East, the Saudis, the Iraqis, and the Iranians basically stick a straw in the ground, and oil comes out. Morgan Stanley The recent story in the market has been that a supply glut has pressured oil prices, and in response some expected OPEC to announce a production cut at its Thanksgiving meeting. That didn't happen, and Longson notes that it isn't as simple as slashing production to combat low prices. "Simply slowing supply growth is usually not enough to balance an oversupplied market in the short run," Longson writes. "In commodities without a cartel, existing production must be shut-in. If true, marginal cost of investment is not the relevant metrics, it's variable operating cost, which is closer to $35-$40/bbl on the high end." Longson's mention of a commodity without a cartel also comes as Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi said on Wednesday that the market — not the OPEC cartel – was in control of the oil market.  And these comments imply that this chart from Morgan Stanley, showing cash costs for oil projects around the world, might be the place to find out when things will really ugly in the oil market.   FREE AppDownload

The last time the world’s largest central banks were employing such divergent policy, a divided Germany was knitting itself back into one country. In 1989, the Bundesbank had been raising interest rates for a year, believing the West German economy was overheating. They continued hiking for three years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, fearing that massive fiscal transfers from west to east could spark runaway inflation. Japan had begun tightening monetary policy in a belated effort to deal with an asset price bubble. But the Federal Reserve and Bank of England were heading in the opposite direction. After more than a year of inflation-taming rate hikes and slowing economic growth due in part to the mounting losses in the savings &amp; loan crisis, the Fed started lowering the fed funds rate in 1989, and accelerated the pace of cuts as the economy slowed during the first Gulf War in 1990. Similarly, the Bank of England began easing in October 1989<U+2015>when rates were at a record high of 14.8 percent<U+2015>and didn’t stop until 1994. In 2015, global monetary policy could look like a mirror image of its 1989 self. The Bank of Japan already expanded the scope of its asset purchases in October. The European Central Bank is expected to announce quantitative easing as early as the first quarter, while the U.S. and the U.K. are expected to start tightening monetary policy in mid-2015. That’s because policy makers’ concerns have been reversed as well, with deflation a bigger worry than inflation in Europe and Japan (a 40 percent drop in crude oil prices since June has exacerbated the deflationary dynamic), and inflation emerging as a potential concern of the Fed and the Bank of England. Credit Suisse expects global oil prices to average $75 in 2015, versus $109 in 2013 and an expected $101 for all of 2014. What does this divergence mean for investors? Volatility will surely return to some markets that have become accustomed to ultra-easy monetary policy out of all four major central banks. As a result, geography will play an increasingly important role in investment decisions. Credit Suisse’s Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management Division continues to prefer Japanese and European equities, where further easing seems likely to prop up stocks in 2015. Meanwhile, European asset-backed securities should get a boost from an ECB purchase program that began in November, and which Credit Suisse estimates could total between €50 and €75 billion over the next two years. Central bank divergence will also have a direct impact on short-term interest rates, which are expected to rise in the U.S. and the U.K. while remaining constrained in the European core. Credit Suisse forecasts more dramatic moves in American interest rates than British rates, with two-year Treasury yields expected to soar from 0.65 percent in early December to 2 percent by the end of 2015, compared to a rise in two-year Gilt yields from 0.54 percent to 1.9 percent. Likewise five-year yields; Treasuries are expected to move from 1.69 percent to 2.90 percent versus Gilts’ increase from 1.35 percent to 2.60 percent. That’s in part due to Credit Suisse’s more hawkish-than-consensus forecast that the Federal Reserve will raise rates four separate times before year-end 2015<U+2015>a quarter-point each time. Concerns about slow European growth should keep a lid on longer-dated U.S. debt, however, so the bank expects “aggressive flattening” in the yield curve. Yields on two-year German bunds are, remarkably, negative, and are expected to remain so in 2015, while 10-year yields are forecast to trade in a range between 0.7 percent and 1.5 percent. But a bumpier ride for riskier fixed-income products should provide investors with interesting buying opportunities in European credit. On the one hand, says William Porter, Credit Suisse’s Head of European Credit Strategy, says investment-grade bonds have a 40 percent chance of delivering flat total returns for investors. On the other, high-yield bonds offer a 60 percent chance of total returns of 4.4 percent. (That’s a worse outlook than equities, but a potentially useful one for portfolio diversification purposes.) But the European debt market is stuck in a bit of a Catch-22. Most European companies should benefit from low oil prices, and if weak economic growth spurs more aggressive easing from the European Central Bank, that should benefit credit markets. That said, dour economic figures may also trigger risk-off sentiment throughout the year. It’s a bond-picker’s market, in other words, and Porter advises that extra attention be paid both to choice of specific credits and appropriate entry points. That advice applies broadly in 2015. Investors have become accustomed to high degrees of correlation among asset classes in the developed world after six years of near-zero interest rates and supportive monetary policy. But with central banks charting their own courses, it’s time to get selective. FREE AppDownload
RobinhoodRobinhood goes live today. And it just launched today. Robinhood, a zero-commission brokerage app for iPhone, is unlike any existing stock-market app. For starters, it's mobile first. That has allowed the company to rethink traditional brokerage cost structures. With no human traders to pay – or ancient infrastructure running the trades – they're able to cut out those overhead costs. As a result, Robinhood doesn't charge a commission for standard trades, nor does it require any minimum deposits. "Imagine you’re a first-time investor in your early 20s. You have a few hundred dollars – maybe a thousand dollars – to put in the market. You want to learn how it works. Seven to 10 dollars eats into that quite a bit," said cofounder Vladimir Tenev. That's the going rate for most other apps. But Tenev and cofounder Baiju Bhatt think even a modest fee like that is prohibitive for younger, smaller-scale investors.  Their "freemium" model allows customers to buy and sell US-listed stocks and ETFs, place market orders and limit orders, track data in real time, and customize watchlists for free. The app will, however, charge customers for premium services like margin lending. RobinhoodThe co-founders were inspired by the Occupy Wall Street Movement. At the time, Bhatt, now 29, and Tenev, 27, had just built their first finance startup, an equities-trading software company based out of California. They saw their institutional customers placing trades at no cost, and wanted to help everyday customers do the same. "We kind of asked ourselves, ‘Could we do something bigger than this? Couldn’t we try to do something a little better than this?’" Bhatt said. Tenev and Bhatt, former roommates who met while studying physics at Stanford, used their new finance experience and tech backgrounds to build Robinhood. With it, they hope to inspire a new wave of investors. In the 12 months since Robinhood was first announced, nearly 500,000 people have joined a wait list to download the app. Nearly all of those people are in their twenties, and the co-founders know that most of them won't be coughing up for its premium features.  But they're okay with that.  "It’s true that a 20-something is going to have less funds than a 50-year-old, but they’ll become a 50-year-old at some point," said Tenev. He and Bhatt are confident they will still be there when that happens. Robinhood's angel investors are confident too. The company has raised $16 million from an array of investors, including Snoop Dogg, Jared Leto, and Andreessen Horowitz. "It’s really, really, important that this country as a whole trusts its financial system," said Bhatt. "I think it’s really important that there actually is a company that thinks like that." Though the app rolls out on iPhone first, the founders plan to expand to Android and web as soon as possible. You can go to Robinhood's website to join the waitlist. Once you make it to the front, it only takes a few minutes to download and set up. Here's what that process looks like: Business Insider/Portia Crowe Check out the app's pretty layout. This is where you'll need to enter your invite code. (They're being sent out in chronological order to each person on the waitlist.) Once you log in, you can link your bank account and transfer funds to your Robinhood account by selecting your bank and entering your online banking password. Business Insider/Portia Crowe You'll need to answer a few personal questions: Business Insider/Portia Crowe Then you're pretty much set to go. But before you can begin trading, you'll need to wait for your information to clear and your bank transfer to go through: Business Insider/Portia Crowe In the meantime, you can build a stock watchlist and start playing around with the app: Business Insider/Portia CroweRough day for the markets.      Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotOne of Uber’s biggest competitors this week closed an investment round worth more than $700 million. Didi Dache is one of several apps competing for the top spot in China’s ridesharing and taxi-calling market. To say it’s a big market is something of an understatement. As of August 29, Uber was operating in 200 cities across 45 countries. Right now, Didi is operating in 300 cities – in one country. Didi is a taxi-calling service, as opposed to ridesharing. It has one million registered drivers using its app, handling an estimated five million transactions every day. And competition for taxi-calling services in Beijing is tight. One reason is that since February, taxi drivers in Beijing are legally only allowed to have one taxi-calling app on their smartphone for safety reasons. Shanghai followed suit with a similar policy. Didi co-founder Zhang Bo said earlier this year the company will “definitely do an IPO” within 3-5 years, preferably in the US. That was in May, when Didi was claiming it would increase transactions to 15 million by the end of the year. At the time, it had its sights on its main competitor in the taxi-calling market, Kuaidi Dache, which is backed by the Alibaba Group. Kauidi is currently in 358 Chinese cities. Between them, they claim 99 per cent of the country’s taxi-calling app market and hit 154 million users in Q3, according to Chinese data-tracking firm Analysis International. “The battle between the two of us has entered the final round and only one will take the lion’s share,” Zhang told Bloomberg in May. “The largest player will win greater support when it comes to raising capital and that will in turn help us attract a better team.” Since then, Kuaidi’s owners Alibaba completed the biggest IPO in history, valuing it at $170 billion. And after a soft launch in February, Uber officially launched in July and now operates in the country’s four “tier-one” cities – Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Along with the regular Uber, Black and UberX services, it has People’s Uber, a nonprofit rideshare service which offers lifts in exchange for clients covering the driver’s fuel and toll expenses. It’s a play that on the face of it, seems purely based on getting people into the Uber app and possibly using the paid service some time down the track. The huge injection for Didi increases the stakes in a game that has only exploded ever higher in China in 2014, while onlooker focus has been trained on the daily political, financial and allegedly criminal twists and turns of ridesharing updates in media everywhere else. The majority of the $700 million comes from investment groups DST and Singapore’s state-linked giant Temasek, along with a funding from Didi’s juggernaut owner Tencent. It’s ball that really started rolling in January, when Tencent gave it $100 million and added Didi’s hailing feature to its huge messaging app WeChat. In the month that followed, WeChat users booked 21 million cabs through Didi Dache. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
 Russian President Vladimir Putin isn't exactly the West's favorite person right now, but it looks like he's finally found a friend. "Russia is India's closest friend, and the preferred strategic partner," India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday during a meeting with Putin, according to Russia's state-owned TASS news agency. The two leaders met in New Dehli on Thursday to improve the defense, energy, and trade alliance between their nations.  They signed numerous documents during the day, including an "agreement for training of Indian Armed Forces in the military educational establishements of the Defense Ministry of the Russian Federation," and a "strategic vision for strengthening cooperation in peaceful uses of atomic energy." This isn't the first time Russia and India have collaborated on military and defense matters. India is one of the biggest importers of Russian arms, buying over $13 billion worth in 2013. Additionally, Modi and Putin discussed trade relations and the construction of "high technologies such as the aircraft Sukhoi SuperJet-100 and GLONASS," according to Vesti News. After the meeting, Putin added that Russia and India should work together to resolve the situation in Syria and Iraq, work on stabilizing Afghanistan, and create a "new architecture of security and cooperation" in Asia. This meeting is part of Russia's larger strategic plan called "turning to the East," according to Vesti. Russia has been looking for new trading partners following the imposition of sanctions by the US and the EU. Previously, Putin met with China's Xi Jinping several times, and the two nations signed a 30-year contract for a gas pipeline in May. Plus, China and Russia have started to work towards building a stronger military alliance. Additionally, Putin announced that he's interested in having closer ties with North Korea. And since India's on fire right now, it's another great non-US, non-EU ally for Russia to have. Modi was elected prime minister on a probusiness platform in May 2014. Following his election, India's stock seriously rallied because of investor optimism. Now, the dropping oil prices are great news for India. It will be interesting to watch how Russia's "turning to the East" plan ends up playing out — and whether or not it could help the crashing, isolated Russian economy.    FREE AppDownload
2015 will be a game-changer for the US economy and for global markets. In their 2015 Economic Outlook, Wells Fargo's economics group lets loose with sports metaphors, writing that the economy is transitioning to an offensive strategy. The first few years of the recovery have been defensive, characterized by loose monetary policy and low interest rates. But all this is changing: "These defensive measures helped keep the economy in the game, yet they did not put many points on the board. Economic growth has averaged a modest 2.3 percent since the end of the recession, and our current estimate calls for real GDP to have grown by roughly that magnitude once again this past year. Although overall growth maintained roughly the same pace as in prior years, the composition of growth has shifted, and will adjust further in 2015. The team is finally beginning to gel, and all of the domestic sectors of the economy are growing again." The firm see the US economy expanding between 2.5 and 3% over the next two years, the fastest pace since the boom between 2004 and 2007.  The US is also expected to be the "bright spot" in the global economy, as other advanced economies are forecast to grow only modestly. "Most developing countries, with the notable exception of China ... should also experience stronger growth over the next two years." These countries will be helped by the type of loose monetary policy the Bank of Japan is implementing and that Wells expects the ECB to undertake. And while the FOMC is forecast to start raising rates next June, the ECB and Bank of Japan will continue to fight off deflation. ' Wells expects that this policy divergence will continue to support the dollar. And so like we've seen from other firms like BlackRock, Wells Fargo expects 2015 to be the year the US economy breaks out and stands on its own two feet.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / John HendersonRetail sales in November beat expectations. Retail sales grew 0.7% month-on-month in November, beating expectations. Expectations were for retail sales to rise 0.4% in November when compared to the prior month. The better-than-expected retail sales in November come despite Black Friday sales figures that disappointed. But as Business Insider's Shane Ferro noted at the time, Black Friday sales tend to have very little correlation with overall holiday sales. According to the latest report from the Census Bureau, excluding autos, sales rose 0.5% and excluding autos and gas, sales rose 0.6%.  Both these beat expectations. Excluding autos, retail sales were expected to rise 0.1%, and excluding autos and gas, sales were expected to rise 0.5%.  Compared to last year, November retail sales rose 4.7%, and October's retail sales were revised up to 0.5% from 0.3%.  From Census, here are the month-on-month and year-on-year changes, charted.  Census And on Twitter, Bloomberg's Matt Boesler noted that excluding autos and gas sales rose 3.9% year-on-year in November, the fastest year-on-year increase in 16 months.  Here's Boesler's chart. @boes_   FREE AppDownload
TBIWeekly initial unemployment insurance claims fell to 294,000 during the week ending December 6. This was lower than the 297,000 expected by economists. "Claims have been below 300,000 for 12 of the past 13 weeks," Bloomberg's Victoria Stilwell noted. Continuing claims climbed to 2.514 million from 2.372 million a week ago. "The spike in continuing claims brought the insured unemployment rate one-tenth higher to 1.9%," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz noted. "While initial claims have resumed their downward trend following volatility in recent weeks, we look to next week’s report to better gauge the near-term trend in continuing claims. On balance, labor market separations have remained at low levels thus far in Q4, and we expect this positive trend to continue in the coming months." FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogIn the 11/17 Morning Briefing titled “The Great Deflators,” I wrote about zombies: “In their effort to moderate the business cycle, central bankers have a tendency to keep zombies alive. These are the ‘walking dead’ business borrowers, who borrowed too much and are hemorrhaging cash. They need to die and should be buried. Instead, easy money keeps them in business, allowing them to continue producing more with their excess and unprofitable capacity. Today, China is full of zombies. There are plenty in the global mining industries. “If you look hard enough, you’ll find zombies just about everywhere. It certainly would be easier to spot them if central banks started to tighten their monetary policies. That might explain why central banks aren’t likely to do so. Deflation may be the most telling sign of the zombie problem. By fighting deflation, the central banks are keeping the zombies alive!” The latest Chinese data and policy response confirm my analysis. During November, the CPI rose just 1.4% y/y, the lowest since November 2009. The PPI fell 2.7% y/y, the 33rd consecutive monthly decline. PPI deflation continued to be widespread in November as follows: raw materials (-4.7%), manufacturing (-2.3), heavy industry (-3.0), light industry (-0.3), chemicals (-2.5), coal (-11.6), ferrous metals (-16.6), nonferrous metals (-2.8), durable goods (-0.7), and daily-use articles (0.1). On November 21, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) cut its benchmark one-year loan interest rate to 5.6% from 6.0% and cut its benchmark one-year deposit rate to 2.75% from 3.00%. The nation's central bank also hiked the upper limit on deposit interest rates to 1.2 times the benchmark rate from 1.1 times the benchmark rate. The bank said it took the unexpected actions, which were the first such changes since July 2012, in response to expensive borrowing costs rather than any direct worries about the economy's slowdown. Who are they kidding? Obviously, the PBOC is worried about slowing growth and persistent deflation. However, there they go again keeping zombies alive. They also triggered a mini-bubble in the stock market, as I discussed yesterday.  Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: China’s Zombies. (1) Many small winners and a few big losers. (2) Strong dollar partially offsetting lower oil prices overseas. (3) OPEC losing market share. (4) OPEC budgets getting squeezed. (5) Capital spending will get slashed in oil patch. (6) Energy analysts slashing estimates. (7) US oil stockpiles at seasonal high. (8) Saudis live in a dangerous neighborhood. (9) China’s zombies deflating PPI. (10) PBOC keeping zombies alive. (11) China’s latest purge is depressing economy. (12) OECD leading indicators continue to muddle along. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Caren Firouz An advertising sign for a real estate company in the Marina district of Dubai.Housing prices continue to grow at a red-hot pace in many parts of the world. The Global Property Guide has compiled and analyzed the property price performance of the world's big economies. We've put together a list of the top 16 markets based on year-over-year, inflation-adjusted price performance as of the third quarter. The chart accompanying each slide shows the year-over-year percentage change in house price. FREE AppDownload
ReutersInvestors in the US are getting ready for November's retail sales numbers. Via Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning: Good Morning! US Futures are mixed, giving up overnight gains as Europe sinks red and flows continue into Bunds. US Markets are basically unchanged – while overseas the FTSE is off 60bp in heavy volume as the Miners are off 2.5% on average. The DAX is off 30bp in 1.5x normal volume, Materials sector to blame again. Europe’s eye are on Greece, where polling numbers point to Syriza holding a 5-point lead, pressing Athens to a 4% loss with Banks under sharp pressure. Over in Asia, Russia’s stock market coming under pressure as they raised rates by 1%, but couldn’t stop the Ruble from hitting fresh lows. Over in Asia, The Nikkei was off over 2%, but mitigated most losses as the Yen weakened overnight as weak machinery order data sparks dovish hopes – Turnover and Volatility in China calmed down as China injected cash into their Banking system – While to alleviate a liquidity crunch (Sucking money from Credit), some will view this as another easing step. Aussie cut a 1.5% loss in half, as employment there surged above expectations despite the resource angst. Germany’s 10YY has broken downside of 66bp as flows continue to be heavy into Bunds from Europe – This, coupled with “Flattener” trades, has the US 10YY under 2.15%, taking out November lows. There was some FX volatility overnight: RUB breaking down; Oil exporter Norway unexpectantly cut rates to a record low 1.25% - Their krone dropped to 5Y lows; Bank of Korea kept rates at a record low 2% as the momentum of their recovery “does not appear strong” (Won jumping – not good); and the Euro is stronger to $ despite TLTRO takeup less than expected, sparking dovish chatter. The DXY is basically unchanged as we await retail sales – and commodities are mixed. Brent and WTI are up ~1%, but coming off highs of the day – Metals are mixed, with Copper in the green, but Gold under some pressure as global breakevens drop. Scheduled catalysts today include Advance Retail Sales and Weekly Claims at 8:30; Business Inventories at 10, Natty data at 10:30, and a 30Y reopening at 1. We will get headlines from congress as tonight is facing the funding deadline.  Still no Fed Speak scheduled, as they are in the quiet period ahead of FOMC next week  If S&amp;P is down again today, it would be 1st 4-day losing streak of the year. There has never been a year where S&amp;P 500 did not have one (Bespoke). Watch IWO - Growth outperformed well yesterday, basically staying in line with Value – Copper has a bid this AM, let’s see in any rally if Growth (IWO) leads the Russell (IWM). We have the LC IPO today, but Investors playing China social media will be watching pricing of MOMO tonight (BABA big owner). Focus on Retailers into Advance Retail Sales today,the drop in Gasoline will disproportionately help the lower-end retailers. The street is expecting the Spending Bill to pass the House today, keep an eye on headlines about any Dodd-Frank provisions, the fins were under pressure yesterday as not as many regulations will be “rolled back” as others – and finally keep an eye on those TX/ND Regional banks – TCBI, HBHC, IBOC and CFR. FREE AppDownload
This has not been a good week for Greek stocks. After Tuesday's absolute demolition, with the Athens Stock Exchange plunging 12.78% (worse than any day during the euro crisis), shares are tanking again.  The ASE is down 7.58% at 2.30 p.m. GMT, with Greece's banks once again leading the decline. National Bank of Greece is down by about 25% this week, with similar sell-offs for Piraeus Bank and Alpha Bank. Here's what the Athens Stock Exchange looks like this week: Investing.com, Business Insider Thursday, it's off the back of a speech by Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. He's promising debt restructuring if his coalition stays in power, and markets aren't liking it. He also used the G-word, "Grexit," which terrified markets so much during the euro crisis. Samaras says Syriza, the radical left-wing group that wants to tear up Greece's bailout arrangements, is threatening the country's eurozone membership.  If Samaras can't find the votes he needs from Greek legislators in presidential elections on Dec. 17, and again later in the month, there will be parliamentary elections, which Syriza is expected to win.  At least one party, the Democratic Left, is refusing to budget and support Samaras' efforts to install a president. According to MacroPolis, the Democratic Left's 10 legislators unanimously agreed not to vote with the government. The government has 155 of Greece's 300 parliamentarians, and it needs 180 to approve Stavros Dimas, the government's candidate. Greece's government bond yields are reacting, too: Yields on the government's 10-year bonds are back above 9%, the highest in 2014 so far, barring a very brief spike in October. Bond yields are a common measurement of how risky it is to hold a government's debt. Admittedly, that's still pretty low by Greek standards: Investing.com   FREE AppDownload
Dubai stocks fell 7.4% on Thursday, the worst one-day drop for that market since 2009 as oil price declines hammer the outlook for the country. Here's the ugly chart of Thursday's action, which wrapped up trading at 5 a.m. ET. Bloomberg.com Thursday's drop also wiped out almost all of the remaining gains seen by Dubai's stock market since the start of February as the region's most volatile market lived up to its reputation. BloombergDubai Financial Market Index. Earlier in the year the country was celebrated as one of the big success stories for investors. Between the start of 2013 and the middle of 2014, its stock market had registered a nearly 200% increase in what CNN described as "a perfect market storm of wealth creation." That perfect storm now appears to be blowing the roof off. Although not a major oil exporter, the country's position as one of the region's major finance and commercial hubs has left it vulnerable to the decline in oil prices as investors become concerned that economic activity in the region is likely to slow. Global oil prices have fallen about 40% since June, putting increasing pressure on oil exporters. The decline in oil prices will squeeze government revenues and consumer incomes, meaning the demand for shopping and banking services are likely to decline. This is likely to hit companies based in Dubai hard. Indeed, the most recent time this happened, its United Arab Emirates neighbor Abu Dhabi was forced to help it pay off its debts with a $10 billion handout. Investors are much less concerned about bad debts this time around, but the pain for company revenues could still be very real. Elsewhere Abu Dhabi's ADX General Index, Oman's MSM 30 Index, and Qatar's QE Index were all also down by over 4%, while Saudi Arabia's Tadawul All Share Index fell by a more modest 2.4%. Gary Dugan, chief investment officer at National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, told Bloomberg: "The problem at the moment is that no one can establish where the oil price is going to finally end up. Everyone kept waiting for the oil price rebound, but it hasn’t come."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaA message written on an overpass by pro-democracy protesters at the financial Central district in Hong Kong on Wednesday.Good morning! Here are the 10 stories you need to know about in markets on Thursday. Europe's Latest Stimulus Falls Flat. The European Central Bank lent €130 billion ($162.17 billion) to banks in its latest cheap credit program in an attempt to get Europe's stagnant economy moving again. The TLTRO figure (targeted long-term refinancing operation) is likely to be seen as a disappointment. After pretty poor figures in September, analysts were expecting €175 billion to be extended by Frankfurt. Russia Hikes Rates. The Russian central bank has raised rates to 10.5% from 9.5% in its latest attempt to halt the collapse of the rouble. The currency has been hit by a combination of collapsing oil prices, which the country's economy is heavily dependent on, and Western sanctions over Russia's role in supporting anti-government rebels in Ukraine. Norway Cuts Rates. Norway's central bank just cut its benchmark interest rate to 1.25%. The rate had been at 1.5% since early 2012. Falling oil prices are likely to have a negative effect on the Norwegian economy because it is a massive energy exporter.  UK House Price Growth Has Been Slowing For 6 Months. According to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, prices grew at their slowest pace in about 18 months in December, Bloomberg reports. German Inflation Got Confirmed At 0.5%. Germany's Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices is up just 0.5% in the year to November, confirmed at the second estimate. That's the lowest level since the recession that came immediately after the financial crisis. Markets Are Sinking. Europe is in the red, with Britain's FTSE down 0.9%, France's CAC 40 down 0.6%, and Germany's DAX down 0.2%. Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.8%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.9%, and China's Shanghai Composite closed down 0.5%.  The Truth About Retail Sales. The US November retail sales report will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate sales climbed by 0.4% in November. Excluding autos and gas, sales are estimated to have increased by 0.5%. "The key question around November retail sales is whether non-energy spending is responding more noticeably to lower gasoline prices," Credit Suisse economists said. "The response so far (from the June peak in gas prices through October) has been relatively muted. But gasoline fell below $3.00 nationwide in mid-November, perhaps a key psychological level. Black Friday reports were negative, but these are often not a good guide to the monthly Census data." Honda And Nissan Are Recalling Half A Million Cars. Honda is recalling 400,000 cars as a precaution against potentially deadly airbags made by Takata Corp., and Nissan is recalling another 152,000 for the same reason. China Is Pushing Banks To Step Up Lending. China has told its banks to issue more loans in the final months of 2014 and has relaxed limits on its loan-to-deposit ratios to help hit a record new lending target as the government steps up efforts to lift flagging economic growth, according to a Reuters exclusive. Lending Club Priced Its Shares At $15. The online loan marketplace, which is about to offer its first public shares, raised its share price to $15, above the initial target range. The move values the company at about $5.4 billion, according to the Financial Times. FREE AppDownload
ReutersFast food chain Burger King will avoid hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. taxes if, as planned, it completes its pending buyout of Canadian coffee-and-doughnuts chain Tim Hortons, a tax activist group said on Thursday. In one of the most notable of several corporate tax "inversion" deals this year, Florida-based Burger King announced in late August it would buy Tim Hortons and put the headquarters of the combined company in Canada. U.S. companies doing inversions - which involve buying a foreign company and assuming its tax nationality to cut overall tax costs - have been blasted as tax dodgers by Democrats and liberal groups. President Barack Obama has criticized a "herd mentality" by companies seeking deals to escape U.S. taxes. In a report that Burger King described as "flawed," Americans for Tax Fairness, a group often critical of corporations over taxes, said the fast-food chain's inversion "creates substantial tax avoidance opportunities." For instance, it said, by placing its headquarters in Canada so it is no longer a U.S. company for tax purposes, Burger King could avoid $117 million in U.S. taxes by never having to pay corporate income tax on foreign profits it holds offshore. The group said Burger King's future foreign profits would no longer be subject to U.S. income taxes. That could save the company about $275 million from 2015 to 2018, based on a range of Wall Street earnings projections, it said. Burger King said in a statement: “The analysis in the report is materially flawed and the figures do not accurately represent our facts and circumstances. As we’ve said all along, this transaction is driven by growth, not tax rates. Going forward, we do not expect our tax rate to change materially.” A company spokesman declined to respond point-by-point to the report. The spokesman said the Burger King-Tim Hortons transaction will be completed on Friday. Tim Hortons said on Tuesday its shareholders approved the deal, with the combined company to be called Restaurant Brands International. The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the report. The report said Burger King is a top food supplier to the U.S. armed forces and its "decision to become a Canadian company will mean that while U.S. military families support Burger King by buying its food, Burger King will no longer support service members by paying its fair share of taxes." (Additional reporting by Solarina Ho in Toronto; Editing by Will Dunham and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinRussia's Central Bank Gov. Elvira Nabiullina. So far the move has not had the intended effect. The rouble dropped to a new low of more than 55 roubles to the dollar following the announcement. The central bank has tried to use shock tactics before to limited effect. At the end of October it raised rates to 9.5% from 8% in a widely unexpected gamble that higher rates would halt the rouble's slide against the dollar and the euro. But while the economic outlook certainly declined as expected, the move failed to prevent the rouble from sliding further as oil prices continued to slump. As you can see from the chart below, the rouble's falls against the dollar (orange line) have closely tracked drops in the price of oil (green line): BloombergThe rouble versus Brent crude. Market analysts were forecasting a hike of the central bank's key interest rate of 9.5% by anything from 25 basis points to as much as 250 basis points, according to The Wall Street Journal. That is, people expected anything from 9.75% to 12%. Trading EconomicsRussian inflation hit 9.1% in November. The rate of price rises and ongoing falls in the value of the currency have put pressure on the central bank to increase interest rates to slow the pace of spending in the economy by encouraging people to save more of their money. However, doing so risks worsening the already parlous state of Russia's economy, which is expected to fall into a recession next year. After growing at an average pace of about 6.9% between 1999 and 2008 Russia has struggled to regain its momentum since the Great Recession. According to the Bank of Russia, the annual GDP growth rate in 2014 was 0.6%, with the central bank forecasting growth would remain close to zero between 2015 and 2016 (though, if the Economic Development Ministry prediction of a 0.7% contraction next year is right, close to zero here could mean a mild recession). Trading EconomicsRussia GDP growth 2002 to 2014.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth ECB President Mario Draghi is unlikely to be impressed. The TLTRO figure (targeted long-term refinancing operation) is likely to be seen as a disappointment. Straight after pretty poor figures in September, analysts were expecting €175 billion to be extended by Frankfurt. ECB vice president Benoit Coeure says the figure is "within the ECB's and market estimates and expectations," but that's only because the increasingly grim outlook for Europe has pushed estimates so low — they fell to just €130 billion to €150 billion by the beginning of December. The ECB wants to offer credit to banks in Europe, attached to conditions that they will turn it into loans for the private sector.  Banks took up €82.6 billion ($103.4 billion) in loans in the first round of lending this September. The higher the numbers, the more money that European financial institutions would most likely be lending out into the economy.  If the figure is seen as low, financial markets may take that as a sign that the ECB will do more easing in the months ahead. A Bloomberg report earlier this month suggested that the central bank would go for a much more wide-ranging stimulus plan in January. Here's what Capital Economics has to say about the announcement:   FREE AppDownload
Oil is holding its value this morning, after both Brent and WTI Crude fell  to their lowest price levels since 2009 yesterday. At 9.30am GMT (4.30am ET), Brent was trading at $64.58, gaining 0.21%. Investing.com Crude is also stable at $61.27 a barrel at 10am GMT (5am ET). Investing.com Yesterday's price crumble means that the oil has lost 42% of its value since its highest in July this year. Finviz.com Further drops in oil prices are likely in sight, though. Yesterday, Saudi Arabian Minister of Petroleum Ali Al-Naimi restated his country's intention not to cut production in the foreseeable future, meaning that there will probably be even more overproduction next year.  As Business Insider's Shane Ferro wrote, this is a clear signal that the OPEC does not have the power to influence the market by manipulating the world's output of crude. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Sasha MordovetsRussian businessman Arkady Rotenberg.Companies linked to Russian billionaire Arkady Rotenberg and Gennady Timchenko, both close allies of Russian President Vladimir Putin, were given contracts worth 309 billion roubles (£3.6 billion, $8.1 billion) since western sanctions were imposed on the men in March, according to a Bloomberg report. The deals included a 228-billion- rouble project to build a bridge to Crimea from the Russian mainland as well as a large chunk of the 770-billion-rouble Power of Siberia gas pipeline.  The two men were sanctioned due to their links to key Russian industries. Rotenberg, a childhood friend of Putin's, owns SMP bank along with his brother Boris. The US Treasury claims the brothers "have provided support to Putin’s pet projects" by winning and completing "approximately $7 billion in contracts for the Sochi Olympic Games and their personal wealth has increased by $2.5 billion in the last two years alone". SMP Bank, which is also subject to sanctions and unable to trade with companies in the EU and the US, received a 10-year state loan of about 100 billion roubles at an interest rate of 0.51%, according to Bloomberg. The money was provided under the condition that Rotenberg's firm rescue another Russian bank, Mosoblbank, which had fallen into difficulties. Timchenko meanwhile was one of the founders of Gunvor, one of the world’s largest commodity trading companies. He also appears on the US sanctions list as the Treasury claims his "activities in the energy sector have been directly linked to Putin...[and] Putin has investments in Gunvor and may have access to Gunvor funds". Gunvor denies the US Treasury claims and said in a statement: "Russian President Putin does not and never has had any ownership, beneficial or otherwise in Gunvor. He is not a beneficiary of Gunvor or its activities." Timchenko divested his ownership and control in the company in an irrevocable sale back in March, but has a number of other business holdings in Russia managed by Volga Group. Bloomberg reports that Anton Kurevin, a spokesperson for Volga Group, said contracts won by Timchenko "were obtained fairly through a competitive process". FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nir EliasStocks are climbing a little.European stocks are up, and we're waiting for some important news from the European Central Bank. The ECB will give an indication at 10:15 a.m. GMT about how much cheap credit banks have accessed in the latest effort to shake some life into Europe's economies.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: +0.14% Germany's DAX: +0.43% UK's FTSE 100: +0.10% Spain's IBEX: +0.48% Italy's FTSE MIB: +0.49% Asian markets closed down. Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.89%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng ended 0.90% lower, and China's Shanghai Composite dropped another 0.49%. US futures are up a little. The S&amp;P 500 is currently 6.75 points higher, while the Dow is up 53 points. At 10:15 GMT we'll get the results of the ECB's second round of targeted long-term refinancing operations (TLTRO), which is the amount of cheap credit banks have accessed from the European Central Bank. The ECB has agreed to provide cheap loans to banks in an attempt to get the stagnant European economy moving again.  Analysts are expecting a take-up of just €130 billion. Any figure lower than that will likely be a disappointment for markets. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor's said it may downgrade Tesco's credit rating after its latest profit warning, moving the British grocer closer to losing its investment grade status. S&amp;P said it believed Tesco's profitability would continue to weaken as competition within the British retail sector remained intense. Any positive changes introduced by the new management could be wiped out by the highly competitive environment. Tesco cut its profit forecast for the fourth time in five months on Tuesday after failing to adapt to changes in the market, such as the increased popularity of discount stores Aldi and Lidl and a boom in convenience stores and online shopping that has hit Tesco's huge out-of-town sites. It has also admitted overstating profits by 263 million pounds ($413 million). "We anticipate that Tesco's profitability will continue to weaken as market competition in the U.K. remains high, possibly even intensifying over the next 12 months, perpetuating the burden on the group's business risk profile," S&amp;P said. As a result, the ratings agency has put Tesco's BBB- long-term corporate credit rating, which is one notch above junk status, on creditwatch with negative implications. Ratings agency Moody's has also moved Tesco to one notch above junk and put it on review for a further downgrade after recent results showed its pension deficit and net debt growing while trading profits slumped. Fitch also has Tesco on a negative outlook. (Reporting by Kate Holton; editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China has told its banks to issue more loans in the final months of 2014 and has relaxed limits on their loan-to-deposit ratios to help hit a record new lending target as the government steps up efforts to lift flagging economic growth. Two sources with knowledge of the matter said China's central bank would now allow banks to lend an unprecedented 10 trillion yuan ($1.62 trillion) for all of 2014, up from what Chinese media have said was a previous target of 9.5 trillion yuan. Bank lending is a crucial part of China's monetary policy as the government tells commercial banks how much to lend and when to lend each year. The People's Bank of China is also allowing banks to lend more than 75 percent of their deposits, injecting flexibility in a rule that was meant to control lending activity. So far, Chinese banks have disbursed 8.23 trillion yuan worth of loans between January and October, so they will have to quicken the pace in November and December if they are to meet the new 10 trillion yuan target. The central bank was not immediately available for comment. The move comes a day after China's inflation slipped to a five-year low, raising expectations that Beijing would move more aggressively to head off the risk of deflation. As recently as Nov. 21, the PBOC also made a surprise cut in interest rates in an attempt to re-energise the world's second-largest economy, where annual growth could sag to its lowest in 24 years as cooling domestic investment and a slowing housing market hurt activity. It described the move as being neutral for monetary policy and said it was intended to lower real interest rates, having said for months that China did not need to adopt "strong" stimulus to spur its economy. China had not officially announced its lending target for 2014, though Sheng Songcheng, the head of the statistics department at the central bank, was quoted by local media in July as saying that banks were lending more to the housing market to support the cooling sector. Sheng said banks were displaying "forceful" support for the slowing real estate market and said then that they were likely to issue 9.5 trillion yuan in new loans. (Reporting by Beijing and Shanghai Newsrooms; Writing by Pete Sweeney and Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
French inflation just sank to another five-year low, down at 0.4% in November, compared to the same month last year, leaving France even further away from the European Central Bank's 2% inflation target.. Analysts were expecting a 0.5% figure.  But it's even worse than that. France's core inflation is now at -0.2%. It's negative for the first time the country started recording it. It's much harder to blame falling oil prices for that: core inflation deliberately strips out volatile items like fresh food and energy, to try to give an idea of the underlying trend. Here's France's headline inflation tumbling:  Pantheon MacroeconomicsBNP Paribas economists had this to say in a note: "Keeping in mind that the annual inflation rate still includes the impact of the early 2015 VAT hike, we should expect headline inflation to fall in negative territory early next year."  France raised VAT to 20% from 19.6% in January, the effect of which has kept prices up all year. But from January, that effect will fall away, and combined with falling oil prices, deflation is now looking likely for Europe's second biggest economy.  FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 1. Hong Kong authorities started clearing the main pro-democracy protest site near government headquarters that has block major roads in the city's financial district for nearly 10 weeks. 2. Israel is dealing with the worst oil spill in its 66-year history after a breached pipeline leaked as much as 5 million liters of crude into the Evrona desert reserve, which could spread to the Red Sea shore. 3. A US Senate report on CIA interrogations says the intelligence agency lied about how Osama Bin Laden was captured in 2011.  4. Google said it would shut down its Google News service in Spain because of a new law that requires the company to pay publishers for showing their work. 5. OPEC decreased its projection for oil demand in 2015 to 28.9 million barrels a day, its lowest level since 2002. 6. Greenpeace apologized for placing a banner next to an ancient hummingbird carving in Peru as part of a publicity stunt to put pressure on the United Nations climate talks in Lima. 7. Pakistani teenager Malala Yousafzai and Indian activist Kailash Satyarthi received their Nobel Peace Prizes on Wednesday at a ceremony in Oslo. 8. Brazil's National Truth Commission on Wednesday released a damning 2,000-page report on the killings and acts of torture committed between 1964 and 1985 under the nation's military dictatorship. 9. Alan Rusbridger will step down as editor-in-chief of The Guardian to become chair of The Scott Trust, which owns Guardian Media Group, next year.  10. Northern regions of the UK were pounded Wednesday and early Thursday by strong winds and huge waves spawned by a "weather bomb" storm system. And finally ... The BBC is going to build an insane theme park in Kent, a county southeast of London. FREE AppDownload
ReutersVladimir PutinMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's oligarchs are no strangers to misfortune, asset grabs, forced investments and financial crises. Many of them may publicly shrug off a 40 percent plunge in the rouble and the difficulties caused by a sanctions-hit economy heading for recession. And at least on paper, there are some winners, with metal producers benefiting from rising prices in export markets. But look closer and just about every Russian company is feeling the pinch, and perhaps the only success stories are those who sold in time -- or who just got lucky. Even those close to President Vladimir Putin are not shielded from plunging oil prices and the economic downturn. They are also at greater risk of being subject to sanctions imposed by the West over the Ukraine crisis. Gas producer Novatek, in which an investment vehicle belonging to sanctioned Putin ally Gennady Timchenko has a 23 percent stake, has seen its stock market value sink from $36.9 billion to $23.6 billion as investors have bailed out and sanctions have taken their toll. Other have got off more lightly. In terms of market capitalization, Norilsk Nickel, the world's largest nickel and palladium miner and exporter owned by three of Russia's original oligarchs -- Vladimir Potanin, Oleg Deripaska and Roman Abramovich -- has grown to $27.6 billion from $26 billion at the end of last year. But the company had a market capitalization of more than $40 billion at the end of 2010 when Russia was free of Western sanctions and when oil prices, currently near five-year lows of around $70 a barrel, were nearer $95. There has also been growth at Rusal, the world's biggest aluminum producer, which is 48 percent owned by Deripaska. It has seen its market capitalization rise to $10.4 billion from $4.5 billion since the beginning of the year, according to Thomson Reuters Datastream economic data. Both have been aided more by rising prices for nickel and aluminum than the weaker rouble. Alexander Demianchuk/ReutersA man holds rouble banknotes in front of an automated teller machine inside a branch of Sberbank in St. Petersburg, November 5, 2014.  Among Russia's so-called original oligarchs -- those who got rich in the chaos that followed the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 -- some have found that being out of favor with the Kremlin is not necessarily a bad thing. Russia's second richest man, Mikhail Fridman, and his partner German Khan wanted to keep their stake in oil producer TNK-BP but sold it to state-controlled producer Rosneft, led by Putin ally Igor Sechin, when commodities prices were at a peak. They got around $13 billion out of a deal worth $55 billion in total. Rosneft, which became the world's largest listed oil producer by output after the deal, was widely seen as the winner. But now it has a market capitalization of $41.7 billion, according to Datastream, less than it paid for the TNK-BP stake, a reverse also reflecting the fall in the price of oil. "Sometimes it feels like they were protected by God in everything they did in the past few years," said a former co-worker of Fridman and Khan, who declined to be identified. But despite Fridman selling some of his assets in Russia, those that remain are not performing well. His Amsterdam-incorporated X5 Retail Group has lost its No. 1 spot in the Russian market and its shares are down seven percent in the year, relecting the economic downturn. His telecoms company Vimpelcom, also incorporated in Amsterdam, has struggled with more than $20 billion in debt. Alisher Usmanov, Russia's richest man and another notable example of a businessman benefiting from investing in Internet projects outside the country, has also suffered at home despite a successful investment in China's e-commerce giant, Alibaba. Shares in Megafon, in which he owns about 50 percent, are down 45 percent this year, dragged lower by a weak market despite leading in 4G technology, while Internet company, Mail.ru, is suffering from weak advertising revenues in a sagging economy. (Additional reporting by Maria Kiselyova and Andrey Kuzmin in Moscow and Dmitry Zhdannikov in London, writing by Elizabeth Piper; editing by Timothy Heritage and Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc has been using questionable accounting and unauthorized sales practices to make its retail business in China appear stronger, Bloomberg reported, citing internal documents and interviews with employees. The sales practices, which include bulk sales to other retailers and sales being allegedly booked when no merchandise left the shelves, made business appear strong even as retail transactions slowed and unsold inventory piled up, Bloomberg reported. Representatives at Wal-Mart did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Wal-Mart stores in China resorted to temporary mark-ups of inventory as an accounting move to prop profit without any added sales, Bloomberg reported, citing interviews with current and former Wal-Mart employees. Concerns about bulk sales, raised as far back as 2011 in an internal report, have been the subject of inquiries in China by Wal-Mart's legal team as recently as May, Bloomberg reported, citing an internal company email. The world's largest retailer is battling stiff competition from local rivals in China. China is key to Wal-Mart's international ambitions but it has stumbled in a market where consumers value safe and authentic food over the low prices the retailer is famed for. Wal-Mart has been in China for 17 years. Wal-Mart's reputation for food safety in China has come under attack after its "Five Spice" donkey meat was found to contain fox meat earlier this year. Wal-Mart also ran into trouble in 2011 when it was fined for selling expired duck meat. In April, the retailer said it appointed Sean Clarke as Wal-Mart China CEO effective June 1. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bengaluru; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
