APSAN FRANCISCO (AP) — One of the largest gold nuggets in modern times pulled from Northern California's historic Gold Country has sold to a secret buyer. The San Francisco Chronicle reported Saturday (http://bit.ly/1snahAB ) that even the sales price of the so-called Butte Nugget will remain a mystery at the buyer's request. But Don Kagin, the San Francisco-area coin dealer who brokered the deal, said that the sale price for the nugget weighing slightly more than 6 pounds wasn't far off from the asking price of about $400,000. A gold hunter in July found the nugget in the mountains of Butte County; it went up for sale Thursday with the deal finalized on Friday. The man who found the nugget also asked Kagin to keep his name and the location of the discovery a secret. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSmoke and dust rise over Syrian town of Kobani after an airstrike, as seen from the Mursitpinar crossing on the Turkish-Syrian border in the southeastern town of Suruc AMMAN (Reuters) - Islamic State is still extracting and selling oil in Syria and has adapted its trading techniques despite a month of strikes by U.S.-led forces aimed at cutting off this major source of income for the group, residents, oil executives and traders say. While the raids by U.S. and Arab forces have targeted some small makeshift oil refineries run by locals in eastern areas controlled by Islamic State, they have avoided the wells the group controls. This has limited the effectiveness of the campaign and means the militants are able to profit from crude sales of up to $2 million a day, according to oil workers in Syria, former oil executives and energy experts. "They are in fact still selling the oil and even stepping up exploitation of new wells by tribal allies and taking advantage of the inability of the enemy to hit the oil fields," said Abdullah al-Jadaan, a tribal elder in Shuhail, a town in Syria's oil-producing Deir al-Zor province. U.S.-led forces want to avoid hitting the oil installations hard because it could hurt civilians more than the militants and could radicalize the local population, analysts say. On Thursday the United States threatened to impose sanctions on anyone buying oil from Islamic State militants in an effort to disrupt what it said was a $1-million-a-day funding source. Most of the oil is bought by local traders and covers the domestic needs of rebel-held areas in northern Syria. But some low-quality crude has been smuggled to Turkey where prices of over $350 a barrel, three times the local rate, have nurtured a lucrative cross-border trade. "Our options are limited unless you hit the wells - but it does not just hit Islamic State, it hits the entire population and that is not something that the U.S. can do very easily," said Andrew Tabler, a senior fellow at the U.S.-based Washington Institute, who focuses on Syria. "It's a good example of the constraints of trying to bomb your way out of it." Any bombing of Syria's major oil wells could evoke memories of the 1990-1991 Gulf War when the forces of Iraq's Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and burnt oil wells as they were repelled by U.S.-led forces, causing severe damage to the infrastructure. Washington wants to preserve parts of Syria's oil infrastructure with the hope that they can be used after the war if Islamic State and the forces of President Bashar al-Assad are defeated, a U.S. official said near the start of the bombing campaign. One U.S.-led raid destroyed parts of a mobile refinery in eastern Syria but left a tower at the installation intact. "It wasn't about obliterating the refineries off the face of the map. It was about degrading (Islamic State's) ability to use these refineries," Pentagon press secretary Rear Admiral John Kirby told a briefing on Sept. 25. "We'd like to preserve the flexibility for those refineries to still contribute to a stable economy in what we hope will be a stable country when the Assad regime is not in control anymore." Over the summer Islamic State was pumping anything between 40,000 to 80,000 bpd of crude oil from the wells it controls in the Deir al-Zor and Hasaka provinces, according to estimates from oil experts, traders and local sources contacted by Reuters. The International Energy Agency said in a report this month that output in Islamic State-controlled areas had fallen to less than 10,000 bpd as a result of the air strikes. Local prices of petroleum products however suggest that the strikes have not had a large impact on the supply of illicit oil. A barrel of Islamic State oil sells for around $20, whereas early in 2014 it was selling for $35. Traders say this is because there were ample stockpiles built up before the strikes and because Islamic State ramped up its production in recent weeks.   PRIVATE CONVOYS ON THE ROAD Local businessmen have continued to send convoys of up to thirty trucks carrying oil from Islamic State-run wells through insurgent-held parts of Syria during broad daylight without being targeted by the air strikes. The militant group has allowed convoys to pass more quickly through its checkpoints. It has encouraged customers to load up more than before and has offered discounts and deferred payments to shift more oil, two oil truck drivers and a local trader said. The group's "oil department" has also told traders in the last two weeks they could load as much as they can and urged them to build stockpiles, something traders say suggests Islamic State thinks the oil wells could still be hit. Others say that the threat of strikes has even pushed the militant Sunni Muslim group to use its oil wealth more effectively to shore up its local tribal support base. The group is using its control of oil to strengthen ties with local tribes, rather than just hoarding profits as before, according to residents living in Islamic State-run areas. It is now allowing some Bedouin tribes in the Deir al-Zor province to tap wells it controls, such as the Bar al Milh, al Kharata, Amra, Okash, Wadi Jureib, Safeeh, Fahda and many other medium and small disused wells in the Jebel Bushra area. At least nine major tribes have benefited, including ones whose kin spread over the border into Iraq such as the influential Jabour tribe. The groups have largely been supportive of Islamic State. Traders lured by high profits have continued to build stockpiles and to sell across Syria, even smuggling some into government-held areas. "The American planes are above us day and night but we no longer care. They cannot be worse than Bashar's barrel bombs," said oil trader Ibrahim Fathallah, who sells low quality products to towns across the rebel-held northwestern Syria. "We are the ones on the ground and know how to move across our land. They won't stop us for going on to earn a living for our families unless they bomb the hell out of us," he said. A large trailer carrying 30,000 liters of Islamic State-supplied crude can make $4,000 profit in just one journey lasting a few days, traders say. Traders say they can double returns by squeezing at least 20 barrels, worth around $400, on the back of a Kia pickup. "Bombing or no bombing.. we will go there even if there is death because it brings a lot of revenue," said contractor Abdullah Sheikh who has used profits from his fleet of seven trailers to build mobile refineries in the northern town of Manbij.   CIVILIANS SUFFER While some local businessmen have made large profits from the illicit oil trade, many other civilians have come to depend on the informal market which sprung up since the start of Syria's conflict more than three years ago. It has been a major source of income for hundreds of thousands of families in rural areas of north and eastern Syria, where people have been displaced or lost jobs. "The Americans know that these wells have opened an opportunity for many Syrians to benefit who have no links to militants," a Western diplomat familiar with U.S. strategy against Islamic State said. The U.S-led strikes have knocked out dozens of<U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C> privately-owned<U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202E><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C><U+202C> makeshift refineries that had mostly sprung up around Islamic State-controlled land along the border with Turkey. They were used as a hub for smuggling although traders say Turkey has clamped down on smugglers this year. The plants were constructed by private businesses at a cost of $150,000 to $250,000 and processed 150-300 bpd of Islamic State-supplied crude oil. Traders say the bombing of these larger refineries may have reduced processing capacity by 20-30 percent but was not having any major impact on the domestic fuel market so far. Hundreds of smaller scale refineries are spread across swathes of insurgent-held land, making it difficult to hit them. They continue to refine the bulk of crude extracted, according to experts and traders. The refineries included the one run by trader Mazen Mukhtar, who said his was destroyed by a U.S. Tomahawk missile this week in a direct hit, turning his family's life savings into a heap of mangled metal and burnt crude oil. The mini refinery, that used primitive distillation and heating methods, cost him around $20,000 to build in a waste plot several kilometers away from his home. The Islamic State-run oil wells that supply it have been untouched. "Why are they destroying our livelihood...do they want to throw our children to the street to start begging?" the 48-year-old said. "Those who buy this fuel are only the poor who use it to make bread and cook their daily meals to feed their families. Why don't they go after the real terrorist Assad and his gang."   (Editing by Sylvia Westall and Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
FordDETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co's &lt;f.n&gt; new chief executive, Mark Fields, is giving the automaker's long-moribund Lincoln brand what his predecessor Alan Mulally never could: a little love and a lot of cash. Lincoln, a storied Detroit brand which Ford has owned since 1922, has been in a swoon for the past two decades, leaving dealers and customers wondering if Ford management had left the brand for dead. Now, with the renewed backing of Executive Chairman Bill Ford and the company's board, Fields has committed the automaker to a multiyear, multibillion-dollar overhaul of Lincoln that includes a significant investment in a new premium vehicle platform that will underpin several future Lincoln vehicles, four sources told Reuters. Ford could spend $5 billion or more over the next five years to revive Lincoln, revamp its product portfolio and reposition it as a true competitor to such global luxury leaders as Daimler AG's &lt;daign.de&gt; Mercedes-Benz and BMW AG &lt;bmwg.de&gt;, the sources said. Details of the new platform and the size and scope of the investment have not previously been reported. "It's really important for us to have a relevant and vibrant luxury brand," Fields told Reuters on Friday. "You need to make the investment and build this brand over time." He declined to discuss details about Ford's spending and product plans. Fields said Ford is looking at the Lincoln rebuilding effort "in terms of generations of products," an effort that will stretch well into the next decade. Ford executives said last month that the immediate goal of the latest Lincoln turnaround effort is to triple the brand's global sales to 300,000 vehicles by 2020. Several industry analysts have challenged that mark as overly optimistic, as have some former Ford executives who spoke with Reuters on condition of anonymity. A longer-range target is to restore Lincoln's luster as a premium automotive marque in the United States and build it into a formidable competitor in China, where Ford is just now launching the brand years after most of its global luxury rivals entered the China market. On Friday, Ford delivered its first Lincoln in China, an MKZ sedan. The springboard for the Lincoln revival plan is a new family of vehicles that will be built on a highly flexible premium platform that can be configured for front-, rear- and all-wheel-drive vehicles, according to industry sources familiar with Ford's plans. That is a critical element that has been lacking in several previous, under-financed attempts to resuscitate the brand. Versions of the platform will be used by both the Lincoln and Ford brands, the sources said. Former CEO Mulally, who stepped down in July, declined to make more than a nominal investment in Lincoln - and even considered selling or closing the brand, according to two sources. But his successor, Fields, has directed his management team to try to reverse a long-term U.S. sales skid that has seen Lincoln sink from the No. 1 spot in 1998 to eighth place among luxury brands, with about half the sales of General Motors Co's &lt;gm.n&gt; Cadillac and one-quarter the sales of segment leader Mercedes. Last year, Lincoln sales were 81,694, less than half of the 187,121 cars it sold in 1998.   FLEXIBLE DESIGN The revival effort is backed by the first significant investment in Lincoln in years, one that will see every product redesigned or replaced over the next five years. Ford already has spent about $2 billion on Lincoln in the past two years, according to one source, about half of that to prepare for the brand's introduction this week in China and half to update and expand its product stable to tide Lincoln over until the new family of vehicles is ready toward the end of the decade. Ford has said in some years it spent only $500 million or less on Lincoln. In September, the automaker told investors it plans to spend more than $2.5 billion through 2019 on Lincoln product development, facilities and tooling. But that figure does not include spending on engineering, advertising and other sales-related expenses for Lincoln, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks told Reuters on Friday. Much of the new investment is earmarked for development and tooling of the new premium platform, known internally as D6, sources said. The development is being overseen by new Lincoln President Kumar Galhotra, an engineer. The flexible architecture of the D6 will provide the mechanical base for a wide variety of sedans and crossovers starting in 2019, all designed to give Lincoln more differentiation from its Ford-branded siblings, as well as a stronger foundation on which to build more competitive luxury models to pit against the sector leaders. Before the first of the new D6-based models arrive, Lincoln will update most of its existing products, starting with a redesigned MKX midsize crossover in spring 2015 and a replacement for the MKS large sedan in spring 2016, sources said. The latter model will include a long-wheelbase version with more room inside for Chinese customers, Galhotra said. The Navigator fullsize utility vehicle is slated for an extensive overhaul in autumn 2017, according to sources, when it will share a version of the new Ford F-150 chassis and will get aluminum body panels. A redesign of the compact MKC crossover is tentatively scheduled in autumn 2018, the sources said. The first of the all-new D6 models, due in 2019, are a midsize sedan that could replace the MKZ and a large seven-passenger crossover that could replace the MKT, sources said. Both new models are expected to be offered in front- and all-wheel-drive versions.   (Editing by Eric Effron and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWarren Buffett, like nearly 20% of billionaires, made his fortune in finance. And they control 4% of the world's wealth. According to a new report from the research firm Wealth-X, about 13% of billionaires inherited their fortune, 27% became billionaires from re-investing inherited wealth, and a full 60% of billionaires made their money themselves. Let's drill into how they made all that cash.  "Opportunities for significant wealth gains can be found across most, if not all industries," the report reads, "but certain industries have been particularly important sources of billionaire wealth generation."  Here are the top five:  Wealth-X and UBS Billionaire Census 2014 Unsurprisingly, most billionaires make their dough in finance.  The fascinating trend here is just how much wealth industrial conglomerates are creating, which Wealth-X chalks up to globalization.  "Billionaires are increasingly gravitating towards diversified business ventures such as industrial conglomerates, especially in emerging markets," the reports says. "For Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, the largest proportion of new billionaires made their fortunes in industrial conglomerates."  The takeaway: If you want to achieve ridiculous wealth, go to Wall Street — or the developing world.  And attending one of these schools can't hurt, either.  FREE AppDownload
  For two decades, Singita lodges have been a destination for the world's wealthy to experience an African safari in the lap of luxury. So naturally Wall Street has taken notice. With 12 different safari experiences at five lodges/camps over half a million acres in four countries  — South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe and Mozambique —  Singita promises equal parts adventure, relaxation and cultural experience. One high-powered hedge fund manager told Business Insider its Pushamana Lodge in Zimbabwe was the nicest place he'd ever stayed. That's saying something. "Our guests are looking for exclusivity on many different levels," says Jason Trollip, Tourism Executive at Singita. In addition to world-class cuisine, he says, the lodge offers "exclusive access to some of the most pristine areas of land without bumping into other vehicles or feeling rushed at animal sightings." It's also known for its extensive learning and conservation programs. This is what your day looks like when you're on safari: You wake up at sunrise, eat breakfast, pile into a vehicle and head to the bush with your guide. That's when the show starts. Depending on which camp they're visiting, guests can spot elephants, lions, leopards, cheetahs, giraffes, crocodiles, hippos, monkeys, buffalo, and more. Sometimes they're in herds. Leapords play at the Singita Sabi Sand 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Vimeo				 Singita Grumeti in Tanzania offers a safari on horseback for seasoned riders. For eight days it's just you, your guide and your horse — with daily stops at Singita's luxury lodges along the way. The wild animals have gotten so accustomed to seeing horses around that riders can get extra close. Of course, all of the nature comes at a price. A five-bedroom tent at villa at the luxurious Pushumana Lodge will cost you over $8,200 per night. For a plain old double suite, each adult needs to shell out $1,800 per night. Compared to Singita's South African camps, though, that's not so steep. A family suite at the Singita Sabi Sand costs $36,500 per night for 1-3 people. Wildebeests wade in the river at Singita 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Vimeo				 SingitaOne of the stops on the horseback  safari, the Singita Sasakawa Lodge. So more and more of the jet set are getting out of their comfort zones and into Africa. Well-known hedge fund manager Whitney Tilson has his own bond with Africa. He lived for 3 years in Tanzania as his father worked in developing and running education programs. Last year, Tilson amused many in Wall Street circles by sending out a mass email asking if anyone wanted to rent his parents' beach home in Kenya — $500 per adult per night, during the holidays. It includes access to "deep sea fishing, swimming with dolphins and dhow cruises," according to Tilson's parents' website. lamubeachhome.comHedge fund manager Whitney Tilson lived in Tanzania whiile his father worked in education in Africa. His parents' home in Kenya is available for rent. Increasingly, luxury vacations are about customizations. Singita is no different. Guests can build the experience they want, including going on safari by hot air balloon. "Spotting a pride of lions or some cheetah from the balloon is a treat! Low flying over the tree tops is an incredible experience, as you can almost touch the earth, and its creatures below," Singita's Trollip says. A lot of guests head to Singita because they're interested in conservation. They go through education programs on wildlife, sustainability and protecting animals from poachers. Others like to go into local villages and check out how Singita supports communities through The Singita Community Development Trust. Over the years the trust has worked with governments to create a wide variety of programs.  At the Castleton Camps in South Africa, the Trust has established the 'Growing To Read' program. It helps local teachers hone their skills in the classroom. The Singita School of Cooking, at the Kruger National Park lodges in South Africa, is a competitive program that prepares eight to ten for a career in the culinary arts. Singita also has an environmental education centre for local kids at its Sasaskwa and Faru Faru lodges in Tanzania.  "Africa changes every day, and it changes you," Trollip told Business Insider. "Having access to this luxury of space resonates with our guests who are seeking meaningful, life-changing experiences rather than just a vacation." SingitaSingita Castleton in South Africa FREE AppDownload
A study conducted by the Evolution &amp; Ecology Research Centre has taken the guessing game out of what beard style women prefer. We visited Astor Place Hairstylists to get some tips on how to keep up the popular yet subtly maintained 10-day beard. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
As soon as temperatures dip below 50 degrees, it’s officially time for a jacket. But instead of reaching for your old faithful again this season, perhaps it’s time to buy something a little more trendy and fashion-forward.  Judging from the Fall/Winter 2014 fashion shows from last Spring, these are the five types of coats every man should rock this season. www.belstaff.com and www.mrporter.com and www1.bloomingdales.com(LEFT: Belstaff, $2,495; CENTER: MR PORTER, $595; RIGHT: Bloomingdale's, $556) A popular style for this season is shearling-lined coats that look like classic bombardier jackets that were worn by pilots during WWII.  The look is rugged and manly, but also best relegated to your weekend wear or worn on a chilly weekend getaway. Usually made with leather, these will be a nice transitional coat for the season and are also great for date nights when worn with jeans and boots. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.mrporter.com and shop.nordstrom.com(LEFT: Bloomingdale's $698; CENTER: MR PORTER, $1,670; RIGHT: Norstrom, $170)  Men’s fashion has brought back the double-button jacket in recent years, whether its a trench, peacoat, or a simple jacket. These might seem a bit more fashion-forward than the average cookie-cutter button down, but they're actually quite flattering. Just make sure to have the coat tailored to accentuate your waist and choose a style with a peak lapel to show off your shoulders. www.brooksbrothers.com and www1.bloomingdales.com and www1.macys.com(LEFT: Brooks Brothers, $698; CENTER: Bloomingdale's, $895; RIGHT: Macy's, $230) Nautical toggle coats will be everywhere this fall if the spring runway shows were any indication. The so-called Paddington or Duffel Coats have big pockets, toggles, and are usually knee or hip length. These were another war coat worn by the British Royal Navy in WWI and WWII (the toggles allowed them to be fastened and unfastened while wearing thick gloves). Though a bit more casual than a classic overcoat, duffel coats can be worn in casual settings or at the office. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.mrporter.com and www.jcrew.com(LEFT: Bloomingdale's, $795; CENTER: MR PORTER, $3,875; RIGHT: J.Crew, $450) Every man should own a classic, simple top coat. It's the perfect jacket to wear over a nice suit, or with a sweater and a pair of jeans to dress up your casual outfit. Look for simple lines and a fit that skims your body rather than hugs it. When done correctly, the top coat will be cut to fit cleanly over your favorite suit. www.mrporter.com and www1.bloomingdales.com and  shop.nordstrom.com(LEFT: MR PORTER, $3,925; CENTER: Bloomingdale's, $1,520; RIGHT: Nordstrom, $845) Puffy, quilted coats will officially be back in style this winter. Try and choose a jacket that is as streamlined as possible so you don’t look like a marshmallow (or time traveler from the early aughts), and pair it with slim-fitting jeans and sneakers.  Because it’s a sporty look, avoid wearing this style of jacket with suits or fancier attire. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.brooksbrothers.com and www.mrporter.com(LEFT: Neiman Marcus, $745; CENTER: Brooks Brothers, $298; RIGHT: MR PORTER, $830) The most versatile thing you can wear this fall will be a classic down vest. It will amp up your favorite sweaters and button downs while keeping your look casual yet polished.  Whether it's made with herringbone, wool, or a jacket material, these vests will carry you all the way into spring. FREE AppDownload
www.facebook.comA lot of investors don't believe in Lululemon.Shorting stocks is risky. Even when the market goes down, any stock can still go against you. And while the common truism that short sellers can only ever make 100% on a position isn't quite right, it takes a certain skill to find companies that might be hiding something from investors.  But this doesn't stop traders from taking their best shot.  Recently, we've seen a ton of volatility in the stock market, but all of the major stock indexes are still higher year-to-date.  However, we were still able to find 30 stocks with market caps over $2 billion that investors are still betting against like crazy. On the list, of course, is Herbalife, the company that hedge funder Bill Ackman has accused of being a pyramid scheme.  Also featured on the list is GoPro, the wearable camera company that went public in late June and has seen its stock just explode in the last several months. The biggest theme of the list is Chinese internet companies. Alibaba may have been the marquee IPO of the year, but other internet-based companies out of China have been met with quite a bit of skepticism. We ranked the stocks by short interest as a percentage of shares outstanding, going from the least shorted to the most. FREE AppDownload
Greenlight Capital, David EinhornGreenlight Capital CEO David Einhorn gave two ideas on Monday at the Robin Hood Investors Conference. One was a long position — in the solar company SunEdison. And the other was a long/short — long Greek banks, short French government debt. We've got the full presentation for you here. It starts off with Einhorn's long thesis on SunEdison (slide Nos. 1 to 37). It's the best-performing solar company of the year, and he thinks it can only get better. The stock currently trades at $19.22 per share, but he thinks it's worth $32 per share.  At about slide 38, Einhorn sorts out some of the mess that is Europe, focusing on Greece first. He argues that the worst is behind the country. The hardest decisions about austerity and the country is now "living within its means." He recommends going long Greek banks — *Alpha and Piraeus. France, on the other hand, is just starting to look ugly (that starts on slide 67). It's overbudget, suffers from high unemployment, and needs reform. Once the bond market realizes all of that, Einhorn says, it's time to short French government debt. *This post was edited to reflect a correction. Greenlight Capital recommended only Alpha and Piraeus, not Alpha, Piraeus, NBG, and Eurobank.   FREE AppDownload
Knickerbocker MotorsportsMost college kids are probably spending their weekends studying like crazy or partying into the night. But for around 40 Columbia University students, a typical Friday night consists of welding metals and writing budget reports in the basement of an engineering building. The Knickerbocker Motorsports team is hard at work building a race car that'll go from 0 to 60 mph in 4 seconds over the course of one year. Team members split the work between engineering and managing the car's budget. This year the whole project will cost an estimated $30,000. The financing primarily comes from donations from sponsors and the university itself. The project starts in September and goes all the way through finals week at the end of the spring semester. In May, the team enters the Formula SAE collegiate racing competition. Five team members are taking a related 1-to-3 credit course to have more time to work on the car. But for the rest of the team, this is purely an extracurricular activity with no financial payoff and no class credit. They do it because they it's fun. The team has improved in terms of both engineering skill and budget management over the last few years. It's also grown in numbers. Back in 2012 there were only 17 members on the squad. FREE AppDownload
Smith & WessonThe demand for firearms is going up. That's what gun-maker Smith &amp; Wesson is telling its investors. The company just published a new 46-slide presentation highlighting the health of the company and the industry. It includes tons of information showing America's ever-increasing love for guns. We pulled the most interesting slides. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Slumping energy shares drove the recent U.S. stock market selloff more than any other major group, so investors are turning to next week's slate of earnings to see if the sector can pull itself out of the pit. The third-quarter earnings picture for energy looks grim. Profit growth expectations for S&amp;P 500 energy companies have fallen more than any other sector - from a forecast of 13.8 percent on July 1 to the current 1.8 percent, Thomson Reuters data showed. Energy shares dropped 9.2 percent in the third quarter, and the sector &lt;.SPNY&gt; is on track for a decline of 3.6 percent for 2014, the weakest performance of any S&amp;P 500 sector. The decline has followed a sharp drop in oil prices, dragged down by weakening global demand and a rising dollar. With various names due to report next week, including Exxon Mobil &lt;xom.n&gt;, Chevron &lt;cvx.n&gt;, ConocoPhillips &lt;cop.n&gt; and National Oilwell Varco &lt;nov.n&gt;, there are hopes that executives will suggest that the fall in oil and share prices has overstated the outlook for these names. "It isn't just about these particular companies. What they have to say is an important factor for the entire global demand story," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial, based in Newark, New Jersey. "All the market has been looking for is less bad news." The energy sector over the last 20 weeks has spiraled from being the market leader to now ranking as its most distant laggard, according to a Relative Rotation Graph study, which analyzes the relative performance of the constituents of an index. The S&amp;P energy sector up about 6 percent from Oct. 15, while the S&amp;P 500 is up 5.5 percent from its Oct. 15 low and the benchmark index on Friday posted its best weekly gain since early January 2013. Some analysts expect demand from North American energy and construction industries to boost performance for some in the sector going forward, even with peaks in activity in North Dakota and other areas. And with profit estimates down for energy, its price-to-earnings multiple is among the lowest for S&amp;P 500 sectors, at 14.3 times estimates earnings, Thomson Reuters data showed. "Sure these oil companies may have some price pressure... but longer term, many of them are going to be just fine," said Robert Lutts, chief investment officer at Cabot Money Management in Salem, Massachusetts. Still, estimates for the fourth quarter and 2015 so far show an even bigger decline in energy's profit outlook. S&amp;P 500 energy earnings now are expected to decline 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter, which is down from a July 1 forecast for 10.4 percent growth, Thomson Reuters data showed. For 2015, profit growth for the sector is estimated at just 1.8 percent, the weakest of any sector. That compares with a forecast of 11.1 percent growth for the entire S&amp;P 500, Thomson Reuters data showed.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark MakelaUnion members from UNITE HERE Local 54 rally outside the Trump Taj Mahal Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey October 24, 2014.ATLANTIC CITY N.J. (Reuters) - Hundreds of unionized workers lashed out at Carl Icahn on Friday, picketing the Trump Taj Mahal Casino where the billionaire activist seeks to terminate health-care and pension plans. Members of UNITE HERE Local 54 picketed the Atlantic City casino a week after bankruptcy court approved a $100 million plan by Icahn, who holds the mortgage to the property, which hinges on benefit cuts and tax concessions from city and state governments.  The Taj Mahal was slated to close on Nov. 13 but said it would stay open for an unspecified period after winning benefit cuts in court. But state and local governments have balked at offering tax concessions.  If the Taj closes, it will be the fifth of 12 casinos in the city to close amid fierce competition from casinos in neighboring states.  "I think it's horrible," said Patty Gallagher, a waitress who has worked at the Taj Mahal since it opened and is slated to have a hysterectomy. "I have to have life-threatening surgery scheduled for January moved up to next Wednesday because I wouldn't be able to pay for it."  Earlier this month, 24 protesters were arrested for blocking streets in Jersey Shore town that once had the lucrative gambling monopoly on the East Coast but now faces stiff competition from casinos in neighboring states. Icahn responded in an open letter on his blog to unionized workers asking them to challenge the local's leadership saying Trump Entertainment Resort, which owns the Taj Mahal and the shuttered Trump Plaza, begged him to invest in the company at a time when the board of directors refused. Thomson ReutersCarl Icahn"I can't understand why the union would not want to help save the Taj," Icahn told Reuters on Friday. "I can't understand why they wouldn't be working to get the city and state to help the Taj." In his letter to workers, Icahn said the property was likely to close even with his investment.  Leonard Alprin, a waiter at the Taj Mahal since it opened, said mismanagement is a big factor in the resort's troubles. He joined the picket line on Friday after getting off his shift Friday, and got stuck in one of the casino's elevator on the way. "I'm standing here after 24 years with a stupid sign in my hand begging for a job that pays $35,000 per year," Alprin said.     (Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Alan Crosby) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAmazon CEO Bezos is silhouetted during a presentation of his company's new Fire smartphone in SeattleSAN FRANCISCO/BOSTON (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc's once fairy-tale ride on Wall Street has hit its most jarring bump yet. The company that for years enthralled investors with improbable growth and earned one of the technology sector's highest valuations drew widespread ire after a spectacular results letdown on Thursday. Amazon missed expectations across the board - on margins, on its net loss and on revenue. An unaccountably poor 7 to 18 percent revenue growth forecast for the typically strongest holiday quarter was the final straw for some. Coming just three months after a big letdown in July, the warning may represent a tipping point for investors who are already wary of a triple-digit price-earnings ratio and a persistent unwillingness to throttle back spending. "They're becoming much too distracted in all these other efforts" outside core businesses like online retailing and web services, said Matthew Benkendorf, portfolio manager at Vontobel Asset Management. Benkendorf unloaded his Amazon holdings a year ago and said he would be skeptical of future involvement even if the stock falls further. "They are their own worst enemy to success," he said. "They really need to do some soul searching and get focused." After some rough patches following the dotcom boom, CEO Jeff Bezos for years weaved a spell over Wall Street, riding a track record for upending the retail industry with Amazon's low-cost, speedy-delivery model. But Bezos has increasingly sought leading positions in Internet computing, digital media, and on-demand services. Investors have given Bezos a lot of leeway based on past success, including the introduction of Amazon Web Services. The cloud-hosting and computing service started out as a low-cost option for cash-strapped startups but now vies successfully with IBM on government and corporate IT contracts. But the company is entering a phase when many investors are expecting to see profit improvements, said Andrew Cupps, president of Cupps Capital Management in Chicago. Cupps now owns about 20,000 Amazon shares, down from around 30,000 earlier this year. Amazon shares fell 8.3 percent on Friday to a year's low of $287.06, wiping out more than $12 billion in value. Including Friday's plunge, Amazon's stock is down by nearly a third since January. Investors had begun questioning Bezos' growing spending on perceived side-projects since his company missed second-quarter profit targets. Such long-term endeavors included Hollywood-style content and mobile devices to compete with Apple Inc and Google Inc. But while Amazon's original drama series "Transparent" has won rave reviews, the jury is still out on whether the company can consistently deliver Netflix-style hits like "House of Cards." Meanwhile, its "Fire" smartphone project appears in trouble. The company took a $170 million writedown in the third quarter, largely because of unsold phones. And last month, it slashed the phone's price (with a two-year AT&amp;T contract) to 99 cents from $199. That's why brokerage analysts previously enamored of Amazon's prospects struck a pessimistic note. At least 20 brokerages cut their price targets on the stock on Friday. "Even if Bezos is unconcerned about institutional investors' near term, he needs to care how the stock impacts his ability to attract and retain talent, particularly given the broadening tech expertise he needs," said Macquarie's Ben Schacter. "If the stock continues to get hit, we could even end up in a situation with activists calling for significant changes." To be sure, short interest in Amazon remains low compared with most companies, suggesting that few investors deem the company to be in trouble. But it has increased over the past six months. About a year ago, 0.3 percent of the shares available for short bets were being used for such activity. That's increased to about 1.6 percent as of Thursday, according to Markit, which tracks share lending. And despite Friday's steep target-price cuts, no brokerage yet has a sell rating on the stock. Of the 44 analysts covering Amazon, 28 have a 'buy' or higher rating on the stock, though that's down from 32 three months ago. Some still give Bezos the benefit of the doubt. "I get it that people are frustrated that they've done a lot of different things that haven't helped them that much," said Daniel Morgan, senior portfolio manager at Synovus Trust Company, which will hold onto Amazon for now. "We'll hang in there a little longer to see if this thing will come to fruition for them." Others have begun to waver. During Thursday's earnings call, analysts pressed Amazon on when it would see a payoff from heavy investments in China, devices and other areas. Wolfe Research analyst Aram Rubinson asked what metrics Amazon tracks "because it's a little hard to see any of it making positive progress." "We are at the point where they're getting sick of it," said John Thompson, chief executive of Vilas Capital Management, who has been shorting Amazon for about two years. He took issue in particular with executives' assertions that they rely on cash flows as one of their prime performance metrics. "They're using a cash conversion cycle – meaning, they take your money in today when you buy something, but they don't pay their supplier for 75 days. That is what creates cash flow and that's what everyone on the Street looks at," he said. "That's an entirely fallacious way of valuing a company." "If Amazon were to exit China and use the savings to buy back stock, we could easily get far more optimistic," Rubinson said in a separate note. "But we are not holding our breath."     (Additional reporting by Lauren LaCapra and David Gaffen in New York. Writing by Edwin Chan. Editing by Christian Plumb and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWoman walks past Fannie Mae in WashingtonNEW YORK (Reuters) - Fannie Mae &lt;fnma.ob&gt; has reached a $170 million settlement of a lawsuit accusing it of misleading shareholders about its finances, risk management and mortgage exposure before it was seized by the U.S. government during the 2008 financial crisis. The settlement requires court approval, and was disclosed in a Friday filing with the U.S. District Court in Manhattan. It allocates $123.8 million to common shareholders and $46.2 million to holders of preferred stock between Nov. 8, 2006 and Sept. 5, 2008. Fannie Mae and the smaller Freddie Mac &lt;fmcc.ob&gt; were seized by the federal government on Sept. 7, 2008 and put into a conservatorship, where they remain under the control of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHFA and Fannie Mae did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Shareholders, who are seeking class action status, alleged that Fannie Mae defrauded them and artificially inflated its stock by issuing false and misleading statements about its risk management, capitalization, accounting practices, and exposure to subprime and low-documentation "Alt-A" mortgages. The lead plaintiffs are the Massachusetts Pension Reserves Investment Management Board, the State-Boston Retirement Board and the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System. They said the settlement averted potential "numerous and substantial risks" of continuing the lawsuit, after similar litigation against Freddie Mac was dismissed last year. "We're extremely pleased with the results, particularly in light of the dismissal of a similar lawsuit against Fannie Mae's sibling company, Freddie Mac," Daniel Greene, the chairman of State-Boston, said in a statement. The law firms Labaton Sucharow and Berman DeValerio, which represent common shareholders, and Kaplan Fox Kilsheimer, which represents holders of preferred stock, plan to seek fees of as much as 20 percent of the settlement fund, court papers show. A separate lawsuit over Fannie Mae's disclosures was brought in 2011 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission against former Chief Executive Daniel Mudd and former Chief Risk Officer Enrico Dallavecchia, and remains pending. The SEC filed a similar lawsuit against former Freddie Mac officials, including onetime Chief Executive Richard Syron. The case is In re: Fannie Mae 2008 Securities Litigation, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 08-07831.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Chris Reese and Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE did not write "The Merchant of Antwerp", but if Michael Pye is right, it was a near thing. In his new book he argues that the North Sea rivals the Mediterranean as the cradle of European civilization. The fall of the Roman Empire did not, after all, reduce its northern territories to a howling waste, fit only for rampaging Vikings. On the contrary, those Vikings, the Frisians before them and the Hanseatic merchants after them invented for themselves the conditions for modernity: international trade, money, credit, mathematics, law, the stock exchange, pensions and much else. Mr Pye asks his readers to imagine a time before fixed national borders, when identity was not so much a matter of race, but of "where you were and where you last came from". The sea was a thoroughfare, quicker than rutted roads. It made it easy for "Scandinavians to be in York, Frisians in Ipswich, Saxons in London". Unburdened by territorial ambition or by the feudal and monastic oppressions of inland towns, these people looked outward. They braved the legendary terrors of whirlpools and monsters at the northern edge of the world and sailed as far west as Newfoundland. To the east they plied the rivers of Russia to Novgorod, Kiev, the Black Sea and Byzantium. Trading, settling or moving on, they spread goods, fashions and information wherever they went. Mr Pye draws on a dizzying array of documentary and archaeological scholarship, which he works together in surprising ways. What links peat-digging in Holland with the famous cleanliness of Dutch cities? How did the marriage customs of northern Europe lead to the spread of windmills? He ranges everywhere, from the bookmaking monks of seventh-century Ireland to the beguines of 14th-century Flanders. The beguines were communities run by and for single women and they form part of a wonderful section on the choices and chances open to women left at home by their traveling menfolk. Johannes Mejer/Wikimedia CommonsMaps of North Frisia in 1651 (left) and 1240 (right). A central theme of this book is the re-invention of money and its role in the development of abstract, scientific and, eventually, secular thought. As a sea-trading people, the Frisians needed portable cash, not the gold and treasure of chiefs and kings, often hoarded and inert. They began minting silver coins, as a currency, an exchange. Value became an idea, detached from the intrinsic nature of a thing. It could be calculated for different categories of goods, and more than that, it could be written down, arithmetically juggled, turned into ratios and equations. A new way of thinking was born, transactional and everyday, and yet with momentous philosophical implications. Mr Pye advances on several fronts at once, following the overlapping currents of customary, religious and empirical ways of thinking. He writes about difficult concepts with vivid details and stories, often jump-cutting from exposition to drama like a film. It's complicated, but fun. The Edge of the World: How the North Sea Made Us Who We Are. By Michael Pye. Viking; 394 pages. To be published in America by Pegasus Books in April.   FREE AppDownload
"Critical-thinking skills" are frequently listed in the requirements of job postings advertised by top companies, but it's a talent that is often hard to define. The Wall Street Journal reports that hiring managers at Goldman Sachs, recently ranked by LinkedIn as one of the world's 100 most in-demand employers, are looking for someone who is able to "make use of information that's available in their journey to arrive at a conclusion or decision." The investment bank's global head of recruiting Michael Desmarais tells The Journal that to determine whether a job candidate is in fact a critical thinker, the company likes to ask interviewees to evaluate a company's market valuation or a stock pitch. By explaining how applicants arrived at their conclusion about the worth of a company's stock, Desmarais says, the applicants reveal their critical-thinking processes. Goldman explains in a 2011 post on its company blog that it also likes to judge creativity and problem-solving in its prospective employees. It does this by asking brain-teasers like, "How many manhole covers there are in New York City?" and requiring interviewees to design a procedure for finding a solution. "This answer may or may not be correct, but the important thing is to demonstrate one's approach to problem-solving," the company writes.  FREE AppDownload
It's a tense time of year to live in a large city, surrounded by crowds of people: Cold and flu season is just ramping up, and wedging onto the subway at rush hour with a mob of coughing, sneezing commuters is furthest from anyone's idea of fun. But taking public transportation has become even more unpleasant lately with a spate of Ebola pranks and scares on crowded transit systems that began even before New York City saw its first Ebola patient. On Thursday, Oct. 16, a woman vomited at the Massachusetts Ave. T subway platform in Boston, and some onlookers jumped to the incorrect conclusion that she was probably sick with Ebola. Boston Magazine reported that a bystander called 911 saying that a Liberian woman might have Ebola, prompting emergency responders to rush to the scene, close down the station, and cart the woman away. Authorities later confirmed that she was not Liberian, nor did she have Ebola. A few days prior to the Boston incident, a masked man caused a stir in Los Angeles when he boarded a bus, shouted, "Don't mess with me, I have Ebola!" and hopped back off again. Authorities removed the bus from service and have asked the driver to take several weeks off work for quarantine, but the incident is widely believed to be a prank. (It echoed an earlier false alarm on a plane.) Public health scares on transportation systems are usually just that — scares. But with the newly confirmed Ebola patient in New York City, we checked in with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) on their public health protocols, which MTA press officer Kevin Ortiz says have been recently updated. The MTA already has existing procedures for cleaning contaminated vehicles, Ortiz said in an emailed statement. These protocols are the same for any potentially infectious waste on the transit system. "They include isolating a bus, train car or subway car so no other customers can enter, providing personal protective equipment and training for employees who have to remove the waste, and ensuring it is disposed of safely," the email said. Disinfecting surfaces that have been contaminated with Ebola is relatively straightforward. "It's not a hardy virus," CDC spokeswoman Abbigail Tumpey has said. "It's a very wimpy virus." Still, in light of recent events, the MTA has added new protocols in consultation with the New York State Department of Health. The new protocol includes making sure "employees are issued nitrile gloves, use a 10% bleach solution for disinfection, and double-bag any potentially infectious waste," according to the MTA's statement. All preparations aside, the likelihood of catching Ebola on the subway is slim. People infected with Ebola aren't contagious until they begin presenting symptoms. "If someone ejected bloody mucus or vomitus onto a subway pole, and the next passenger were to touch it while it was still wet and then, for some unimaginable reason, were to put those wet fingers into an eye or mouth instead of wiping them in disgust — then yes," transmission via subway could theoretically happen, Donald G. McNeil Jr. wrote in The New York Times. And while Dr. Craig Spencer, the New York City Ebola patient, confirmed that he'd used public transit before falling ill, he did not do so while he had symptoms. Ebola can only be transmitted when there is contact with the bodily fluids of a symptomatic patient. Dina Spector/Google Maps "There is no indication the patient was contagious when he rode the subway. There is no indication he emitted any bodily fluids on the subway," said Ortiz, in his statement. "There were no reports of bodily fluids on any of the subway lines he rode." Even if there were infected fluids on the subway, the Ebola virus can't survive for long on hard surfaces, and there are no documented cases of transmission that has occurred this way. In other words, there should be little cause for concern when it comes to riding New York City public transit. While Ebola continues to present a major public health concern in severely afflicted areas in West Africa, New York City is well prepared to care for Spencer and any other cases that arrive. In the meantime, the MTA is "monitoring developments and will continue to work closely with health and emergency management officials," Ortiz said. FREE AppDownload
BRASILIA (Reuters) — Presidential candidates traded accusations over political corruption on Friday night in a last ditch attempt to sway undecided voters before Sunday's election runoff in Brazil's closest race in decades. In the final television debate of a bitter campaign, leftist President Dilma Rousseff and pro-business opposition candidate Aecio Neves sparred over who was best suited to restore growth to a stagnant economy, fight inflation, bring down rents and deal with open sewers in Brazilian cities. But it was a deepening bribery scandal at the country's largest enterprise, state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA &lt;petr4.sa&gt;, that brought the fiercest exchanges. "There is one easy way to put an end to corruption: throw the Workers' Party out of office," Neves said in reply to a question from a voter on how to improve Brazil's lenient anti-corruption laws. Polls show that the festering corruption scandal involving the ruling Workers' Party has not had a significant impact on the race in which Rousseff gained a clear lead this week. In his last chance to win over voters, Neves came out swinging in the debate and asked Rousseff straight out whether she knew about a scam that allegedly received kickbacks from Petrobras contractors and funneled funds to Rousseff's party and its allies in Congress. The allegations were made in plea bargain statements made by former Petrobras executive Paulo Roberto Costa and a black-market money dealer called Alberto Youssef who were arrested in March in a money laundering investigation. The weekly magazine Veja reported on Friday that Youssef has told police and prosecutors that Rousseff and her predecessor, Workers' Party founder Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, knew about the corruption scheme. The jailed money dealer provided no evidence. Rousseff dismissed the allegation as unfounded and called Veja magazine an opposition mouthpiece that had systematically antagonized her government and was trying to derail her re-election. APAecio Neves Neves, the market favorite who had stirred investor enthusiasm by promising business-friendly policies to pull Brazil out of recession, assailed Rousseff for poor management of Latin America's largest economy and losing control of inflation. A mild economic rebound and a bruising campaign have boosted the incumbent's chances in recent weeks. Surveys of voters by Brazil's top polling firms published on Thursday showed Rousseff with a lead of 6 to 8 percentage points. Rousseff has gained ground by reminding voters of the rising wages and expanding social programs many have enjoyed over the past 12 years of Workers' Party rule, benefits she said would be at risk because Neves would govern for the elite. Neves insisted in Friday night's debate that he would preserve social programs that have lifted millions of Brazilians out of poverty and reduced inequality. Analysts say the corruption allegations have not swayed voters to turn against Rousseff because unemployment remains low despite the slowdown and many Brazilians enjoy access to consumer goods, education and housing they did not have before. Rousseff blamed Neves' Brazilian Social Democracy Party for the crisis facing Brazil's largest city Sao Paulo, which is close to running out of water. She said water was the responsibility of the state government run by his party. "Such a lack of planning in the richest state in the country is shameful," she said. (Reporting by Anthony Boadle) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid TepperBillionaire David Tepper, who runs $20 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, said that he's short the euro during a "best idea" talk at the Robin Hood Investors Conference.  Tepper also recommended very short-term EU debt, like bonds maturing in 2 to 3 years. He believes that the European Central Bank will have to loosen monetary policy further and expand its balance sheet in its effort to stimulate the euro zone. The Robin Hood Conference, which has a stacked line-up of hedge fund heavyweights, is off limits to the media. Business Insider has a source inside the event.  Tepper also said that you have to get rid of the 500 euro note, according to our source.  Tepper, who is one of those closely-followed names, has one of the best long-term performance track records in the hedge fund space. He has also been the highest paid fund manager the last two years. FREE AppDownload
How the rich and famous start their day. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Did you miss something on the internet this week? No matter who you are, the answer is probably yes. We’re here to help you catch up. Here’s a smattering of excellent posts from the last few days: Should Janet Yellen talk about inequality? Cardiff Garcia has a thoughtful look into the gray area between fiscal and monetary policies. “We believe the AQR/stress test will be a cathartic experience for European banks and a positive milestone in their recovery story,” says Philippe Bodereau at PIMCO, apparently taking the overly dramatic statements reins from Bill Gross. Kevin Roose went long in an interview with Marc Andreessen. Agree with him or not, he gives some interesting answers. Foreclosure auctions of occupied homes in Detroit could put out 150,000 people. Worse — many residents might actually be able to afford to buy back their homes at auction, but don’t know they can. Rose Hackman talks to those whose livelihoods are on the chopping block. It was pet week at Fast Company, which gave rise to this wonder of a statement: “...in other words, they were just the right kinds of cats to visually represent the rise of the luxury economy glamorized in movies and TV.” The Storyline, the newest project out of the Washington Post, continues to have the most consistently excellent reporting on the economy anywhere. See them on inefficient power plants, student debt, and FedEx trying to save its business model. Does someone in New York State owe you money? Check here. Dan Davies on European bonus caps: “As substantive regulatory policy, it’s a terrible idea.” Would helicopter money be an effective stimulus plan? Here’s Simon Wren-Lewis saying yes. Here’s Tony Yates saying no. Bonus! A poem: Growing a Bear by Hannah Gamble Self promotion: Bill Ackman's big pharma trade is making Wall Street a very awkward place - Linette Lopez Everything about the way we teach math is wrong - Andy Kiersz The Quaint Economy: How a good story makes a successful product - Me T. Boone Pickens: Here's why I've never had coffee - Julia La Roche I don’t know what Caterpillar said in its earnings video because of all the awesome clips of tractors doing stuff - Sam Ro FREE AppDownload
BERLIN (Reuters) — Calogero Gambino, a senior Deutsche Bank regulatory lawyer, has been found dead in New York in what appears to have been a suicide, the Wall Street Journal reported on Saturday, citing New York City officials and other sources. The 41-year-old man was found early on Oct. 20 hanging by the neck from a stairway banister, the newspaper said. Gambino, an associate general counsel and a managing director who worked for the German bank for 11 years, was found by his wife and pronounced dead by medical practitioners at the scene, according to the paper. He had been closely involved in negotiating legal issues for Deutsche Bank such as a probe by regulators of banks over allegations they manipulated the Libor benchmark interest rate as well as currency markets, the newspaper said. He was also an associate at a private law firm and a regulatory enforcement lawyer between 1997 and 1999, the Wall Street Journal said, citing Gambino's LinkedIn profile and conference biographies. Germany's biggest lender, which has already paid 6.1 billion euros in fines and settlements in the past two and a half years, expects to post litigation costs of 894 million euros alone for the third quarter of 2014. Earlier this year, former Deutsche Bank manager William Broeksmit, who had close ties to co-chief executive Anshu Jain, had been found dead at his London home in what also appeared to have been a suicide. (Reporting by Thomas Atkins, writing by Andreas Cremer, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
