Thomson ReutersSahara Group Chairman Subrata Roy gestures as he speaks during a news conference in KolkataBy Aditya Kalra and Devidutta Tripathy NEW DELHI/MUMBAI (Reuters) - It's hardly the $30,000 a night royal suite, but after five months in India's biggest jail, the owner of the New York Plaza and London's Grosvenor House is thrilled to be able to use a modest office as he tries to sell the iconic hotels. Indian tycoon Subrata Roy is putting up the two trophy properties and another luxury New York hotel for sale to raise $1.6 billion for the bail bond that will get him out of Tihar, a sprawling New Delhi prison complex that houses about 12,000 inmates. About a minute's walk from the headquarters of the prison, Roy now has a 600 square feet (56 square meter) office where he can hold video conferences and receive visitors to try and sell or mortgage the hotels, say prison officials. In a small adjoining room, there are three beds for Roy and two associates who have also been jailed. "They are happy, they can now talk to known people all day," said one Tihar official, who described the setup to a Reuters reporter visiting the prison. "He is very satisfied with the arrangement." "Our work will be done now," Roy told a senior prison officer after moving to the new office-cum-cell, according to the official. Entry to the office was not possible because Roy was inside and contact with prisoners is prohibited without permission. Three guards stood by an unlocked metal gate before the building, one stood on the roof and one patrolled its grounds. It's a race against time for the 66-year-old head of the Sahara conglomerate: Under a deadline set by the Supreme Court, Roy has just a few days left to post the 100 billion rupees in cash and bank guarantees that would secure his release. The only higher bail ever appears to be a $3 billion bond set by a judge in Texas in 2004 for a wealthy fugitive, although that was reduced to $450,000 on appeal. Roy was jailed in March after he failed to appear at a contempt hearing in the long-running dispute with the capital markets watchdog over the company's failure to repay billions of dollars to investors who were sold outlawed bonds. He is yet to be charged over the dispute and denies any wrongdoing. His Sahara group has vast real estate, media and hotel interests, part-owns a Formula 1 team and used to sponsor the Indian cricket team.  GLITTERING PRIZES One asset that could raise quick cash is the landmark New York Plaza Hotel - a 107-year-old luxury property that overlooks Central Park. Studded with chandeliers, the hotel's decor recalls the Great Gatsby era. Jointly owned with the Saudi Arabia-based Kingdom Holdings, the Plaza offers an overdose of luxury for guests in its 282 rooms, from round-the-clock butlers to in-room iPads for booking a restaurant or requesting a wake-up call. Its 4,490 square-foot Royal Suite has three bedrooms, three bathrooms, a dining room for 12, a kitchen, a gymnasium, a grand piano and a library. It costs $30,000 a night. Sahara bought the Plaza for about $570 million in 2012. Two years earlier, it paid 470 million pounds ($790 million) for the 494-room Grosvenor House opposite Hyde Park and just a stone's throw from Buckingham Palace. Opened in 1929, it houses the Great Room, which is one of Europe's largest banqueting halls and can seat 2,000 guests. Sahara is also seeking to sell the Dream Hotel in New York's midtown Manhattan. In Tihar, the office given to Roy has a conference room with a big table, office chairs, and Wi-Fi and video conferencing facilities, said the prison official, who declined to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media. Roy and his two associates sleep in a tiny adjoining room, get meals from the prison canteen and have to use shared toilets. The complex is under round-the-clock video surveillance, with people allowed to visit from 6 am to 8 pm. Roy received four or five visitors on one day last week and local media said they included representatives of prospective buyers. "All options are being explored. It can be an outright sale or mortgage lien. Phone calls are being made to interested parties, and things will become clear by early (this) week," said a source with direct knowledge of Sahara's position. "The response has been good so far. There have been some inquiries by investment funds in the Middle East and other places," said the source, declining to give names of the bidders who have shown interest. The Supreme Court has given Roy 10 working days from Aug. 5 to complete any sales, setting a deadline of Monday. The source said that may not be enough and that Roy may ask the court to extend the deadline. "Due diligence has to be done, all the negotiations have to be completed and the deal has to be signed. All these take time," he said. "Sahara cannot do a distressed sale of these properties." The source declined to be named as the deal talks are not public. Sahara did not respond to an e-mail requesting comment submitted by Reuters. One of its main businesses is the sale of financial products, largely to small investors in towns and rural areas. It was two such products, later ruled illegal, that drew the market regulator's attention. Roy, who is outside mainstream corporate India, has often been photographed with senior politicians, cricketers and stars of the Bollywood film industry. Based in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh, Roy calls himself "managing worker and chairman" of Sahara and chief guardian of the "world's biggest family", overseeing businesses with almost a million staff and agents. Industry consultants said trying to sell the hotels from inside a prison was unlikely to dampen the appetite of buyers for the prestigious New York and London hotels. "The properties are quite iconic and would be sold at the right price," said an international property consultant who did not wish to be named. "Whatever Roy does, he does it in style."  (Additional reporting by Aditi Shah in NEW DELHI; Writing by Sumeet Chatterjee; Editing by Douglas Busvine and Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
It’s been a good week for Bitcoin. In addition to Blocksign’s Bitcoin-based electric signature launch on Tuesday, Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne is signaling that the UK wants to regulate Bitcoin, or virtual currency systems like it, as legal, digital cash, reports the Daily Mail. Britain’s top financial cabinet minister George Osborne spoke at Level 39’s Innovate Finance launch event Tuesday when he stated the government’s intention to make London the Financial Technology (“FinTech”) company of the world. The FinTech focused reforms that the Chancellor referred to are to start with government studies, or what Osborne calls the “a major programme of work exploring the potential of virtual currencies and digital money.” Osbourne went on to state how important virtual currencies, mobile payments and other digital financial technologies are to modern economies: “These alternative payment systems are popular because they are quick, cheap, and convenient – and I want to see whether we can make more use of them for the benefit of the UK economy and British consumers.” While early 2014 saw the US and Japan (two of the world’s top three economies) make moves to downgrade Bitcoin’s status by classifying it as property rather than currency, Britain is moving in the opposite direction by embracing what peer-to-peer currencies like Bitcoin have to offer the financial sector. Britain’s interest in virtual currencies like Bitcoin is as strategic as it is forward thinking. Recall that since the end of WWII, the US dollar has long been the “anchor” or “reserve currency” used by most world governments for international trade. This global demand for dollars leads to a lower borrowing rate for the US, saving people and businesses a very advantageous $100 billion per year. If Britain can properly regulate virtual currencies, other nations may find it cheaper to finance international trade with options like Bitcoin rather than the US dollar, which can, much to the chagrin of other nations, often be used as a tool to exert American political will around the world. More than 70 years ago Britain’s John Maynard Keynes (of Keynsian economics fame) suggested a “world reserve currency” called the Bancor. The idea didn’t take off then, but in the here and now the regulation of virtual, stateless currencies could be a small step in that direction. Regardless, the UK’s lead could cause other nations to follow, paving a legitimate path for a currency associated with nefarious dealings. Don’t expect to pay for your bangers and mash with government-regulated Bitcoin any time soon. Despite their new interest in FinTech, Britain, like most governments, rarely rushes when it comes to managing the cogs of the nation’s financial machinery. In addition to looking into the upside of integrating these financial innovations with the British economy, Osborne’s study will also make sure that the British government is “alert to the risks that accompany any new technology.” Dwayne De Freitas is a marketing and technology expert based in Boulder, Colorado. He regularly hosts The Drill Down podcast, and you can follow him on Twitter at @dwayned. FREE AppDownload
ZillowThere's as much variety in housing markets within the 50 states as there is outside of it. A million dollars buys something much different in New York City than it does in rural Vermont or San Francisco. To give you a greater idea of just how much our real estate values vary around the U.S., we teamed up with Point2Homes to look at what $1 million buys in housing markets from coast to coast. FREE AppDownload
Associated PressWe recently published our list of the World's 50 Best Business Schools.  For this list, nearly 10,000 readers rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world.  We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs at least half the time. We also filtered the data to obtain better geographical balance. When we filtered the results further to only include responses from people who said that they worked in finance, the results changed slightly.  Stanford took the top spot on this version of the list, bumping Harvard down to number two. The London School of Economics (#7) and Yale (#9) also moved up a few spots (from #8 and #11, respectively, on the main list). The London School of Business (#9 on the main list) got bumped off of this list.  Here are the top 10 business schools in the world, according to people who work in finance:  FREE AppDownload
Hart Lambur and Yinon Ravid spent more than a collective decade in finance, where they had access to a resource most of us can never tap: The trading floor. The hidden value in the floor, they explain, was that it served as a sounding board. "We were able to ask people, 'What do you think of this stock? What do you think of emerging markets?'" remembers Ravid. "From our perspective, it wasn't that they were financial professionals, but that there was a place to talk about this stuff with people you trust." Now, they're creating a sounding board for the rest of us in the form of their online investing tool, Openfolio. The site, founded in 2013, just announced it's raised $1.3 million in a new funding round led by FinTech Collective.  Here's how it works: Once you sign up (for free) and link your brokerage accounts, your information is aggregated into networks segmented by characteristics such as sex, age, industry, and even college. You can view the progress of these networks, or you can follow individual investors and see everything from what they're holding to how their investments are performing. Essentially, you can see how your investments stack up compared to the people around you. Openfolio was created when the cofounders realized how tricky they found personal investing, even with their backgrounds in finance. "Right now, you're reading articles, fending for yourself," says Ravid. As part of the Openfolio community, he explains, "you can rely on the people you trust to show you what you care about." Lambur adds that millennials in particular tend to value their social circles' input over the opinions of experts. "When you go to choose a restaurant," he says, "you don't pick up Zagat. You go to Yelp or Foursquare to see what the people around you think."  The site doesn't reveal dollar amounts, but rather progress in terms of percentages. For instance, here's a shot of my network's performance, with the flat blue line at the bottom representing me (who hasn't yet hooked up any accounts). Openfolio Or, you can check out an individual's activity. For example, cofounder Ravid: Openfolio Although Openfolio could be considered a robo-advisor since it's an online-only investment platform, it doesn't manage your investments for you, and it isn't meant to be a hands-off tool. "That's what's different from Wealthfront or Betterment," Lambur says. "They offer you a set-it-and-forget-it solution, but we'll keep you engaged." It's worth noting that Openfolio does assume a certain amount of knowledge on the part of the investor, highlighting the activity of individual stocks and funds that a 401(k)-only investor might find a little intimidating. In the future, they plan to build out the site in order to allow users to take action based on the feedback they've gotten, but currently, active, informed investors might find the site most useful. A previous version of this post incorrectly stated that Openfolio raised an additional $1.1 million. FREE AppDownload
Patricia Fletcher is a New York-based voice-over and dialect coach who usually works with actors to help them get rid of their Brooklyn accent. But we wanted to learn how to talk just like we're from Brooklyn, so she gave us a lesson on the basics of how to change your consonant and vowel pronunciation. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaThere’s an old canard about Chinese retail investors: They love owning property so much that they never sell. It’s easy to see where the idea comes from. Fifty-five percent of Chinese household wealth is tied up in property, and 80 percent of those properties are paid off in full. But China’s property market is cooling, and the country is in the midst of a radical rebalancing of individual investors’ portfolios – less real estate, more wealth management products (WMPs). That shift portends a major boon for financial institutions, particularly those with a strong portfolio of investment offerings. Chinese households have been building wealth at an impressive clip over the last five years, and much of that has been redirected into the real estate market. The net worth of Chinese households has nearly tripled since 2008 to $32 trillion, second only to the United States. Real estate investment has tracked right alongside it, nearly doubling in value from $590 billion in 2009 to $1.4 trillion in 2013, according to the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. Chinese investors have traditionally flocked to property because a savings account was the only viable alternative. But financial products have proliferated in recent years as regulators loosened their grip, financial institutions competed to offer higher-yielding products to customers, and the spread of mobile devices and high-speed Internet allowed easier access to financial products. Bank deposits fell from 68 percent of households’ gross financial assets in 2008 to 59 percent in 2013, Chinese bank analyst Victor Wang and his colleagues wrote a June report, “Follow the Money: Fewer Bricks Please.” While they still represent a fraction of investors’ real estate holdings at 7 percent, wealth management products ($1.4 trillion, 61 percent annualized growth since 2008) are the new belle of the investors’ ball, growing faster than equities ($1.5 trillion, 20 percent), insurance products ($1.2 trillion, 20 percent) and mutual funds ($450 billion, 8 percent). Non-deposit financial assets still account for a relatively small share of Chinese households’ total assets – 15 percent compared to 22 percent for bank deposits and 55 percent for property – but that share is going up. Taking into consideration factors such as the use of mortgages and taxes, Wang says housing prices would have to rise 30 percent over the next three to five years to compete with the 5.5 percent prevailing annual average return on wealth management products. And that’s not likely to happen.  Everbright, a Chinese bank, created the first wealth management product in 2004, and banks have driven the fast growth in the asset class ever since. The main attraction: circumventing the low government-mandated interest rates banks are allowed to pay on deposits. Customer assets are invested in a variety of different asset classes, such as corporate bonds, and they also offer downside protection in exchange for a ceiling on gains — banks make money through management fees and the fact that they retain the spread if the investment earns more than the maximum return. (If the underlying investment doesn’t perform as promised, the bank simply returns the principal, minus its fees.) Chinese banks listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange control more than half of the market, and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and China Construction Bank are the biggest issuers. Those who buy into WMPs are often unaware of what, exactly, they are investing in. Thus, WMPs are part of China’s much-discussed shadow banking system, as are products called trusts, which are also growing quickly as part of household portfolios. Several wealth management products and trusts have defaulted over the last few years, raising concerns about the stability of China’s financial system. In March, China’s Banking Regulatory Commission created new rules on the management of WMPs, requiring banks to fence off their WMP-related operations in dedicated business units by September 2014, complete with separate risk management and accounting functions. The idea is to prevent banks from using other businesses, including their credit operations, to prop up WMP returns and provide liquidity. Banks will also have to disclose more details about their WMP offerings to a national information center, as well as disclosing risks to investors. They’re also now forbidden from guaranteeing returns. Wang says the new regulations are “a necessary step to enhancing WMP operations and minimizing potential disputes” and does not believe the rules will have much impact on the bottom line of banks that sell large numbers of them. In fact, Credit Suisse expects the wealth management product market to keep growing – after all, putting money sitting in a savings account into another bank-offered product is a relatively easy substitution, and the property market seems like an increasingly grim place for investors.  To wit: Credit Suisse Chinese housing analyst Jinsong Du expects housing prices to stay flat over the next five years. Property stocks soared in July as several developers reported higher June orders, but Du says it’s more telling that unsold inventories rose sharply, too. If households do start accelerating sales of real estate, it would compound an existing oversupply problem. In China’s 25 largest cities, an average of 672,000 square meters of new housing came online in June, while only 442,000 square meters were sold, indicating that new supply is outpacing buyer appetite. What’s more, home sales in 10 major cities last week were down 16 percent year-over-year and 19 percent year-to-date, while the average price of a new home in 70 Chinese cities fell 0.47 percent in June, the second consecutive decline. Meanwhile, Dong Tao, Credit Suisse’s Chief Economist for Non-Japan Asia, writes in a July note that despite appearances, the People’s Bank is hardly in easing mode. At best, its highly targeted liquidity-enhancing measures indicate a shift from a tightening stance to a neutral one. “The central bank remains very cautious about reviving speculative activity in the property market,” says Tao. Translation: Don’t expect a major monetary stimulus to juice the housing market. Who stands to gain the most? According to Wang, it will be the banks with strong high-end retail businesses. And those banks whose business models evolve from relying on arbitrage from low-interest, low-risk bank deposits to a wealth management model stand to gain an estimated $71 billion in fees in 2018 as Chinese households reallocate their fast-growing wealth to financial products. FREE AppDownload
SharestatesA rendering of 345 Lenox Road, one of Sharestates' current public project.In the current environment of low interest rates, investors are scrambling for yield, and many have turned to real estate. Typically investors buy and flip homes, or they invest in real estate investment trusts (REITs), which own different types of properties. But Sharestates is offering both accredited investors and the public a real estate crowdfunding platform that lets them dip as little as $100 into a project. The idea is to bring real estate to the masses. Walking to class while at NYU, Allen Shayanfekr looked at properties he passed and wondered who owned them. Shayanfekr, the legal adviser and cofounder of Sharestates, also wondered why he and his friends could not pool their money together and own one of those. It occurred to him that the market wasn't accessible. Separately, Wayne Geffen, who is a portfolio manager at First Serve Asset Management, a long/short energy focused fund, and who acts as an adviser to Sharestates, had been working on R-exchange, "an exchange for real estate, the way the New York Stock Exchange is for stocks." In summer 2013, Geffen and Shayanfekr happened to be at a real estate networking event hosted by a mutual friend. Geffen and Shayanfekr hit it off, and Geffen realized Sharestates was already in the "sixth or seventh inning" and decided to collaborate with them instead of pushing forward with R-exchange. Geffen thinks of Sharestates as the E-Trade of real estate. E-Trade was the first platform to aggressively market itself as the platform that opened up trading of stocks, bonds, and other securities to mom and pop investors. Geffen and Shayanfekr wanted to create such a platform for real estate. Real estate is traditionally an illiquid investment. "There's two components to something being liquid, the actual product, and the ability to get to that product," Geffen said. "That's essentially what we want to do. We just want to make an illiquid market open and transparent for retail investors." One of the biggest hurdles to this is filing a property under Regulation-A: an exemption from SEC registration for securities offering up to $5 million in a 12-month period. Reg-A offerings have to come with a prospectus and can be offered publicly. Each property that Sharestates lists needs Reg-A qualification. Why hasn't this been done before? "It's difficult," Shayanfekr said. The average Reg-A qualification time is about nine months, and some can take as long as 18 months. And once the SEC qualification is done, one must go through state regulators as well. Sharestates The site itself is pretty intuitive. After you've filled in some personal information, Sharestates prompts you with some basic questions on the type of property that interests you, the kind of project (fix and flip/ground up investment), your risk tolerance, holding period, and so on.  With an account set up, investors can peruse through projects that are still looking for funding. Investors can look at the type of offering (equity offering, buy &amp; hold, private loan), the minimum investment, and the amount of the project that's already funded. And once they have picked a project, they can dig through all the additional data and see if it's right for them. The implications of a failed project are probably among the most common concerns investors could have. And Sharestates doesn't guarantee any projects. "We generally take personal guarantees and security agreements on projects in order to protect investors," Shayanfekr said. "That way, if a project goes south, they’re generally in a senior 'lien position.'" "One way we try to hedge investors against losses is through negotiating preferential treatment on returns of invested capital," Shayanfekr said. "For example, the 345 Lenox Road deal requires the sponsor to pay back investors before paying himself. Another way is to be conservative on loan deals and loan on low to moderate loan to value ratios." Investors also need to remember these are illiquid investments. The money in a project will be tied up until it is completed. They can however sell the securities to other investors. Sharestates will inform its network to help the investor look for a buyer. "If you look back historically, the wealthiest people in this country have created and maintained their wealth through real estate acquisition," Shayanfekr said. Now Shayanfekr and Geffen hope to offer that opportunity to everyone. FREE AppDownload
Mark Kolbe / Getty ImagesOn the surface, money seems straightforward. What could be more black and white than numbers? But in fact, money is complicated. Nothing makes this clearer than looking at the ways in which we're subject to cognitive biases — the way our brains sneakily convince us to make decisions that often work against our best interests. Cognitive biases may convince us to spend more, save less, and feel more confident in our decisions than perhaps we should. And the scary thing is, for the most part, we're powerless against them. Here's a look at some of the most common ones. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker walks in front the Toyota Motor Corp stage prior to the opening of the 15th Shanghai International Automobile Industry Exhibition in ShanghaiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Japan's Toyota, Honda and Nissan became the latest foreign carmakers to respond to China’s anti-monopoly investigation into the auto industry, as the probe’s impact extends beyond foreign luxury auto brands. GAC Toyota Motor Co, Toyota's joint venture with China's GAC Group, and Guangqi Honda Automobile Co, Honda's venture with GAC, both said late on Friday they would cut spare part prices due to the investigation. Nissan's joint venture with China's Dongfeng Motor Group Co said it paid close attention to the regulator's suggestions and was actively studying improvements. The moves came on the heels of price cuts by foreign luxury brands including BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, Chrysler and Jaguar Land Rover over the past month, as China's price regulator, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), steps up scrutiny of the industry. China has also wielded its anti-monopoly law against other industries, including milk power and software. It targeted multinationals Mead Johnson Nutrition Co and Danone SA, which the regulator slapped with hefty fines, as well as U.S. chipmaker Qualcomm Inc, which faces the prospect of a $1 billion fine. China's anti-trust investigations target monopolistic practices in general and aim to promote fair competition and protect consumer interests, China's Ministry of Commerce spokesman Shen Danyang said in a statement posted on the Ministry's website. Both domestic and foreign firms must bear the due liabilities if they break the law, Shen said. Industry experts say automakers have too much leverage over car dealers and auto part suppliers, enabling them to control prices, considered as a violation of China's anti-trust laws. China, the world’s biggest auto market, is dominated by foreign brands.  (Reporting by Samuel Shen and Pete Sweeney, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man polishes the Volkswagen logo on a vehicle of an exhibition which is part of the annual shareholders meeting of Volkswagen AG in HamburgDETROIT (Reuters) - Volkswagen AG said on Saturday it is recalling 189,490 Tiguan small sport utility vehicles in North America for potential stalling issues. The German automaker said gas bubbles may form in the fuel system in the affected vehicles from model years 2009 through 2014 when winterized fuel with high vapor pressures is used in warmer areas or during months with higher temperatures. That could lead to reduced fuel pump performance and pressure, potentially resulting in vehicle stalling and could lead to an accident. VW said no accident or injuries related to the issue have been reported. Dealers will install revised electronic control module software on all affected vehicles at no cost. The recall is expected to begin later this month, a spokeswoman said. Of the affected vehicles, 151,389 were sold in the United States and 38,101 in Canada, a spokeswoman said. No other markets are affected by the recall, she said.  (Reporting by Ben Klayman, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
Brian RoseThe corner of Washington and East 13th Street in 1985 (left) and 2013.New York in the 1980s was a far cry from the city it is today. At the time, Manhattan was crime-ridden and full of burned-out buildings and unresolved tensions. For photographer Brian Rose, who lived through that era, the present-day city can be startling. “New York was at a precarious point in time. The city could easily have gone the way of Detroit. We didn’t know,” Rose told Business Insider. "Lower Manhattan was a post-apocalyptic landscape of crumbling buildings and abandoned streets. You couldn't tell things were going to get better until the late '80s." Rose recently completed a photographic study of one of Manhattan’s most-changed neighborhoods, the Meatpacking District, which has transformed over the last 20 years from an open-air industrial meat market to a glittering hub of nightlife and restaurants. Rose originally photographed the area in 1985 and returned in 2013 to document the same street corners.   Rose has collected his photos from both 1985 and 2013 in a book, "Metamorphoses," which you can purchase here. He has shared some photos with us, but you can check out the rest in the book or on his website.
Success at work stems from face-to-face communication with others. Here's how to take advantage of small talk – it will go a long way. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Narration by Matt Johnston.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
Flickr/elisfanclubJefferies CEO Richard Handler sent out a clever email to his employees, giving his bankers 10 Wall Street life lessons he wants them to learn this summer. The lessons are in the form of an imagined summer reading list. The books he lists are made-up, but within each title is a lesson he wants everyone to learn. Here's the email he sent to his employees:  In keeping with our strong desire to maintain maximum focus and momentum in August and into our fourth quarter, we came up with a way to make everyone’s life a little easier. When at the beach or in the mountains on vacation, it is always fun to bring along a few good books to help relax, unwind, and stretch the mind. With the goal of saving everyone some time, we have included our list of books we would like everyone to take with them on vacation. The good news is you need only read the titles and merely imagine the hundreds of pages that could fill each volume: Please stay focused in August on building Jefferies and enjoy any time away you may be taking. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonTobias Levkovich, Chief U.S. Equity Strategist for CitigroupWith stock prices surging in the biotech and internet sectors, some worrywarts can't help but freak out about the possibility that we're reliving the bubble of the dotcom era. It certainly didn't help when Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen warned that valuation metrics in these sectors "appear substantially stretched." But most measures show that the broad markets and industries are nowhere near the ear-popping levels of the Technology, Media and Telecom (TMT) bubble of 2000. In a 13-page note titled "Blowing and Bursting Bubbles," Citi's Tobias Levkovich offers a good discussion of past bubble cycles. But one chart from his August 1 offered some eyeopening perspective. Here's his comment for context: In the late 1990s, the TMT bubble expanded, with the combination of the IT sector along with Media stocks and the Telecommunications Services sector culminating with a near 40% composition of the S&amp;P 500 market cap entering 2000. Valuations were through the roof within Nasdaq relative to the S&amp;P 500 (see Figure 1) indeed, the Nasdaq 100 was trading at more than 100x forward EPS in late 1999. The notions of a New Economy unburdened by typical economic cycles became the rage and risk premiums collapsed to near nothing. That was then. Today, valuations in the Nasdaq are nowhere near those literally off-the-chart levels.  Citi Research FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marika Kochiashvili A London bus that has been transformed into a robotic sculpture by Czech artist David Cerny is assembled in front of the Czech Olympic headquarters in London July 22, 2012London is a global powerhouse that just keeps on growing. The city is home to 8.4 million people, but that number is expected to grow to nine million by 2021, and nearly 10 million by 2031. And this burgeoning population is younger than that of the rest of the UK — nearly 66% of Londoners are under the age of 44. Additionally, London is one of the most diverse cities, with about "50 non-indigenous populations." Although London is primarily known as a financial center, it has a flourishing tech scene situated in "Silicon Roundabout." FREE AppDownload
