Indonesian stocks are taking a beating on Thursday, with the Jakarta Composite down 2.8%. This comes after early counting showed that the main opposition party, the Indonesian Democratic Party-Struggle, did not gather enough votes to nominate Jakarta governor Joko Widodo for the presidency without a coalition, reports Reuters. The final results are due May 9.  This five-day chart shows the ugly sell-off in the Jakarta Composite: Yahoo Finance Meanwhile, the Shanghai Composite is down 0.2% after disappointing Chinese trade data, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng is also down 0.2%. Meanwhile, the Nikkei is up 0.7%. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/China DailyChinese exports unexpectedly fell 6.6% year-over-year in March. This missed expectations for a 4.8% rise, and compares with an 18.1% decline the previous month. Imports were down 11.3% on the year, and missed expectations for a 3.9% rise. This compares with a 10.1% rise in February. Meanwhile, China posted a trade surplus of $7.7 billion, wider than expectations for $1.80 billion. This compares with a deficit of $22.9 billion the previous month. The latest data adds to concerns of a Chinese economic slowdown.  Ahead of the data release, Bank of America's Ting Lu wrote that "the still low export growth forecast is partly due to fabricated trades in March last year. Moreover, there does not seem to be much improvement in external demand." He attributed slow import growth to the decline in copper and iron financing. The Lunar New Year holiday was widely blamed for the weak February figures. But some economists also pointed out that yuan weakness could have deterred hot money flows, weighing on trade data. FREE AppDownload
Photographer: Neil ArmstrongNEW YORK (AP) — An Apollo 11 lunar surface checklist sheet was among the coveted items sold at a New York City auction of space exploration artifacts. The checklist contained annotations by astronaut Buzz Aldrin while he was on the moon. It sold at Bonhams on Tuesday for more than $68,000. It had a pre-sale estimate of $35,000 to $45,000. Other highlights included a six inch cloth emblem depicting an eagle landing on the moon. Bonhams said The Apollo 11 emblem did not travel with the crew during the mission but was signed by Aldrin, Armstrong and Michael Collins. It sold for over $62,000. A U.S. flag carried by Aldrin on Apollo 11 fetched $47,500, double its pre-sale estimate, and a Mercury era spacesuit garnered over $43,000, more than five times its presale estimate. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Sometimes a career move is nothing short of brilliant. Like when Eric Schmidt left a struggling Novell in 2001 to become CEO of Google. It was a risk for him. The Internet bubble had just burst and three-year-old Google was flanked by "dot-com" corpses. Twitter CFO Mike Gupta also made a golden choice. He left his job as treasurer of Zynga in 2012. That was almost a year after Zynga's IPO, when the stock price was hurting and many top level execs were leaving. The choice paid off. In 2013, Twitter's IPO year, Gupta was the highest paid employee at the company. He earned $24.6 million: $241,667 as salary and the rest in stock awards, according to documents filed with the SEC.  His pay was bucket loads bigger than Twitter CEO Dick Costolo, who brought in a relatively mere $130,250 in 2013 with no new stock awards. Costolo’s annual salary was also reduced to $14,000 effective August 2013, the company said. Not that Costolo's net worth is hurting. He still owns a 1.4% stake in the company, with almost 8.2 million shares. Plus he earned $11.5 million in 2012, mostly in stock. But 2013 really was Gupta's year. Twitter's IPO was one of the highlights of the tech industry's year and Gupta was praised as the man responsible. The Wall Street Journal said of him:  "The architect of Twitter Inc.'s initial public offering is a 42-year-old finance whiz with a knack for finding calm amid chaos. ... Gupta had to walk a fine line with analysts and investors, offering ambitious projections without committing the company to targets that it might not achieve." Going forward, he's getting a bit of raise in his base salary, too, to $250,000, the company said. Prior to Zynga, Gupta spent 8 years in finance and development roles at Yahoo, from 2003 to 2011. FREE AppDownload
Brides and brothers, days of the week, deadly sins, seas, and a somewhat dark and scary Brad Pitt movie from the 1990's that I’ve never really recovered from. The thread that ties these eclectic bunch of things together is of course the number 7. For some reason humanity has for a millennia had a love affair with the number 7 and it’s has just been confirmed in a online survey with more than 30,000 responses to the question, “What is your favourite number” conducted by Alex Bellos. The answer for 9.7% of respondents was 7 with 3 and 8 rounding out the top 10. Adding to the mythology around our love of numbers is the fact that 4 of the top 10 places were taken by Fibonacci numbers with 5 and 13 also amongst the top 10. Writing in the Guardian, Bellos said the aim of the survey “was to research the emotional connection that people have with numbers. In what non-numerical ways are we influenced by arithmetical patterns?” But why 7? Bellos argues: Seven owes its striking success in my survey – and in global culture since antiquity – to its exceptional arithmetical properties. If we consider only the numbers between 1 and 10, the basic number grouping, 7 is the only number that cannot be multiplied or divided within the group. We love seven because it is unique. It reflects our uniqueness. Of course it’s the world’s favourite number There you have it – we love 7 because it’s unique. But in doing so we are part of the crowd that has 7 as our favorite number. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Koji Sasahara/AP Real quick, here are two horrendous datapoints from Japan.   FREE AppDownload
Alex Wong | Getty Daniel Tarullo, member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve SystemWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The modest pace of U.S. economic growth in recent years suggests that when the time comes to raise interest rates the Federal Reserve will be able to do so gradually without fear of a sudden surge in inflation, a top Fed official said on Wednesday. Many economists, both at the Fed and outside, had expected the economy to roar back after the Great Recession, requiring a rapid tightening of policy at some point, Fed Board Governor Daniel Tarullo said in remarks prepared for delivery in Washington. But because that never happened, he said, "It seems less likely that we will experience a growth spurt in the next couple of years that would engender concerns about rapid wage pressures and changes in inflation expectations." In a speech largely about the long-term challenges for the American economy, including slowing productivity and rising income inequality, Tarullo said monetary policy could lay the groundwork for improving the potential growth rate by reducing labor market slack. Some Fed officials have speculated that damage to the economy from the recession has changed the structure of the labor markets, so that undesirable wage pressures could kick in even when unemployment is well above its historical norm of about 5.5 percent. But because it is difficult to know just how much slack there is currently in the labor markets, Tarullo said on Wednesday, "We are well advised to proceed pragmatically." While the Fed should be attentive to signs that wage pressures are rising, "We should not rush to act preemptively in anticipation of such pressures based on arguments about the potential increase in structural unemployment in recent years," he said. Many Fed officials appear to agree with Tarullo that rate rises, once they start, can be gradual, with the median forecast from the Fed's 16 current policymakers suggesting that rates are likely to be around 2.25 percent by the end of 2016, well below the historical norm of 4 percent. (Writing by Ann Saphir; reporting by Jonathan Spicer; editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
It’s hard to claim bragging rights for your employment picture if the improvement has largely come from people dropping out of the workforce entirely. “Although the different headline rates of unemployment seem to say one thing, a look at participation rates tell a different story,” says Credit Suisse European economist Steven Bryce, one of a team that published a recent report on employment trends entitled “Not For Lack of Participation.” “While the U.S. does have lower unemployment, you have to take into consideration the number of people who have dropped out of the labor force altogether.” Indeed, Europe’s participation rate – a tally of those working plus those actively seeking work — has increased significantly over the past twenty years, climbing from 65.2 percent in 1994 to 72.2 percent in 2012, according to OECD data. The U.S. participation rate has declined slightly over the same time period, from 76.7 percent to 73.1 percent. That there’s nuance behind the unemployment numbers isn’t exactly shocking news. What might be? The gender-related trends underlying those diverging participation rates. Over the last 20 years, working-age American men have been dropping out of the job market. And in Europe, women have been entering the job market in remarkable numbers. Measured across 12 European countries, women’s participation rates have increased from 55 percent in 1994 to 67 percent in 2012. The changes have been particularly dramatic in peripheral nations: Spain’s female participation rates have shot up 23 percentage points since 1994 to 69 percent. In Ireland, Greece, and Italy, rates have risen 16, 15 and 12 percentage points, respectively. The factors behind European females’ increasing employment numbers are many. For starters, says Credit Suisse’s Bryce, the steady rise in participation since the 1990s suggests a gradual cultural shift. A June 2013 European Commission report also noted that many women went back to work when their husbands lost their jobs during the financial crisis. And an October 2013 discussion paper published by IZA, a Bonn-based labor market think tank, concluded that reforms that promote “flexicurity” – job flexibility and income security – may account for as much as 25 percent of the increase in young women’s participation rates since 1995. The Financialist On the flexibility front, changes in labor market regulations have resulted in more part-time work, which appeals to working mothers when full-time daycare is either unaffordable or unavailable. Participation soared among Dutch women, for example, after their government made part-timers eligible for Social Security and unemployment benefits. The security half of flexicurity typically refers to generous unemployment benefits and job training to keep workers’ skills up to date, but there’s another side of income security, too. In recognition of the high cost of childcare, a number of countries have also introduced tax allowances or benefits for couples with children, direct subsidies for childcare, and parental leave policies. In 2002, Spain began awarding working mothers with children under age 3 a tax credit of about $1,300. And what of the American male? Participation rates among American men between 25 and 54 fell steadily from 93.4 percent in 1990 to 90.5 percent in 2008, before plunging sharply to 88.7 percent  in 2011. “A lot of inactive people should be working, and the relatively low unemployment rates are masking that, “says Credit Suisse’s Bryce. “This has the potential to be a big problem for the U.S. economy.” The Financialist What’s behind the shift? Education might be one thing. Two MIT economists point out that women born in 1975 – today’s 39-year-olds – are 23 percent more likely to have finished college than men the same age. And education goes hand-in-hand with workforce participation: 75 percent of American college graduates are working or looking for work, compared to 59 percent without a college degree and 46 percent of high school dropouts. The MIT economists point out that although both sexes are suffering due to the offshoring or automation of “middle-skill” work  – clerical, administrative, manufacturing and production jobs – women have moved into high-wage occupations, while men are moving into lower-paying service jobs. The authors suggest that some men may be leaving the workforce because the jobs they’re finding don’t pay enough to seem worth the effort. Another explanation: Private-sector unions, which used to fight for higher wages in male-dominated fields, are shrinking. Globalization and automation have also hit male-dominated fields particularly hard. Whatever it is that’s driving American men out of the workforce, it’s quite clear that Europe and the U.S. have been moving in opposite directions when it comes to labor force participation. And the looming problem, according to Bryce, is that working-age people who leave the workforce might see their skills atrophy so much that returning becomes impossible. No one is saying that the European labor market is healthier than that of the U.S. But there’s undoubtedly more slack in the U.S. employment picture than its 6.7 percent unemployment rate implies, with a generation of men in danger of getting left behind. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Reasons Investors Should Stop Comparing Their Returns To Their Peers' (CFA Institute) In the past year, stocks had stellar returns. But many investors have missed out on this. What's more, a study titled 'Investor Happiness' published earlier this year pointed out that when markets went on a tear, investors were actually disappointed with higher portfolio returns, while in down markets they were more accepting of lower returns. "These findings support the notion that relative returns (your investment returns relative to your peers or the market) likely play an underestimated role in how satisfied you are with the progress of your investments," writes David Allison at CFA Institute.  Allison identifies three reasons why investors should not compare returns with their peers' returns. Here they are verbatim. 1. "You are not comparing apples with apples. Everyone has unique investment objectives, constraints, and levels of risk tolerance. This makes it nearly impossible to fairly compare investment returns from one individual investor to another."2. "Your peers likely are not calculating their investment returns correctly. Consider a study by Markus Glaser and Martin Weber in which they surveyed 215 online investors and found very little correlation between their self-estimated investment returns and their actual investment returns."3. "You are probably not hearing the whole story. For example, your friend may claim to have “smoked the S&amp;P 500” in his online trading account, but he may have failed to also mention the much larger 401(k) plan that he liquidated back in 2008 that remains invested in cash." Why Investors Should Stop Chasing Highly Rated Funds (Vanguard) Investors tend to turn to funds with high performance ratings without understanding whether this is right for them. Vanguard points out that this is a mistake "because these highly rated funds have tended to underperform immediately after receiving the high marks."  "Most often, investors are led into such imbalances by common, avoidable mistakes such as performance-chasing, market-timing, or reacting to market “noise." Vanguard North Dakota's Millionaires Need Wealth Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) North Dakota's oil boom has helped create millionaire households and that in turn has created a market for financial advisors, reports Matthias Rieker at the WSJ. From Rieker, "As of March 31, 1,589 investment advisory representatives and 72,803 stock brokers were registered to do business in the state--an increase of almost 40% for both groups over the last five years, says Karen Tyler, the North Dakota securities commissioner." For now advisors are largely "parachuting" over but firms are struggling to find advisors to move there. SIFMA CEO Doesn't Think Market Is Rigged Against Retail Investors (FA Mag) In his new book "Flash Boys," Michael Lewis writes that high frequency traders are rigging the market. This has raised concerns for retail investors. Ken Bentsen, president and CEO of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) however says he doesn't think the market is rigged, reports Ted Knutson at FA Mag. Speaking at a policy conference in Washington D.C. he said retail investors now get “tremendously better” execution than they did a decade ago. A Brief History Of The US Mutual Fund Industry In One Chart (Morningstar) John Rekenthaler at Morningstar has created a chart that shows "the varying fortunes of fund types." To communicate this, he took the four most prominent mutual funds over the past 15 years and changed the names to their description to reflect fund types. "In 1998, the "Star Stock Manager Fund reigned supreme, boasting more assets than the other three funds combined. …Star Stock Manager Fund was surpassed in assets in late 2003 by Star Bond Manager Fund, and then shortly thereafter by Group Active Stock Management Fund, which became the world's largest mutual fund for the next four years, until dethroned by the 2008 stock crash. …Today's largest fund, Index Stock Fund, represents a trend long in the making. Index funds have gained market share steadily for 25 years now." Morningstar FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid ZervosDavid Zervos, Jefferies' chief market strategist, thinks markets are pricing in the possibility that the Fed is making a mistake in going down the path of monetary-policy normalization too soon. His evidence: rising short rates, low long-term rates (suggestive of little inflation), the rise in value stocks, and outperformance in emerging markets relative to U.S. equities. In a note to clients, he points out the following. He gives the first two points — which together represent a flattening of the Treasury yield curve — the most attention. The spread between the yield on the 30-year Treasury note and the yield on the 5-year note has fallen substantially since the end of November. A large portion of the spread compression happened in reaction to two events: the Fed's decision to begin winding down its large-scale asset-purchase program known as quantitative easing on Dec. 18, and Janet Yellen's first meeting as Fed chair on March 19, which coincided with the release of forecasts by Fed officials who anticipated earlier rate hikes than before. "Maybe these are just so-called position unwinds, as some suggest. However, I would argue that something more fundamental is occurring," says Zervos. "To be sure, it is difficult to tell, but if we dig a little deeper into the nooks and crannies of the 2014 price action, I think we see a market that is very concerned about Fed tapering. A market that is unsure about the Fed's ability to exit QE gracefully. And a market that is pricing in the potential for a future monetary policy mistake." The drop in yields in the "long end" of the curve this year has raised concerns that in winding down stimulus too soon, the Fed is giving up on its goal of reflating the economy. "As the market prices in higher short-term yields and lower long-term yields, it is really making a bet that the Fed, by tapering our punchbowl drip, is increasing the risk of deflation," says Zervos. "And at this stage of the game, with inflation BELOW target and plenty of slack in labor markets, that could very well be a mistake. The most important point here is to recognize that low long-term yields are not a sign of a healthy economy." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoJPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon received a total of $20 million in compensation for 2013, the bank said in its proxy filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  That breaks down to a $1.5 million base salary for Dimon and $18.5 million worth of stock. Among other things, Dimon's compensation also includes, $125,973 for personal use of the bank's corporate jet; $31,041 for personal use of cars; $134,728 for security; and $91 for the cost of life insurance premiums paid by the bank, the proxy said. Last year, JPMorgan dealt with a slew of legal and regulatory issues. However, the bank's board said that Dimon "played a key role in resolving several outstanding civil and regulatory claims with government agencies and private parties; the resolution of these claims strengthened our business by enabling them to focus their energies principally on serving clients.  His 2013 pay is also much better compared to 2012 when he took home $11.5 million because of the "London Whale".  That was half of what he got paid in 2011 when he took home $23 million. Now, here's how much Dimon has been paid over the last six years:  JPMorgan, via SEC FREE AppDownload
An anonymous self-styled Robin Hood-esque figure is giving away thousands of dollars in Dogecoin to help address income inequality, especially in the Bay Area. The figure, who calls himself "Hood" and goes by the Twitter handle @savethemhood, has posted a bunch of flyers around San Francisco with a QR code for an unspecified amount of Dogecoin.   He seemed to foreshadow this late last month: I’m here to expose my internal greed and the greed of others. I’m here to put people above profits. I’m here to give you my coat. San Francisco, many of you are struggling. Greedy landlords are kicking out tenants to increase rents. I hope this helps.   He's also "tipping" influential people on Twitter, including Medium's Evan Williams and Ashton Kutcher, thousands of dollars worth of Dogecoin. Here's what he said about the project. Today I tip the influential, those that understand technology, those that can help distribute to the poor. I’m here to expose my internal greed and the greed of others. I’m here to put people above profits. I’m here to give you my coat. According to Ben Doernberg of the Dogecoin Foundation, "Hood" has given away approximately $20,000 — 45 million in Dogecoin — today. Let's see what happens now. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bernardo MontoyaS&amp;P 500 companies paid out about $800 billion in share buybacks and cash dividends last year, according to Stuart Kaiser and the research team at Goldman Sachs.  That figure is expected to rise to $975 billion this year, for 22% growth in total shareholders return and cash yields of 5%. "Cash return to shareholders continues to dominate investment discussions as share repurchase activity and activist campaigns drive outperformance at the stock level," writes Kaiser. We drew on Goldman Sachs' latest report on dividend and buyback investment strategies, to highlight the 19 stocks with the highest total yield in Goldman's 50-stock cash return basket. Total yield is a combination of the dividend yield and the effective yield generated by buybacks. Note: these 19 stocks are not intended to serve as a well-diversified portfolio. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachManchester United's Wayne Rooney fights for the ball with Bayern Munich's Dante (R) during their Champions League quarter-final, second-leg soccer match in Munich, April 9, 2014. The stock markets were happy with whatever came through in the Federal Reserve's FOMC minutes, which were published this afternoon. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoLast August SumZero, a social research site for investment professionals, launched a new feature dedicated to compensation trends within our buyside-only investment community. We (SumZero) have since collected thousands of salary reports sourced directly from analysts, associates, and portfolio managers working at hedge funds, mutual funds, and private equity funds around the world. A handful of high-level findings from our database are available below. “Pay” is just one of several information types that we aggregate on an industry-wide level through SumZero, but it also happens to be a controversial, publicly-relevant topic since (1) participants are generally being paid a lot, (2) performance can be quantified relatively easily, and (3) members of the public are, in some cases, the actual customer footing the fees that pay the salaries. Compensation data is hard to get. Annual surveys are conducted by a variety of outlets, and the results are sold for thousands of dollars per report. But we have elected to make this information much more accessible...and free. Contributors span the junior-level to executive-level. They are old and young, generalists and specialists. They work at different types of funds in cities all across the world--although, notably, we do not offer access to quant funds and thus receive no data from them. Some take home millions a year in pay. Many others take home $0 over the course of a full year, which is a reality that the media never fails to ignore. Using the database, permissioned users can construct elaborate searches like “show me how much a Senior Analyst covering Industrials with 5-7 years of experience at a $500mm Private Equity fund in Singapore made on average in 2013.” From there, one could examine each of the individual reports matching that criteria to examine some of the key differences between them. For the purposes of this article, however, we are looking at much broader trends. A few, important disclaimers before diving into the data: 1. This is not a rigid statistical analysis. I have not controlled for outliers. I am not drawing from a well-balanced population from within the buyside, i.e. we are heavily NYC-biased, slant a bit younger, and are dominated by hedge funds. Take it all with a significant grain of salt. 2. This is user-generated information. There’s no reason why someone would or should provide misleading information (since the information is collected anonymously), but people do mysterious things. 3. Some results are not statistically significant. 4. Some data points we collect include estimates which are inherently subject to significant margins of error. 5. Our database has not been around long enough to be sensitive to the natural realities of full market cycles. Over time, we expect the dataset to become much richer, increase in significance, thus become far more actionable. This is merely the beginning. Now for the data! The Typical Hedge Fund Comp Package This is the typical compensation package for an investment professional at a hedge fund (no mutual funds, PE funds, or others). The chart is insensitive to experience, title, location, strategy, etc. Total average yearly comp comes to $409,826. The data is dispersed widely with big outliers on the top end (people getting paid well into the millions). SumZeroHow An Investment Career Evolves Over Time We looked at how experience affects compensation. All fund types, all locations, etc. The drop-off in median income for an employee with 15-20 years of experience is anomalous. We track experience levels up to 30+ years. The longer you remain in the industry; the higher your pay is likely to be. SumZeroJob Title Matters This is the combined data of all fund types, locations, years of experience, etc. and then split by job title. This data is robust on all the different titles, so we’re pretty confident in its directional and proximate accuracy. Note: the data is displayed on a log scale. SumZeroBest Cities for Big Bucks These are incomes of all fund types, seniority levels, age, etc. set against location. Use caution here. While it’s certainly possible that the average analyst does really well in certain cities, it’s far more possible that the fewer number of reports we have from these specific cities came in abnormally high and thus are skewing the data unnaturally. SumZeroBattle of the Sexes This is our data split by gender. It’s exciting to consider the possibilities here, but we are not sure it’s real. SumZero is 5-7% female by user base (which is representative of the industry), and a relatively small number of our female users have entered their comp information. It is possible that this gap is real. Ultimately we are not sure. Fund Women, please join sumzero.com and help make the data better. SumZeroCoverage Area Matters...Or Does It? A multi-year analysis sensitive to the cyclical nature of businesses is needed to draw more actionable conclusions. In the interim, don’t read too deeply. I also would not read into the disparity associated with Generalists. I have spoken with several current and former analysts who have confirmed that Generalists aren’t comped worse than their peers. SumZeroHedge Funds Offer Highest Pay Funds are the core foundation of the site and are responsible for just about all of the content/data creation within it, but we also offer select access to large, institutional investors (i.e. endowments, fund of funds, family offices etc.). They are permitted to post compensation details. Data on the allocators as a group is decent, but not great. The fund data is strong. SumZeroCombinations Equal Personalization The real power of our database is revealed when users activate the multi-variable search functionality, which keys on a total of about a dozen information types. This chart is demonstrative of that. Other variable types include firm strategy, asset class expertise, AUM, etc. It’s all available on sumzero.com. SumZero  About the Author Nicholas Kapur serves as COO for SumZero. You can learn more about the company at sumzero.com.   FREE AppDownload
HP has agreed to pay $108 million to settle some long-standing investigations of alleged bribery in Russia, Poland, and Mexico, the SEC announced on Wednesday. This brings to a close investigations by the SEC and Department of Justice that have been hanging over HP's head for years involving subsidiaries in those countries. For instance, the Russian case involved actions that allegedly occurred between 2000 to 2007, and the Polish case, between 2006 to 2010.  People who worked for these subsidiaries were accused of collectively paying millions of dollars to government officials to obtain big contracts. In its statement about the settlement, HP's lawyer, John Schultz says that the "misconduct described in the settlement was limited to a small number of people who are no longer employed by the company." Here's the full press release issued by the SEC: SEC Charges Hewlett-Packard With FCPA Violations Company to Pay $108 Million to Settle Civil and Criminal Cases Washington D.C., April 9, 2014—The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged Hewlett-Packard with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) when its subsidiaries in three different countries made improper payments to government officials to obtain or retain lucrative public contracts. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to pay more than $108 million to settle the SEC’s charges and a parallel criminal case announced today by the U.S. Department of Justice. The SEC’s order instituting settled administrative proceedings finds that the Palo Alto, Calif.-based technology company’s subsidiary in Russia paid more than $2 million through agents and various shell companies to a Russian government official to retain a multi-million dollar contract with the federal prosecutor’s office. In Poland, Hewlett-Packard’s subsidiary provided gifts and cash bribes worth more than $600,000 to a Polish government official to obtain contracts with the national police agency. And as part of its bid to win a software sale to Mexico’s state-owned petroleum company, Hewlett-Packard’s subsidiary in Mexico paid more than $1 million in inflated commissions to a consultant with close ties to company officials, and money was funneled to one of those officials. “Hewlett-Packard lacked the internal controls to stop a pattern of illegal payments to win business in Mexico and Eastern Europe. The company’s books and records reflected the payments as legitimate commissions and expenses,” said Kara Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC Enforcement Division’s FCPA Unit. “Companies have a fundamental obligation to ensure that their internal controls are both reasonably designed and appropriately implemented across their entire business operations, and they should take a hard look at the agents conducting business on their behalf.” According to the SEC’s order, the scheme involving Hewlett-Packard’s Russian subsidiary occurred from approximately 2000 to 2007. The bribes were paid through agents and consultants in order to win a government contract for computer hardware and software. Employees within the subsidiary and elsewhere raised questions about the significant markup being paid to the agent on the deal and the subcontractors that the agent expected to use. Despite the red flags, the deal went forward without any meaningful due diligence on the agent or the subcontractors. The SEC’s order finds that bribes involving Hewlett-Packard’s subsidiary in Poland occurred from approximately 2006 to 2010. Acting primarily through its public sector sales manager, the subsidiary agreed to pay a Polish government official in order to win contracts for information technology products and services. The official received a percentage of net revenue earned from the contracts, and the bribes were delivered in cash from off-the-books accounts. According to the SEC’s order, Hewlett-Packard’s subsidiary in Mexico paid a consultant to help the company win a public IT contract worth approximately $6 million. At least $125,000 was funneled to a government official at the state-owned petroleum company with whom the consultant had connections. Although the consultant was not an approved deal partner and had not been subjected to the due diligence required under company policy, HP Mexico sales managers used a pass-through entity to pay inflated commissions to the consultant. This was internally referred to as the “influencer fee.” Hewlett-Packard consented to the SEC’s order, which finds that it violated the internal controls and books and records provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company agreed to pay $29 million in disgorgement (approximately $26.47 million to the SEC and $2.53 million to satisfy an IRS forfeiture as part of the criminal matter). Hewlett-Packard also agreed to pay prejudgment interest of $5 million to the SEC and fines totaling $74.2 million in the criminal case for a total of more than $108 million in disgorgement and penalties. The SEC’s investigation was conducted by David A. Berman and Tracy L. Davis of the FCPA Unit in San Francisco. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service, and Public Prosecutor’s Office in Dresden, Germany. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider sourceHere's a photo of the wheat pit around yesterday's close Things were old-school yesterday in the trading pits in Chicago. All corn and wheat futures and options halted on Globex were settled via the open outcry method following a technical glitch, the CME Group announced yesterday. Open-outcry is a form of communication on the trading floor where traders use hand signals to exchange information about buy and sell orders. This type of face-to-face trading has basically died out in recent years with the rise of electronic trading. However, even when the exchange flipped to an electronic platform, there was still open-outcry trading in the pits.  Most of the futures are traded electronically, though. So when Globex went down yesterday, all the electronic traders rushed down to the pits to hand the paper flow from the big customers because they couldn't do so on the screen. Yesterday's glitch came at very important time of the month. It's what traders refer to as an "Index Roll." This means that the index funds and the exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that buy the front of the month are rolling out of that contract to buy the next month's contract.  So instead of clicking on a screen, those electronic traders had to give their order to the floor brokers. The pits were totally alive yesterday afternoon.  "It was great. It actually felt alive in this room. Just to hear the noise. I'm the biggest advocate of open outcry. It was super loud. It was old school. It was transparent. You can see who's doing what instead of just the market flickering," a trader, who will remain anonymous, explained.    Check out this cellphone video of yesterday's close taken my an anonymous trader (Apologies for the grainy image, but you can just hear the excitement in the pit):     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachManchester United's Wayne Rooney fights for the ball with Bayern Munich's Dante (R) during their Champions League quarter-final, second-leg soccer match in Munich, April 9, 2014. The stock markets were happy with whatever came through in the Federal Reserve's FOMC minutes, which were published this afternoon. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee's March 18-19 meeting have just been released. Below is a key passage from the minutes: A number of participants noted the overall upward shift since December in participants' projections of the federal funds rate included in the March SEP, with some expressing concern that this component of the SEP could be misconstrued as indicating a move by the Committee to a less accommodative reaction function. However, several participants noted that the increase in the median projection overstated the shift in the projections. In addition, a number of participants observed that an upward shift was arguably warranted by the improvement in participants' outlooks for the labor market since December and therefore need not be viewed as signifying a less accommodative reaction function. Most participants favored providing an explicit indication in the statement that the new forward guidance, taken as a whole, did not imply a change in the Committee's policy intentions, on the grounds that such an indication could help forestall misinterpretation of the new forward guidance. The S&amp;P 500 has advanced to its high of the day on the news, and Treasuries have turned positive as well. Below is the full text: A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, March 18, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. and continued on Wednesday, March 19, 2014, at 8:30 a.m.PRESENT:Janet L. Yellen, ChairWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanRichard W. FisherNarayana KocherlakotaSandra PianaltoCharles I. PlosserJerome H. PowellJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. Tarullo Christine Cumming, Charles L. Evans, Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee James Bullard, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and Boston, respectively William B. English, Secretary and EconomistMatthew M. Luecke, Deputy SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselThomas C. Baxter, Deputy General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist James A. Clouse, Thomas A. Connors, Evan F. Koenig, Thomas Laubach, Michael P. Leahy, Loretta J. Mester, Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Mark E. Schweitzer, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Lorie K. Logan, Deputy Manager, System Open Market Account Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors; Louise L. Roseman, Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of Governors Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors Stephen A. Meyer and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Adviser to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Trevor A. Reeve, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Ellen E. Meade, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Eric M. Engen, Michael G. Palumbo, and Wayne Passmore, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Brian J. Gross, Special Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Edward Nelson, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jeremy B. Rudd, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Stephanie Aaronson, Section Chief, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Laura Lipscomb, Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Peter M. Garavuso, Records Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors David Altig, Jeff Fuhrer, Glenn D. Rudebusch, and Daniel G. Sullivan, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Boston, San Francisco, and Chicago, respectively Troy Davig, Christopher J. Waller, and John A. Weinberg, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City, St. Louis, and Richmond, respectively Jonathan P. McCarthy, Keith Sill, and Douglas Tillett, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago, respectively Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on January 28-29, 2014. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed for the March 18-19 meeting indicated that economic growth slowed early this year, likely only in part because of the temporary effects of the unusually cold and snowy winter weather. Total payroll employment expanded further, while the unemployment rate held steady, on balance, and was still elevated. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, but measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Total nonfarm payroll employment rose in January and February at a slower pace than in the fourth quarter of last year. The unemployment rate was 6.7 percent in February, the same as in December of last year. The labor force participation rate, along with the employment-to-population ratio, increased, on net, in recent months. Both the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons and the rate of long-duration unemployment were lower in February than they were late last year, although both measures were still high. Initial claims for unemployment insurance were little changed over the intermeeting period. The rate of job openings stepped down, while the rate of hiring was unchanged in December and January. Manufacturing production was roughly flat, on balance, in January and February, in part because of the effects of the severe winter weather, which held down both motor vehicle output and production outside the motor vehicle sector. Automakers' production schedules indicated that the pace of light motor vehicle assemblies would increase in the second quarter, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from national manufacturing surveys, were consistent with an expectation of moderate expansion in factory output in the coming months. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased a little, on net, in December and January. However, the components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE rose at a faster rate in February than in the previous couple of months, and light motor vehicle sales also moved up. Recent information on key factors that influence household spending, along with the expectation that the weather would return to seasonal norms, generally pointed toward additional gains in PCE in the coming months. Households' net worth probably continued to expand as equity prices and home values increased further, and consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers during February and early March remained above its average last fall; however, real disposable incomes only edged up, on balance, in December and January. The pace of activity in the housing sector appeared to soften. Starts for both new single-family homes and multifamily units were lower in January and February than at the end of last year. Permits for single-family homes--which are typically less sensitive to fluctuations in the weather and a better indicator of the underlying pace of construction--also moved down in those months and had not shown a sustained improvement since last spring when mortgage rates began to rise. Sales of existing homes decreased in January and pending home sales were little changed, although new home sales expanded. Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products stepped up in the fourth quarter to a faster rate than in the third quarter. In January, nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft decreased slightly. However, new orders for these capital goods increased and remained above the level of shipments in January, pointing to increases in shipments in subsequent months. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions, also were generally consistent with modest increases in business equipment spending in the near term. Real business spending for nonresidential structures was essentially unchanged in the fourth quarter, and nominal expenditures for such structures were flat in January. Real nonfarm inventory investment increased at a significantly slower pace in the fourth quarter than in the preceding quarter, and recent data on the book value of inventories, along with readings on inventories from national and regional manufacturing surveys, did not point to significant inventory imbalances in most industries; however, days' supply of light motor vehicles in January and February exceeded the automakers' targets. Federal spending data in January and February pointed toward real federal government purchases being roughly flat in the first quarter, as the general downtrend in purchases seemed likely to be about offset by a reversal of the effects of the partial government shutdown during the fourth quarter. Total real state and local government purchases also appeared to be about flat going into the first quarter. The payrolls of these governments expanded somewhat, on balance, in January and February, but nominal state and local construction expenditures declined a little in January. The U.S. international trade deficit, after widening in December, remained about unchanged in January. Exports increased in January, but the gains were modest as decreases in sales of cars, petroleum products, and agricultural goods were just offset by gains in other major categories. Imports also rose in January as the increase in the volume of oil imports more than offset declines in imports of non-oil goods and services. Total U.S. consumer price inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, was about 1-1/4 percent over the 12 months ending in January, continuing to run below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. Over the same 12-month period, consumer energy prices rose faster than total consumer prices while consumer food prices only edged up, and core PCE prices--which exclude food and energy prices--increased just a bit more than 1 percent. In February, the consumer price index (CPI) rose at a pace similar to that seen in recent months, as food prices rose more quickly, energy prices declined, and the increase in the core CPI remained slow. Both near- and longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed in February and early March. Measures of labor compensation indicated that increases in nominal wages remained subdued. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased slightly over the year ending in the fourth quarter, and, with some gains in labor productivity, unit labor costs declined a little. Over the same year-long period, the employment cost index and average hourly earnings for all employees rose only a little faster than consumer price inflation. Foreign real gross domestic product (GDP) expanded at a moderate pace in the fourth quarter of 2013, with weak economic growth in Japan and Mexico offsetting stronger gains in many other economies. Recent indicators suggested that total foreign real GDP was expanding at a similar pace in the first quarter of 2014. The economic recovery in the euro area appeared to be continuing, and the pace of Japanese economic growth looked to have picked up. In Canada, however, severe winter weather appeared to have held down economic activity in early 2014. Among the emerging market economies (EMEs), recent data suggested that economic growth in China was slowing in the first quarter, and that the rate of growth in the other Asian economies was also declining from a very robust fourth-quarter pace. Mexican real GDP growth slowed sharply in the fourth quarter, led by a contraction in the manufacturing sector, but recent indicators, such as auto production, suggested some rebound in the pace of economic activity in the current quarter. Inflation increased slightly in some advanced economies but remained well below central banks' targets. At the same time, inflation declined in some emerging Asian economies. Monetary policy remained highly accommodative in the advanced foreign economies. Across the EMEs, monetary policy adjustments varied according to economic and financial developments, with some central banks tightening policy and others loosening it. Staff Review of the Financial SituationFinancial market conditions in the United States over the intermeeting period appeared to have been influenced by an easing of concerns about developments in the EMEs but relatively little affected by the generally weaker-than-expected economic data, which market participants appeared to attribute in large part to the temporary effects of unusually severe winter weather. On balance, U.S. financial conditions remained supportive of growth in economic activity and employment: The expected path of the federal funds rate was little changed, longer-term yields on Treasury securities edged down, equity prices rose, speculative-grade corporate bond spreads narrowed, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar depreciated slightly. FOMC communications over the intermeeting period were about in line with market expectations. The FOMC decision and statement in January were largely anticipated by market participants. The Monetary Policy Report and Chair Yellen's accompanying congressional testimony in February were viewed as emphasizing continuity in the approach to monetary policy, solidifying expectations that the pace of the Committee's asset purchases would be reduced by a further $10 billion at each upcoming meeting absent a material change in the economic outlook. Results from the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers for March indicated that the dealers' expectations about both the likely future path of the federal funds rate and Federal Reserve asset purchases were largely unchanged since January. The survey results showed that most dealers expected the Committee to modify its forward rate guidance at the March meeting, with many anticipating a shift toward qualitative guidance. Yields on short- and intermediate-term Treasury securities were little changed, on balance, over the intermeeting period, as the effects of a waning of flight-to-quality demands early in the period roughly offset those of generally weaker-than-expected economic data. Yields on longer-term Treasury securities edged down. Measures of longer-horizon inflation compensation based on Treasury inflation-protected securities also declined somewhat. The Federal Reserve continued its fixed-rate overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) exercise. Early in the intermeeting period, market rates on repurchase agreements were close to the fixed rate offered in the exercise, prompting high take-up in the ON RRP operations. The increases in the interest rate offered by the Federal Reserve in its ON RRP exercise, along with the increases in caps for individual bids, also may have contributed to higher levels of activity at daily operations. Later in the period, market rates on repurchase agreements moved higher, apparently in response to a rise in Treasury bill issuance, and ON RRP volumes moderated. Reflecting the larger size of the ON RRP exercises and the reduced pace of asset purchases, the rate of increase in the monetary base slowed over January and February. Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. Responses to the March 2014 Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms suggested little change over the past three months in conditions in securities financing and over-the-counter derivatives markets and in credit terms applicable to most classes of counterparties. Broad stock price indexes rose over the intermeeting period, apparently boosted by a solid finish to the corporate earnings season. Equity prices were also supported by a broad increase in investors' willingness to take riskier positions, in part likely reflecting an easing of concerns about EMEs early in the period. Credit flows to nonfinancial corporations remained robust. Following a slowdown in January, nonfinancial corporate bond issuance rebounded in February, with the majority of proceeds going to investment-grade firms. The growth of commercial and industrial loans on banks' balance sheets increased over the period. Institutional issuance of leveraged loans continued at a brisk pace. Financing conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) sector continued to improve gradually. In the fourth quarter, banks' CRE loans increased across all major loan categories, and CRE loans on banks' books advanced at a solid pace in the first two months of the year. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities was robust in February after a slow start in January. Conditions in the municipal bond market remained favorable over the intermeeting period with the spread of municipal yields over yields on comparable-maturity Treasury securities little changed. Although Puerto Rico's general obligation (GO) bonds were downgraded from investment grade to speculative grade, prices of these bonds held steady, albeit at depressed levels. Puerto Rico successfully brought to market a GO bond issue in early March, substantially easing its near-term liquidity pressures. House prices registered a further notable rise in January. Mortgage interest rates and their spreads over Treasury yields were little changed over the intermeeting period. Both mortgage applications for home purchases and refinancing applications remained at low levels through early March. Financing conditions in residential mortgage markets stayed tight, even as further incremental signs of easing emerged. Conditions in consumer credit markets were still mixed. Auto loans continued to be broadly available, while credit card limits for borrowers with subprime and prime credit scores remained at low levels in the fourth quarter. Partly reflecting these conditions, credit card balances stayed about flat through January, while auto and student loans continued to expand briskly. Issuance of auto and credit card asset-backed securities was robust again in January and February. Financial market sentiment abroad appeared to improve over the period, particularly with respect to the stresses that had developed in some EMEs just prior to the January FOMC meeting. Although global equity price indexes fell abruptly on March 3 amid the deepening of the political crisis in Ukraine, most markets quickly retraced those losses. Consistent with the general improvement in financial market sentiment, most foreign currencies appreciated against the dollar as flight-to-safety flows reversed. One notable exception was the Chinese renminbi, which depreciated against the dollar. The performance of foreign equity price indexes was mixed, on net: Stock prices rose in the EMEs, but they were flat in Europe and declined substantially in Japan. Longer-term sovereign bond yields in the advanced economies fell modestly over the period. Staff Economic OutlookIn the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the March FOMC meeting, real GDP growth in the first half of this year was somewhat lower than in the projection for the January meeting. The available readings on consumer spending, residential construction, and business investment pointed to less spending growth in the first quarter than the staff had previously expected. The staff's assessment was that the unusually severe winter weather could account for some, but not all, of the recent unanticipated weakness in economic activity, and the staff lowered its projection for near-term output growth. Largely because of the combination of recent downward surprises in the unemployment rate and weaker-than-expected real GDP growth, the staff lowered slightly the assumed pace of potential output growth in recent years and over the projection period. As a result, the staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth also was revised down slightly. Nevertheless, the staff continued to project that real GDP would expand at a faster pace over the next few years than it did last year, and that real GDP growth would exceed the growth rate of potential output. The faster pace of real GDP growth was expected to be supported by an easing in the restraint from changes in fiscal policy, increases in consumer and business confidence, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and a pickup in the rate of foreign economic growth. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to lead to a slow reduction in resource slack over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually to the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate. The staff's forecast for inflation was basically unchanged from the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting. The staff continued to forecast that inflation would stay below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent over the next few years. Inflation was projected to rise gradually toward the Committee's objective, as longer-run inflation expectations were assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices were expected to be subdued, and slack in labor and product markets was anticipated to diminish slowly. The staff's economic projections for the March meeting were quite similar to its forecasts presented at the December meeting when the FOMC last prepared a Summary of Economic Projections (SEP). The staff's March projections for both real GDP growth and the unemployment rate over the next few years were just slightly lower than in its December forecasts, while the inflation projection was essentially unchanged. The staff viewed the extent of uncertainty around its March projections for real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as roughly in line with the average of the past 20 years. Nonetheless, the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were viewed as tilted a little to the downside, especially because the economy was not well positioned to withstand adverse shocks while the target for the federal funds rate was at its effective lower bound. At the same time, the staff viewed the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate and for inflation as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn conjunction with this FOMC meeting, the meeting participants--the 4 members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participated in the deliberations--submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2014 through 2016 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy. The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the SEP, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. In their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, participants generally noted that data released since their January meeting had indicated somewhat slower-than-expected growth in economic activity during the winter months, in part reflecting adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed. Inflation had continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations had remained stable. Several participants indicated that recent economic news, although leading them to mark down somewhat their estimates of economic growth in late 2013 as well as their assessments of likely growth in the first quarter of 2014, had not prompted a significant revision of their projections of moderate economic growth over coming quarters. Most participants noted that unusually severe winter weather had held down economic activity during the early months of the year. Business contacts in various parts of the country reported a number of weather-induced disruptions, including reduced manufacturing activity due to lost workdays, interruptions to supply chains of inputs and delivery of final products, and lower-than-expected retail sales. Participants expected economic activity to pick up as the weather-related disruptions to spending and production dissipated. A few participants, however, highlighted factors other than weather that had likely contributed to the slowdown during the first quarter, including slower growth in net exports following its unusually large positive contribution to growth in the fourth quarter of 2013. Moreover, it was noted that some of the pickup in economic growth that had appeared to have been indicated by the data available at the January meeting had been reversed by subsequent data revisions. For many participants, the outlook for economic activity over coming quarters had changed little, on balance, since the time of the December meeting. Housing activity remained slow over the intermeeting period. Although unfavorable weather had contributed to the recent disappointing performance of housing, a few participants suggested that last year's rise in mortgage interest rates might have produced a larger-than-expected reduction in home sales. In addition, it was noted that the return of house prices to more-normal levels could be damping the pace of the housing recovery, and that home affordability has been reduced for some prospective buyers. Slackening demand from institutional investors was cited as another factor behind the decline in home sales. Nonetheless, the underlying fundamentals, including population growth and household formation, were viewed as pointing to a continuing recovery of the housing market. In their discussion of labor market developments, participants noted further improvement, on balance, in labor market conditions. The unemployment rate had moved down in recent months, as had broader measures of unemployment and underemployment. Other labor market indicators, such as payrolls and hiring and quit rates, while not all showing the same extent of improvement, also pointed to ongoing gains in labor markets. Going forward, participants continued to expect a gradual decline in the unemployment rate over the medium term, with judgments differing somewhat across participants about the likely pace of the decline. It was also noted that uncertainty about the trend rate of productivity growth was making it difficult to ascertain the rate of real GDP growth that would be associated with progress in reducing the unemployment rate. While there was general agreement that slack remains in the labor market, participants expressed a range of views regarding the amount of slack and how well the unemployment rate performs as a summary indicator of labor market conditions. Several participants pointed to a number of factors--including the low labor force participation rate and the still-high rates of longer-duration unemployment and of workers employed part time for economic reasons--as suggesting that there might be considerably more labor market slack than indicated by the unemployment rate alone. A couple of other participants, however, saw reasons to believe that slack was more limited, viewing the decline in the participation rate as primarily reflecting demographic trends with little role for cyclical factors and observing that broader measures of unemployment had registered declines in the past year that were comparable with the decline in the standard measure. Several participants cited low nominal wage growth as pointing to the existence of continued labor market slack. Participants also noted the debate in the research literature and elsewhere concerning whether long-term unemployment differs materially from short-term unemployment in its implications for wage and price pressures. Inflation continued to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective over the intermeeting period. A couple of participants expressed concern that inflation might not return to 2 percent in the next few years and suggested that a protracted period of inflation below 2 percent raised questions about whether the Committee was providing an appropriate degree of monetary accommodation. One of these participants suggested that persistently low inflation was a clear reflection of a sizable shortfall of employment from its maximum level. A number of participants noted that a pickup in nominal wage growth would be consistent with labor market conditions moving closer to normal and would support the return of consumer price inflation to the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. However, a couple of other participants suggested that factors other than economic slack had played a notable role in holding down inflation of late, including unusually slow growth in prices of medical services. Most participants expected inflation to return to 2 percent over the next few years, supported by stable inflation expectations and the continued gradual recovery in economic activity. Several participants pointed to international developments that bear watching. It was suggested that slower growth in China had likely already put some downward pressure on world commodity prices, and a couple of participants observed that a larger-than-expected slowdown in economic growth in China could have adverse implications for global economic growth. In addition, it was noted that events in Ukraine were likely to have little direct effect on the U.S. economic outlook but might have negative implications for global growth if they escalated and led to a protracted period of geopolitical tensions in that region. In their discussion of recent financial developments, participants saw financial conditions as generally consistent with the Committee's policy intentions. However, several participants mentioned trends that, if continued, could become a concern from the perspective of financial stability. A couple of participants pointed to the decline in credit spreads to relatively low levels by historical standards; one of these participants noted the risk of either a sharp rise in spreads, which could have negative repercussions for aggregate demand, or a continuation of the decline in spreads, which could undermine financial stability over time. One participant voiced concern about high levels of margin debt and of equity market valuations as well as a notable shift into commodity investments. Another participant stressed the growth in consumer credit to less creditworthy households. In their discussion of monetary policy going forward, participants focused primarily on possible changes to the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate. Almost all participants agreed that it was appropriate at this meeting to update the forward guidance, in part because the unemployment rate was seen as likely to fall below its 6-1/2 percent threshold value before long. Most participants preferred replacing the numerical thresholds with a qualitative description of the factors that would influence the Committee's decision to begin raising the federal funds rate. One participant, however, favored retaining the existing threshold language on the grounds that removing it before the unemployment rate reached 6-1/2 percent could be misinterpreted as a signal that the path of policy going forward would be less accommodative. Another participant favored introducing new quantitative thresholds of 5-1/2 percent for the unemployment rate and 2-1/4 percent for projected inflation. A few participants proposed adding new language in which the Committee would indicate its willingness to keep rates low if projected inflation remained persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective; these participants suggested that the inclusion of this quantitative element in the forward guidance would demonstrate the Committee's commitment to defend its inflation objective from below as well as from above. Other participants, however, judged that it was already well understood that the Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance. Most participants therefore did not favor adding new quantitative language, preferring to shift to qualitative language that would describe the Committee's likely reaction to the state of the economy. Most participants also believed that, as part of the process of clarifying the Committee's future policy intentions, it would be appropriate at this time for the Committee to provide additional guidance in its postmeeting statement regarding the likely behavior of the federal funds rate after its first increase. For example, the statement could indicate that the Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Participants observed that a number of factors were likely to have contributed to a persistent decline in the level of interest rates consistent with attaining and maintaining the Committee's objectives. In particular, participants cited higher precautionary savings by U.S. households following the financial crisis, higher global levels of savings, demographic changes, slower growth in potential output, and continued restraint on the availability of credit. A few participants suggested that new language along these lines could instead be introduced when the first increase in the federal funds rate had drawn closer or after the Committee had further discussed the reasons for anticipating a relatively low federal funds rate during the period of policy firming. A number of participants noted the overall upward shift since December in participants' projections of the federal funds rate included in the March SEP, with some expressing concern that this component of the SEP could be misconstrued as indicating a move by the Committee to a less accommodative reaction function. However, several participants noted that the increase in the median projection overstated the shift in the projections. In addition, a number of participants observed that an upward shift was arguably warranted by the improvement in participants' outlooks for the labor market since December and therefore need not be viewed as signifying a less accommodative reaction function. Most participants favored providing an explicit indication in the statement that the new forward guidance, taken as a whole, did not imply a change in the Committee's policy intentions, on the grounds that such an indication could help forestall misinterpretation of the new forward guidance. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members saw the information received over the intermeeting period as indicating that growth in economic activity slowed during the winter months, in part reflecting adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remained elevated when judged against members' estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. Household spending and business fixed investment continued to advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint had diminished. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, the economy would expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions would continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges consistent with the dual mandate. Moreover, members judged that the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market were nearly balanced. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, and this was seen as posing possible risks to economic performance, but members anticipated that stable inflation expectations and strengthening economic activity would, over time, return inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. However, in light of their concerns about the possible persistence of low inflation, members agreed that inflation developments should be monitored carefully for evidence that inflation was moving back toward the Committee's longer-run objective. In their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, members agreed that there was sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, members decided that it would be appropriate to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases at this meeting. Members again judged that, if the economy continued to develop as anticipated, the Committee would likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. Members also underscored that the pace of asset purchases was not on a preset course and would remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of purchases. Accordingly, the Committee agreed that, beginning in April, it would add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $25 billion per month rather than $30 billion per month, and would add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $30 billion per month rather than $35 billion per month. While making a further measured reduction in its pace of purchases, the Committee emphasized that its holdings of longer-term securities were sizable and would still be increasing, which would promote a stronger economic recovery by maintaining downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, supporting mortgage markets, and helping to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee also reiterated that it would continue its asset purchases, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. One member, while concurring with this policy action, suggested that in future statements the Committee might provide further information about the trajectory of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, including information about when the Committee might discontinue its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. With respect to forward guidance about the federal funds rate, all members judged that, as the unemployment rate was likely to fall below 6-1/2 percent before long, it was appropriate to replace the existing quantitative thresholds at this meeting. Almost all members judged that the new language should be qualitative in nature and should indicate that, in determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would assess progress, both realized and expected, toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. However, a couple of members preferred to include language in the statement indicating that the Committee would keep rates low if projected inflation remained persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. One of these members argued that the Committee should continue to provide quantitative thresholds for both the unemployment rate and inflation. Members also considered statement language that would provide information about the anticipated behavior of the federal funds rate once it is raised above its effective lower bound. The Committee decided that it was appropriate to add language indicating that the Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. In discussing this addition, a couple of members suggested that language along these lines might better be introduced at a later meeting. However, another member indicated that adding the new language at this stage could be beneficial for the effectiveness of policy because financial conditions depend on both the length of time that the federal funds rate is at the effective lower bound and on the expected path that the federal funds rate will follow once policy firming begins. It was also noted that the postmeeting statements, rather than the SEP, provide the public with information on the Committee's monetary policy decisions and that it was therefore appropriate for the postmeeting statement to convey the Committee's position on the likely future behavior of the federal funds rate. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. Beginning in April, the Desk is directed to purchase longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $30 billion per month and to purchase agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $25 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability."The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January indicates that growth in economic activity slowed during the winter months, in part reflecting adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment continued to advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions will continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in April, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $25 billion per month rather than $30 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $30 billion per month rather than $35 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. With the unemployment rate nearing 6-1/2 percent, the Committee has updated its forward guidance. The change in the Committee's guidance does not indicate any change in the Committee's policy intentions as set forth in its recent statements." Voting for this action: Janet L. Yellen, William C. Dudley, Richard W. Fisher, Sandra Pianalto, Charles I. Plosser, Jerome H. Powell, Jeremy C. Stein, and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against this action: Narayana Kocherlakota. Mr. Kocherlakota dissented because, in his view, the new forward guidance in the fifth paragraph of the statement would weaken the credibility of the Committee's commitment to its inflation goal by failing to communicate purposeful steps to more rapidly increase inflation to the 2 percent target and by suggesting that the Committee views inflation persistently below 2 percent as an acceptable outcome. Moreover, he judged that the new guidance would act as a drag on economic activity because it provided little information about the desired rate of progress toward maximum employment and no quantitative measure of what constitutes maximum employment, and thus would generate uncertainty about the extent to which the Committee is willing to use monetary stimulus to foster faster growth. Mr. Kocherlakota strongly endorsed the sixth paragraph of the statement because providing information about the Committee's intentions for the federal funds rate once employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels should help stimulate economic activity by reducing uncertainty. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, April 29-30, 2014. The meeting adjourned at 10:05 a.m. on March 19, 2014. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on February 18, 2014, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 28-29, 2014. Videoconference meeting of March 4The Committee met by videoconference on March 4, 2014, to discuss issues associated with its forward guidance for the federal funds rate. The Committee discussed possible changes to its forward guidance that could provide additional information about the factors likely to enter its decisions regarding the federal funds rate target as the unemployment rate approached its 6-1/2 percent threshold and once that threshold was crossed. The agenda did not contemplate any policy decisions, and none were taken. Many participants noted that market expectations of the future course of the federal funds rate were currently reasonably well aligned with those of policymakers, and that a sizable change to the forward guidance could disturb this alignment. Nonetheless, participants generally saw the Committee's upcoming meeting as an opportune occasion for a reformulation of the guidance language; one of these participants suggested that the reformulation could be accompanied by a statement that the new language was intended to be consistent with current market expectations. A few participants stressed that the Committee had several other vehicles, including the Chair's postmeeting press conference, through which it could clarify its future policy intentions. Participants agreed that the existing forward guidance, with its reference to a 6-1/2 percent threshold for the unemployment rate, was becoming outdated as the unemployment rate continued its expected gradual decline. Most participants felt that the quantitative thresholds had been very useful in communicating policy intentions when employment was far from mandate-consistent levels, but, with the economy having moved appreciably closer to maximum employment, the forward guidance should emphasize that the Committee is focusing more on a broader set of economic indicators. Thus, most participants felt that quantitative thresholds, triggers, or floors should not be a part of future statement language, with a number of participants noting the uncertainty associated with defining and measuring the unemployment rate and the level of employment that would be most consistent with the Committee's maximum employment objective, or other similar concepts. These participants generally favored qualitative language describing the economic factors that would influence the Committee's decision regarding the first increase in the federal funds rate target. Participants put forward a number of suggestions for such qualitative language. One participant favored linking the length of time that the federal funds rate would remain at the lower bound to the period over which complete recovery of the labor market was projected to occur, while another advocated qualitative forward guidance expressed in terms of the Committee's projections of real output growth, arguing that such an approach would avoid the uncertainties associated with estimates of potential output or maximum employment. Yet another participant argued that it would be desirable for the statement to describe the Committee's reasons for keeping the federal funds rate at the lower bound when standard policy rules were prescribing that the rate should be increased and noted that one possible reason for doing so is that the effective lower bound on the federal funds rate limits the Committee's scope to provide accommodation in response to adverse shocks. In contrast, some participants expressed a preference for quantitative guidance. A few participants saw merit in stating explicitly that the Committee would provide accommodation to the extent necessary to prevent inflation from running persistently below its 2 percent longer-run goal. One of these participants argued that such forward guidance would strengthen the credibility of the Committee's inflation objective as well as encourage employment outcomes that were most consistent with the Committee's other objective of maximum employment. Another participant suggested that the Committee state that it would adjust policy to keep projected inflation near 2 percent over the medium term, and that it would balance deviations from its objectives in the near term. Still another participant expressed a preference for stating explicit quantitative criteria for some labor market variable or variables. Most participants favored providing information about the likely behavior of the federal funds rate after its first increase. A few participants, however, viewed the period of policy firming as likely to be far enough in the future that the Committee did not need to provide such information at this stage. Committee participants also considered whether revised forward guidance should include a more prominent mention of financial developments or of potential risks to financial stability. Most participants felt that the Committee's monitoring of financial conditions and of risks to financial stability was already well understood by markets and that, while some reference to financial developments might usefully be included in the statement, a lengthy addition did not seem necessary. One participant favored including a reference in the statement to "financial conditions," rather than "financial stability," emphasizing that, when factors other than monetary policy induce a change in financial conditions, the Committee may need to take that change in financial conditions into account when making its monetary policy decisions. Click here to refresh for the latest updates » --------------- EARLIER: At 2 p.m. ET, the Federal Reserve releases the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee's March 18-19 meeting. The meeting was Janet Yellen's first as chairwoman of the Fed. The big market-moving developments that caused U.S. Treasuries to sell off and interest rates to head higher were the shift toward more qualitative guidance on the conditions necessary to bring about rate hikes in the FOMC's policy statement (the previous 6.5% unemployment rate threshold was dropped) and the updated Staff Economic Projections, which showed that the median FOMC voter's view on the timing of the first rate hike was pulled forward earlier into 2015 than where it stood in December. Five-year U.S. Treasury yields are trading today at 1.69%, about 15 basis points above where they were before the meeting, while 30-year yields are about 6 basis points lower at 3.55%, reflective of reduced long-term inflation and growth expectations brought about by the prospect of the Fed moving to normalize monetary policy sooner rather than later. "Most investors and analysts expect a dovish patina in today's minutes release and more detail from participants on why they expect the pace of tightening to be more gradual than in the past," says Bill O'Donnell, head of U.S. Treasury strategy at RBS Securities. "There should also be some market focus on why some of the rates forecasts in the Fed's dot chart drifted higher when inflation readings remain well below their target rate." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Federal Reserve BoardTreasuries have sold off (sending yields higher) on 18 of the last 20 FOMC minutes release days.However, as Ethan Harris, a global economist at BofA Merrill Lynch, points out in a note to clients, the bond market has sold off on 18 of the last 20 days in which FOMC minutes were released. "The minutes provide a platform for the hawks to protest against the current policy," says Harris. "The minutes are now one of our least favorite releases because of the scramble to find the market-moving sentence." For example, according to the minutes of the January meeting, "A few participants raised the possibility that it might be appropriate to increase the federal funds rate relatively soon." Market participants seized on this line as a signal that the discussion about rate hikes was perhaps beginning to take center stage on the Committee now that it has begun winding down large-scale asset purchases. However, many expect a relatively muted market response to today's release. "Investors blew off pretty strong JOLTS and small business confidence releases [on Tuesday] and will probably not respond to anything less than full-handed hawkishness," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "10-year Treasury yields are almost back to where they were on the eve of FOMC (helped by the S&amp;P 500 being 20 points lower), but 2-year and 5-year yields remain 5 basis points and 12 basis points higher, respectively, so there has not been a complete dissipation of the hawkish takeaway. Hence the bar for a big upward move in rates, with knock-on effects to FX, is pretty high." FREE AppDownload
Amazon recently increased the cost of its Prime membership by $20 to $99 a year. Is this a good value? Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
REUTERS/Tim ChongDeutsche Bank's Joseph LaVorgna is out with a list of five U.S. economic indicators he's watching closely at the moment. Lavorgna picks these indicators because of their their strong correlation with overall economic activity and also because they are subject to small revisions if at all. "This is instrumental to gauging the health of the economy, because such top tier economic indicators as nonfarm payrolls, retail sales and GDP are oftentimes susceptible to massive revisions," he writes. Here are the five indicators and what they're telling us about the economy: Bottomline: These indicators suggest the economy is improving. FREE AppDownload
Nova Labs Recently, investing gadfly James Altucher posted a "cheat sheet" for what you should be doing with your money that spotlighted a handful of "demographic trends" that investors could get behind. We wanted to expand on that handful to a full-blown list of all the technologies out there that are poised to make people billions. This may not make you a billion dollars. But it shows where things are going. WHY: Reuters' Emma Thomasson says the mobile payment market is now "fiercely competitive and growing," citing moves by Google, Apple, and PayPal to launch products. Big box retailers also recently announced a joint digital wallet service called the Merchant Customer Exchange, or MCX. And it's not just dollars: Crypto-payment group Circle said it would soon launch its first consumer product that it's calling the Skype of payments. Also for what it's worth, we also recently explained why you shouldn't be using cash. WHY: Many Americans are getting older and/or more stressed. As a result, physical and mental therapy took the majority of the fastest-growing job occupations in the U.S. As Altucher noted, a growing number of baby boomers will start filling up more "special facilities" as well as requiring more treatment. WHY: While the fate of Tesla's Gigafactory is now somewhat up in the air, a recent report from Navigant argues worldwide revenue from lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles will grow from less than $6 billion in 2014 to $26.1 billion in 2023. “The shift to lithium ion represents a major endorsement of the ability of this chemistry to perform consistently in an automotive environment,” David Alexander, senior research analyst with Navigant Research says. “Most of the major automakers have introduced battery electric vehicle (BEV) and plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV) models in the last two years, almost all of which use lithium ion batteries for onboard energy storage.” If even Bill O'Reilly is getting behind the potential for lithium ion-powered automobiles, you know this one's only going to move up and to the right. WHY: "Grid defection" is the word many utilities have begun to fear as homeowners move to become near-fully autonomous energy providers. A report from NanoMarkets says the global market for solar storage systems alone will be worth $2 billion by 2018. The adoption of lithium ion batteries in cars will help drive the cost of solar storage systems, most of which are basically repackaged l.i. batteries, downward. WHY: Despite some temporary declines, wealthy farmers and non-farming investors continue to plunk down money on crops, Reuters says. That's because there remains healthy demand for what comes out of America's breadbasket, especially from China. Check out this chart from the USDA showing forecasts for Chinese imports of soybeans and corn, both of which the U.S. is the largest exporter of. Insane: USDA WHY: Yes, the numbers have been grim of late. But data show the slack is slowly draining out of the 25-34 cohort not in the labor force. As Matt Busigin points out in his Most Important Charts In The World selection, the data suggest "there is a long uptrend in 25-34 employment coming." Matt Busigin/Business Insider WHY: In their new book "The Second Machine Age," MIT Sloan professors Andrew McAfee and Erik Brynjolffson argue increasing automation of the labor force will be a permanent feature of the economy. Thus robot-makers like Kiva Systems, which built Amazon's warehouse bots, stand to see receipts climb.  WHY: A sub-trend of the above. Drones largely remain legal for personal use, and the market is now large enough that products are getting reviewed in the Wall Street Journal. Guangdong-based DJI, which makes drones for cameras, is among the most successful. Nova Labs WHY: Chris Dixon argues that people have basically stopped using the mobile Web and now exclusively use apps. This means that the owners of app stores — that is to say, for now, the mobile phone developers — wield tremendous power. " What if AOL or some other central gatekeeper had controlled the Web, and developers had to ask permission to create Google, YouTube, eBay, PayPal, Wikipedia, Twitter, Facebook, etc.? Sadly, this is where we’re headed on mobile." WHY: Shares in gene-testing companies like Myriad have seen some of the best performance of 2014. 23&amp;me had seen strong consumer interest before the FDA temporarily halted sales of its testing kit. The company says it's working with the agency to get its product back on the market. WHY: It's getting to the point where you probably have a friend, or a friend of a friend, who owns a Nike FitBit, a Jawbone, or some other device tracking their personal health data. WHY: There's a company called SmartWeave whose product prevents sweat stains. There are also companies developing new smart uniforms for the military. The sector is constantly growing. WHY: Here's a list of every company now offering on-demand personal services, via Steve Schlafman at RRS. There are more than 70. "The “uberification” of our economy signals a fundamental shift in the way that local services are discovered and fulfilled," he writes. Steve Schlafman WHY: The Supreme Court continues to loosen rules targeted at limiting the amount of money that can be spent on a political campaign. The Koch-brothers-backed group Americans For Prosperity spent $1.4 million on ad buys in Arkansas against Democrat incumbent Senator Mark Pryor, and has spent $30 million nationally, according to The Washington Post. Meanwhile, most members of Congress are now millionaires. There is no guarantee that you can earn a living off being a campaign manager, but the field is diversifying. WHY: The companies that insure the insurers have adjusted well to climate change and the climbing toll of natural disasters. "In 2011, the costliest year ever for loss claims thanks to floods in Thailand and the earthquake that caused the Fukushima disaster, the 40 largest reinsurers made pretax profits of $5.4 billion (U.S.), according to Standard &amp; Poor’s," says the Toronto Globe and Mail. Flickr via NASA WHY: Rents climbed 12% between 2009 and 2013 as the housing bubble pushed former homeowners into apartments. Seattle saw the largest YOY jump last year at 7.1% followed by San Francisco at 5.6%. WHY: Online groceries generated more than $15 billion in sales last year. Amazon's AmazonFresh is about to get expanded into Seattle, Los Angeles and San Francisco, and possibly a bunch more. Wal-Mart To Go has also already been up and running in the Bay Area, and just expanded to Denver.  WHY: You could have your groceries delivered to you — or you could have the ingredients for specific meals delivered in precise quantities and with detailed recipes. Blue Apron, the leading start-up in this field, now may be worth more than $500 million. Naturally, there are now at least a half-dozen other start-ups looking to edge their way into the space. Mashable/Blue Apron WHY: Goldman Sachs recently ranked Cabot Oil and Gas as the most undervalued stock in the market, and cited a host of other energy companies as having an untapped upside. The forward curve on gas futures doesn't climb above $5 any time soon. EIA WHY: We recently explained why people keep investing in Bitcoin despite many recent headaches in the Bitcoin ecosystem: Its underlying technology — the Blockchain — is being called the next Internet. The companies incorporating blockchain remain in their infancy, but the most prominent one, Ripple, continues to raise millions of dollars from outside investors. WHY: On Nov. 1, agriculture giant Monsanto bought a 7-year-old firm called Climate Corporation for about $1 billion. Founded by two former Google employees, Climate Corporation might be described as the expression of the "big data" movement in the farming sector: It takes figures from hundreds of monitoring stations and publishes real-time weather forecasts. We have also seen an increasing number of commodities futures move on weather forecast releases. WHY: Researchers in Kentucky are on the verge of printing out the first-ever human heart. Medicine in general is becoming the major growth area in the 3-D printing field, as a significant part of the printer market remains confined to hobbyists. WHY: Online luxury sales are growing twice as fast as the overall market, according to a new report from McKinsey. "Last year, online shopping 'directly generated more than 13% of offline luxury sales and influenced another 28% of sales.' Consumers typically purchase big ticket items in-person, leading many luxury retailers to overlook e-commerce," BII's Cooper Smith writes. WHY: Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos are paving the way for the first true "space age," The SpaceReview's R.D. Boozer writes. "SpaceX estimates that if they are able reach a point where the whole Falcon 9 rocket is recovered and repeatedly reused in such a manner, they may achieve launch costs for around one hundredth of what they currently are. If they successfully meet this ultimate challenge, then we are on the verge of the first true Space Age, with all of the spaceflights that have occurred before amounting to an expensive, decades-long process of baby steps leading to this new capability." WHY: The profitability models are still being worked out, but there is no doubt this is where the future of music lies. The purchase of music data service The Echo Nest by Spotify for an undisclosed amount signals where this is all going.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The chart below illustrates the change in asset size of four prominent mutual funds over the past 15 years. I've removed the funds' names, replacing them with a short description, such as Star Stock Manager or Index Stock Fund, because the point of this column is not the rise and fall of individual funds, but instead the varying fortunes of fund types. The point: Today's fund investors think very differently than did those of the 1990s. At the beginning of our tale, in 1998, Star Stock Manager Fund reigned supreme, boasting more assets than the other three funds combined. The mutual fund industry had almost disappeared by the mid-70s, shredded by the 1973-74 stock bear market and plummeting bond prices. The industry was resuscitated first by growth in money market funds, late in the 1970s, then by government-bond funds in the mid-80s. Its third and largest boom, however, was the U.S. stock fund, typically run by adventuresome solo managers. Morningstar Fidelity was the largest, most visible, and most successful of such managers, running not only the single biggest mutual fund, but also the biggest fund complex. Fidelity managers were famously permitted a great deal of slack in interpreting their funds' prospectuses. (When Jeff Vinik ran  Fidelity Contrafund (FCNTX), for example, he favored expensive, glamorous biotechnology stocks, which he regarded as "contrarian" because while those stocks were very pricey, he believed that they should have been pricier still. That was the first and last time that I heard contrarian defined in such a fashion.) Concentrated funds that held relatively few stocks were also popular. If active management was good, then highly active management surely must be better. Or not. While Fidelity's stock funds had beaten their benchmarks through the early 90s, with consistency that seems barely believable today, they began to totter in the mid-90s. Concentrated funds, too, disappointed.  By 2001, Star Stock Manager Fund was suffering the highest redemptions in the industry and was helping to put the entire breed of actively run, single-manager U.S. stock funds under siege. Since 2001, such funds in aggregate have collectively faced redemptions, each and every year.   Star Stock Manager Fund was surpassed in assets in late 2003 by Star Bond Manager Fund, and then shortly thereafter by Group Active Stock Management Fund, which became the world's largest mutual fund for the next four years, until dethroned by the 2008 stock crash. Unlike its predecessor, Group Active Stock Management Fund was cautiously run, with investment responsibilities spread over several portfolio managers. It was the careful investor's active fund. Due to the fund's group structure as well as its blue-chip focus, its returns weren't likely to stray far from those of its benchmark. The fund neither failed in its execution nor succeeded. Unlike Star Stock Manager Fund, which posted poor returns during the 2000s, Group Active Stock Management Fund kept pace with the S&amp;P 500. Some years it was a little better, some years a little worse. Thus, its group approach delivered as promised by preventing the sort of pratfall suffered by Star Stock Manager Fund. But the fund did not make a strong positive case, either, which left it stranded when the stock tide turned against it. Investors bailed, making it--as with Star Stock Manager Fund before it--temporarily the industry's most-redeemed fund. In 2009 Star Bond Manager Fund surged back into the lead. Twelve months later, it had become the largest fund ever, blowing past the $250 billion mark. Post 2008, bond funds were very much in favor. Curiously, bond-fund buyers seemed not to have noticed active stock managers' struggles. So even as they shunned active stock funds, they preferred active bond funds. That made a certain amount of sense, as Star Bond Manager Fund had a long history of outperformance. But then again, so had Star Stock Manager Fund and Group Stock Active Management, and how had those funds played out?   Sure enough, after a couple of strong years, Star Bond Manager Fund began to go the way of its predecessors. Relative performance slipped, bad publicity rose, and the inevitable redemptions began. By early 2013, Star Bond Manager Fund had moved into the lead for redemptions, where it remains to this day. (You're probably not having much trouble putting the face to this name.) As with Growth Stock Active Management before it, the fund found itself under fire for management at the time that its asset class fell out of favor. Unpopularity was inevitable. Today's largest fund, Index Stock Fund, represents a trend long in the making. Index funds have gained market share steadily for 25 years now. The chart below shows the percentage of assets in all open-end funds (that is, mutual funds and exchange-traded funds) that is invested passively. As the shape of the line demonstrates, passive funds have picked up market share at the same steady rate for a quarter century now. Morningstar Indeed, had I wished to tell a more complicated tale--a sin of which I am often guilty, but not today--I could have plotted both Index Stock Fund I and Index Stock Fund 2. The former fund also had its moment as the largest mutual fund, but it has been supplanted in recent years by its sibling, which mimics a broader benchmark. Indexing, too, has evolved since the 1990s, although in its case the change involves improving on a popular fund, rather than exiting funds that have disappointed.  The upshot? The fund industry is becoming ever-more institutional in its structure. Manager risk has declined due to the movement from the star sole manager to group management to, increasingly, indexed assets. Costs have declined. Fifteen years ago, most new fund purchases were of funds that had expense ratios of greater than 1% per year. Now such funds capture few new monies. Fifteen years ago, the fund industry liked to think of itself as a boutique supplier. Today, investors realize, it mostly sells commodities. As for those four funds? You've probably guessed them by now, but here they are for confirmation. Morningstar FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoSince taking a 9.2% stake in Sotheby's last August, Dan Loeb has agitated for changes to the company's business that would "return capital to shareholders" optimize "the Company’s balance sheet."  To do that, Loeb argued that he and two others supported by his hedge fund, Third Point should be appointed to the board. On Tuesday, Sotheby's released an investor presentation saying, in short, 'no way.' The company sees Loeb as a smash and grab investor who joins boards, enriches himself and his investors, and then moves on to his next company. Sotheby's not only defends its own performance — which Loeb attacked, saying that its "competitive position" was deteriorating — but it also lambastes Loeb's board nominees with most of the focus on Loeb himself. To get a sense of how brutal it is, you really only need to see four slides. Where Loeb has said that his nominees have experience in "Sotheby’s key business building block: luxury customer relationship development," the company disagrees. In fact, it argues that one of the nominees, Harry Wilson, has no experience whatsoever in any part of the auction house's business. Sotheby's Then there's the attack on Loeb himself. In two slides the presentation goes over Loeb's history on company boards. On this next slide, check out what the company says about his two year tenures on Ligand and Biofuel Energy Corp. Basically, the two companies didn't do so hot while Loeb was around. Sotheby's And then there's Yahoo, and the deal under which Loeb left the board (the company repurchased $1.16 billion of his shares. Sotheby's When the Yahoo deal went down, there was a lot of talk about Loeb's payout. Some said that it smacked of greenmail — a deal a company makes to get a particularly thorny investor off its board. The New York Times also pointed out that Loeb got in and out of Yahoo as the company was riding the wave of Alibaba's success. Then when the going got tough at Yahoo, Loeb left. At least that's how the NYT told it in the story excerpted in the slide below. Sotheby's Obviously, none of this is very flattering. Most investors do not want to be accused of going after quick $600 million hits — boards especially do not want to welcome those kinds of investors to their companies. So we'll see if Loeb and his nominees make it onto Sotheby's board after this. For the full Sotheby's presentation, click here. FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett's been investing for a long time. ValueWalk's Jacob Wolinsky just posted this piece by the then 20-year-old investment salesman Warren E. Buffett. It's dated Thursday, December 6, 1951 and it comes from a publication called The Commercial and Financial Chronicle. The article title: "The Security I Like Best." Wolinksy credits London Value Investor for unearthing it. The security in question? GEICO, or the Government Employees Insurance Company, which had gone public three years earlier.  At the time of its writing, GEICO shares were at eight-times earnings, or about $31. "[I]t appears that no price is being paid for the tremendous growth potential of the company," he said at the time. In 1996, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway finally bought the remaining shares of GEICO it didn't own 1996. Its shares came to be worth $68. Which is why we are still writing about Mr. Buffett today. "Full employment, boomtime profits and record dividend payments do not set the stage for depressed security prices," wrote Buffett at the time. Those words have held true ever since. Check it out: The Security I Like Best Buffett 1951  FREE AppDownload
flickr/Mark SchoneveldIn a note to clients, Bill O'Donnell, head of U.S. Treasury strategy at RBS Securities, points to what seems like a good sign for the economy: more trucks than he'd seen in months on the highway during his morning commute to work today. "I've mentioned before that my commute to work takes me on one of the busiest highways (I-95) in the U.S. that sews together all of the states between Florida and Maine," says O'Donnell. "This morning's commute saw more trucks on the highway than I have seen in months. Indeed, even at 4:40 a.m. it was tricky to change lanes because a train of trucks was even traveling in the third lane where they are not supposed to be. So it seemed pretty clear to me that the much-anticipated spring rebound is now in full force. Many of the trucks appeared to be carrying building materials and fabricated metal goods. It was an impressive sight; frustrating and frightening as it was to be a little car in a sea of semis." The "weather question" has been hanging over the market in recent months as economic data have come in below expectations. How much of the deterioration has been due to weather? David Woo, head of global rates and currencies research at BofA Merrill Lynch, calls it "the most important chart in the world." "There is nothing more important right now than U.S. data over the next 4-6 weeks," says Woo. "The weather hypothesis will either be proved right or wrong. I am still in the weather camp and think that the post-winter U.S. bounce will be stronger than the market currently expects." The March nonfarm payrolls (NFP) report, released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics last Friday, showed a return to trend of job creation after a few months of weakness, but did not reveal the "snap back" in hiring that many analysts were expecting. Market participants are thus still waiting for a resolution to the debate. "Data-wise, the next big thing is retail sales on Monday — expectations are for a high print both on headline and control, so the bar for a game-change is high," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "That said, occasionally the combination of headline month surprise and revisions is powerful enough to fundamentally change the picture, but the frequency of such acute revisions is much less than with NFP. The April 30 FOMC seems less important now than the May 2 NFP given the paucity of heavy-duty data before then." FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock This post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group.  Few people get all that excited about tax season. Collecting last year's receipts or deciding whether to file a 1040 or a 1040EZ isn't anyone's idea of a good time (except maybe your accountant's). Fortunately, there's one good thing that can come from the process: a refund check. While it's tempting to run out and spend this newfound fortune on a hot gadget or that bag you've been eyeing for spring, there are better ways to make that money work for you. Here are a few smart alternatives to spending your refund check this year. For some people, knowing there's money on the way is equivalent to having it in their wallet. Don't make that mistake. Avoid racking up credit-card purchases and thinking you'll "pay yourself back" when the check arrives. You'll only end up spending more than you should.  Tax season is a great time to jump-start your emergency fund or contribute to the one you already have. That way, if an unexpected medical, home, or car expense comes up, you won't be strapped for cash or forced to max out a credit card. It's also a great opportunity to open up a traditional IRA or Roth IRA account. Speak to a financial adviser about which IRA is best for you. Beefing up your entertainment system sounds cool, but what value does it really add to your home? Zilch. A little self-control can prevent you from spending your entire check on something you don't need. If you've been putting off insuring your house against natural disasters, now may be the time to get that done. Despite what many people think, standard homeowner's insurance doesn't cover weather disasters such as flooding. Even if your home isn't located in a flood zone, you'd benefit from the coverage. Each year, roughly 25% of flood claims come from outside of high-risk areas. Investing in your home's security today could save you thousands in the future. You know that AC unit that's been running up your electric bill every summer? Do something about it by updating your home with an energy-efficient cooling system or adding insulated windows and doors. Minor upgrades like these can add up to hundreds of dollars in savings, and thousands in added value to your home. Using your refund to buy a new car may sound like a good idea, but only if you can afford to pay for that car in full. If you're only contributing a down payment, then investing in depreciating assets — and adding another monthly bill — isn't the best use of your money. Every dollar you spend toward paying down your debt means more money in your pocket in the long run. You can save hundreds (sometimes even thousands) of dollars by using your refund to tackle high-interest credit cards and loans. Getting a big check can put anyone in a generous mood, but you'll want to hold off on being a human ATM to the people around you, or else you'll wind up broke in no time. If you're set on sharing your wealth with others, opt for donating part of your check to charity. Any contribution you make is tax deductible, so you'll be able to bask in the glory of being a do-gooder, all while saving money on next year's taxes. To learn more about managing your money and how to take charge of your financial future, visit Lincoln Financial Group's website. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs may shut down its dark pool Sigma X, says WSJ. "Goldman executives are weighing whether the revenue that the firm generates from operating Sigma X is worth the risks that have been highlighted by a series of trading glitches and growing criticism of dark pools, the people said."  FREE AppDownload
Blue Moon In Her Eyes/flickrToday, Stockholm-based KnCMiner, among the most successful Bitcoin mining rig manufacturers in the world, announced it was starting up a backup plan to protect customers in case deliveries of its 20-nanometer "Neptune" machine came in behind schedule. We profiled KnC late last year after they demonstrated the fastest machine on the planet.  But for Dan Murtha, co-founder of MinerSource.net, a bulk buyer and distributor of mining hardware, KnC's announcement is a sign Bitcoin mining rig power may be plateauing. Reminder: Bitcoin miners "mine" by unscrambling encrypted bits of information. This is an insanely resource-intensive process: At more than 40 petahashes, the collective computing power of all Bitcoin mining machines in operation is now hundreds of times greater than the 500 most powerful supercomputers combined.  That of course has raised some moral issues about whether all that power could be better used.  And some like the St. Louis Fed's David Andolfatto think "mining" is a misleading term because, they are not simply wildcat-type speculators but rather the backbone of the entire Bitcoin network. The bits of information the miners unscramble are in fact confirmations of successful Bitcoin transactions.   Still, depending on the price of Bitcoin and the size of one's investment, it is possible to get a decent return, although there is a movement underway to start renting out computing power to customers. But for Murtha, it's clear there's not much more room to go in terms of engineering ultra-small — and therefore ultra-powerful — computer chips, despite the incredible leaps Bitcoin mining engineers have made to this point. It's not just KnC, he observes: There is also a report Intel has been experiencing delays on drilling down to 14-nanometers.   "We're reaching the limits where we have Intel, the largest chip manufacturer with the deepest pockets — they're now having to delay their [14 nm] Broadwell chip," he told BI at the InsideBitcoins conference Tuesday. "If they're not able to do 14 nanometers, I'm not sure if an ASIC [Bitcoin mining] machine can beat Intel. So I think we're going to hit a plateau of 28 or 20 [nanometers]."  It will take some time for the computing rate on the Bitcoin network itself to start flattening out, since it's determined by an additional set of cost inputs that reflect the absolute number of miners in the system. So things like lower chips production costs, higher bitcoin prices, and greater investment could cause the line in the following chart to keep rising.  SIPA But from an engineering standpoint, it seems clear things are, for now, slowing down. FREE AppDownload
Piper Jaffray released its semiannual report on teen spending Tuesday.  We dug through the report and pulled out some of the most interesting facts and charts.  Here's a summary: 1. For the first time in the survey's history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing. Starbucks remains the perennial favorite among all teens for food-and-drink spending, according to the survey. Here's a breakdown of teen spending by category: Piper Jaffray 2. Teens are still getting most of their money from their parents. This chart shows parental contributions for average- and upper-income teens over the years. Piper Jaffray 3. Nike remains the top clothing brand among teens across all income levels. Forever 21, Action Sports Brands, American Eagle, and Polo Ralph Lauren also rank among the most popular apparel brands. Top footwear brands for upper-income teens are, in order, Nike, Converse, Sperry Top-Sider, and Steve Madden.  4. Brands that are losing popularity among teens include Aeropostale, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, and Hollister. Here's a graph of the top-cited brands that teen girls said they no longer wear: Piper Jaffray 5. On the flip side, brands that are starting to get more popular among teen girls include Forever 21, American Eagle, and Lululemon.  Piper Jaffray6. Activewear now comprises 28% of teens' apparel purchases, up from 6% in 2008. Nike, Lululemon, Under Armour, and Adidas are the most popular brands for athletic apparel.  Piper Jaffray 7. "Athleisure" — casual athletic clothing that can be worn outside the gym — is now more popular than denim. Athleisure brands include Adidas, Athleta, Juicy Couture, Lululemon, and Nike. Denim brands include Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, American Eagle, Calvin Klein, Guess, Lee, and Levi’s. 8. For the first time in the survey's history, Chipotle has eclipsed Taco Bell as the No. 1 preference for Mexican fare among both average- and upper-income teens. 9. An increasing number of teens, particularly males, prefer to shop online. In spring 2014, 26% of women and 47% of men preferred to shop online over visiting stores. That's up from 18% of women and 20% of men who preferred online shopping a year earlier. 10. Instagram is the most important social network for teens, followed by Twitter and Facebook, respectively. Piper Jaffray FREE AppDownload
Mandy Drury CNBC anchor Mandy Drury showed us what a typical day is like for her. The Australian native rides a scooter (in heels!) when she takes her kids to school in New York City. Then she heads to Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey to prepare for her 2 p.m. show "Street Signs." After that, it's time to pick up the kids from school and head home to prepare dinner.  FREE AppDownload
Earlier we posted an image, posted by Izabella Kaminska, of the crazy cranes that are going up in London. Izabella Kaminska But it's not just London where cranes are going up. In major cities around the world (New York, Vancouver, Toronto, Frankfurt, etc.) the wealthy are pouring their money into real estate, and developers are trying to meet the demand as fast as they can. So what's the craziest crane photo there is? Send us yours at jweisenthal@businessinsider.com and we'll see where the construction activity has gone insane. FREE AppDownload
Stringer . / ReutersMOSCOW (Reuters) - A surge in capital outflows from Russia underscores how international tensions over Ukraine are adding to the woes of Russia's already struggling economy. Russia's central bank has published balance of payments data that showed an estimated $63.7 billion in net capital outflow in the first three months of this year - as much as the $63 billion in outflows seen during the whole of 2013. The bank first published a figure of $50.6 billion on Tuesday, but later included an adjusted total to add $13.2 billion in forex transactions between banks and the central bank, which analysts say provides a clearer picture of total capital flight. The surge coincides with slumping investment and a sharp deterioration in business confidence, as forecasters slash economic growth forecasts after Russia's annexation of Crimea and warnings it could intervene further in Ukraine. "Of course it's the conflict with Ukraine and the uncertainty about potential (military) operations in eastern Ukraine that triggered such big outflows," said Alexei Devyatov, economist at Uralsib. Alfa Bank economist Natalia Orlova said the Ukraine crisis was only one factor, as outflows were already strong even before the threat of Russian military intervention in Ukraine. Domestic investment by Russian companies fell by 7 percent in January and by 3.5 percent in February, compared with a year earlier, illustrating how rising capital outflows coincide with declining willingness to invest in production in Russia. "Overall the net capital outflows reflect general concern about financial stability, and also declining incentives to invest in large operational activities by Russian companies," she said. Recent surveys suggest that business confidence is now the lowest since 2008. Reacting to such trends, President Vladimir Putin has called for the business climate to be improved "substantially" and "at an accelerated pace", though previous such exhortations have delivered scant results. FLIGHT TO DOLLARS VTB Capital economist Vladimir Kolychev said the outflow was being driven by companies and ordinary households, which have been rushing to convert their rouble savings into dollars. "The most important factor behind this huge capital outflow was savings dollarization," he said. Households' demand for foreign currency in the first quarter, $19.6 billion, was the highest since the fourth quarter of 2008, while banks' foreign assets reached $35 billion, also close to levels last seen in the 2008 financial crisis. "Of course we see substantial increases in currency purchases by Russian residents as a reaction to rouble weakness - which was triggered by capital outflow. These things are self-supporting in a sense," said Uralsib's Devyatov. The surge in capital outflows was among the factors leading the Economy Ministry to cut its official economic growth for this year, joining a wave of organizations that have slashed Russian growth forecasts because of the Ukraine crisis. Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Klepach said on Tuesday the ministry forecast growth at either 0.5 percent or 1.1. percent in 2014 - with the higher figure conditional on fiscal stimulus steps. Both forecasts represent a sharp reduction compared with the previous official 2014 growth forecast of 2.5 percent, and are also below last year's disappointing growth rate of 1.3 percent. The Economy Ministry estimated that for the year capital outflows would reach $100 billion, implying that the bulk of this year's outflows have already occurred. However, some other forecasters are gloomier. The World Bank warns that the total for the year could reach $150 billion. "Looking forward you may take two views," said VTB Capital's Kolychev. "The first one is that the peak of dollarization is over, which means that the rouble should stabilize in the next year." "The opposite view is that we are only in the middle of this geopolitical mess (over Ukraine). That means more pressure on the rouble as locals continue to run away from local assets." (additional reporting by Oksana Kobzeva; editing by Elizabeth Piper and Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
(1) Information Technology. For starters, let’s focus on the Information Technology sector. As you can see in our Performance Derby table, since March 5 through March 7, it is down 2.8%. Now let’s sort the performance for selected industries in the sector from worst to best and show the forward P/E at the end of March: Internet Software &amp; Services (-13.4%, 23.9), Application Software (-12.2, 36.1), Data Processing &amp; Outsourced Services (-6.6, 19.7), Communications Equipment (1.9, 12.9), Systems Software (2.1, 13.5), Semiconductors (2.9, 14.9), and Semiconductor Equipment (4.8, 15.2). (2) Health Care. Now let’s do the same for the S&amp;P 500 Health Care sector, which is down 4.1% since March 5 through April 7: Health Care Technology (-12.9%, 32.7), Biotechnology (-12.4, 20.3), Health Care Distributors (-7.1, 16.5), Life Sciences Tools &amp; Services (-5.7, 17.0), Pharmaceuticals (-2.8, 16.8), Health Care Services (-2.5, 15.1), Health Care Equipment (0.5, 16.1), and Managed Health Care (2.7, 12.8). I’m seeing a pattern here of losses in the shares of industries with relatively high P/Es and gains in those with relatively low P/Es. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: IMF’s Bullish Outlook. (1) A happier outlook for all but Japan. (2) Eurozone’s recovery remains lackluster. (3) US growth set to increase. (4) Upbeat on India. Not so much on Brazil. (5) An economic scenario that will keep secular bull charging. (6) Three risks to worry about: Deflation, EM crisis, and Geopolitics. (7) CRB commodity index and world forward revenues are looking up. (8) Examining the internal corrections in S&amp;P 500 IT and Healthcare sectors. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Every man wants to know what will make him irresistible to women — especially when it comes to things he can change and control. How much time should he spend at the gym? What colors look best? Should he shave? We turned to science for answers. References: Color, facial hair, posture, smile, muscles, sweat.
Greece has been the epicenter of the eurozone debt crisis. And its ongoing economic depression is highlighted by the fact that a quarter of its workforce still lines up at the unemployment office. However, there are more and more signs that things are turning around in Greece.  "Greece has been the most conspicuous example of the dramatic improvement in sentiment towards the eurozone periphery," said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy. "Markets have gone from being paranoid to complacent in a very short period of time, with the recent sell-off in developing economies playing into the hands of debt managers across the eurozone periphery." Spiro's comments come in the wake of reports that Greece will soon re-enter the bond markets after being shut out for four years. Economic contraction made the country's crushing debt load increasingly onerous to finance. "Greece, which has been bailed out twice by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund since 2010, aims to raise up to 2.5 billion euros, expects strong interest from investors and is optimistic it will succeed, one government official told Reuters on condition of anonymity," reported Reuters Alex Chambers and Lefteris Papadimas. Below is the roundtrip the Greek 10-year yield, surging to crisis-level interest rates and then collapsing to more normal levels. It even dipped below 6% earlier today for the first time in four years. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMattress repairman and fruit vendor Angelo Lopez holds a coconut and a sugar-apple in the shed which he calls his factory in LaresLARES, Puerto Rico (Reuters) - Mattress maker Angel Lopez is both a problem and an opportunity for the Puerto Rican government. His one-man business works off the books as part of a vast underground economy, which doesn't directly pay into the treasury's coffers and is a major headache for an impoverished island that is $70 billion in debt. But Lopez has dreams the island's leadership is eager to foster. He wants to open a small factory, hire a few people and register with the town of Lares - as long as the taxes and fees from going above board don't choke off his business. The Lopez dilemma is playing out across Puerto Rico, which is a U.S. territory in the Caribbean. From the western mountain town of Lares to the capital San Juan, officials are wrestling with how to bring the underground economy out of the shadows and onto the tax rolls without creating such an onerous financial burden that thousands of small and medium businesses can't survive. More than a quarter of the island's economy is informal, some studies say, from large companies evading taxes to individuals selling items for cash at roadside stands. But estimates vary widely because the activity can be so hard to track. While not new, the problem has become urgent of late. The government desperately needs to find new revenue to bolster a budget full of holes and turn around an economy now eight years in recession. It is scrambling to avoid a painful debt restructuring some view as almost inevitable. Last month's $3.5 billion bond sale bought the island some time, but precious little else, with fundamental worries about its shrinking economy still unsolved. "The government here, they want you to pay here, pay City Hall, pay the Hacienda," said Lopez, referring to the local name for the island's Treasury department. The divisions between the government and its people leave policymakers in a damned-if-you-do, damned-if-you-don't position. "This is the conundrum for the island," said Emily Raimes, lead analyst on Puerto Rico for Moody's Investors Service. "Actions that they can take to help their finances may very well be actions that hurt the economy." The Puerto Rico Department of the Treasury knows it needs to jump-start both growth and revenue, said Melba Acosta, the island's treasury secretary. But how to do both is a balancing act for policymakers. "It's the responsibility of the government to make sure that somebody who wants to establish a business doesn't feel that it's too burdensome to do so in a legal way," she told Reuters. Still, many entrepreneurs feel the costs of being legal are too big a burden, especially when conducting some or all of their business off the grid is a relative breeze. In fact, calling it the "underground economy" is a bit misleading when so much of it operates in plain sight. Puerto Rico has its share of outright illicit activity, such as drug trafficking, but the vast majority of the $15 billion a year or more of informal commerce is simply activity that would be taxable if the government cracked down on it. That covers everything from people such as Lopez, who also sells fruit to tourists, to retail chains that don't send the sales taxes they collect to the government. RINGING UP SALES, BUT NOT TAXES And it's not limited to traditional cash businesses like the retail trade. Even some professionals will accept cash only, a practice that makes it easy to hide revenue from tax collectors. In upscale Condado, a beachfront neighborhood in the capital San Juan, for instance, it is common to see doctors' offices with signs declaring cash as the only form of payment. By its nature, it is difficult to measure the informal economy's size with tremendous accuracy. Jose Villamil, a local economist and head of consultancy Estudios Tecnicos, pegs it at about 27 or 28 percent of the formal economy of about $70 billion, as measured by its 2012 gross national product, although "that's probably underestimated." Indeed, some estimates peg it closer to a third of the island economy. By contrast, the informal economy in the continental United States is estimated to account for about 19 percent of all activity, according to Prof. Richard Cebula of Jacksonville University. In 2006 the government instituted a sales tax in a bid to capture some of those informal dollars. Everybody spends, the thinking went, even people who are paid off the books and never declare their income. They still buy clothes, food, gasoline, and eat at restaurants. But local economist Gustavo Vélez says the government only gets about 56 cents of every dollar it's due from that tax, known as IVU in its Spanish acronym, based on his analysis of the tax capture rate. The government disputes that number but acknowledges that stores from big to little evade the tax. Earlier this year the owners of two local stores were charged with tax evasion for collecting more than $1 million of tax since 2009 but not forwarding it to the Treasury, according to the government. In other cases, shops simply do not collect the tax at all, keeping all their sales off the books entirely. If Puerto Rico got the IVU capture rate up to 75 percent, the government could see another $391 million a year, Vélez said, based on a total IVU intake of about $1.2 billion last year. JUNK RATINGS SPARK FEARS Puerto Rico certainly does need the money. All three major credit rating agencies slashed the island's public debt to junk status earlier this year, a move that will make borrowing more expensive. Many residents, especially the young and educated, have fled for the U.S. mainland, leaving behind an aging population with an overall poverty rate of nearly 45 percent. The island's unemployment rate is 15 percent. The administration of Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla, in office since early last year, has scrambled to get the economy humming and finances under control. Padilla has raised taxes, pledged to end years of operating deficits and overhauled retirement programs, despite union protests. "Everything that we've been passing through the legislature has been hitting directly the underground economy," said Rep. Rafael "Tatito" Hernández Montañez, who has recently sponsored bills to make it easier for the government to track businesses and figure out who is and isn't paying the required fees. The government is also pushing to enforce the laws already on its books. The Treasury is hiring about 200 more tax specialists. Some of those will be checking on the books of businesses across the island, but some will be mystery shopping - making purchases at specially selected stores without identifying themselves to check for violators. Sales tax evaders could get slapped with a maximum $20,000 fine. But $20,000 for a small business could mean a hefty chunk of revenues. That means a delicate balance for the government: Changing attitudes so that more businesses register and pay their taxes and fees, while not piling so many bills onto small businesses that they collapse. That is why the government is building exemptions into some laws for small businesses, said Rep. Montañez. It is simply fairer for everyone, he said. For now, "the people who pay taxes pay double, because they pay for themselves and for those who don't pay." A fifth of the sample in a 2008 study from the Center for a New Economy, a Puerto Rican think tank, did some informal work, even if they had a regular job. Even Angel Lopez, with his dream of a small mattress factory, is not sure just how above board he's prepared to be. If he brings his dream to fruition, he might enter his business onto the rolls as a mattress repair shop instead of a production facility making foam mattresses from scratch. That way he says he won't have to pay as much to the government. (Additional reporting by Reuters staff in Puerto Rico; Editing by Dan Burns, Ross Colvin and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
GoogleGoogle ChromecastGoogle is looking at enhancing its Chromecast streaming stick with an information dashboard for the weather, local news and personal photos. Examination of the code of a recent update to Google’s Chromecast by asjmcguire on Reddit has revealed dormant components geared up for pulling data about the local weather from the internet and displaying it in simple icon form, as well as other at-a-glance information. The current Chromecast screen, which is displayed when not streaming media or using other apps via a smartphone or computer, shows a rotating selection of images predefined by Google as well as a clock. Other snippets of dormant code in the Chromecast software hints that Google will allow users to display their own photos from their online libraries instead of the Google preselected photos. The update also brought the ability to stream YouTube live broadcasts via the Chromecast, as well as improvements to Netflix streaming. The Chromecast could see Google leverage its services such a Google News, Google Now and Calendar on a larger screen. Chromecast app developers have already started experimenting successfully with dashboard-like information screens, replacing the simplistic default Chromecast screen showing news tickers, weather and other information. “We’re always experimenting with new features, but have nothing new to announce,” said a Google spokesperson in response. • Google’s Chromecast is much more than just a streaming stick powered by the open market of Android, iPhone and Chrome apps. Here are 11 of the best. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
AEI screenshotSotheby's is not going quietly. So far in its battle to ward off activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb — who says that the company should sell assets and change its business strategy to unlock value — the auction house has made public statements, appealed to investors in letters, and instituted a poison pill. On Tuesday it took the fight a step forward and released a lengthy investor presentation arguing that Loeb and two others supported by his hedge fund, Third Point, should not join the company's board as they lack substantial experience in any businesses related to Sotheby's. The presentation also goes over Sothebys' successes as a company and its potential for growth. What's really brutal though, is its characterization of Dan Loeb as a slash and burn kind of investor. The kind that joins boards for 1 or 2 years at the most, has his way, and then leaves a company without a care. It is especially critical of his “self-interested transaction with Yahoo!”. Business Insider has rearranged the presentation to start with Sothebys' argument against Loeb and its shareholder plan — that's the juicy stuff anyway. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJPMorgan Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon speaks at the Aspen Institute's "Closing the Workforce Skills Gap" seminarPARIS (Reuters) - European banks are still lagging behind the U.S. banking industry, which has almost completely recovered from the global financial crisis, Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, told French newspaper Les Echos. "Profits may still vary for different kinds of reasons. But if you look at the equity, outstanding loans, debt capacity, you would see the (U.S.) banking system is sound," the chairman of the biggest bank in the United States by assets was quoted by the financial daily as saying. "It can now do its job: financing growth and employment. Unfortunately, Europe is not yet at the same stage." Five-and-a-half years after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the Federal Reserve said in late March that U.S. big banks have sufficient capital buffers to withstand a drastic economic downturn, announcing that 29 out of 30 major banks met the minimum hurdle in its annual health check. The European Central Bank is now probing European banks' balance sheets as part of a bigger plan to harmonize banking supervision, aiming to avert a repeat of the debt crisis which cost trillions in taxpayer bailouts. Asked if JPMorgan had turned the page in terms of legal investigations and settlements, Dimon was quoted by the newspaper as saying "the bulk of the problems are behind us". The bank agreed to around $20 billion in legal settlements in 2013. Dimon said in January that some investigations into JPMorgan were just beginning, implying that legal issues were likely to dog the bank for some time, even if on a smaller scale. (Reporting by Maya Nikolaeva; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve ParsonsThe President of Ireland Michael D. Higgins inspects the guard of honour at Windsor Castle in Windsor, southern England April 8, 2014.Good morning. Here's what you need to know. FOMC minutes. The release of the minutes from the FOMC's March 18-19 meeting at 2 PM ET will be the main event today. Market participants will be watching closely for color on the views of Committee members with regard to the economic outlook and the pace of rate hikes, especially given the market reaction to the meeting itself. "Investors blew off pretty strong JOLTS and small business confidence releases [on Tuesday] and will probably not respond to anything less than full-handed hawkishness," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "10-year Treasury yields are almost back to where they were on the eve of FOMC (helped by the S&amp;P 500 being 20 points lower), but 2-year and 5-year yields remain 5 basis points and 12 basis points higher, respectively, so there has not been a complete dissipation of the hawkish takeaway. Hence the bar for a big upward move in rates, with knock-on effects to FX, is pretty high." Talking yen. The most notable feature of Tuesday's trading session was the sharp rise in the Japanese yen. "Judging by the stronger tone of the yen yesterday, many participants have pared back their hopes for further easing on the back of the upbeat tone of the statement issued after the Bank of Japan's policy meeting yesterday and following the comments from Governor Kuroda that the BoJ is not considering additional easing right now," says Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank. "While expectations regarding further BoJ easing have become unsettled, there are no market-relevant projections regarding tapering in Japan. By contrast, the market has been nudged by the Federal Reserve into a general acceptance that QE in the U.S. will draw to a close this year and that policy tightening could follow in the second half of 2015. This policy divergence could force the yen back into the role of funding currency over the medium-term and is consistent with our view that USD/JPY will move higher in the coming months." Greece returns to market. Greece will issue €2.5 billion of 5-year notes on Thursday, marking its first issuance since before the euro crisis. "Greece has been the most conspicuous example of the dramatic improvement in sentiment towards the eurozone periphery," says Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy. "Markets have gone from being paranoid to complacent in a very short period of time, with the recent sell-off in developing economies playing into the hands of debt managers across the eurozone periphery. However, the fact that even Sri Lanka just sold 5-year debt at a yield of roughly 5% speaks volumes about the 'reach for yield' that pervades financial markets right now." Markets are quiet. U.S. stock futures are little changed this morning, and equity indices across Europe are rallying. The U.S. dollar is up about 0.3% against the Japanese yen following yesterday's big slide, and little changed against the euro. U.S. Treasuries are giving up gains ahead of today's auction and release of the March FOMC minutes. German trade. German exports fell 1.3% from the previous month in February, more than the 0.5% drop predicted by economists. Import growth slowed to 0.4% in February from 4.1% in January, but topped the consensus estimate of 0.1% growth. The trade surplus registered at €16.3 billion in February, below expectations for €17.8 billion, while the current account surplus came in at €13.9 billion, below the consensus €18 billion estimate. "This is not inconsistent with the recent survey data warning that the European locomotive was losing some momentum," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. British trade. The U.K.'s goods trade deficit narrowed to £9.1 billion in February, smaller than the £9.2 billion deficit predicted by economists. The improvement was driven by a better trade balance with non-EU countries, where the U.K.'s deficit narrowed to £2.9 billion from £3.9 billion. Alcoa earnings. Alcoa unofficially kicked off Q1 earnings reporting season on Tuesday afternoon after the closing bell with its announcement of quarterly results. The aluminum giant reported earnings of $0.09 per share, above Wall Street analysts' consensus estimate of $0.05. Revenues were $5.45 billion, below the consensus $5.56 billion estimate. Shares are more than 3% higher in pre-market trading. Mortgage apps. Mortgage applications fell 1.6% in the week through April 4, according to data released this morning by the Mortgage Bankers Association. The decline was driven by a 5% drop in refinancing applications, whereas purchase applications actually rose 3%. Wholesale trade. Monthly U.S. wholesale trade data are due out at 10 AM ET. Economists predict inventory growth slowed to 0.5% in February from the previous month following a 0.6% advance in January. Sales are expected to have risen 1% in February following a 1.9% decline in January. 10-year auction. The U.S. Treasury will auction $21 billion of 10-year notes today at 1 PM ET. "The 10s30s curve is still at a very flat level post the March FOMC meeting and the demand for duration could show up for the belly of the curve amid a struggling equity market," say interest rate strategists at Nomura. "Investors, however, will likely also note that the bullish momentum since last week’s NFP has driven the 10-year yield back to the pre-FOMC level, and that the 10-year yield currently does not look compelling, either outright or against the 7s30s curve. We would expect more concession for the auction takedowns." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHomes are seen for sale in the northwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week as refinancing slipped, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 1.6 percent in the week ended April 4. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 4.9 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 2.7 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.56 percent in the week, unchanged from the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Timothy A. ClaryFile picture shows a display of Microsoft's Xbox One in Union Square in New York Following the success of Netflix and a fresh push by Amazon in online video, the battle of the tech giants is now moving into television with Microsoft, Yahoo and AOL, among some of the latest players. These moves come as a growing number of consumers are turning away from traditional television to online services such as Netflix, and with those providers looking to draw viewers by offering new, and not just recycled programs. Inspired by Netflix's "House of Cards," a blockbuster with a reported investment of $100 million, Yahoo is seeking writers and producers for four comedy programs with per episode budgets of at least $700,000, according to The Wall Street Journal. Microsoft is also moving toward original content that can be streamed through its Xbox consoles, starting with a series produced by Steven Spielberg based on the popular "Halo" video game. A new science fiction series, "Humans," co-produced by Britain's Channel 4, is expected to debut in 2015 for Xbox viewers. "We have been overwhelmed by the interest we've received from the creative community to collaborate with us on developing unique, compelling story-telling experiences for the Xbox community," Microsoft said. Amazon, which has already seen some success with its "Alpha House," program, is now making an all-out push to expand its original offerings to ramp up its challenge to Netflix and Hulu, which also produces original programs. Amazon has given the green light to six new original programs, including a drama produced by X-Files creator Chris Carter called "The After" and a comedy with actors Gael Garcia Bernal and Malcolm McDowell, "Mozart in the Jungle." A new device for streaming to television sets, called Amazon Fire TV, may further help Amazon in its bid to draw viewers. The company said this week that the number of its video streams tripled year over year, overtaking both Apple and Hulu in streaming video usage. "We've invested hundreds of millions of dollars in great TV shows and movies for Prime members and it's working," said Bill Carr, Amazon's vice president for digital video and music. "And now, with Fire TV, customers have the easiest way to access this content." Sony is getting in on the act as well, in a move that seems to undercut its Hollywood studio operations. The company's PlayStation Network is commissioning its first original drama series called "Powers," based on a comic book of the same name, combining the genres of superhero fantasy, crime noir and police drama. AOL, looking to find a new niche, is extending four original programs, including one on the world of ballet in New York produced by actress Sarah Jessica Parker. "The success these series have seen is on par with top-tier cable programs reaching sizable audiences who are highly engaged, making them incredibly attractive for advertisers and establishing a viable alternative to place dollars," says Charles Gabriel, an AOL executive for global video sales. "We have seen a strong response from top brands looking to reach consumers they may be missing on TV." Analysts say the potential ad revenues are also being eyed by Yahoo, which had to abandon a bid for the video website Dailymotion. Google is a major player in streaming through its YouTube unit. But instead of producing shows on its own, YouTube allows others to create their own channels. Because of this, Google gets the largest share on online video ad dollars, or 20.4 percent of the total, according to research firm eMarketer. The big tech firms may be able to capture ad dollars if they have the right content, according to a report by Pivotal Research. "Advertisers are willing to spend more significant budgets intended for TV on online video, but they need comparable quality content," the analysts said. "Real TV dollars have not moved to online video in any meaningful way largely because content from digital media companies has not been comparable (in the eyes of an advertiser) to that which is produced by a traditional media company." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
ToyotaTOKYO (Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp said on Wednesday it would recall 6.39 million vehicles globally for faults affecting various parts ranging from steering to seats in the company's second-largest recall to date. The world's biggest automaker said it was not aware of any crashes or injuries caused by the glitches, which were found in 27 Toyota models including the RAV4 SUV and Yaris subcompact. Toyota said faults were also found in the Pontiac Vibe and the Subaru Trezia, two models the automaker built for General Motors andFuji Heavy Industries. The automaker did not say how much the recall would cost and it was not clear if the faults stemmed fromToyota's suppliers or its manufacturing process. "We sincerely apologize to our customers for the inconvenience and concern brought by this recall announcement," Toyota added in a statement. Large scale recalls have become more common in recent years as automakers move to fix defects quickly after Toyota was forced to recall more than 9 million vehicles to address sticky accelerators linked to fatal accidents. That recall, which forced Toyota President Akio Toyoda to testify in U.S. Congress, weighed heavily on the company's sales and reputation, culminating in a record $1.2 billion settlement agreed only last month, with more private lawsuits still pending. Toyota said some 3.5 million vehicles were being recalled to replace a spiral cable that could be damaged when the steering wheel is turned, causing the air bag to fail to activate in the event of a crash. About half of those vehicles, produced between April 2004 and December 2010, are in North America. Another 2.32 million three-door models made between January 2005 and August 2010 are being recalled to check the rails that could cause the seat to slide forward in a crash. The other recalls are for faulty steering column brackets, windshield wiper motors and engine starters, Toyotasaid. The 6.39 million vehicle recall is the largest announced on a single day for Toyota since October 2012, when it called back 7.43 million Yaris, Corolla and other models to fix faulty power window switches. It also comes as rival GM is under investigation for failing for years to act on a known ignition switch defect linked to a dozen deaths. The company has recalled 1.6 million vehicles over the issue. Chrysler also said last week it was recalling nearly 870,000 sport utility vehicles to fix a brake problem. (Reporting by Andreas Cremer in Berlin, Laurence Frost in Paris and Chang-Ran Kim in Tokyo; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Izabella Kaminska Here's an incredible photo of London taken by FT ace Izabella Kaminska from outside the FT towers. Pretty sure there are at least 11 cranes in this picture. Possibly 12. It's a nice visual description of a phenomenon taking place around the world: In major international cities, money is flooding into real estate as the global super-wealthy park more of their assets into real estate. And since prices are going ballistic in London, it only makes sense that tons more supply is hitting the market. UPDATE: Izabella has kindly sent over an even crazier panoramic photo with more cranes. Check out how many there are on the left. Izabella Kaminska FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA protester stands in front of the parliament during an anti-government rally outside the parliament in AthensPIRAEUS, Greece (Reuters) - Nikos Mavrikos has fired half of his employees since 2010 as the Greek economy imploded, leaving his ship supply business on the verge of collapse. February marked a turning point, however: Mavrikos made a hire, his first in four years. "People are slowly starting to trust Greece again," says Mavrikos, who hopes to take on even more employees soon at his family-owned business. Greece is experiencing a remarkable financial recovery. Just two years ago, the country was expected to default and exit the euro, possibly setting off a messy unraveling of the entire currency bloc. Today, after a tough regime of layoffs, wage cuts and reductions in government spending, factories are beginning to hum again, Greeks are starting to buy cars and other products again and the country is being courted in financial markets. The government is looking to the end of a tough international emergency aid program at the end of the year. On Tuesday, Greece sold six-month Treasury bills at the cheapest borrowing cost since 2010. Most of the buyers were foreign. It is planning a return to the international bond markets for the first time in four years on Thursday, with the sale of a five-year euro bond. "The image of Greece abroad has changed dramatically. Now the sentiment is changing in Greece as well," Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras told Reuters in an interview last week. "We are now at the edge where unemployment has stopped rising, no more people are being fired, and there are some very positive indications of new hires." For all the green shoots, it is too early to talk about long-term economic stability. Thousands of businesses closed across Greece last year. Unemployment is at a record of nearly 28 percent, and large numbers of Greece's 20- and 30-somethings have lost precious years of early employment that are likely to hamper their work and earnings potential for the rest of their lives. Strikes against austerity continue. Greece's debt is still a massive 175 percent of economic output, and meeting a target to reduce that to 110 percent by 2020 will be difficult without economic growth. In its latest report on Greece last November, the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said the country's international bailout had not yet led to a true economic recovery. "Restoring growth, making it sustainable and dealing with social costs are essential," the OECD said. According to James Howat, an analyst at London-based Capital Economics, despite the fall in borrowing costs, direct investment flows remain weak - suggesting longer-term investors are not yet convinced by the first signs of economic recovery. Mimis Vanos, who runs one of the biggest marine supply companies in Greece, has like his colleague Mavrikos seen an uptick in demand. But he says the problems that have plagued Greece's economy for decades - including widespread corruption, tax evasion and barriers to competition across industrial sectors - haven't been solved. Vanos also says bank credit remains extremely tight. "For the last 50 years I've been hearing that things are changing in Greece," said Vanos. "I'll believe it when I see it. Greece's economy is the most dependent on bank lending in the euro zone, with bank credit to the private sector making up 40 percent of total funding in 2000-2008 compared to 33 percent across the single currency bloc. But bank credit to the private sector has been in decline since 2011, aggravating the country's six-year economic slump. Prospects of a mild economic recovery this year will largely depend on new lending. According to the latest Bank of Greece data, in February lending to the private sector shrank 4 percent year-on-year, while loans to businesses dropped 5.2 percent year-on-year. The port of Piraeus - one of the busiest tourism ports in Europe - has long been a benchmark of the wider Greek economy. It is a hub for Greece's vibrant tourist business and the transport of goods between Asia and Europe. Yet marine supply firms, many of which are small and family-run, have suffered brutally during the economic crisis. Lending from the stricken banking sector dried up, leaving many firms starved of cash even though the shipping business, which accounts for 5 percent of Greece's overall economic output, held up better than many other sectors. The Hellenic Ship Suppliers Association said 40 percent of its members had gone out of business since 2010 when Greece's economic disaster began to unfold. For ship suppliers, problems began when insurers that cover exporters against the risk of not getting paid, started tightening the terms for business with Greece in mid-2012. That forced exporters to clamp down on credit, often demanding cash on delivery or upfront. Short of cash, Greek importers had to place smaller staggered orders which pushed up delivery costs. At the height of Greece's economic crisis, it was impossible for firms to order anything on credit, forcing them to burn through cash reserves to pay upfront. "In the beginning companies gave you credit, then that stopped. Then they wanted bank guarantees, but then that stopped too because they didn't trust the Greek banking system," says Mavrikos, whose firm supplies drinks, food and tobacco to ferries, cruise and cargo ships. He says he had no choice but to lay off nearly half of his 40 employees. Things began to shift towards the end of 2013, however. Last year, passenger traffic in Piraeus rose 11.1 percent from 2012, and there was a 3.7 percent increase in container ships on the Asia-Europe route. Greek supplies to EU-flagged ships improved considerably, says Nikos Archontis, from the Panhellenic Exporters Association. Now, says Mavrikos, the foreign businesses from which he buys most of his stock are accepting bank guarantees. "That's given us breathing space. It means we can import goods, we can pay our bills." More good news could lie ahead for the port. Last year, China's largest bulk shipper, COSCO Holdings, agreed to a multimillion euro deal to expand its container operations at Piraeus. That deal is expected to increase the port's cargo handling capacity by two thirds in the next seven years. On a recent afternoon, Vanos' warehouse was bustling. His company mainly supplies tankers, container ships and gas carriers from countries such as China, Panama and Liberia. For his stock, he in turn buys flour and pasta from Turkey, canned fish from Malaysia and meat from Brazil. Vanos says his inward and outward business has picked up in recent months. "Ships that had never sailed to Greece before are starting to arrive," he said, as truckloads of food, alcohol, brooms and maps were being prepared for dispatch to ships at Piraeus. Yet Vanos says the Achilles Heel of the Greek economy remains tight credit. "Before the crisis, banks would approve the amount we asked for in a week. For the last three years, they haven't given us a cent," he says. "Until the bank tells me 'take the money you need,' nothing has changed." ($1 = 0.7291 euros) (Editing by Alessandra Galloni and Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Lee This is an important stat: There's been a 90% plunge in exports of shark fins from Hong Kong to mainland China. Shark fin soup has long been considered a Chinese delicacy, but in recent years there's been a pretty big campaign to discourage its consumption on account of cruelty to animals. But the moral argument against shark fin soup is only part of the story. One of the primary campaigns by Chinese President Xi Jinping is to crack down on ostentatious consumption by party leaders, as part of an anti-corruption drive. Last year, the government tried to ban official extravagance, a move that hurt many luxury companies and banquet halls. And so the shark fin plunge is a story about that as well. Attempts to prevent Chinese officials from eating extravagantly and accepting expensive gifts is clearly working. FREE AppDownload
Here's a good sign that the jobs market continues to improve. Yesterday we got the March JOLTS report, which measures things like the level of "quits" in the economy (people quitting their job voluntarily). It showed a big spike in people leaving food service work. For the first time in a long time, 4% of accommodation and food service workers quit in one month. Higher quits are good news. Quits mean people are feeling confident that they can get another job. Or they have a job lines up. Accommodation and food service quits, it stands to reason, are a particularly good sign, since people would only quit a fast food job for something that likely pays significantly better.  Matt Busigin created this chart comparing these quits (blue line) to wage growth. Not surprisingly, over the last decade, as the quits have risen, wage growth has followed right behind, as workers move up and demand more. FRED FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Christie'sHONG KONG (Reuters) - A painting that was auctioned for HK$28.8 million ($3.7 million) two days ago has gone missing, police said, with media reports on Wednesday suggesting cleaners may have inadvertently thrown the artwork out. The 2012 painting "Snowy Mountain", by Chinese artist Cui Ruzhuo, was reported missing by Chinese auctioneers Poly Auction on Tuesday afternoon after the auction on Monday, police told Reuters. Ming Pao newspaper reported that police had checked CCTV footage at the Grand Hyatt hotel, where the auction took place, which showed cleaners removing the painting. That raised fears that the painting had been sent out with the garbage to the city's landfill. Poly Auction Hong Kong was not immediately available for comment. Police could not confirm the media report about the painting being thrown out. Gladis Young, director of communications at the Grand Hyatt hotel, said hotel staff were not involved because organizers of events involving valuable items usually hired external staff to deal with security and handling goods. On Tuesday, a rare Ming Dynasty 'chicken cup' broke world auction records for Chinese porcelain after it sold for HK$281.2 million ($36.3 million) at a Sotheby's sale in Hong Kong, exceeding the $32.4 million paid for a Qing double-gourd vase in 2010. ($1 = 7.7550 Hong Kong Dollars) (Reporting By Alice Woodhouse; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley is out with a new note explaining some secular headwinds for Coca-Cola, and the problem couldn't be more clear. People are just drinking less and less soda. There really isn't much mystery to it. Some of it probably has to do with the well-known awareness about sugar and its health affects. And some of it has to do with the rise of alternatives, like energy drinks. These two charts tell the tale of the tpe. Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley Bad news for Coke. Good news for American waistlines. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe driver of a Toyota Yaris car is reflected in a mirror as he drives along a main road in central BeijingTOKYO (Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; will recall 6.58 million vehicles globally to fix faults in the steering and seats, a company draft statement showed on Wednesday, in one of the largest recalls to date in the global auto industry. The world's biggest automaker is recalling certain Yaris, Urban Cruiser, RAV4 and Hilux models after identifying faults in the steering column, wiring harnesses and seat railings of 1,058 vehicles. The Yaris is also sold as the Vitz and the Urban Cruiser under the Scion brand as the xA. The recall tally was preliminary and subject to review until a formal announcement in Japan later on Wednesday, a Toyota representative said. The recall covers models of the Yaris subcompact and Urban Cruiser SUVs assembled between January 2005 and August 2010 as well as RAV4 SUVs and Hilux compact pickups made between June 2004 and December 2010, Toyota said in the statement. It said 825,000 of the affected vehicles were in Europe but that it was not aware of any accidents related to these faults. It was not immediately clear if the faults were due to design or manufacturing issues. (Reporting by Andreas Cremer in Berlin, Laurence Frost in Paris and Chang-Ran Kim in Tokyo; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoAn employee of a foreign exchange trading company works in front of monitors displaying the Japanese yen's exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (R), and the Japanese yen's exchange rate against Euro in Tokyo December 19, 2013.Good morning! The Japanese stock market is standing out as the ugliest market in the world right now. The Nikkei fell 2.1% in Wednesday trading. It's now tumbled significantly for three straight days, even as the other global markets have seen some stabilization. One factor weighing on Japan was a major Toyota recall affecting 6.4 million vehicles. The company says it is aware of no deaths associated with the mechanical issues. The stock dropped 3%. Other than tht, markets are mostly quiet. US futures are totally flat. German stocks and the UK are up a little bit. The big event in the US today will be the FOMC, which will shed more light on the first meeting under Janet Yellen.  FREE AppDownload
