Wikimedia CommonsNEW YORK (Reuters) - Fund investors worldwide poured $6.6 billion into stock funds in the week ended January 22 on optimism that stocks would push higher this year, data from a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research report showed on Friday. The new demand brought inflows into stock funds so far this year to $16 billion, following a record inflow of $358 billion in 2013, according to the report, which also cited data from fund-tracking firm EPFR Global. The inflows came even as the benchmark Standard &amp; Poor's 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; stock index fell a modest 0.2 percent over the holiday-shortened week on some disappointing corporate earnings. The U.S. stock market was closed Monday for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. "If you get a pullback, that's a natural time for people who have been wanting to buy to step in," said Michael Jones, chief investment officer of RiverFront Investment Group, with $4.3 billion in assets. The S&amp;P 500 index hit record highs last year and rallied nearly 30 percent, but some analysts believe the market may rally further this year. Still, the inflows into stock funds were below the prior week's inflows of $9.4 billion. The earlier inflows were largely a result of a $6.5 billion cash surge into stock mutual funds, which are commonly purchased by retail investors. Funds that specialize in European stocks attracted $4.3 billion, marking their 30th straight week of inflows. Some investors have said the region's stocks offer buying opportunities after data last August showed the region exited a 1-1/2 year-long recession. Investors also parked $30 billion in low-risk money market funds, which typically invest in safe short-term securities, marking their largest inflows in 7 weeks. Investors likely sought money market funds partly on the weakness in stock markets, said Jonathan Lewis, chief investment officer of Samson Capital Advisors, which oversees over $7 billion. Precious metals funds attracted small inflows of $33 million, marking their first inflows in 19 weeks. Those came even as the spot price of gold slipped about 1 percent on January 21, the most since the start of the year. Emerging market stock funds, meanwhile, posted outflows of $2.4 billion, marking their biggest outflows in five weeks. The outflows marked a 13th straight week of withdrawals from the funds, the longest outflow streak in 11 years, according to the report. MSCI's emerging markets equities index &lt;.MSCIEF&gt; fell 0.2 percent over the weekly period. "There is a recognition that there are some real problems at the heart of some major emerging market economies," said Jones of RiverFront. He said investors feared a continued economic slowdown in Russia, Brazil, and China. Bond funds worldwide attracted $2 billion, bringing inflows this year to $8 billion. Funds that hold high-yield bonds, which are considered risky since they have lower-quality credit ratings, attracted $1 billion of the new money, marking their fifth straight week of inflows. Investors also had an appetite for safer bonds. Funds that hold higher-quality investment-grade corporate bonds attracted $1.6 billion, marking their fifth straight week of inflows, while funds that mainly hold safe-haven U.S. Treasuries attracted a small $200 million in new cash. The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes fell just 2 basis points to 2.86 percent throughout the week after economic data on U.S. housing starts, industrial output, and inflation came in as expected. Bond yields move inversely to their prices. The latest inflows follow bond outflows of $91 billion in 2013 after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke signaled last May that the Fed would begin reducing its bond-buying stimulus program, resulting in price losses on bonds and withdrawals from bond funds. "As we enter 2014, the bond market is oversold," said Lewis of Samson Capital. "I think rebalancing is natural." (Reporting by Sam Forgione; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriTrader Peter Tuchman smiles as he works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after the market opening in New York, December 23, 2013. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Corporate America is rapidly healing one of the last wounds suffered in the 2008 financial crisis. Large companies' pension plans are reporting among their best returns on record in 2013, dramatically closing funding gaps that had opened up because of losses in the 2008-2009 stock market collapse, and as government bond yields sank. All told, companies in the S&amp;P 500 saw an aggregate improvement of more than $300 billion in their pension plans, a gain that brought assets to around 93 percent of expected obligations, according to International Strategy &amp; Investment, a New York research firm. That is a robust recovery from 2008, when they hit an all-time low of only 70.5 percent. For investors, the performance of corporate pension plans is a small but under-appreciated side effect of the bull market that has now lasted for nearly five years. It will free up corporate cash for dividends, stock buybacks, and new investments, while helping to drive earnings growth, which could give a further nudge up to stock prices, analysts say. Some companies may also see upgrades to their bond ratings, lowering their future borrowing costs. David Zion, an analyst at ISI who co-authored the report, estimates that the strong performance of pension plans will save companies in the S&amp;P 500 a total of $26 billion in the current fiscal year, resulting in a 1.6 percent boost for the 2014 earnings per share of the index. Analysts tracked by Thomson Reuters currently expect earnings per share to rise 10.7 percent this year. The benefits mostly accrue to older industrial companies, or those who were traditionally unionized, as some of their workers and many of their retirees tend to have the more generous defined-benefit plans that are directly funded by the companies. The newer technology and service companies, who tend to rely on 401K plans that are largely the responsibility of workers to fund, are mostly not affected. Some companies reporting their fourth-quarter earnings in the past few days have already said their results are benefiting from reduced pension costs. Business jet manufacturer Textron Inc, for instance, saw its shares jump to a five-year high Wednesday after its earnings beat analyst estimates. Along with a rebound in the business jet market, the company is riding the performance of its pension plan. In 2010, it contributed about $417 million to the plan as its funding ratio fell to 77 percent, while in 2014, it expects to contribute just $80 million - a decline of nearly 81 percent. And now its pension plan is funded at an estimated 101 percent level, according to ISI. The same day, AT&amp;T Inc said it expects to record a pre-tax gain of about $7.6 billion in the fourth quarter from its pensions and post-employment benefit plans. A day earlier, Verizon Communications Inc reported fourth-quarter 2013 earnings of $5.07 billion, $3.7 billion of which was due to increases in the value of its pension and other benefit plans. "These kind of cost-savings over a three-to-four year span don't happen often," said Eugene Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Asset Management, referring to the decline in pension costs at companies since the end of 2009. "This is going to provide a tailwind to earnings for 2014 that hasn't been there lately," he said. The gains have largely come from the stock market. The S&amp;P 500 soared 32.4 percent, including dividends, last year, and has climbed nearly 170 percent since its low in 2009. In addition, the so-called discount rate - which serves as a proxy for the interest rate a company could expect on a bond today to fund its future obligations - increased as the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose off of historic lows in the second half of last year. A higher discount rate means that companies do not have to contribute as much to pension plans. Gains in defined benefit plans had an impact on many S&amp;P 500 companies in 2013, ISI analyst Zion said. Only 58 companies in the S&amp;P 500 now have pensions that are less than 80 percent funded, compared with 197 a year ago, and some recorded pension gains that totaled more than 10 percent of their market caps. United States Steel Corp, for instance, saw its pension assets rise more than $1 billion (not including the company's contributions), an improvement that brought its pension plan to a 92 percent funded level. The gain was the equivalent of almost 31 percent of its market value at the end of 2012 of $3.4 billion. The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co, Northrop Grumman Corp and Owens-Illinois Corp saw gains of 15 percent or more of their end-2012 market caps. Because most Wall Street analysts typically focus more on a company's ongoing business than its pension obligations, those cost savings could result in earnings surprises, Zion said. US Steel, for example, should see a benefit of 74 cents in earnings per share directly from the improvement in its pension funding, a level that amounts to 65 percent of consensus estimates of $1.15 per share for 2013, Zion said. Alcoa Inc, meanwhile, should get a pension benefit of 16 cents per share, a level that equates to 40 percent of consensus estimates of 41 cents per share. It is unclear how much of the benefit has already been factored into those earnings estimates by analysts. To be sure, few investors say they would invest in a company simply because its pension costs are falling. For example, Matthew Kaufler, a co-manager of the $1 billion Federated Clover Value Fund, has held a position in Macy's Inc for several years. He was pleased to see the department store chain announced on January 8 that it had decided to forgo a $150 million contribution to its pension plan in the fourth quarter because of better-than-expected returns. The pension plan savings "was a positive but in the list of positives it was not at the top," Kaufler said. "People fundamentally want Macy's to sell lots of clothes and home goods. That's what drives the business, not the pension plan performance." But higher funding levels do make these companies seem safer bets over the long run because it means their balance sheets look better, portfolio managers say. "For so many of these companies, the magnitude of the downturn was so great that they were kicked in the shins," said Scott Lawson, an analyst who works on the $178 million Westwood LargeCap Value Fund. "Now, with the plans back to their prior funding levels, it lowers the risk profile." Several companies are heading into 2014 with pensions plans that are in dramatically better shape than a year ago. Harley Davidson Inc, for example, saw a 36 percentage point gain, to 118 percent of obligations, in its funding levels over the past twelve months, according to ISI estimates. Yet despite the gains in pension assets, companies may still face some risk in the long-term, analysts say. Any sudden reversal in the stock market is one concern. Workers living longer is another. A 60-year old worker who retires today is expected to live 26.7 years longer on average, a 1.8-year improvement over previous lifespan estimates released by the Society of Actuaries in 2000. That nearly two year increase will result in a 6 percent increase in pension obligations, said Karin Franceries, an executive director at J.P. Morgan Asset Management. In the past, companies often cited overfunding as a reason to terminate their pension plans. More recently, companies such as General Motors Co and Ford Motor Co, cut their pension risks by offloading their plans onto insurance companies, which then offer annuities to plan participants. Now, though, many companies may find it more attractive to keep their own plans, said Zorast Wadia, a principal at actuarial consulting firm Milliman, which produces an annual study of pension funding. Insurance companies typically want plans to have a funding rate of 115 percent or more before they will take on their risks, Wadia said. "A lot of these companies are going to find it's cheaper to keep (it)," Wadia said, referring to the pension plans. Equities now typically make up about 40 percent of plan assets, though some companies, such as Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc, had as much as 72 percent of pension plan assets in stocks as recently as 2012. "These plan sponsors are coming off the best year in their careers, and I expect many of them are going to be happy to take some risk off the table," Wadia said. It may be the final paradox of a 2013 market rally that few saw coming: stocks have helped pension plans so much that they decide to sell them and buy bonds instead. (Reporting by David Randall; Editing by Linda Stern, Martin Howell and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip East Traffic on the Garden State ParkwayNew Jersey has now taken the top spot among states that saw net outbound moves for three of the past four years, according to United Van Lines.  The Garden State registered 63.5% of its total moves as outbound, compared with just 36.5% inbound. The trend predates Superstorm Sandy, which hit in October 2012. United's data show Jersey has been in the top 3 since at least 2006 — and in fact has seen net outbound moves each of the past 37 years.  Here’s Jersey’s “outbound” migration ranking history for the past few years – 2013 – 12012 – 12011 – 22010 – 12009 – 32008 – 32007 – 32006 – 3 Illinois and New York came in second and third for greatest percentage of outbound moves in 2013. Here's the full map: United Van Lines FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWarren Buffett, Jamie Dimon fan.On Friday we learned Jamie Dimon got a raise. Dimon will now receive $20 million in compensation for his 2013 performance — a 74% pay raise from his 2012 compensation package. BI's Linette Lopez offered an analysis this afternoon of what Dimon's raise was all about: board members believed Dimon aced negotiations with Washington over the Justice Department's lawsuits stemming from the financial crisis. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal's Anupreeta Das, Warren Buffett says Dimon is not getting paid enough. “If I owned J.P. Morgan Chase, he would be running it and he would be making more money than the directors are paying him,” he told her. Buffett has publicly defended Dimon previously, and said he personally owns JPM shares. Buffett added that the firm was a “huge plus to the American financial system” during the financial crisis “If Jamie decides he wants to make more money, all he has to do is call me and I’d hire him at Berkshire,” Buffett said. Anyway, click here to read Das' full story » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ints KalninsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Russ Koesterich: Despite Popular Belief Gold Is Not The Best Safe Haven (BlackRock)  After the S&amp;P 500 returned 30% in 2013, many expect the stock market to see a correction this year. For those antsy investors looking for safe haven investments, BlackRock's Russ Koesterich pointed to how these assets performed in periods of high financial markets stress in the last 20 years, as compared with the broader stock market. "Contrary to popular belief, gold may not be the best performing safe-haven option, at least based on an analysis by David Wang, a researcher on my Investment Strategy Group team," he wrote. "…Based on David’s analysis, though all of the safe havens examined outperformed the broad equity market during the high stress periods, they didn’t outperform equally. The 10-year U.S. Treasury was the best performing safe haven on a risk-adjusted basis, followed by 10-year German Bunds, 10-year U.K. Gilts, yen and gold, as the chart below shows."  Koesterich for his part doesn't think stocks are in bubble territory yet and thinks that in the absence of an external shock, they could still rise this year. He also said that "during periods of normal market performance when uncertainty isn’t high, safe havens tend to underperform the equity market." BlackRock Why You Shouldn't Let Calendar Tricks Alter Your Investment Decisions (Vanguard)  Vanguard is reminding clients that it's important be cautious when considering past returns with caution when gauging future returns. This is because this can be "highly date-dependent." "For example, take the five-year average annual return for the broad U.S. stock market, as measured by the Russell 3000 Index. That average just made a startling bounce: from 2.04% for the period ended December 31, 2012, to 18.71% for the period ended December 31, 2013."  "True, the market returned a hearty 33.55% in the most recent 12 months, but that's not enough to explain such a big leap in the average. Significantly, the 12 months ended December 31, 2008—when U.S. stocks returned –37.31% during the financial crisis—has now rolled off the five-year calculation." This is why the thinks investors should always pick asset allocation strategies based on their long term goals and risk tolerance. Gary Cohn: One Of The Risks I'm Concerned About Is Something We Need To Get Used To (Bloomberg TV) Goldman Sachs president and chief operating officer (COO) Gary Cohn spoke with Bloomberg TV's Erik Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle at the World Economic Forum in Davos. While he doesn't say if he thinks investors are too bullish he did point out one key risk he sees. "I don't know if people are too bullish or not. But I'm gonna remind you of a conversation we had last time I was on the air with you. I said, look, something that I was concerned about - one of my risks - is liquidity. I said one of the things that is coming out of the market as we continue to regulate markets, we continue to increase capital charges -- you've seen all of the banks withdraw balance sheet, withdraw risk-weighted assets from the market . We need to get used to seeing more and more moves like this. This is just a natural evolution of where markets are headed." FINRA Is Developing A Rule Change That Would Restrict The Practice Of Expunging Brokers' Records (Investment News)   In a letter to Jack Reed and Charles E. Grassley, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) chief Richard Ketchum said the regulator is working on a rule that would prevent brokers from demanding that their transgressions be wiped off their records. Based on the findings of the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association (PIABA), FINRA said it is "developing rule changes that would prohibit the practice of conditioning settlements on an investor's agreement not to oppose expungement." "While the suggestion to include such conditions in exchange for additional compensation does not always originate with the brokerage firm or broker, this practice may interfere with arbitrators' ability to independently determine the appropriateness of expungement and make the requisite affirmative finding.” The letter is dated January 6 but was released today. The 'Fear Gauge' Is Saying The Sell-Off In The Stock Market May Be Over (Dave Lutz)  The VIX is a popular measure of volatility and is also known as the 'fear gauge'. A development in the derivatives market for the VIX suggests the sell-off we've seen in the stock market over the last two trading sessions could be ending. Near-term VIX futures are now more expensive than long-term VIX futures which suggests that traders expect volatility in the future to be lower than it is now, according to Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus. Stifel Nicolaus, Bloomberg   FREE AppDownload
FandangoWHEN some of Hollywood’s biggest studios were pitched a film based on a book series in which young people fight to the death at the behest of a totalitarian government, they passed on it. Bad call. Lionsgate, a fast-growing independent studio, grabbed it, and five years later "The Hunger Games" is one of the most successful film franchises in cinema history. Like the films’ heroine, Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence, pictured), Lionsgate has achieved a level of success no one predicted. American box-office figures for 2013 are now in, and they show that the second "Hunger Games" film helped Lionsgate to overtake Paramount and Fox (see table). Other than the surviving six "majors", all dating from the age of Gloria Swanson and Rudy Valentino, the young challenger, founded only 17 years ago in Canada, is the only studio to have grossed more than $1 billion in a year, as it did in 2012 and 2013. Until recently Lionsgate was best known for its cheap but profitable horror and "genre" flicks, such as the gory "Saw" series and comedies featuring Tyler Perry, a black man who impersonates an old lady. In 2011 it fought off Carl Icahn, an activist investor, who had waged a three-year campaign to oust Lionsgate’s leaders and merge it with MGM, a legendary studio that had long lost its roar. Lionsgate has risen by melding risk aversion with serious ambition. Jon Feltheimer, its boss, and Michael Burns, its dealmaking vice-chairman, have made a series of wise transactions, most notably a 2003 merger with Artisan Entertainment, which had a big film library, and the 2012 takeover of Summit Entertainment, another independent studio, for about $413m. Summit brought into Lionsgate’s den the "Twilight" franchise, an extraordinarily lucrative film series about a love affair between a brunette and a vampire. Since then Lionsgate’s market capitalisation has more than tripled, to over $4.1 billion. Lionsgate’s television unit, which brings in about one-seventh of its revenues, has also had a run of hits, from "Mad Men", about 1960s advertising folk, to "Nashville", a tale of country-music stars. Its bosses want to keep expanding the TV side until it is about a third of the entire business. Unlike the old Hollywood majors, it has no studio backlot: its offices are in a dull office block in Santa Monica. It licenses out most of the international rights to its films in advance, and thus it usually has no more than $15m at stake in films that may cost several times as much to shoot. This protects it against catastrophic losses like those that sank past challengers to the Hollywood majors (such as United Artists when "Heaven’s Gate" flopped in 1980). However, it also limits Lionsgate’s upside when its films do well abroad. Lionsgate is lean, with only 550 or so employees compared with around 10,000 at Warner Bros. That means quicker decisions, and less chance that good ideas get stuck in "development hell". The lemming-like majors all shove their blockbusters onto the market simultaneously in the summer holidays and at Christmas; Lionsgate slips out releases at times when punters are less overwhelmed with choice. It has been bolder than its rivals at releasing films for "on-demand" home viewing at the same time as they open in the cinemas: it did so with "Margin Call" and "Arbitrage", two tales about dodgy financiers. The majors are nowadays all part of large conglomerates, but Lionsgate has no sugar-daddy to run to if it hits hard times. However, its independence has also freed it to pursue opportunities others might neglect. Kevin Beggs, the boss of Lionsgate’s TV business, calls it "the Switzerland of television: we look everywhere, and we don’t have a conflict." Other studios were slower to make programmes for Netflix and similar digital firms, because their parent companies owned broadcast networks and big cable channels that could be threatened by such services, says Alan Gould of Evercore, an investment bank. Other studios are all doing, with varying degrees of success, some of what Lionsgate has been doing. They are investing in expensive, special-effect-laden "franchise" films featuring familiar characters: Lionsgate’s recent hits are proof that Hollywood is now a franchise business, says David Ellison, the boss of Skydance Productions, a film-financing company. They are also expanding their television sides, to offset the lumpiness of earnings from films. And some are, like Lionsgate, seeking to hedge risks. One way to do this is to sell stakes in big-budget productions to outside firms and wealthy individuals, the "modern Medicis", in the words of Amir Malin of Qualia Capital, a private-equity firm. With more "Hunger Games" films to come, analysts expect big profits for Lionsgate through to 2017. Some worry that it may then run out stardust. So Lionsgate needs to keep looking for new franchises. Mr Feltheimer hopes that "Divergent", a book adaptation about a society that categorises citizens into different groups, could be its next mother lode. He will know in March, when its first film is released. But blockbusters’ ability to bust blocks is as unpredictable as ever. Lionsgate had great expectations for "Ender’s Game", a military sci-fi film, but it grossed only $112m worldwide, barely covering its $110m production budget, let alone the marketing costs. It is in the nature of Hollywood that unknowns rise rapidly to fame, only to burn out. A young studio can keep costs lean in the beginning, but when it hits a high, it becomes harder to plead poverty to actors and directors asking for more money. Look at New Line Cinema, founded in 1967, and latterly the "indy" division of Warner Bros. It rose in the 1980s, and went on to claim hits like the "Lord of the Rings" film trilogy, but it overstretched and spent too much on films that no one much wanted to see. Diverse revenue streams can help insulate failures, but do not insure against them. As Katniss Everdeen and any film fan knows, one can win one "Hunger Games" only to be thrown back in, and be forced to fight another round. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipWake up call? The market declined significantly in the face of the unexpected drop in the Chinese Purchasing Managers Index, following closely on the heels of China’s declining GDP growth and potentially serious credit problems.  According to HSBC, China faces a cash shortage in its financial system, creating a dilemma for the Chinese leadership that is focused on rebalancing the economy and reining in credit.  The market’s decline was on target, as the disappointments cast doubt on the widespread consensus of recovering global growth.  Without the impetus from the Chinese growth engine, the global economy cannot recover and is likely to fall into recession.  This is particularly true since U.S. economic growth has still not reached “escape velocity” at a time when the Fed seems set to wind down Quantitative Easing (QE) by year-end. While the stock market seems to have accepted the prospect of an end to QE, the rationale for the continuation of the bull market has shifted to a belief in accelerating growth in the economy and in corporate earnings, both globally and domestically.  For the last few years the market was able to accept tepid growth on the grounds that QE would provide enough liquidity to move stocks ahead.  But without the prospect of continuing boosts to liquidity, tepid growth is no longer enough, and, unfortunately, it looks as if that is the most we are likely to get. Despite the belief of most strategists and economists that the U.S. economy is picking up steam, it is far from evident in the data.  Examination of the evidence indicates to us that the economy is still not at a point where we can conclude that growth is now self-sustaining in the new world of Fed tapering. Where is the so-called consumer resurgence? Year-over-year real retail sales were up 4.1% in December, compared to an increase of 5.2% in the year ended December 2012 and 6.2% in December 2011.  Similarly, overall consumer spending increased 1.2% in the year ended November 2013 compared to 2.1% in the year ended November 2012.  Anecdotal information from retailors does not indicate much of a pickup, if any, in December.  And remember that consumer spending accounts for about 70% of GDP.  These results should not be surprising, since real disposable income was up only 0.6% year-over-year in the latest reported period. In the same vein, payroll employment increased 1.62% in the year ended December 2013, compared to 1.65% and 1.62%, respectively, in the two prior year periods.  In addition, according to Factset’s survey of analysts, U.S. companies planned to increase capital spending 1.2% in 2014, the lowest level in four years.  In our view, the economy is still stuck in the same tepid 2% growth rate that has characterized the last three years.  Sometimes it has been over that rate and sometimes under, but has never broken out to a point where it is evident that it has achieved “escape velocity”. Without much global and U.S. economic growth, corporate earnings increases are likely to be subdued as well.  With revenue growth mediocre throughout the cycle, earnings growth has been propelled largely by stock buybacks and cost reductions as corporations have been reluctant to spend on labor or plant and equipment. But opportunities for further cost cutting are rapidly diminishing, placing greater reliance on more robust revenue increases.  However, corporate guidance so far for 2014 seems quite cautious, and we would not bet on this happening. Overall, it seems to us that investors have been overly optimistic about the economy and corporate earnings, and are about to be disappointed.  The data from China should not be taken lightly, and the U.S. economy, contrary to prevailing opinion, is still in the same slow-growth zone that has characterized the last three years.  In our view the market is in for a tough period ahead.      FREE AppDownload
It's been quite a week for BlackBerry. After spiking up and up since Tuesday, BlackBerry stock closed down 5.4% on Friday. So what's going on? On Tuesday, the stock was screaming and closed up 9% following a statement from the Department of Defense that said the agency approved 80,000 BlackBerry devices. It was good news, especially since BlackBerry has pretty much stopped trying to court normal consumers and is going after enterprise and government customers instead.  But some media reports made it sound like the DoD purchased 80,000 new devices. It did not. It just approved those devices for a new network it's using. On Thursday, the DoD clarified its statement to The Verge by saying: Absolutely no new orders have been placed for new BB devices. The DISA press release put out Jan. 16 never alluded to any devices being purchased. The 80,000 BBs and 1,800 non-BB devices referenced in the release are legacy systems already in DoD inventories. And now that investors realize the government didn't actually purchase any new BlackBerry devices, the company's stock is falling again. Still, it's up quite a bit overall so far this year. FREE AppDownload
The VIX — a measure of implied volatility of S&amp;P 500 options commonly known as the "fear gauge" — shot up 30% today, marking the biggest daily gain since April as the stock market completed its biggest two-day slide since June. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The VIX typically goes up when the stock market goes down. Today's action may suggest a near-term bottom in the stock market. FREE AppDownload
People are getting fat. The exact statistics are disputed, but around 35% of Americans and 25% of British people are now obese.  With all this excess body fat hanging around, those of larger proportions have certain priorities when purchasing a new car. Road handling and fuel economy are all well and good, but fitting inside is more important. Fitting inside a car is not just a matter of comfort, it’s also a safety issue. If the driver’s breastbone is too close to the steering wheel, the risk of injury becomes much higher in the event a crash. But while there’s all sorts of things for a larger driver to consider, such as the adjust ability of the steering wheel, an automatic gearbox and the length and strength of the seatbelt, it’s the size and shape of the seats that matter the most. As a general rule, the bigger the car, the more comfortable a fat person will be. But while SUVs might seem like the best bet, there are plenty of midsize cars that are designed with a larger behind in mind. A flatter and wider front seat in a small family car is better suited to fat rolls than an SUV kitted out with bucket-style seats. We have searched high and low for the cars that will best fit your obese frame and the obese frames of your family and friends. Here are our top picks. If you’re going to go big, do it properly. The Toyota Land Cruiser is not only indestructible, as fleets of UN-branded ones throughout the world will testify, they are also carnivorous inside. With 61.0 inches of front shoulder room and 59.8 inches of front hip room, the Japanese behemoth puts other SUVs to shame.Kernel Magazine If you want interior space, you want a luxury sedan, and if you want a luxury sedan, you want an Audi A8. It might not have the badge cachet of its Mercedes or BMW rivals, but the latest A8 is the ultimate way to travel in luxury. The unparalleled engineering doesn’t stop with the driving mechanics, it continues into the cabin. If the 60.1 inches of hip room in the front aren’t enough, you could hire a chauffeur and recline first class – airline style, in the back.Kernel Magazine The Chrysler 300 looks like the type of car that is used to deliver horse heads around town. The mafia look is enhanced if you avoid the temptation to install the Bentley style grill and stick with the chromed egg crate design. As well as looking mean, the Chrysler sports a very generous interior, with 59.5 inches of front shoulder room and 56.2 inches of front hip room it should have no problem swallowing your bulk.Kernel Magazine In the 1990s, before it fell out of favour with the car-buying public, the Ford Taurus was the best selling car in the United States. But now it’s back and Ford have given it a secret weapon that might help it regain its place on the bestsellers list: ample waist room. Its 57.9 inches of front shoulder room and 56.3 inches of front hip room should be more than sufficient for even the most dedicated Big Mac eaters.Kernel Magazine For those whose width even the widest of car seat won’t accommodate, a front bench seat is the best option. Unfortunately, 2011 saw the death of the bench seat with the Buick Lucerne, Cadillac DTS, Chevrolet Impala, Lincoln Town Car and Mercury Grand Marquis all going out of production, so your purchase will have to be second hand. The Lincoln is a classic and easily the pick of the bunch, as long as you’re not wider than the car, there will be a way of fitting you inside.Kernel Magazine While cars no longer come with bench seats, small commercial vehicles still do. The Ford Transit, which has been a fixture of European roads since 1965 and has finally made its way into North America, is the finest light commercial vehicle ever made. It doesn’t quite have a bench seat, but with no centre console there’s nothing to restrict overflowing muffin tops.Kernel Magazine The Nissan Altima is as dull as dishwater. Nothing quite says “designed by a committee” like Nissan’s mid-size family car. But with 56.8 inches of front hip room, it appears that Nissan knew its target audience. Just remember not to buy the new model which came out in 2013 and was a little more stingy with its girth allowances.Kernel Magazine Another runaway Japanese success, Honda has shifted millions of these mid-sized family cars since they first started producing them in 1976. The front seats have 56.6 inches of hip room, but that’s not the big story here. The Honda’s seats have minimal bolstering on the side which works wonders for shoehorning even the widest of rear ends into position.Kernel Magazine The bizarre looking ZDX was developed by Honda for Acura, its luxury car division, and has more going for it than sci-fi chic. It comes stuffed with technological niceties including a “collision mitigating braking system” and advanced ventilated seats. Not only do the seats stop pools of sweat from forming, they are really wide; the ZDX has 57.3 inches of hip room.Kernel Magazine Go big or go home. The Escalade is the only choice when size is all that matters. While it might have been derided by the car press for its appalling ride and obnoxious styling, the Escalade is perfect for the big-boned. The seats themselves aren’t massive, but there’s acres of space on either side of them that will happily accommodate any overspill.Kernel Magazine FREE AppDownload
DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe Properties432 Park will tower over the neighboring buildings once it's completed.At 1,396 feet, 432 Park will be the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere when it's completed in 2015 — but it's not just its size that's impressive.  We recently saw renderings of the apartment building's interiors, and the designs are magnificent. Designer Deborah Berke says her focus was to make the most of the apartments' perch above the city. Double-height ceilings and beautiful oak flooring are highlights, while huge square windows provide an unparalleled view.   This is just one in a series of super-tall buildings rising on the southern end of Central Park, an area that's already earned its "Billionaires' Belt" nickname. These skyscrapers are so tall they needed approval from the Federal Aviation Administration before construction could start.  432 Park, however, will be the tallest.   The building has two penthouses, one on the 96th floor that sold for $95 million and another on the 95th, currently priced at $85 million.  The building's architect Rafael Viñoly made news back in September when his Walkie Talkie building wreaked havoc on London's streets, emitting a reflection so hot it melted cars and literally fried eggs on the sidewalk. But if these renderings are any indication, this building should be more of a success.  From the outside, rows of six 100-square-foot windows give the building the square look of a waffle iron.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesInside, Berke's design is just as geometric. The huge windows are in a straight line from the front door, making the most of the apartment's perch above the city.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesAccording to Berke, the oak herringbone floors are a take on Park Avenue's more traditional apartment buildings. DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe kitchens will be outfitted with sleek marble countertops and stainless steel appliances.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesBut the kitchen's best feature has to be this 10-foot-long marble breakfast bar framed against the window. Just imagine enjoying your morning coffee here, with all of Manhattan sprawled out below you.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite's floor plan was designed so that the bed would be perfectly aligned with the window, offering the best views possible first thing in the morning.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite has separated his and hers bathrooms. Looking north from the marble-covered shower, you'll get a peek of Central Park and the Upper East Side. DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesAnd to the south, views of the Chrysler Building, the Empire State Building, and the Freedom Tower can all be enjoyed from this free-standing tub.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe Properties432 Park will dramatically change the skyline around Central Park once it's completed in 2015.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesListen to designer Deborah Berke discuss her renderings and concept below.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco A money changer inspects U.S. dollar bills at a currency exchange in Manila January 15, 2014.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A powerful global financial regulator will scrutinize benchmarks used in currency trading, it said on Friday, a first sign that the largely unregulated market may be kept on a tighter leash after allegations of manipulation.  The Financial Stability Board, which coordinates regulation for the Group of 20 leading economies, is already working on a reform of interest rate benchmarks after the Libor interbank rate-fixing scandal. "The FSB is in the process of defining the work it will do on issues around FX benchmarks," the Swiss-based agency told Reuters in an emailed statement. Britain's Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the U.S. Department of Justice have been investigating allegations that traders at some of the world's biggest banks manipulated the largely unregulated $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market. The continuing probe into the Libor interest rate brought to light how easy it is to manipulate the widely used benchmark and has already triggered heavy fines for banks including UBS and Barclays. The London interbank offered rate, known as Libor, is compiled from banks submitting quotes for interest rates at which they say they could borrow and is published by the British Bankers' Association. The FSB last July set up two groups to make recommendations to reform Libor and similar rates, which underlie trillions worth of contracts ranging from student loans and mortgages to complex financial derivatives. One group consists of regulators, and another - chaired by Darrell Duffie, a finance professor at Stanford University - brings together market participants. The groups are due to make recommendations in June. A U.S. market regulator has said Libor should be scrapped because it is based on a hard-to-control survey of market participants. Others take a less drastic stance, because the benchmark is so widely spread. The FSB is expected to announce the efforts to look at foreign exchange markets "pretty rapidly," a source familiar with the situation said, but has not yet decided who would be in charge or what shape the work would take. "That is something for the FSB to decide and they would delegate to whomever they felt was suitable," this person said, asking not to be identified by name. In the foreign exchange probe, groups of senior traders are alleged to have shared market-sensitive information relevant for the popular WM/Reuters "fix," or London fix, which is set at 4 p.m. London time, using actual trades. WM/Reuters rates are compiled using data from Thomson Reuters and other providers and are calculated by WM, a unit of State Street Corp. Thomson Reuters is the parent company of Reuters News, which is not involved in the fixing process. In an effort to avoid the further wrath of authorities, banks with major currency operations such as Citi, Deutsche, JPMorgan and others have curtailed the use of chatrooms widely used by these traders. The FSB's recommendations, which will carry huge weight in the market, mark a shift from December, when FCA Chief Executive Martin Wheatley said any effort to regulate the market "would be a big policy change," and that regulators were at a very early stage. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya Shino Over the past two trading sessions, the S&amp;P 500 has staged its biggest two-day slide since June 20, and Treasuries are ripping in what appears to be the return of the classic "risk-off" trade. Everyone seems to be scrambling to identify the specific catalyst for the sell-off. A few theories that have been offered up include disappointing manufacturing data out of China on Thursday, an unexpected plunge in the U.K. unemployment rate (which ostensibly puts the Bank of England closer to monetary policy tightening), disappointing earnings results in the United States, and weakness in emerging markets as several EM currencies take a nosedive against the dollar, fanning fears of a slowdown in those parts of the world. To dwell on these potential catalysts, however, is to miss what is happening behind the scenes that is really driving the sell-off: a massive unwinding of levered bets in the hedge fund community that were placed on views which have become de rigeur to the point that the market has become very one-sided lately. "It's not about the economy or the unemployment rate or inflation," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "It's about unbalanced positions and is not that complicated." In trader parlance, what we're witnessing, in essence, is one big short squeeze. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)The short squeeze is sending bond prices higher, which shows up as falling yields.Nowhere is this squeeze more evident than in the U.S. Treasury market, which has staged a massive rally alongside the decline in stocks over the last two days. Who is taking part in this supposed flight to quality? "It's mostly hedge funds and fast money accounts that have played it from the short side from the beginning of 2014," says Tom di Galoma, head of fixed income rates sales at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets. "Most were looking for higher rates in 2014 — near 3.5-4% on 10-years. This rally is all about short positions being alleviated and covered." Coming into 2014, the consensus view was that stocks would go higher and Treasuries would go lower (sending yields higher) as continued improvements in the U.S. economy brought the Federal Reserve closer and closer to an eventual normalization of monetary policy from current levels of maxed-out accommodation. A major related undercurrent in the marketplace in recent months has been a widespread inability to identify headwinds to this sunny outlook. After all, the U.S. seems to have made it through the worst of its fiscal issues, the eurozone is finally starting to grow after years of debilitating recession, and Chinese leaders appear set to avoid a "hard landing" as Chinese economic growth slows gradually. As investors have racked their brains to come up with potential risks to the consensus view for 2014, one idea has been gaining traction: The Fed may be forced this year to begin raising rates — two years ahead of schedule, according to the central bank's current forward guidance — if the U.S. economy improves even faster than the consensus predicts, and inflation makes an unexpected comeback. "In a recent set of visits to Asia and Switzerland, I was struck by the extent to which investors saw a backing up of U.S. rates, and a potentially earlier-than-signaled Fed rate hike, as the major risk on the horizon, far more than with respect to a China slowdown or credit crunch," says Steven Englander, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Citi. "The more concerned among investors saw U.S. rates backing up and even an early policy rate hike as driven by strong U.S. growth or, alternatively, a sudden realization that there was not nearly as much excess capacity as had been thought. The more moderately concerned saw markets challenging the Fed on its forward guidance, with the outcome to be data determined. There were very few who saw any sort of downside risk to rates or the U.S. economy." CRT Capital, Reuters EcoWinA recent Stone & McCarthy Research survey found that investors were short Treasuries the most since the third quarter of 2008.As this idea has permeated the marketplace, short positions in Treasuries have been building. Recent survey data from Stone &amp; McCarthy Research and positioning data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show that the magnitude of shorts in the Treasury market is the biggest it's been in years. And as this has played out in the marketplace, Treasuries have been getting cheaper and cheaper while stocks have been getting more and more expensive, putting portfolio managers in an awkward spot. On Wednesday, someone took the bet against the Fed and Treasuries to the extreme. As Market News International journalist William Sokolis reported on Wednesday evening, a certain market player, "most likely and rumored to be a London macro fund," had initiated a massive options trade betting against eurodollar futures, adding "a massive 600,000 short April puts to open interest that was only 31,500 coming into session." Eurodollar futures move inversely to expected short-term interest rates, so the implication is that the buyer of these put options was betting that by April, expectations for where the federal funds rate will be in 2016 would be much higher than where those expectations are today (likely because of rapidly-improving economic data in the United States between now and April). Then, to begin Thursday trading in Asia, the release of preliminary results of this month's China manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index survey suggested the country's goods-producing sector would suffer an unexpected decline in output this month, and the fast-money trades began unwinding. "The question we’ve all pondered is what the catalyst would be for the underweights to at least get less underweighted — we’re not talking about getting overweighted Treasuries — and there's been no clear catalyst or trigger other than the price action itself and a degree of anxious confidence that once there’s a hint of that investors will have the ability to rebalance," says CRT Capital's Ader. It appears that, following a big run in the stock market and a big sell-off in the Treasury market — alongside the rise of attendant concerns over relatively one-sided price action — weaker-than-expected Chinese manufacturing data finally was the trigger that sent markets spinning. "The latest reaction to minor weakness from one China release underscores the importance of China growth, and tendency to give more attention to weak versus stronger data points," says Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank. As market participants rushed to cover short positions in the rates space, the dollar-yen exchange rate (USDJPY) took a sharp turn lower. The yen has become a popular currency for funding levered carry trades due to its weakness over the past year, and the safe-haven flow that sent it higher in the wake of the China PMI release forced players to get out of these trades, exacerbating the decline in EM currencies and further fueling the "risk-off" trading we've seen around the world in the latter part of this week. All of this is more likely indicative of a short-term flushing-out of positions than a major change in trend. Market participants are divided on how much further this "risk-off" episode can go, but either way, the Fed's January decision on monetary policy — due out next Wednesday — is the focus now. "Today, we lack big drivers for the market and so more position-squaring ahead of the FOMC is likely," wrote David Keeble, head of fixed income strategy at Crédit Agricole, in a note to clients this morning. "We still doubt that the economic data have been so bad that the Fed will suspend the taper. Indeed, while equity markets have been weak, the Fed will also be impressed by the potential impact of the large drop in yields. As a result, we think that the [~ 25 basis-points] decline in the 10-year yield since the payroll report, and 16 basis-points move in two days, is an opportunity to sell Treasuries." FREE AppDownload
Earlier this week Argentina devalued its peso, and the bond market responded by punishing the country by pushing the cost to insure the country's debt to a three-month high. Over the week, the peso has fallen 15% against the dollar. That's the drama playing out in financial markets, but this devaluation has meant major changes for everyday consumers as well. Conz Preti at Buzz Feed tweeted out this picture from Reddit, user al19. It's the price of a Samsung Galaxy S4 phone at a store called Gabarino (it's like Best Buy) in Lanuús, Argentina. In 6 hours, the price of one phone sky rocketed from 7,999 pesos to 11,518 pesos. You're looking at a check-out computer in the store. You'll note the date and the time in the top red rectangles. The price is to the side. Check out the image below: Reddit user al19 FREE AppDownload
We've seen some noisy, wobbly econ data in the past few months, but on balance it's been mostly positive. While December's jobs report was shockingly weak, exports continue to surge, while imports plummet. And consumer spending is still curving upward.  In a new note, Vincent Reinhart says real GDP for the fourth quarter of 2013 is now tracking 3.7%, which means full year growth is at 2.9 percent. And that's about where it's going to remain for awhile. "The economy has apparently entered a growth channel centered around that [2013] pace, fueled by momentum in domestic spending now that the impediments of fiscal drag and financial-crisis fallout are largely behind us," Reinhart writes. "The question for the outlook is whether the US economy is in a new growth channel or is en route to even brisker expansion. For now, we stand by our call that this is about as good as it gets."  Reinhart looks at this in the context of what the Fed will do next — and the answer is that they will say this was what they were expecting all along and continue with the plan to slowly unwind its bond-buying program.  "Fed officials likely view the most recent employment report similarly to the Morgan Stanley US economics team, as best smoothed away by averaging across many other robust readings," he explains. He adds, "Expect the Fed to remind everyone that they were expecting this pickup in growth all along given their long-held view that it will be appropriate to keep the policy rate low well into 2015." Reinhart also notes that new Fed Chair Janet Yellen will give her first-ever semiannual testimony on monetary policy on or before February 20th. She will likely take the opportunity to show that accommodative policy has had very little impact on inflation, and thus defend its continued implementation, he says: "Important in that portrayal will be policy advice gotten from the Fed Board staff model. Inflation moves glacially slow in that model. Launching simulations with PCE inflation running around 1 percent virtually guarantees the conclusion that the policy rate can stay at zero for a very long time.  "This gives Yellen the opportunity to focus almost exclusively on price stability as the critical Fed pursuit—a pursuit that must be defended symmetrically from below and above—and still argue for continued policy accommodation." The Federal Open Market Committee will announce its latest decision next Wednesday at 2 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSYesterday's sell-off evolved into a global market rout today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APHere's your chance to have a question answered by a Nobel Prize winning economist. Yale professor Robert Shiller will appear next Thursday, Jan. 30, as the special guest on a live monthly interview program hosted by the university. The esteemed economist is best known for his work in predicting speculative bubbles and developing the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Indices. The university is encouraging any interested viewers to submit their questions before and during the broadcast. You can post them on Yale's Facebook page, tweet to @Yale, or email socialmedia@yale.edu.  The show is slated to air at noon EST on Yale's YouTube channel. And that's not your last chance to learn from the famed professor. In February, Shiller will begin offering his "Financial Markets" class as a free online course through Coursera. FREE AppDownload
@CristianoShares of Herbalife have tumbled again today.  The stock was last trading down more than 8%.  The New York Post's Michelle Celarier just published an article about Chinese media outlet First Financial Daily having an investigative report on Herbalife.  According to the Post, that article in China questions whether Herbalife's business practices are in accordance with Chinese laws. The report in China is old, though. It's from last August, according to the Post, which says it's only recently being noticed.  Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional products such as weight-loss shakes and supplements.  According to Herbalife's third-quarter earnings report, they had $136.65 million in sales in China versus $77.4 million in the same period for 2012. For the first nine months of 2013, sales increased to $323.2 million from $211.4 versus the same period in 2012. Herbalife reports fourth-quarter earnings next month.  MLM NuSkin was recently the subject of a negative article in China that questioned its marketing practices. NuSkin's stock fell on that report. Shares of Herbalife closed lower yesterday after Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey sent letters to the FTC and SEC calling on the regulators to investigate Herbalife's business practices.  Herbalife is the stock that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman of Pershing Square is short. Ackman has publicly called the company a "pyramid scheme" and he thinks regulators will shut it down.  Herbalife has refuted his allegations.  Not everyone in the hedge fund world agrees with Ackman either. His long-time rival Carl Icahn is one of the biggest shareholders of Herbalife.  Icahn bought the stock after Ackman gave a 342-slide presentation about Herbalife in December 2012.   Icahn has publicly said that he continues to think the company has a great business model and that it's undervalued.  Yesterday, Icahn told Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino that he hasn't sold a share of his massive Herbalife stake.   Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
NowThisNewsU2 frontman Bono.U2 will release a new single in a Super Bowl ad for The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria co-sponsored by Bank of America and (Red), the nonprofit founded by U2 lead singer Bono. The ad will feature the new U2 song "Invisible," which will be available for free on iTunes for 24 hours immediately following the Feb. 2 game. Bank of America will donate $1 to The Global Fund for every download, up to a total donation of $2 million. The charity works to provide HIV/AIDS treatment, testing, and prevention services to to tens of millions of people in the world's poorest countries. Bank of America has pledged to commit an additional $10 million to The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria over the next two years. After hearing of Bank of America's donation, Bill Gates' nonprofit, The Gates Foundation, tech giant SAP, and the family of South African mining magnate Patrice Motsepe have collaborated to pledge an additional $10 million. "Bank of America coming on as a (RED) partner to help the Global Fund's efforts to eliminate AIDS is great news," Bono said in a statement. "It's the kind of game-changing influence that will not just deliver millions of dollars but raise consciousness and keep public pressure on putting an end to this devastating pandemic which has already taken the lives of 35 million people." Here's more of what Bono had to say about the ad and his partnership with Bank of America:  FREE AppDownload
It's ugly out there. Even after Thursday's 175-point (1%) plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, markets continue to tumble. Currently, the Dow is down 260 points (1.6%) and the S&amp;P 500 is down 31 points (1.7%). Investors and traders are rapidly moving from risky assets like stocks and emerging market securities to safe assets like U.S. Treasury securities.  Indeed, the flood into Treasuries has sent the yield on the 10-year note all the way down to 2.72%.  Not long ago, it was above 3%. Asia got slammed with the Nikkei tanking 1.9% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng falling 1.2%. Europe closed deep in the red with Britain's FTSE 100 down 1.6%, Germany's DAX down 2.4%, France's CAC 40 down 2.8%, and Spain's IBEX down 3.6%. The top concern today seems to be the emerging market economies, where it is a total rout in the currency markets.  The Turkish lira tumbled 1.6% to a record low of 2.3360 per dollar. South Africa's rand is at a 5-1/2 year low. Meanwhile, it's continued madness in Argentina where policymakers unexpectedly announced an easing of capital controls a day after the Argentine pesos (ARS) plummeted 13%. Why are the emerging markets getting slammed? "There is no single proximate cause, in our view, rather the cumulative impact of a number of events has led to a deterioration in risk sentiment," said Morgan Stanley's Rashique Rahman. "Growing concern over China’s macro trajectory and uncertainty over credit risk in China’s trust and wealth management products are probably the main drivers, but contributing factors to the spillover into other markets include Turkey’s ongoing currency volatility and political concerns, weakness of Ukrainian credit markets and the ARS devaluation." @M_McDonoughThe Fed began hinting at tighter monetary policy back in May, 2013. As you can see, that's when U.S. rates began to rise and the emerging market currencies began to fall.In addition to these local stories, there's also the big macro story related to U.S. monetary policy. Many of the fast-growing emerging market economies continue to be heavily dependent on their ability to export goods.  However, they have also been confronted by devaluing currencies and rampant inflation, which also hinders their ability to finance their overseas obligations. And with the U.S. Federal Reserve expected to soon normalize monetary policy, there is concern that rising interest rates and a strengthening dollar against emerging market currencies will send the emerging markets toward a financial crisis. Bloomberg LP Chief Economist Michael McDonough tweeted the chart above showing how emerging market currencies began tumbling as U.S. interest rates rose and the dollar strengthened. As the Fed and the emerging market central banks worry about their currencies, the rest of the developed market's central banks are also chiming in. Like the Fed, they are adopting a tone that could mean stronger local currencies, which would put more pressure on the emerging markets. From Citi's Steven Englander: EM currencies are feeling the pain but the driver is investor fear of a sudden lurch to hawkishness among G10 central banks. Consider the list below of G10 drivers of liquidity concerns: 1) Market worried about Fed tightening and Fed forward guidance.2) Strong U.K. data and BoE hawkish tilt.3) BoJ member talking about no additional easing and ultimate QE exit.4) SNB macroprudential move on housing. "Productivity is critical to compete globally, and many emerging markets offered manufacturers greater profitability through productivity," said market strategist Rich Bernstein. "However, productivity growth is now slowing meaningfully in most emerging markets, and the emerging markets now have the highest inflation rates in the world." (See chart below.) "When productivity fails to be a competitive advantage, then countries have to compete purely on price and devalue their currencies," he added. "Devaluing a currency often results in higher inflation rates because the prices of imported goods, both input raw materials and consumer goods, go up. Emerging markets’ current high inflation rates will likely limit emerging market countries’ exchange rate flexibility. Some EM countries are already starting to lose market share as a result." It's quite the pickle.  While there may be some economic activity that gets shifted from the EMs to the DMs, in the short-run all of this market volatility will be bad for everyone. RBA FREE AppDownload
In an interview with CNBC's Squawk Box, Societe Generale CEO Frederic Oudea nailed how Wall Street should be thinking of compensation. Regulators have been saying this for a while, but it's nice to hear it from one of the guys at the top. Here's how it went down: Squawk Box host Joe Kernen asked Oudea if he is afraid that he's going to lose top bankers because he's not compensating them enough. "Do you think the best banker in the world is only worth $1 million," asked Kernen. Oudea smiles and says: "Perhaps in Europe we have a slightly different way of looking at things. I think it's fine to reward effectively talents, and if they are really genius to bring added value to the clients, why not? What happened in the financial crisis showed sometimes short on profit can create disaster. Not always, though. It's not always that you're risking the bank's money to make your own. I agree. As a CEO and Chairman, I want to also have a culture of people with motivation regarding their compensation but beyond that, who have an interest in their job, who are keen to help their clients. To have something which is acceptable to society which can mean still good packages. We deferred payments to ensure the risk that is taken today, I think it makes sense. Oudea's point is clear. On Wall Street, compensation is culture. Period. You make short term gain and risk rewardable, and that's how bankers will conduct their business. He also points out that if people believe that banking is just the best profession for making money, it will naturally attract the greediest people in society. That, then, skews the industry as a whole and hurts society at large. Reforming compensation on Wall Street isn't necessarily about capping salaries, it's about changing incentives. Watch the video below:  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Shaun BotterillMarco Schafferer of Bosnia and Herzegovina competes in the First Run of the Mens Alpine Skiing Giant Slalom competition on Day 10 of the 2006 Turin Winter Olympic Games on February 20, 2006 in Sestriere Borgata, Italy. Former Olympic ski racer Marco Schafferer, who works for Goldman Sachs, told us that his sport helped him prepare for the high demands of working on Wall Street.  "One of the biggest things is it's never going to be as hard as some of the things I had to do ski racing," Schafferer explained. "I don't even say just the Olympics, just to do well in ski racing." In addition to hitting the slopes, part of Schafferer's ski training involved running up hills and sprinting up stairs over and over until he felt sick.   "I wanted to quit and everything. Really, it was pushing my buttons. I was going to my limits every single time.  I feel like it's the same now in the finance world," he said. Ski racing taught him how be patient and never give up when learning new things. Now, on Wall Street, his training is a major advantage. Some of his peers haven't been challenged like he was, and it makes it easier for him to deal with criticism. "When somebody tells me, 'You didn't do well on this' then I'm not going to go, 'Oh my god, you just destroyed my day!' I'll be able to take that criticism back and say 'OK, why do you think that? I can work on that' and that makes me better."  'Wild Card'  In late January 2006, Schafferer received the news that he would be skiing in Turin, Italy for the Bosnia team. He said he made the team as a "wild card."  "I had a really good season in 2005 and my coaches and everyone was like, "Yeah, you should shoot for the 2010 Olympic Games because you need like four more years." I was more or less, 'No, I want to try now because I don't know what's going to happen in four years.' Their concerns weren't completely out of place. He was only 21 years-old at the time and competing on the junior level.  He wasn't even a member of the national team.   From November 2005 until January 2006, Schafferer skied in about thirty races.  That's about a race every other day. "I made it to the Olympic Games literally on the deadline, like January 29th. That was the last race and I happened to win those last two races," he said.   Becoming Bosnian  An Austrian native, Schafferer grew up in a small town in the Austrian Alps with a population of 400 people. He started skiing when he was three years old and began racing when he was only six.  In fact, skiing was a way of life there. That's pretty much what everyone did growing up in addition to hiking and playing soccer in the summer months.   His mother is from Bosnia, so he made a decision when he was 16 to switch nationalities.  "At the time, I didn't really have a preference as long as I was able to ski. I just wanted to ski. I didn't really think of anything else. That was my goal was to be successful in ski racing. I always wanted to be an Olympian," he told us.   'Everyone's Dream' Walking into the stadium for the opening ceremony with thousands of people cheering and millions watching on TV was a dream for Schafferer.   "It's a great experience because everything I worked for all the time I spent in the gym, running up the hill and feeling sick afterward it was like, 'OK, that's why I did it.' It was awesome. That was the main goal—just to walk into the stadium and have the flag in my hand. I think that's everyone's dream."  During the Giant Slalom —an event that features a course where skiers race through sets of blue and red gates—Schafferer said that he was "very nervous" at the start.  The Giant Slalom course in Torino was very difficult with an icy, steep course with many changes and rolls, he explained.  "Ski racing is about making it very difficult and icy for the athletes," he explained. The course is supposed to be as difficult as possible to challenge what should be the best athletes in the world. Photo courtesy of Marco SchaffererMarco Schafferer, Ivicia Kostelic (Croatian), and Marco’s coach Edin TerzicDuring one of the runs, Schafferer slipped on an icy section and crashed. He didn't give up, though. He hiked back up the slope to catch the gate. (You can't miss gates in Giant Slalom or else you'll get disqualified).   "I hiked back up to get the gate and finished the race just to prove a point that I can finish it."  The onlookers at the bottom of the hill seemed to appreciate his effort, though.  "When I came into the finish, people were cheering. They really appreciated the fact that I hiked back up. It was a really cool experience."  The Slalom event—a race that involves skiing (more like zigzagging) through gates (or poles) that are much closer together— was much more successful for Schafferer.  "It was good that I crashed in Giant Slalom because Slalom was the last event. I was not nervous at all. I was like, 'OK, I got my crash out of the way. I've got nothing to lose."   He finished 30th overall for Slalom.   Ski Scholarship Following the Olympics, Schafferer said that he was planning to ski professionally.  He was nominated to Bosnia's national team after the games.  However, it turned out that the Bosnia ski team ran out of money to fund him.  It costs about $150,000 per athlete to fund their skiing. That money goes toward traveling, coaching, equipment, etc.   That's when he decided to look for other options. He applied for a scholarship to ski for a college in the U.S.  He ended accepting an offer from Western State Colorado University.   During a race at Breckenridge Ski Resort his freshman year, he hyper extended his knee and broke his leg. That ended his ski season.  He was on crutches for five months and had three surgeries.  "I was never really able to come back even though I tried. I always skied with pain."  Western State ended up cutting their ski program and he transferred to Westminster College in Utah.   Going To Goldman Since he wasn't ski racing, Schafferer focused on his finance degree.  A professor encouraged him to pursue a career at Goldman Sachs.  He began his career in operations division in Salt Lake. He spent the first few months in New York before the team was moved to Salt Lake, the location of the 2002 Olympics. There's plenty of great skiing in Salt Lake.  A lot of folks in the Goldman office hit the slopes after work, he explained.   "It's a very young and active office...everyone does some kind of sport out there," Schafferer said. It helps everyone in the office bond when they ski together on nights and weekends. Instead of racing, Schafferer has been doing more backcountry, powder skiing and jumping cliffs.  A year ago, he got an offer to join Goldman's Investment Management Division in Chicago. Now he makes weekend trips to ski in Colorado or Utah. He also skis when he visits Austria.   As for the upcoming games, he's cheering for the Bosnian athletes as well as Austrian and U.S. skiers.   FREE AppDownload
Gus RosendaleCommuters were stuck in Grand Central Thursday night after a technical error stopped trian service.Human error caused the two-hour Metro-North train service disruption Thursday night, stranding New York commuters at Grand Central Terminal and in more than 50 stopped trains. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), which runs Metro-North, issued a statement today explaining that technicians took one of two main power supply units out of service for replacement, without realizing a wire was disconnected on the second unit. The power system was "destabilized" at 7:45 p.m. Without reliable power for the signal system, the MTA halted more than 50 trains for safety reasons. The trains themselves had power, light and heat, and no passengers were endangered, the MTA says. It took an hour and a half to connect a backup supply, and trains got moving again by 9:30 p.m. Full control was re-established an hour later. Service returned to normal on Friday morning. “Metro-North customers deserve better, and I extend my sincere apology to all of them,” MTA Chairman and CEO Thomas F. Prendergast said in the statement. “I have directed Metro-North to bring in an independent consultant to examine how and why these mistakes were made, and to recommend any necessary changes to operating procedures to ensure nothing like this ever happens again.” It's been a rough few months for Metro-North. A passenger train going 82 mph in a 30 mph zone derailed in the Bronx in early December, killing four people. The driver told investigators he was in a daze and "lost focus" before the crash. FREE AppDownload
Today, we are happy to report that Gallaghers Steakhouse will reopen on February 4th, in the year of our Lord, 2014. If you've been following this roller coaster of a story, you know that Gallaghers was almost closed in late 2012, for "economic reasons." But when you're a restaurant that has inhabited West 52nd Street since 1927, there's usually someone out there willing to keep the lights on. In this case, owner Marlene Brody sold the restaurant to Dan Poll, the operator of Boathouse. “For more than 86 years, Gallaghers has been a part of the fabric of New York City,” said Poll, restaurateur and new owner of Gallaghers. “With this renovation, we’ve preserved the heart of the restaurant while completely modernizing the dining room, open kitchen, and event space upstairs, not to mention our updated menu.” Naturally we'll be there checking it out, picking our own cuts of steak. Check out the menu below:   FINAL Gallaghers Menu Jan 2014 by ycmedia  FREE AppDownload
Arjen Toat/flickrThe early theme that was said to be merging from this year's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland was "inequality."  That of course is a bit rich, given the nature of the confab.  Mega tech investor Marc Andreessen is seeing something else. Though he is not actually attending the forum, he just Tweeted that from his vantage point, there are two talking points continually popping up. One is the threat that robots and automation will take everyone's jobs. This is what Larry Summers discussed in his Martin Feldstein lecture last summer. The whole talk, including charts, was published last week, and there've been a fresh set of responses.  The other is what to do about Bitcoin, and whether it too poses some kind of menace.  We covered both in our recent Global 20 and U.S. 20 presentations on shifting macro trends.  And Andreessen finds the idea that either pose "threats" to be pretty silly:  Hmm, two big themes at Davos this year (I'm not there due to acute snow allergy): 1 Robots coming for all the jobs, be very scared 2 Bitcoin only for morons and bad guys, be very scared It's almost like there's a pattern :-). So if you're freaking out about technological progress, you're going to end up being on the wrong side of history.  Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Super Bowl Squares is one of the most popular ways for Americans to bet on the Super Bowl. It's played on a 10 by 10 grid of squares, which people buy for a fixed price. Each square is assigned two numbers that aim to match the score of the Super Bowl. To get you ready, we crunched the numbers -- more than 14,000 games -- to see which numbers have the best odds of winning. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Matt Johnston.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
A development in the derivatives market for the VIX — an estimate of implied volatility of S&amp;P 500 options commonly known as the "fear gauge" — suggests the sell-off that has gripped the stock market over the last two trading sessions may be coming to an end. Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, points out that the 3-month VIX curve has dipped into backwardation. In other words, near-term VIX futures have now become more expensive than longer-term VIX futures, suggesting traders are betting that volatility in the future will be lower than it is now. "When this happens on a CLOSING basis, we have seen sharp short-term rallies over the last year," says Lutz. "Why? Too much near-term stress has built up, pushing the cost of protection for today higher than the cost of protection 3 months from now." The chart below shows that when the VIX curve goes negative (blue bars), the S&amp;P 500 (red line) tends to rally. Barely visible at the far right of the chart is the small dip below zero that has occurred today. Stifel Nicolaus, Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
APSen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, sent a letter Friday to Senate colleagues calling on Republicans to drop any potential brinksmanship over raising the debt ceiling next month. Murray also re-released a memo issued last year, in the midst of the last frantic fiscal fights over raising the debt ceiling and over the government shutdown. In the memo, Murray wrote that the end game is predictable — it always ends with a debt-ceiling increase, no matter how serious the perceived threat. "As you all know, they have tried this before, and the bottom line is the story always ends with a debt-ceiling increase," Murray wrote. Murray's new letter predicts that Republicans will cave again, despite House Speaker John Boehner's insistence that a "clean" debt-limit increase cannot pass the House. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) told Bloomberg on Friday that there's very little appetite to "test" a fight over the debt limit. But Republicans are preparing to try to extract some policy concessions — including, possibly, expanded offshore energy production, slight changes to the Affordable Care Act, and/or  approval of the Keystone XL pipeline.  In her letter, Murray repeats that Democrats will "not negotiate over whether or not the United States of America should pay its bills." Murray and Democrats are betting, again, that Republicans will cease their demands and join Democrats in passing a "clean" debt-ceiling increase. It worked in October, when Republicans in the House eventually joined with Democrats to vote for the bill that reopened the government and raised the debt ceiling. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said Wednesday that the nation's borrowing limit will need to be raised by the end of February, and he would prefer an increase even sooner. Here's Murray's full letter: Dear Colleagues, Last fall, we released a memo that called on our Republican colleagues to end their brinkmanship and join Democrats in passing clean debt ceiling legislation to ensure the United States could continue to pay its bills—including payments to millions of workers, seniors, and members of the military—and avoid hurting the economic recovery with self-inflicted uncertainty. We believed that Republicans knew they could not afford to force an unprecedented default, and that they would ultimately join us to prevent one with no strings attached.  While we would have preferred to remove the threat of default well in advance of the deadline so that the uncertainty did not hurt the economy, we were glad that Republicans finally did, for the second time in a year, give up their demands and allow Congress to suspend the debt ceiling so the federal government could pay its bills and we could avoid a self-inflicted economic catastrophe. We were then able to move away from the cycle of governing by crisis and begin the bipartisan budget conference Democrats had pursued since the spring.  Despite conventional wisdom and some skepticism, the budget conference resulted in a compromise agreement to roll back some harmful cuts to education, infrastructure, medical research and national security, and to take the possibility of another government shutdown off the table. As we approach the date when we will need to act to avoid default again, Democrats will take the same responsible approach we laid out in the memo below. We will not negotiate over whether or not the United States of America should pay its bills. And once again, before they get any further down this damaging path, we call on our Republican colleagues to not play politics with our economic recovery.  Recent data from the Congressional Budget Office show that near-term budget deficits have improved significantly, falling by more than a third in the first three months of fiscal year 2014. But there is much more we need to do to tackle our long-term deficits responsibly, and crucially, to continue getting more Americans back to work and lay a foundation for broader economic growth in the future. Democrats are ready and willing to work with Republicans on these and many other challenges.  But as we have repeatedly shown, attempts to avoid compromise by putting the full faith and credit of the United States on the line will not succeed. The only way we can get anything done in a divided government is through compromise, not threats or hostage-taking. House Republicans are meeting next week to discuss their agenda for the next year. We hope that coming out of this meeting, they will agree to build on the bipartisan budget work done so far, join Democrats in passing a clean debt ceiling bill, and focus on the real long and short-term challenges facing the families and communities we serve. Sincerely, Patty Murray FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVKenneth RogoffAccording to economist Ken Rogoff, there's no question that at Davos the big story is the presence of the Iranian president. That President Rouhani came to the event is a major reason for optimism. As for what's going on in the economy, Rogoff sees two things. One is he thinks that we can finally start to imagine good things happening. He's not euphoric yet — though he thinks the folks at the World Economic Forum are — but the good times might finally be about to arrive. And on policy, he thinks that markets are misinterpreting the central banks. The markets see "taper" and assume that means "tighten" but instead he thinks, the Fed and other central banks are just trying to shift the tools of monetary policy, rather than actually tighten. Here's our super-brief Q&amp;A ------------------------------------------------------------------- What is the big story at Davos? I don't think there's any doubt the big story is that the Iranian president came. And if it means something it would be really fantastic. It's hard to know. But that's clearly the big thing. Other than that, it's hard to point at a single thing. Certainly my message here would be I of course see some more balance in the global economy than there's been. People are euphoric here, they think everything is going to be fantastic. But I think it'd be more accurate to say we finally can start imagining good things happening. And there are lots of nuances on the policy issues, but other than that, that's the broad picture. Central banks trying to get back to normal, taper, etc. Do you think the world's central banks are on the right track? I would actually say that the world's central banks are trying to change the modality of policy and not the tightness of policy. They've become somewhat disenchanted with the more experimental measures that they've taken, feeling that the benefits might not be so great and the cost might be greater than they thought. The trouble is, the markets are just hearing "tighten" when that isn't necessarily what they mean, which might be "change." Do you still see public debt as a policy issue and concern? What we actually said was that's something you need to address over 15-20 years during the crisis. When your economy is really weak, you need to have stimulus, you need to use very aggressive policies. You can't think about dealing with debt. It's very typical that your debt goes way up and you deal with it in the financial crisis and then later you bring it down. Obviously, it's not a great thing that your debt is going up, but there's not a lot you can do about it when unemployment is really high, when the financial system is weak, when private banks are failing. That remains true: It's a concern, but it's something that has to be addressed over a very long period. FREE AppDownload
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon will be taking home $20 million in compensation for 2013, according to a securities filing just released by the bank.   For 2012, Dimon took a huge pay cut when he earned $11.5 million following the "London Whale" trade debacle.  In the last year, JPMorgan Chase has been fined billions for various legal issues ranging from mortgage-backed securities sold during the financial crisis to failing to do due diligence on Bernie Madoff.  Here's the 8-K (emphasis ours):  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Company”) announced today that the independent members of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) have approved 2013 incentive compensation for Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in the amount of $18.5 million – all in the form of Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”). The RSUs vest over three years – 50% after two years and 50% after three years, thus tying Mr. Dimon’s 2013 compensation to the Company’s future performance, including continued progress on the Company’s regulatory agenda. In determining Mr. Dimon’s compensation, the independent members of the Board took into account several key factors, among them: the Company’s sustained long-term performance; gains in market share and customer satisfaction; and the regulatory issues the Company has faced and the steps the Company has taken to resolve those issues, including those arising from events at Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns that predated the Company’s ownership. Under Mr. Dimon’s stewardship, the Company has fortified its control infrastructure and processes and strengthened each of its key businesses while continuing to focus on strengthening the Company’s leadership capabilities across all levels. With a base salary of $1.5 million (flat with the prior year), Mr. Dimon’s total annual compensation for 2013 was $20 million, compared to $11.5 million for 2012, $23 million for 2011 and 2010 and $15.2 million for 2009. For 2008, Mr. Dimon received no incentive compensation. FREE AppDownload
After heated debate, JP Morgan's board voted to increase CEO Jamie Dimon's pay after a tumultuous year of embarrassing lawsuits for the bank, reports The New York Times' Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Susanne Craig. For 2013, Dimon will take home $20 million, compared to $11.5 million the year before. This says everything about what JP Morgan and its board considers "normal" in today's Wall Street bank. Normal is not losing the bank's own money on a terrible trade. Normal is paying out $20 billion in fines over the course of one year for a variety of transgressions that touch on a variety of the bank's businesses. Just compare what happened the year Dimon's pay was cut, to what happened in 2013. You may recall the London Whale: the trader in JP Morgan's Chief Investment Office who blew a $6.2 billion hole in the bank's balance sheet by trading JPM's extra cash. Jamie Dimon called that "a tempest in a teapot" and for that mistake his 2012 pay was cut in half, to $11.5 million from $23 million the year before. The board even threatened to split his dual positions as CEO and Chairman of the Board. The message was clear: Always be vigilant, do not let traders lose money. For this, the CEO should be held accountable. In 2013, it was not one trader that cost the bank billions, rather it was a variety of malfeasance that the Justice Department decided to take on all at once. To name a few: There was the $410 million that the bank paid for manipulating electricity markets. There was the $1.7 billion fine JP Morgan paid for failing to do its due diligence with Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff's accounts for decades. Oh, and for pulling $275 million of its own money from Madoff feeder funds before alerting the U.S. government of Madoff's fraud. And of course the $13 billion the bank paid out to take care of charges of mortgage fraud dating back to the financial crisis. To be fair, some of that money was paid to take care of fraudulent activity at the now defunct Bear Sterns, which JP Morgan acquired in the financial crisis fire sale. But hey, that's part of the deal. You buy a venerable, almost hundred-year-old Wall Street bank for $10 a share, lock, stock and barrel, and you take the bad with the good. The way The NYT tells it, some board members wanted to keep Dimon's pay flat. That could be because the bank paid out almost four times more in fines than it did in dividends this year — it paid out about $5.4 billion in dividends to shareholders, and that's even after the bank gave an $0.08 bump to dividends per share in May. Ultimately, though, the board decided to give Dimon his pay increase because of the way he handled the lawsuits. The report says that he was especially lauded for personally saving the mortgage lawsuit when it was going south. Dimon personally called Attorney General Eric Holder to keep the bank from facing criminal charges in Court. So there's that. Who wants to go to Court, right? So. To review: Let a trader blow a $6.2 billion hole in the bank's balance sheet with the bank's money — pay cut. Pay out $20 billion in lawsuits for various transgressions that took place at the bank under your watch — pay raise. You're just $3 million shy of what you got when JP Morgan was America's golden bank, and you were America's golden boy. Mess with the bank's money, you're toast. Mess with the bank's customers — handle it well, and everything will be fine. Priorities. FREE AppDownload
Erik Brynjolfsson, MIT This year at the World Economic Forum in Davos, participants have been largely focused on geopolitics, as economics takes a back seat. But without a doubt, the No. 1 economic story that everyone is talking about — or at least the story that people say they're talking about — is inequality. MIT professors Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee have just published their book "The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies," which looks at the impact of technology on society, and discusses the role technology plays in work and inequality. I sat down with Brynjolfsson to discuss his book, and dive into the rising impacts of digitization, robots, the winners and losers from all this, and how government policy ought to adapt to these changes. One question that tends to cause a lot of anxiety has to do with which skills and industries will be accomplished by robots, and in which areas humans are safe. Brynjolfsson's answer was a bit scary: Every time he thinks he's found an area where robots can't possibly compete with humans, someone in a lab at MIT or somewhere else is working on exactly that. As for policies that government can embrace to avoid an extremely unequal distribution of the benefits of these technologies, Brynjolfsson brings up ideas in tax policy, education, and the promotion of entrepreneurship. The full Q&amp;A is below. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- MITWhat are you telling people about at Davos? Well we're telling them we're in the midst of what Andrew McAfee and I are calling "the second machine age." Just as the first industrial revolution automated and augmented muscle work, we're now doing the same with mental and cognitive tasks. There are some similarities in terms of the potential growth and disruption, but there are also some big differences. Who is getting hit hardest by the rise of robots? The data say that routine information processing tasks have been especially hard hit. Think of bookkeepers or travel agents or tax preparers. That has been some of the first wave of how the "second machine age" has been affecting work, but what Andy and I talk about is just this whole wave of new technologies that is affecting all sorts of professional tasks like diagnosing diseases, legal briefs, affecting tasks that require mobility and fine motor control. We recently rode in Google's driverless car, we visited Rodney Brooks' "Rethink" factory where they are making Baxter robots that can do a lot of precision tasks. So there's a whole set of categories that previously weren't affected that now are being affected. What are the skills that a human can have that won't be replaced? That's a really tough question actually, because Andy and I have been playing that game for a couple of years, and every time we think we have a task that can't be done, we find out shortly thereafter that there's somebody in a lab at MIT or Silicon Valley that's working on a prototype 0.1 of exactly a machine to do that task. So it is a little scary. That said, there are some areas that are certainly much much more difficult. Interpersonal relationships is something that machines just aren't very good at. Humans have evolved for millions of years to be tuned to social cues. Creativity, coming up with a great opera or piece of art or piece of literature is something that machines can't right do. Scientific discovery. Also the nimbleness that the human body has still is not anywhere close to being matched by machines. But of course the technology is marching ahead and it's accelerating so that the next 10 years are likely to have even bigger disruptions than the past 10 years. Income inequality has grown and it's a major issue. What percentage of the issue would you assign to technology? Well there are a lot of forces affecting inequality. There's globalization, there are institutional changes, cultural changes, but I think most economists would agree that the biggest chunk of it is due to technology. And that's because of what economists call skill-biased technical change — favoring skilled workers versus less-skilled workers. Also we talk in the book about capital-biased technical change — you bring capital over labor like when you replace humans with robots. And the third category that maybe is the most important one, we call it superstar-biased technical change, maybe we should come up with a better name. But it's the fact that technologies can leverage and amplify the special talents, skill, or luck of the 1% or maybe even the 100th of 1% and replicate them across millions or billions of people. In those kinds of markets, you tend to have winner-take-all outcomes and a few people reap enormous benefits and all of us as consumers reap benefits as well, but there's a lot less need for people of just average or above-average skills. What long-term policy ideas should governments embrace to ensure that the benefits of new technology don't just accrue to a narrow elite? The reason Andy and I wrote the book is cause we want to change the conversation to get people focused on those kind of policy ideas. Cause the technology is racing ahead and it's great what the technologies are doing in the sense that it's making the pie a lot bigger. But policymakers are stagnating and people aren't keeping up with their skills. We could do a lot more in reinventing education. We could do a lot moor in boosting entrepreneurship. We could do a lot more in changing our tax policy to favor people creating more jobs.  To touch on each of those a little bit more in depth, on education we need to cultivate those kind of creative skills that are more in more in demand. The word "job" really only existed for about 300 years and it really boiled down to making people almost cogs in a machine. Those kinds of routine instruction-following jobs are being automated away. What's more important are creative skills and our schools aren't structured to teach those.  When you think about it, for the 20th century they were focused on getting people to sit quietly in rows of desks and just follow instructions as best they could. That's not the kind of education we need going forward. I think digitization can help with that.  On entrepreneurship, we're seeing more and more entrepreneurs because the jobs are disappearing, but the real reason to try and boost entrepreneurship is not because everyone's going to become an entrepreneur or should become an entrepreneur, it's because ultimately those are the people in charge of inventing the new industries we need to create new jobs.  Just as Henry Ford helped create a new industry that employed millions of people who were previously working on farms and Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, others helped invent new industries, we need to invent the next new industries of the second machine age if we're going to find work for all the people whose jobs can now be done by machines quite well. The third category is tax policy and in that category, one of the basic laws of economics is that if you want less of something you tax it and if you want more of something you subsidize it. Right now, we tax labor for about 80% of our revenues one way or another in the United States. We put a wedge between what an employer has to pay and what an employee actually receives. And then we saddle them with a lot of required benefits. Each of these policies essentially discourages an entrepreneur from using labor to get the job done. Maybe that didn't matter so much in the 19th and 20th century, but going forward, I think we need to flip that around. Remove the extra burdens we put on hiring labor and instead look at ways to at least make it neutral or better yet even subsidize it. What surprises you in your research? What surprised me most was how incompetent I was in understanding how rapidly technology would change. I study this as a job at MIT, yet even I have been surprised many times by how quickly the technology advances faster than expected. Ten years ago, I was teaching a class and part of it was, what could machines do well and what could humans do well. And I gave driving a car as an example. You can't just write a program for that. There's no pre-set number of steps like playing chess. Lo and behold, two years ago, eight years later, I was riding down Route 101 in, yes, a driverless car. I hadn't expected it to happen that fast. And frankly, none of my colleagues expected it to happen that fast. Same thing with having machines you can talk to and they understand what you're doing and carry out your instructions. Many of us carry those around in our pocket. Or having machines that can play Jeopardy, like IBM's Watson, and win, and now also diagnose diseases and solve legal questions. So I'm trying to adjust to keep up with the pace of technology, and as I make those adjustments hopefully I won't be as surprised much in the next 10 years 'cause now I have very high expectations. Are you an optimist or a pessimist? So the people I run into, they do tend to fall into those two camps. Some people are really excited about the future, especially technologists, the techno-optimists. I also run into a lot of economists. I just came from the American Economic Association, where I was on a panel with some economists who all had a very dismal view. In fairness, some of the economic statistics on median income and employment have been fairly dismal. Andy and I try to resist falling into either of those camps. We call ourselves "mindful optimists," in the sense that we think that the outcome can be very good. We can have a lot more wealth and have it be shared prosperity, but the mindful part is also important. We're going to have to adjust our policies, our skills, our organizations to keep up with the technology. It's not going to happen automatically. If we don't start paying more attention to these issues, we won't necessarily have that good outcome that we all hope for. FREE AppDownload
The seats occupied by mid-life and fledgling Corporate America. Phone cords stretched twenty feet while traders and salesmen spit compliments and hum venom, heels up, jackets off and sleeves rolled up–ready to trade. Across town I hit my direct wire as the microwave transmission shoots across the copper wires carrying audio and control signals. “Hello,” I hear with a chuckle. My equity sales trader clearly thinks something’s funny. He’s like Chachi from Happy Days, the Scott Baio of Wall Street, a regular heart throb and super proud of his Italian descent. I like Chachi, he’s fun, but I’d have to guess the first thing listed under SKILLS on his resume is: Copy &amp; Pasting Instant Messages. I don’t get much coverage. “What’s so funny?” “Nothing,” he says. “I’ll give you 50,000 shares if you tell me.” “Throw in 500 contracts and you got yourself a deal,” my derivative sales person says. I didn’t even know she was listening on the line. She’s a tough chick, Wall Street folklore, worked her way up from the mail room. I don’t argue with her much because I never win. “Fine, 50,000 shares and 500 contracts… Now what’s so funny?” It turns out that Chachi and Mrs. Folklore keep a running Excel spreadsheet on their computers. Whenever they go to the bathroom they take copious notes. I guess it’s sort of like Santa making a list and checking it twice, he’s going to find out who’s been naughty and who’s washing it right. On one tab of the Excel spreadsheet is the name of the employee and there are two columns: Pee-Pee No Wash and Poo-Poo No Wash. So when they enter the bathroom and see one of their fellow employees accidentally forgetting to wash their hands they make a mental note. Then they come back out to the floor and enter it into their system. But they’re still laughing. “Keep going,” I say. Apparently Chachi got cornered at the coffee station with a Managing Director who was on the Pee-Pee No-Wash and the Poo-Poo No-Wash list. Chachi was boxed in, he couldn’t make a move when the right hand reached over and rubbed the top his head like he was an eight year old baseball player. He felt the thumb and forefinger graze his cheek. He almost threw up. So if you are wondering why other employees are avoid shaking your hands, maybe it’s because they’ve seen the Excel spreadsheet. Other helpful hints for Wall Street bathroom etiquette:   FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The U.S. Treasury bill market is getting thrust back into the spotlight again today as sellers of short-term U.S. government debt obligations send yields higher across the curve, as the chart above illustrates. Usually, the T-bill market is pretty quiet, as the perceived creditworthiness of the U.S. sovereign typically makes T-bills one of the safest of safe havens. In October, however, institutions moved out of these instruments in size and sent yields surging as Congress wrangled over increasing the nation's debt limit, and the prospect of a technical default on U.S. debt seeped into the marketplace. Since the temporary resolution of the debt ceiling issue in October, the market has returned to a more normal state of affairs — at least, until today. Two things are hitting this market all of a sudden: 1. Central banks in emerging markets, which typically invest the U.S. dollar portions of their foreign exchange reserves in T-bills, are redeeming their cash in order to prop up domestic currency markets that are taking a tumble as a broader bout of risk aversion rises across the globe. "There was some Asian central bank selling overnight, perhaps more around that we didn’t come across," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "We mention this because if it happens further, take it in the context of, we suspect, intervention against weaker EM currencies. That’s likely to bring some pressure on the shorter coupons, which is where the paper is owned and something we saw during the summer selloff." 2. There seems to be some concern over the potential for another standoff in Congress over the debt ceiling again. Patty Murray, the Democratic Senator from Washington who was instrumental in hatching the recent budget deal, says today she is taking a harder line on the debt ceiling. "We will not negotiate over whether or not the United States of America should pay its bills," she writes in a letter out today. "And once again, before they get any further down this damaging path, we call on our Republican colleagues not to play politics with our economic recovery." So, the brinksmanship is already beginning. "Absent a deal on the debt ceiling we expect T-bills maturing in late February and early March to move higher in yield as we approach the ceiling date," says Andrew Hollenhorst, a fixed income strategist at Citigroup Global Markets. "Repo rates are likely to move significantly higher if we get within a few days of the hard ceiling date and we think February repo futures will begin pricing a concession for these higher rates." FREE AppDownload
    Owner of Diamante's Brooklyn Cigar Lounge and official announcer for the Brookyn Nets, David Diamante, gives us a run-through of the key criteria for picking a cigar.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Keep up with BI Video on Facebook and YouTube
REUTERS/Keith Bedford The Carlyle Group is an elite private equity firm.Year after year, the highest compensation packages dangled in front of the best MBA graduates come from either private equity firms or hedge funds. These MBA jobs are few and far between, and the people who get them are more often than not the most accomplished graduates of their classes. This past year, business school employment reports were filled with freshly minted grads making a mint by working in private equity. A graduating MBA student in Stanford University’s Graduate School of Business this year nailed down a private equity job in the north east with a total compensation package north of half a million dollars. And this past year, the highest paid MBA at Columbia Business School landed a $310,000 base salary at a private equity firm, while a PE firm also paid the highest bonus to a Columbia graduate: a hefty $300,000. As tantalizing as some business school employment reports are, however, they only give you a small glimpse of this world. Often times, schools report the percentage of grads who enter the PE field with other categories, such as venture capital. They sometimes do the same with hedge funds, which are often lumped into the category of “investment management.” That’s one of the reasons we analyzed the member profiles on LinkedIn to come up with a list of MBAs from the top 10 U.S. business schools who are employed by nine of the world’s leading private equity players. They include such giants as TPG Capital, Carlyle Group, The Blackstone Group, KKR, Warburg Pincus, and Bain Capital. The results of our analysis won’t surprise anyone who wants into this lucrative field and understands the high hurdle rate to get an offer from these top private equity firms. Harvard Business School has the most MBAs employed at the nine PE shops we studied, with 269 grads. Wharton comes next with 242 grads in place, while Columbia Business School is third with 133 MBAs. That doesn’t mean you would be locked out of PE if you went elsewhere, but the path from these three schools in particular is well worn when your destination is one of the largest private equity players in the business. Indeed, when it comes to PE, many of the world-class schools hardly play in the field. A good example is the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, renown for its finance faculty. Yet, in this small cul-de-sac of the financial world, Booth has just a dozen MBAs at these nine highly prominent PE shops. The upshot: Wharton has 27 times the number of MBAs at these top nine firms than Booth, at least according to LinkedIn member profiles. Though hardly definitive, searches of LinkedIn’s database provide a fascinating and fairly accurate glimpse at what you could call the “market penetration” of a school’s MBAs in any one firm. Sure, not everyone has a profile on LinkedIn, though people who fail to list with the world’s number one professional network are certainly in the minority at this point. It’s also possible that LinkedIn’s search algorithm could be slightly askew and count undergraduate business majors from schools such as the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School which boasts a large undergrad program. In any case, we think the results are worth a look–and we think you’ll find them quite compelling. To see our exclusive research on which school's MBAs are most represented at the top private equity firms, check out PoetsandQuants.com: Where Top MBAs Work In Private Equity  How Technology Is Helping Blue Bottle Coffee Serve Up A Great Cup 9 Recipes to Boost Your Brain Why Your Thumbs Could Hurt on Your Next Job Interview This article originally appeared at LinkedIn.  Copyright 2014. Follow LinkedIn on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Natural gas contracts briefly hit $5 for the first time since 2010, Bloomberg reports. Despite surging production, a weeks-long cold snap across the U.S. has caused demand to surge. Supplies have fallen 4% this week. Prices are up more than 5% today alone, and the fuel has been the best-performing commodity in the S&amp;P GSCI so far in 2014, up 8.6%. Contracts are also in backwardation, meaning spot prices are higher than forward prices. This has only happened in 13% of all months since 1994 according to S&amp;P. Chart: Investing.com FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via CNBCLloyd BlankfeinEmerging market currencies and bonds have been taking a beating. But Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein told CNBC that he'd be long emerging markets. He also said he sees long-term opportunities there: "If somebody said, 'Take a position on the emerging markets and you can't change your mind for fill-in-the-blank—one year, five years', I'd be long, not short. It doesn't mean I'm going to feel good about it," he said in an interview at the World Economic Forum in Davos.  "You see growth, education, mobility in these countries. Basically, the flattening of the world has given tremendous opportunities in these countries." He also added that emerging markets felt like a credit business.  "What is the creditworthiness of this country? What is the balance of payments there? What is the government of this country saying versus that country? It feels like a credit business name by name," he said.  "At a point of time when things get bad, it tips over into a bad market, forget the names, they're all the [same] it's emerging markets, forget about the differences, its emerging markets." Watch an excerpt here:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andreas Manolis Chinese sailors stand at attention as the Chinese frigate Yancheng comes in to dock at Limassol port, January 4, 2014. The dominant theme of the World Economic Forum in Davos is geopolitics. Specifically, there's a lot of interest in the mounting tensions between Japan and China and there's a lot of interest in Iran, where the new president, Hassan Rouhani, made something of a star appearance. To make sense of it all, we sat down with Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group, which specializes in analyzing political risk for clients all over the world. According to Bremmer, the risks mounting between China and Asia are indeed very real. As he sees it, China is trying to test the Obama administration, taking advantage of the facts that there are no particularly strong China hawks in the administration. Part of their strategy, he argues, is to drive a wedge between Washington and Japan. "So far the China strategy has been pretty successful," Bremmer says. During our talk he brought up an incident that occurred at a panel where an official member of the Chinese delegation identified Kim Jong-un and Shinzo Abe as the two malefactors in the region. Bremmer notes that the panelist is a representative of the government, and that he wouldn't say anything that wasn't the official government stance. As such you need to take this rhetoric seriously. Bremmer doesn't see war as likely, but if there is an "accident" then given the tensions both sides will assume the other side had the worst intentions. On Iran, he explained why he's an optimist on the new political regime, and their seriousness about improving their relationship with the world. The full Q&amp;A is below. The bolded part is the question.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderHow real are the China-Japan tensions? Look, I think it’s very real. Japan is focusing on the economic front, there’s no question. And Prime Minister Abe just came, he gave a great speech. Folks are optimistic about the economy. The one part of the speech that people were really concerned about was Japan-China. And understandably. He’s criticizing the Chinese as being aggressive and militaristic. He compared Japan-China relations explicitly to relations between Germany and the U.K in 1914, where the economic relations were good but the security tensions, let’s say, were not so good. And we saw what happened there. I wouldn’t say that Abe was directly raising the specter of war, but he was saying that China is acting in a manner that’s unacceptable and Japan won’t tolerate it. And certainly Abe’s preference is to change Japan’s constitution, it’s to remilitarize. He does believe that the global conditions that led to the constitution that Japan signed over a half-century ago no longer apply. And indeed are potentially destabilizing in East Asia. The Chinese, for their part, they don’t have a big delegation here. And they don’t anymore, now they do the summer Davos in China because they can dominate that conversation and here they get too much criticism. But they’re have been some senior Chinese here and they have absolutely been extremely hawkish on this issue. There was a panel on global security that I attended, one of the top members of the China delegation said that there were two troublemakers in East Asia: Shinzo Abe and Kim Jong Un. And this is not a guy who is allowed to criticize the government. He would not make that statement if it were not acceptable to the Chinese government. What is China’s strategy? Their strategy is to drive a wedge between the United States and Japan. They want to portray Japan as a problem for the U.S. in the same way that the U.S. might think of Israel and the Middle East, when you think about the U.S.-Iran deal that is presently being discussed. China has been engaged on a charm offensive with the United States of late. They’ve agreed to a bilateral investment treaty which the U.S. has been trying to get them to sign on for for years now. A multilateral trade and services agreement when Vice President Biden went to China recently. He got a two hour meeting with President Xi Jinping, which is unheard of. So clearly the Chinese want to engage with Americans in a serious way. There are a lot of reasons for that. The U.S. economy is picking up. But also they see a window here because all of the hawks on China are gone from the U.S. administration. Hillary’s gone, Kurt Campbell’s gone, Geithner much more focused on this region is gone, and Donilon’s gone. And so they see an opportunity with Biden effectively leading U.S.-China relations right now to build the U.S.-China relationship while really changing the rules on the ground with Japan. How will the administration react? So far the China strategy has been pretty successful. When the Chinese announced the Air Defense Identification Zone in the East China Sea, the Japanese response was to tell the Japanese airlines that “You don’t respect it, you don’t tell the Chinese.” The Americans, instead of coordinating a joint response with Japan, which they explicitly did not do, the State Department with the support of the White House told American airlines “Well yes, we don’t recognize it but you should file with China.” And the Chinese immediately deplored the Japanese response as belligerent but praised the American response as constructive. When Prime Minister Abe visited the Yasukuni War Shrine in the past month, the American public response was pretty negative. If you’re China, and you’re looking at the impact of what’s been clearly a much more belligerent Chinese stance toward Japan (and vice versa) you see it’s working. What I see happening right now is a concerted effort by the Chinese government to get the Japanese to say things that will help paint them as militarist and a foreign policy problem for a U.S. administration that doesn’t want foreign policy problems. Look at the way they react to Syria, Libya, Egypt. This is an administration that is risk-averse, that is acting tactically, and that absolutely wants to keep their big relationships on a pretty balanced footing. To the extent that China can show success there, especially when there are no serious big Japan hands in Washington right now working with Obama, they might actually have some room to roll here. The problem is that the China-Japan relationship is a very big one economically. Japan has 23,000 companies in China, they have 10 million Chinese workers on their rolls. But the Japanese companies are actively diversifying away from China now. FDI [Foreign Direct Investment] numbers have gone way down, they’re going instead to South East Asia and other parts of the world. If the Chinese and Japanese start thinking this economic relationship is deteriorating, and that’s what brought them together, the potential for greater confrontation is rising. I’m not somebody who thinks we’re going to see war. I think war is very unlikely. In other words, neither country intends to go to war against the other. But, when you have every day fighters being scrambled to deal with Chinese quote-unquote incursions into what the Japanese consider to be their territory, the potential for a mistake is much larger. And given how bad the relations are between these two countries, if there is a mistake, God forbid there is an inadvertent military dust-up, they’re going to assume the worst of the other side’s intentions. And you have to understand, these are two countries, there is no diplomatic outreach going on between the two countries. The United States is not playing a role to help facilitate that relationship. This is a place where history is in no way shared. There is no one in Japan that is trying to see the world from China’s perspective. And there’s no one in China trying to see the world from Japan’s perspective. And they hate each other. According to a recent poll taken by Pew Research, only 6% of Chinese had a favorable view of Japan, only 5% of Japanese had a favorable view of China. This is actually a pretty serious issue. Let's talk about Iran. How did Rouhani do in Davos? Are we seeing a breakthrough? I’m probably more optimistic than most, but I think that anyone that saw Rouhani’s speech or has met with either Rouhani or the oil minister or the foreign minister here over the last few days definitely believes that the Iranians are serious. That they want to get an economic deal. These sanctions have absolutely crippled the Iranian economy, and Rouhani was put in place with the singular mission of turning the economy in around. And anyone that heard his speech, anyone that has heard his meetings with the press, anyone that has been involved in his bilaterals or multi-laterals and I’ve been involved in them, sees that that is his consistent message. They were disinvited from the peace talks in Geneva and he explicitly, both privately and publicly, has avoided talking about it, hasn’t taken umbrage. And the reason for that is that they don’t want to distract from getting this deal. You never would have seen that if they weren’t taking this seriously. They would have used that to score points and to gain support. I think there’s a pretty good chance. There are still a lot of people who hate this deal. The Congress is very skeptical, the Israeli’s don’t like it, the Saudis absolutely hate it. Do you think it’s a good deal? It’s a bad deal for Saudi Arabia. It depends on whose perspective you have. If you’re Saudi Arabia, oil prices go down, the Iranians become more powerful in the region. GCC may split. The Iranians, on the other side of Saudi Arabia on every issue that matters in the region. You talk about Syria, Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon. So for the Saudis it’s a bad deal. If I were a Saudi prince and you were asking me that question, “Is it a good deal or bad deal?” It’s a bad deal. If you ask me from the American position, from the position of Obama that’s trying to get out of the Middle East, have less exposure there, and also wants a policy win, and not to mention that would like oil prices down, it’s a fantastic deal. What about Israel? Israel should deal with it, and I think they will. Unlike Saudi Arabia, Israel’s not worried about high oil prices or low oil prices as much. The Israeli’s are surrounded by geopolitical foes anyway. They have 100 nuclear weapons. The role that the Israelis are playing here is to agitate as much as possible to ensure that the foreign policy community maintains a tough, tough line on Iran so that the deal that eventually gets cut if it gets cut is going to be the toughest deal possible, the most advantageous for Israeli security. They’ve done a reasonably good job in my view, for a country of 7 million people, they’ve done a reasonably good job of getting that to happen. But if a deal actually gets done, the Israelis will deal with us. This year one of the big themes is economics taking a back seat to politics. What’s going on? Is it that geopolitics are that crazy or is it that there is economics fatigue. It’s a little more the latter. I think for the last 5 years we’ve been in the midst of various economic implications directly directed to the financial crisis and the eurozone. First of all, in 2009 just the question of where the financial sector globally was going. Eurozone crisis, fiscal crisis, debt limit crisis in the U.S. In all those places it turned out that while politics may be dysfunctional, they actually were insufficiently dysfunctional to allow things to really head negatively. So the fact is, the politics in the U.S. and Japan and Europe are pretty stable. Now that we haven’t had to worry about that anymore, there’s no one here that’s worried about the Eurozone collapse anymore. Actually, U.S. governance is not doing very much this year, which is perfectly fine for the attendees of Davos. The consensus on U.S. growth is probably stronger than the market consensus. I’d say it’s 3% or more among Davos attendees. So what are the things people are worrying about? Well, the politics are very interesting here. And they’re interesting in some cases in a negative way (China-Japan) and some cases in a positive way (Iran). But I think they are most interesting because people are wondering what this world order looks like. I mean the theme for Davos this year is reshaping the world. But the fact of the matter is that the world is not being reshaped. For the world to be reshaped the United States would have to play a role in reshaping it but it’s not. U.S. foreign policy is still very much risk-averse and not a priority for the American president. I mean, Obama was elected not to do foreign policy. And in that regard, he’s doing a good job. Take that as you will. There’s nobody else out there… you’re familiar with my G-zero concept? Reshaping the world implies we’re constructing something that’s getting us out of the G-zero. It is way too early for that. That is aspirational, it’s not real. Finally, what’s a an important story that nobody is talking about? No one is talking about North Korea. There’s no North Korean delegation here as you know. They don’t play much basketball in Switzerland, that’s part of the problem. The guy executed his uncle. The Chinese themselves are very worried. Nobody is talking about it. This is regime that could implode. And when it does, we’re going to have a very serious problem on our hands in the East China Sea. We’re going to have a very serious problem on our hands in East Asia. It’s not as if I have a crystal ball on this issue, but there’s no question that if you watch Kim Jong Un and you look at the way that he has portrayed himself and his regime to his people in a totalitarian state, he has not given any confidence to believe that he knows how to run a totalitarian state for a period of time. I think that should concern us. FREE AppDownload
Home price growth is typically more pronounced in metropolitan areas than elsewhere because they typically attract above-average GDP and income.  And home price affordability will vary greatly across metros around the world. A common way to measure home price affordability is to measure home prices against income. In London, prices are significantly higher than income in London, according to the latest Global Housing and Mortgage Outlook report from Fitch. "House price to income ratios for London vary depending on the price source but in any case are about 30%-40% higher than the UK national average," according to Fitch. "Both London and the U.K. are above their own averages for the last 16 years." Fitch believes the disconnect from incomes in London will further widen over the next two years due to reinvigorated consumer confidence, mortgage availability, high-LTV lending, and continuing demand from foreign cash buyers." Prices in New York and San Francisco for instance are also a good deal higher than the average for the U.S. but are still lower than London. (h/t @Jack Riley) Fitch Ratings FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderLast night, Jon Stewart blasted the current goings-on in Davos, Switzerland, as an "orgy of self-congratulatory excess." Few people here saw the broadcast — at that hour, they were too busy drinking or sleeping. But it's fair to say they would have enjoyed it. Then they would have raised a glass to Jon Stewart and roared, "Dude, get over here, you're missing the party!" Tonight, in fact, is the anniversary of the hot-ticket party in Davos last year — a "taxidermy"-themed bash thrown by billionaire entrepreneur Sean Parker, Salesforce.com CEO Mark Benioff, and Ian Osborne of the London-based communications firm Osborne &amp; Partners. Billed as the "Future Of Philanthropy Nightcap," the party was held in what until recently had been a crappy bar on Davos's main drag. Earlier in the week the bar had been transformed — at a rumored cost of $1 million — into a one-of-a-kind "taxidermy" emporium, with stuffed animals and animal heads on many of the walls. There was a wine bar in one corner. And a team of bartenders called "Liquid Chef" had been flown in from London. John Legend (also flown in) was playing. There were said to be three levels of restricted rooms below the main level that only certain guests had access to (I didn't). And there was, as you will see, an eclectic mix of guests. I generally feel about two decades too old to fully appreciate parties like these, but last year's guests included some folks who were two decades younger and some who were two decades older than me.  Here are some pictures. Apologies in advance for the lousy quality. I'll try to get better ones when I go to another Davos-ending bash in the same transformed bar tonight.
The first two weeks of the 2014 January earnings season are now in the books. Here are the 5 biggest winners that have everybody on Wall Street talking. The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. 1. Bank of America (BAC) 1/15/13 The first major earnings winner of the year was Bank of America. Bank of America reported 29c earnings-per-share beating the profit expectations from both Wall Street and Estimize.com. Throughout the quarter expectations surged and the company stock was up close to 20%.  Throughout the past 7 quarters Estimize.com has been more accurate in forecasting Bank of America’s EPS and revenue 6 and 5 times respectively. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, students, and non professional investors Estimize has created a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the market’s actual expectations.  It has been confirmed by an independent academic study from Rice University that stock prices tend to react with a more strongly associated degree to the expectation benchmark from Estimize than from the Wall Street consensus.  2. BlackRock (BLK) 1/16/13 BlackRock crushed everyone’s expectations last week. BlackRock has seen growth throughout the past few fiscal quarters, analysts attribute BLK’s recent successes to the growth in its risk management and equities divisions. 2013 was a particularly good year for US Stocks and BlackRock was well positioned to capitalize from the bull market as an asset management firm. And with investors increasingly buying indexed funds and ETFs, iShares could be a hot commodity for BlackRock in 2014. 3. Goldman Sachs (GS) 1/16/13 Over the previous 2 years Goldman Sachs has a great track record of beating Wall Street on profit. This quarter was the first time in 2 years the Estimize consensus was less accurate than Wall Street because analysts on the platform took a more bearish view than the Street this quarter.  4. Netflix (NFLX) 1/22/13 If I had to crown a large company as the single champion from the January 2014 earnings season so far, it would have to be Netflix. Netflix went above and beyond in terms of growing its profit at a rate that no one anticipated. While Netflix stock was up 15% in response to the report and is flying high now, the future is looking a little less certain. Recently the FCC guidelines for net neutrality were struck down by the court which could force Netflix to pay Internet Service Providers for the quantity of data users consume. This could cut into profit margins and increased competition from Hulu Plus, Amazon Prime Instant Video, and HBO Go are also of concern. 5. Microsoft (MSFT) 1/23/13 Microsoft surprised investors with a big quarter. Advertising revenue from the company’s search engine Bing were up 34% and device and consumer sales grew 13%, mostly thanks to Surface, Microsoft’s tablet. Microsoft has been searching for a replacement for CEO Steve Ballmer since August when he announced his intention to retire within a year. Microsoft has hinted in recent days that a suitable replacement may have been found, but no official announcement has yet been made. Get access to estimates published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers and follow the rest of earnings season by heading over to Estimize.com. Register for free to create your own estimates and see how you stack up to Wall Street. FREE AppDownload
The FT's Barney Jopson reports Procter &amp; Gamble CFO Jon Moeller said there has been a secular decline in facial shaving that had been "exacerbated in the quarter we were just in because of the prostate cancer-related movement in North America to not shave facial hair in the month of November.” A search of earnings transcripts on Seeking Alpha shows this appears to be the first time Movember had been cited in a shaving company's earnings report. The number of men who participate only topped 2 million in 2012. P&amp;G reported flat headline sales this morning, while second-quarter earnings fell 16%. But core earnings beat Wall Street expectations. And Moeller added that "body shaving" was on the rise. “While the incidence of facial shaving is somewhat down, the incidence of [male] body shaving is up, and we can take advantage of that and plan to do that as well,” he said. "Movember" began in 2003 in Australia. In 2012 the U.S. faction of Movember-ers raised $21 million. P&amp;G shares were up 2.75% this morning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordJamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive of JP Morgan Chase and Co, speaks at the 2012 Simon Graduate School of Business' New York City Conference in New York May 3, 2012. REUTERS/Keith BedfordJPMorgan Chase's CEO Jamie Dimon is said to be getting a pay raise for 2013, DealBook's Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Susanne Craig report citing anonymous execs at the bank.  Last year, Dimon took a huge pay cut taking home $11.5 million because of the "London Whale" trading debacle.  That was half of what he got paid in 2011 when he took home $23 million.  Still, folks shouldn't expect Dimon to get anywhere near what he got in 2011, the report said.  In the past year, JPMorgan has been hit $20 billion worth of fines ranging from mortgage-back securities sold during the crisis to failing to sound the alarm on Bernie Madoff's fraud.  FREE AppDownload
APCongress will need to either hike or suspend the nation's debt ceiling in February, and so far, senators on both sides of the aisle are predicting this fight will be much less climactic than previous squabbles in 2013 and 2011. But there are a few reasons that the debt ceiling could again become another game of chicken. Chris Krueger, an analyst at Guggenheim Partners in Washington, has been adamant that it's the largest potential macro tail risk on the economy coming out of Washington this year. In a note to clients on Friday, Krueger outlined the three main reasons why it's time to start worrying about the debt ceiling: "We do not foresee another fight over defunding ObamaCare, but we would not be surprised to see another fight go down to the wire with another version of a budgetary kick-the-can end result," Krueger wrote. " This could well result in fiscal brinksmanship that will make markets nervous, though the end result is likely more of the same D.C. endgame. Washington will continue to kick the can, until the can kicks back." House Republicans will plot their strategy on the debt ceiling next week, when they hold their annual retreat in Maryland. FREE AppDownload
LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Countries across the world have been quietly signing deals in recent months to import natural gas from the United States, revealing a growing appetite for the fuel overseas as domestic output soars. Up to a dozen long-term deals, each worth billions of dollars, have been penned behind closed doors with companies in China, Japan, Taiwan, Spain, France and Chile as global demand spikes, according to company, industry and trade sources. Through the agreements, China in particular has emerged as one of the biggest beneficiaries of cheap American natural gas that in the coming years will be piped to Gulf Coast plants and liquefied for shipment abroad in tankers. The unannounced deals, which amount to about 2 percent of daily U.S. supply, are not the first of their kind, and they depend on U.S. government approval to construct two new liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants. But the number of new buyers, and their global scope, show how the United States is taking steps to becoming a major export hub by stealing ahead of rivals in Australia and East Africa, successfully wooing needy Asian buyers even before projects begin construction. Global competition may squeeze profit margins on some exports of U.S. gas. Companies like Britain's BP &lt;BP.L&gt; and France's GDF Suez &lt;GSZ.PA&gt;, already committed to taking LNG from the United States, are now finding multiple buyers willing to take tranches of supply. "As we see more contracts getting signed, it's an indication that the U.S. has really cheap natural gas that will help supply the global market," said Jason Bordoff, Director at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. The United States is producing record amounts of natural gas thanks to a drilling boom, and more than a dozen export projects have been proposed. But large domestic users of natural gas such as the petrochemical industry are worried that unfettered exports could push prices higher at home. The Obama administration has been approving exports on a case-by-case basis. So far, only four projects are allowed to export across the globe and only one is under construction. Cheniere Energy's &lt;LNG.A&gt; Sabine Pass project in Louisiana, expected to begin shipments late in 2015, has sealed deals with importers in Europe and Asia over the past two years. This latest batch of gas sales will be exported from Sempra Energy's &lt;SRE.N&gt; Cameron LNG plant in Louisiana and the Freeport LNG plant in Texas, sources said. Both plants are expected to begin operations by the end of the decade, pending approvals. Sempra is still waiting on permits to construct the Cameron plant, and to export the gas to countries with which the U.S. does not have a free trade agreement. Freeport has full export approval, but is yet to begin construction. Securing buyers early can make or break an LNG project. Without buyers, a project will not receive financial backing or be built. GDF Suez, which acquired export rights at Cameron last year, has agreed to sell all of its 4 million tonnes per year of capacity to buyers in Japan, Taiwan, China and Chile, according to a review of deals confirmed by industry sources. Japan's Mitsubishi &lt;8058.T&gt; and Mitsui &lt;8031.T&gt;, also with export rights at Cameron, have separately targeted major buyers such as Spain's Repsol &lt;REP.MC&gt;, France's Total &lt;TOTF.PA&gt; and Japanese utilities. Mitsubishi is to sell a significant chunk of LNG to its own trading arm in Singapore. Sources said Japanese buyers were reluctant to commit to large deals while the fate of its nuclear fleet remained uncertain after the 2011 Fukushima disaster. Mitsubishi is also in talks with Indian Oil Corp. &lt;IOC.NS&gt; to sell 1 mtpa of LNG for its planned terminal at Ennorein southern India, a company executive said. Exact volumes may be adjusted. Sempra hopes to make a final investment decision to build the Cameron plant later this year. Once that decision is made, the deals agreed by GDF Suez, Mitsui and Mitsubishi automatically become formal sales agreements, industry sources said. The San Diego-based company expects to win export approval from the U.S. Department of Energy before April. Meanwhile, BP is in talks to export LNG from the Freeport plant to China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC), giving the British company a foothold in the world's largest energy consumer. This and older deals with other exporters will soon make China one of the largest importers of U.S. gas. BP has a further deal to supply Japanese utility Tepco with 0.5 mtpa, sources said. BP declined to comment. Mitsui and its prospective Japanese utility customers Kansai Electric and Tohoku Electric also declined comment. For a full list of deals, see table. More than 12 million tonnes per year (mtpa) of LNG would be exported from the United States under the deals, or around 1.5 billion cubic feet per day of gas, though some volumes may alter in final negotiations, sources said. U.S. daily production is about 70 billion cubic feet. "These deals will send a signal that there is still strong demand for U.S. LNG volumes," said Andres Rojas, analyst at Waterborne Energy in Houston. GDF was also in talks with Thailand's PTT but these were abandoned after a failure to agree terms last year, a senior PTT source said. Mitsui also broke off talks with South Korean importer GS Caltex, a source at the company said. Despite these recent deals, sellers have found it harder than expected to find new buyers, and have had to offer favorable terms when they do. A projected LNG supply spike between 2016-2020 from North America, Australia, east Africa, Russia and Asiahas empowered buyers to push down the price of long-term deals being negotiated now. This is partly reflected in the low profit margins U.S. exporters stand to make from many of the recently concluded agreements. "The United States is not the only gas producer, so we are competing in a market with countries like Qatar,Malaysia, Australia and potentially East Africa," Bordoff said. "There is not infinite demand. There is only so much supply that the global market can take." In its first long-term LNG deal into Asia, GDF Suez is selling 0.8 mtpa to Taiwan's CPC from 2018 at barely breakeven levels. According to the price formula reviewed by sources, CPC will pay around $12 per million British thermal units for the gas in the first year of the contract, a steep discount to the $16 its pays for LNG prices in Asialinked to oil. Moreover, America's edge over rivals could easily dim should domestic gas prices rise nearer to pre-shale boom levels and crude oil prices simultaneously drop to around $80 a barrel. At those levels, LNG deals linked to oil begin to look globally competitive, handicapping buyers of American gas. Bearing these risks in mind, buyers nevertheless want limited exposure to U.S. LNG primarily as a way of negotiating down prices in oil-indexed, long-term contracts with Qatar and Australia. (Additional reporting by Michel Rose in Paris, Aaron Sheldrick and James Topham in Tokyo, Nidhi Verma in New Delhi, Jane Chung in Seoul, Pisit Changplayngam in Bangkok; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauChristophe de Margerie, CEO of TotalThe CEO of French oil giant Total says Iran's oil and gas deals with Western firms "will be more sexy than before" once sanctions are lifted, Bloomberg reports. Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Christophe de Margerie said he'd spoken with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, who told him his country needs Western know-how to exploit the country's substantial reserves. “The message was as usual ‘We have plenty of oil and plenty of gas. We need your management skills, we need your technology. We don’t really need your money,’” according to De Margerie. “He said ‘We would like you to come back in our country, which is prepared to offer you new terms, new contractual terms’” in a few months. Total had been the main Western firm developing Iran's South Pars oil and gas field, the largest in the world. While there is now a bill circulating in the U.S. Senate to derail the November interim deal, which eases restrictions on Iran's ability to export crude in exchange for curbs in its nuclear program, The Washington Post's Greg Sargent wrote this week that the bill faces an uphill climb and that the deal is likely to survive. London-traded Brent crude oil contracts have come down since the deal was announced in November. Reuters reported this week Iranian oil sales have now climbed for three-straight months. Click here to read the full story on Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
Mal B / FlickrThe emerging markets are getting slammed, and it appears to be rattling the entire global financial markets. Initially, folks were comfortable blaming it on Wednesday's China flash purchasing managers' index report, which unexpectedly signaled that the country's manufacturing sector unexpectedly contracted in January.  It was around the time of that release that U.S. futures turned south and began selling in what amounted to a 175 point sell-off in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Thursday. However, there was another arguably more worrisome China story, which Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz pointed us to.  From WSJ.com today: Art Cashin, who runs UBS’s operations on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, picked up on this in a mid-afternoon note to clients. “China Beige Book has a sentence that translates into English as ‘credit transmission is broken,’ ” he wrote. “That suggests the current credit squeeze may be far more complicated than Lunar New Year drawdowns.” Indeed, Cashin is followed by many and surely people passed his note around on Thursday. However, that particular headline about the China Beige Book apparently crossed last week. Nevertheless, it is certainly a major worry. None of this is a sudden development. Rather it only adds to an increasingly concerning theme. A tightening credit market, which means higher borrowing costs and limited availability of loans, is problematic for a country that relies so heavily on debt-financing. Indeed, this is the type of thing that would cause reports like the flash PMI to come up short. "We expect more soft data prints ahead, as the impact of slowing credit growth seeps through to the real economy," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao in response to the disappointing PMI numbers.. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider One of the crazy things about being at Davos is how quickly you get used to seeing famous names everywhere you look. There's Lloyd Blankfein! There's Eric Schmidt! There's Al Gore! Of course, most people play it pretty cool in the presence of these people, since they want to fit in and not embarrass themselves. And so it just doesn't feel like you're around these big names. There is one exception, and one only: Bono. When he comes into the room, everyone in the vicinity forgets where they are, drops the pretense of not being impressed, and crowds around him, trying to get a photo. Here's what it's like when Bono walks into the room.  Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider  Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider   Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipA man walks past the entrance to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange January 12, 2012.Markets are getting slammed today, and the pain is particularly acute in the emerging markets space. What's going on? Citigroup currency specialist Steven Englander attributes the move to a sudden turn among major world central banks that policy is likely to be tighter sooner than expected. It could have been that the MPC would find a way of backing away from any suggestion that 7.0% would open a debate on tightening. Now that is less clear. EM currencies are feeling the pain but the driver is investor fear of a sudden lurch to hawkishness among G10 central banks. Consider the list below of G10 drivers of liquidity concerns: 1) Market worried about Fed tightening and Fed forward guidance 2) Strong UK data and BoE hawkish tilt 3) BoJ member talking about no additional easing and ultimate QE exit 4) SNB macroprudential move on housing In a recent set of visits to Asia and Switzerland, I was struck by the extent to which investors saw a backing up of US rates, and potentially earlier-than-signaled Fed rate hike as the major risk on the horizon, far more than with respect to a China slowdown or credit crunch. The more concerned among investors saw US rates backing up and even an early policy rate hike as driven by strong US growth or alternatively a sudden realization that there was not nearly as much excess capacity as had been thought. The more moderately concerned saw markets challenging the Fed on its forward guidance, with the outcome to be data determined. There were very few who saw any sort of downside risk to rates or the US economy. Among Asia clients by far the biggest risk they saw was a pullback in global liquidity which would tighten liquidity conditions in EM. Now combine that with the ambiguity coming out of the BoE on future monetary policy and the comments that leave open the options on monetary policy as the 7.0% unemployment target is approached. Even a month ago the overwhelming view would have been that the MPC would find a way of backing away from any suggestion that 7.0% would open a debate on tightening. Now that is less clear. For more on the market selloff, see here. FREE AppDownload
Global markets are getting rocked and traders are pointing their fingers at the emerging markets. "Emerging Market weakness is widespread and after a long period of resilience is starting to impact credit markets," said Morgan Stanley's Rashique Rahman. And there doesn't appear to be one sudden event to blame. "There is no single proximate cause, in our view, rather the cumulative impact of a number of events has led to a deterioration in risk sentiment," added Rahman. "Growing concern over China’s macro trajectory and uncertainty over credit risk in China’s trust and wealth management products are probably the main drivers, but contributing factors to the spillover into other markets include Turkey’s ongoing currency volatility and political concerns, weakness of Ukrainian credit markets and the ARS devaluation." Rahman offered this five-day bar chart of the major emerging market currencies agains the U.S. dollar and the euro. To the far right is the Argentine peso (ARS), which fell over 13% against the dollar on Thursday. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/David GuttenfelderA bottle of vodka with handmade illustrations of Rodman with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and Rodman's name in Korean sits on the roof of a car outside a Pyongyang hotel on Tuesday, Jan. 7, 2014. The U.S. is investigating whether Dennis Rodman violated U.S. sanctions against North Korea earlier this month when he brought thousands of dollars worth of luxury goods to the country for Kim Jong-un's birthday, Josh Rogin of The Daily Beast reports. The former NBA star reportedly brought Irish Jameson whiskey, European crystal, an Italian suit, a fur coat, an English Mulberry handbag for Kim’s wife, and several bottles of his own brand “Bad Ass Vodka.” Rogin explains that the gifts for North Korea's dictator "appear to be violations of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1718, adopted in 2006, and UNSCR 2094, adopted in 2013" as well as a U.S. law that makes it a violation “to have, directly or indirectly, imported, exported, or reexported luxury goods to or into North Korea.” On his most recent trip to the Hermit Kingdom, Rodman sang 'Happy Birthday' to Kim before playing an exhibition basketball game and gave a drunken interview in which he defended Kim's arrest of an American. He is now in rehab for alcoholism.  A U.S. official told the Daily Beast that the Treasury Department is currently looking into the allegations. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders read a newspaper story about the 513 point loss yesterday at the New York Stock Exchange on September 1, 1998Global financial markets are getting rocked. And everyone's blaming the financial markets. Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   Stress abounds this Friday Morning from FX and EM again for a multitude of reasons.  EM continues under pressure on Argentina’s FX getting devalued, sparking fears of other countries following suit as the FX players challenge them.   The other main headline is in China, where the ICBC Chair said no compensation to holders of a $500mln busted trust, sparking fears of a “Broken Credit System” in China  ---&gt;  While the Argentine Peso has stabilized after being whacked for 12% yesterday - Turkey’s Lira hit again, South Africa’s Rand a fresh 5Y Low, Russia’s Ruble nearing a record low, and Comments by RBA board member Heather Ridout send Aussie dollar tumbling to a 3 ½ year low.   This has emerging markets extending the worst start to a year since 2009.   E-Minis are off 80bp right now and resting on the 50dma – where it bounced from 2x a month ago.  EU Markets in the red across the board, as investors take profits in EU debt, driving their banks off 2.5% and smacking Spain for over 3% (Unemployment #s from yesterday still weigh) - Globally, Financials are getting whacked in EU, Japan, India, China and Aussie.   The DAX is off 1.4% right now, and trading is heavy in the Euro-Zone, with markets trading 60% above normal averages.  In Asia, the reversal of the “Carry Trade” continues to propel the Yen higher, hitting the Nikkei for 2% (Nikkei Futures are marked another 2% lower right now).   China was a standout, gaining 60bp in heavy trading and popping to 3 week high as Money Market rates fell again.   Single Stock Movers in the US include JNPR +5% (Jana stake, u/g at Barc); MSFT +3% (#s); SPUX +1% (#s).   Losers include IGT -10% (#s); TSLA -2% (China Pricing); and Multiple Materials stocks. Yields in the USA are in collapse, with the 10YY testing the 2.7% level this AM, down 17bp from Wednesday’s close, and the 30YY off 14bp from then.   The $ continues it’s downward trajectory against the €, with the € nearing the highest level against the Greenback since 2011.   The USDJPY Cross has broken downside of the 50dma for the first time since November as traders unwind the “Carry Trade”.   With the DXY failing the 50/100dmas this week, we have a tailwind for commodities.  Precious metals have a bid, interesting Silver outperforming Gold, but the Yellow metal is hitting 2 month highs, and approaching a 100dma test.   Natural Gas is squeezing higher again, gaining 5% overnight as another cold spell draws down stocks – Nat Gas has gained 17% over the last week, and hitting the highest level since 2011.   Both brent and WTI are in the red – but WTI continues to outperform on the plunging dollar – it’s discount now the narrowest in 2 months.  There is no major Economic data today – but we do have the largest POMO of the week at 11am. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerThe US Commerce Department has opened an investigation into whether China and Taiwan are dumping a certain class of solar cells into the US market at below fair market value. Launching the latest round in an ongoing dispute with China over solar energy products, the department took aim at some $2.6bn in imports of certain crystalline silicon photovoltaic products from the two countries. The imports include crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, modules and panels, by themselves or integrated into other products. The probe will also extend to whether China is also unfairly subsidizing the same class of products, or a countervailing duty investigation. The probe was requested by a large US solar panel manufacturer, SolarWorld Industries America of Hillsboro, Oregon. In 2012, the US imported crystalline silicon photovoltaic products from China and Taiwan valued at an estimated $2.1bn and $513.5m, respectively. The scope of the new investigation excludes crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells from China that already are under anti-dumping orders. Solar products have been a focus of friction between China and the US, which accuses the Chinese government of unfairly subsidising the industry to gain a trade advantage. The US International Trade Commission will make its preliminary decision on whether the US company has been injured by underpriced and subsidized Chinese and Taiwanese products by February 14. After that, the Commerce Department will decide whether to levy anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on the products between March and June.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Petar KujundzicGood morning. Here's what you need to know. — Global financial markets continue to get rocked even after Thursday's massive sell-off, with the deepest moves coming from emerging markets. Asian markets got whacked in overnight trading, with Japan's Nikkei down 1.94% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng 1.25% lower. European markets were down across the board, with France off the most. And U.S. futures are deep in the red with Dow futures down a whopping 96 points. — A car bomb killed at least four people and wounded 50 at the main Egyptian police headquarters in Cairo. "The blast shook and damaged nearby buildings, including a museum and courthouse, and sent black smoke rising above the Egyptian capital as a large number of ambulances rushed to the scene," the AP reported. The attack, which the AP called "hugely symbolic," comes on the eve of the third anniversary of the riots that led to Hosni Mubarak's 2011 ouster. — The Australian dollar continues its vicious bloodletting. The currency has closed lower on 12 of the last 14 weeks. "The RBA is actively trying to talk the Aussie dollar down because it is concerned that up until around 3 months ago the Aussie traders weren’t reacting to the deterioration in the terms of trade in the manner they should have been – by selling," writes Business Insider Australia's Greg McKenna. "It’s Friday night before a public holiday in Australia which could make trading thinner than normal given the extra day traders need to hold any positions instituted tonight." — JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon just got a raise. The New York Times reports that Dimon, who saw his pay reduced to a measly $11.5 million last year following the London Whale debacle, fared better this year. The Times didn't have an exact figure, but the boardroom debate "pitted a vocal minority of directors who wanted to keep his compensation largely flat, citing the approximately $20 billion in penalties JPMorgan has paid in the last year to federal authorities, against directors who argued that Mr. Dimon should be rewarded for his stewardship of the bank during such a difficult period," according to the report. — Reuters reports that activist investor Carl Icahn's has a larger stake in in eBay than previously disclosed. Icahn's stake is closer to 2%, according to the report. Icahn has said he hopes the company will spin off its highly-profitable PayPal unit. He also announced Thursday that he bought another $500 million worth of Apple stock, bringing his total to $3.6 billion. — Microsoft beat earnings expectations yesterday right after the bell. Revenue came in at $24.52 billion versus the $23.68 billion consensus estimate, while EPS was $0.78 against the $0.68 consensus. The stock traded up 3% after hours. — Nobel Prize-winner Robert Shiller knows a thing or two about bubbles. And at a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Shiller said that Bitcoin certainly is one. "It is a bubble, there is no question about it.... It's just an amazing example of a bubble," he said, adding that he's "amazed by how people are so excited about it." He tells his students, "No, it's not such a great idea." — British Prime Minister David Cameron thinks he will be able to keep the U.K. in the European Union, Reuters reports. Cameron will give citizens an "in/out" referendum on a plan to reshape EU ties if reelected next year. "I'm confident that we'll have a successful renegotiation and a successful referendum," he said during a session at the World Economic Forum in Davos. "I'm confident this is do-able, deliverable and, as I say, winnable for Britain to stay in a reformed European Union." — The Japanese government predicts that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe won't be able to meet his budget-balancing promise under his current spending plan, Reuters reports. "Forecasts by the Finance Ministry, reviewed by Reuters on Friday, show that even in the rosiest of four scenarios, the government will run a primary budget deficit - which excludes debt service and income from debt sales - for the fiscal year to March 2021," according to the report. "Under existing policy, Abe's government has promised to halve the primary deficit by fiscal 2014/15 and bring it into balance five years later." — Droughts have been crushing beef prices. Live cattle contracts hit $1.43/lb. yesterday, the highest since the contract started in 1964. "There are a lot of cattle in America – just over 89 million head in total – but those numbers are down from 94 million in 2010," wrote ConvergEx's Nick Colas. "Pasture land doesn’t recovery from drought in just one or two years, so ranchers have to maintain lower herd sizes even when the weather improves. It did so this year, but numerous articles in local farming community newspapers seem to indicate that ranchers remain cautious despite this year’s better environment. Bottom line: U.S. herds are at a 60 year low and seem likely to remain depressed." And in other environment-related news, there is a massive propane shortage in the United States right now. FREE AppDownload
It's just been total chaos in the Argentina in recent days and months. Moments ago, Argentina said it would loosen capital controls that had been intended to keep money from leaving the country. Argentines will be allowed to trade in their pesos for dollars in line with their income starting Jan. 27, reports Bloomberg's Daniel Cancel. This is a major announcement because with central bank reserves dwindling to around $29 billion, Argentina has had itself in the extraordinarily troubling position of potentially being unable to finance its debt obligations to other countries or afford crucial imports like fuel. In its effort to limit foreign currency transactions, Argentina had put into place capital controls. Argentines have had to fill out applications to receive dollars for their pesos. The government had also put into place massive taxes for citizens who wished to spend money overseas. All of this led to a burgeoning black market, where the exchange rate was for Argentine pesos has been actually much substantially more unfavorable. But the fact that Argentines were willing to accept a huge discount for their pesos reflected how difficult it was to go through legal means. Unfortunately, these growing currency black markets had made the capital controls less effective. On Thursday, Argentina shocked everyone by saying it had abandoned its interventionist monetary policy, which caused the peso to dropped a breathtaking 13% against the dollar. The plunging currency only added to fears that inflation would or continue to plague the troubled country. In it's statement today, Argentine Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich said that the peso had reached an acceptable level. According to Bloomberg, the peso is now at 7.88 per dollar. On the black market its closer to 13 per dollar. This story is obviously fast-moving and developing. For more on this story, read The Financialist's excellent write-up, which uses research from Credit Suisse's Casey Reckman. FREE AppDownload
Agence France PresseA file photo taken on on March 23, 2001 shows the flooded banks of the river Seine in Paris.The Paris region would be highly vulnerable to exceptional flooding of the River Seine, the OECD said Friday, warning that a once-a-century event would cripple France's commercial, political and cultural hub. Roads, rail, sewerage, electricity and water systems would be knocked out across much of the Ile-de-France region, which accounts for a third of France's economic activity, it said. A repeat of the city's costliest flood, in 1910, would affect up to five million people and threaten 400,000 jobs, said the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) grouping of advanced economies. A quarter of the region's electricity network would go down, 140 of the 250 kilometres (87 of the 150 miles) of Paris' subway (Metro) system would be closed, and bridges over the river at the heart of the city would be closed to vehicles. About five million people would suffer "extended" cuts in their water supply. Another 1.3 million would have access to water, but of inferior quality. The immediate economic costs would range from three billion to 30 billion euros ($4 billion to $40 billion) depending on the flood's duration. Over the following five years, gross domestic product (GDP) would be cut by between 0.1 and three percent -- equal to 1.5 billion to 58.5 billion euros. The flooding could last in some places for weeks, given that the Seine tends to rise but also recede very slowly, the OECD said. The report said the shock of the 1910 flood and smaller floods in 1924 and 1955 had prompted the building of dams upstream and civil engineering works in the city itself to prevent floods. But this investment trailed off in the early 1990s, it said. Since then, the building of factories, offices, homes and roads in flood-prone zones along the river has revived the risk. "Major investment has been modest in recent decades, and it would appear that protection is not at the same level of standard as in comparable OECD countries, particularly in Europe," the OECD warned. It called for a greater effort to beef up flood resilience in essential services. The report cautioned that "once-a-century" flooding may be a low benchmark. It noted this standard had already been breached by floods in recent years in Queensland, Bangkok, Pakistan and Germany and in New York by Tropical Storm Sandy. A European Union flood directive, factoring in the likely impact of climate change, uses once-in-a-millennium events as the benchmark for flood preparedness, it added.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya Shino A Tesla Model SBEIJING (Reuters) - U.S. electric carmaker Tesla Motors Inc &lt;TSLA.O&gt; expects its China sales to contribute one third of global sales growth this year, a senior executive said, adding that a trademark issue stalling full-entry into China had been resolved. Veronica Wu, vice president of Tesla's China operations, told Reuters the Palo Alto, California-based company planned to open stores in 10-12 Chinese cities by the end of 2014, including its flagship store in Beijing that opened late last year. Wu, the 43-year-old executive who jumped ship to Tesla from Apple's China unit at the end of last year, said Tesla China had a "very aggressive growth objective". She said the unit was aiming to contribute "30 to 35 percent" of Tesla's overall global sales growth targeted for 2014. Wu said the company aimed to double overall total sales this year. She put global sales at 23,000 to 24,000 last year. "I have my work cut out for me," Wu said in an interview. "But I am pretty confident." Wu discussed Tesla's plans for its Chinese sales and marketing operations at Tesla's flagship store inside an upscale shopping mall in Beijing a day after announcing its pricing strategy. Tesla said on Thursday that a version of the Tesla Model S, a sleek all-electric battery car which sells for $81,070 in the United States, would retail for 734,000 yuan ($121,300) in China after shipping costs and import duty and other taxes. The company was referring to a Model S with an 85 kilowatt-hour battery pack. The Beijing-born executive, who worked for Apple's China unit in Beijing from 2006 until she joined Tesla in December, said that given the Tesla car's "quality," the Model S offered "great value". Wu applauded Beijing's support for electric and plug-in electric hybrid cars. She said Tesla had also resolved a trademark issue that had long prevented the company from using "Te Si La" - the Chinese name best known among Chinese consumers, which Tesla wanted to use in China. "We went to court and we won," she said. "The court has given use right to use the name, which is why you see the Chinese name in our store now." The name had been registered by a local businessman who had refused to give up the trademark. The U.S. company had started offering its popular Model S sedans in China, but with no Chinese language name. Wu said Tesla had no plans to start local production of its cars in China, at least for the time being. "Right now we are not considering (that) as yet," the Tesla China chief said. "The most important task right now, now that we have announced our pricing strategy, is to focus on getting the right car and making sure we have the right service network, and making sure the Chinese customer is happy," she said. "Happy customers are the best advocate of your product, right?" (Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
static6.businessinsider.comTwo-thirds of young children in the United States now have access to an e-reader or tablet, but only half of them actually use the device to read, a research institute said in a study published Friday. The Joan Ganz Cooney Center surveyed 1,577 parents on how much time their two- to 10-year-old kids spent with educational content on "screen media" such as televisions, computers and video games. Sixty-two percent of children had access to either an e-reader, a tablet or both -- but only 49 percent of them used the devices for reading, either alone or with their parents, the study found. And when they did read, it was typically for about five minutes a day -- compared with about half an hour with printed books. Parents considered 44 percent of the screen media used by their children to be educational -- representing 56 minutes out of two hours and seven minutes' viewing a day. Fifty-seven percent thought their child had learned "a lot" from educational media about reading and mathematics -- but only 19 percent thought that much had been learned about science. Named for one of the founders of the Children's Television Workshop, the studio behind "Sesame Street," the Joan Ganz Cooney Center promotes literacy skills while researching digital learning for youngsters. It posted its study on its website. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderLast night, on American television, Jon Stewart shredded the goings-on at the World Economic Forum here in Davos as "an orgy of self-congratulatory excess." That was a funny and fair characterization—at least the orgy part. But no one in Davos was watching. Because we were too busy getting smashed. You see, nighttime in Davos is when the real fun begins. First, there are the cocktail parties. Then there are the dinner parties (with cocktails). Then there are the after-dinner parties (with cocktails). Then there are the after after-dinner parties (with cocktails). Then there's the piano bar at the Hotel Europe (with cocktails) where, a couple of years ago, Mark Zuckerberg's sister Randi got up and started singing (watch video here). The epicenter of all this partying is the Hotel Belvedere. The following pictures and story are actually from two years ago, but I went to a party at the Belvedere last night, and it was just the same. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru Hanai Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe attends a New Year party hosted by the Japan Business Federation, Japan Association of Corporate Executives and Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in Tokyo.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese government calculations indicate that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe cannot meet his budget-balancing promise in coming years on the current course, suggesting he may come under greater pressure from fiscal hawks for future tax increases. Forecasts by the Finance Ministry, reviewed by Reuters on Friday, show that even in the rosiest of four scenarios, the government will run a primary budget deficit - which excludes debt service and income from debt sales - for the fiscal year to March 2021. Under existing policy, Abe's government has promised to halve the primary deficit by fiscal 2014/15 and bring it into balance five years later. Finance Minister Taro Aso reaffirmed that goal on Friday at the opening of Parliament. Private economists have long considered the government's fiscal-reform goals to be ambitious, but the new forecasts represent the first time that official figures have essentially confirmed that view. Ministry officials had no comment on the scenarios, which have not been made public. Fiscal reform is an urgent task for the world's third-biggest economy. Years of recessions and tepid growth have crimped tax revenues, while massive government stimulus measures and a rapidly ageing society have forced up government spending. The result is public debt far above 200 percent of GDP, the biggest burden in the industrial world. A Reuters survey of 400 companies on Friday found that 80 percent expect a euro-style debt crisis in Japan in the next decade. Abe last year took the biggest step in 15 years to rein in Japan's debt, deciding to raise the national sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in April. The new ministry documents, to be used in budget debates in the next session of Parliament from next week, show that the tax increase and the boost to growth from "Abenomics" mean the government is now ahead of initial projections for halving the primary deficit in the first stage. But the new initial projections for the fiscal 2020/21 target year depict Japan's inexorable budget and demographic trends swamping the government's fiscal goals. Even assuming robust annual economic growth of 3 percent and further steps to rein in social security spending,Japan will run a primary deficit of 6.6 trillion yen ($64 billion) in the 2020/21 fiscal year, the ministry calculates. With a more typical growth rate of 1.5 percent, the deficit widens to 9.1 trillion yen. If no steps are taken to curb the natural increase in welfare spending, the ministry calculates, Japan will run a deficit that year of 9.1 trillion yen if growth is 3 percent, ballooning to 14.1 trillion yen at 1.5 percent growth. The forecasts assume that Abe will proceed with a further sales-tax increase, to 10 percent, in October 2015, although confirming that hike promises to be a politically contentious for the premier and is by no means certain. Given that Japan is on course to remain in deficit even if it curbs spending, the forecasts may mobilize ministry fiscal hawks to push for Abe to ratify the next tax hike, fend off calls for corporate tax cuts and even look for further revenue increases. (Writing by William Mallard; Editing by Neil Fullick) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Denis BalibouseBritain's Prime Minister David Cameron speaks during a session at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos January 24, 2014. DAVOS, Switzerland (Reuters) - British Prime Minister David Cameron told the World Economic Forum in Davos on Friday he was confident he could renegotiate his country's relations with the European Union to allow it to remain in the 28-nation bloc. "I'm confident that we'll have a successful renegotiation and a successful referendum," he told delegates, referring to his plan to reshape his country's EU ties before offering Britons an in/out referendum if he is re-elected next year. "I'm confident this is do-able, deliverable and, as I say, winnable for Britain to stay in a reformed European Union," he said. (Reporting By Andrew Osborn; Editing by Stephen Addison) FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesIn Davos, I asked Senator Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri) her take on the upcoming debt ceiling fight. Now granted, she's a Democrat, and nobody can know exactly what Republicans will do. But her comments about what's likely to happen were the most optimistic comments anyone has said on the subject in awhile. Here's her comments in full when I asked if things are likely to go to the 11th hour. The key line is bolded at the end. I don’t think we will. I think one of the reasons that politically it was such an attractive shiny object to some on the right is that Americans thought that by raising the debt ceiling, we were authorizing additional spending. I think more Americans understand now. It’s just making good, that we don’t want to be deadbeats. We’re supposed to be the most powerful economy in the world, certainly we can’t welsh on our obligations. So I think it will be less dramatic, much to the chagrin of the news media. I think it will be much less dramatic this time and hopefully calmer heads will prevail and we won’t even come close to the deadline. Yesterday I asked Republican Senator Bob Corker the same thing, and he also hinted at a more calm outcome, though wasn't certain that there wouldn't be a fight. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserA Buddhist monk who is leading early-morning meditation workshops at the World Economic Forum in Davos says that business leaders like Mohamed El-Erian need to relax before they push themselves to the breaking point. Bloomberg reports that the monk, Matthieu Ricard, had a message for managers like El-Erian, who resigned from PIMCO this week in a surprise move in order to "recharge the batteries." From Bloomberg: “What’s the point if you don’t have a sense of the quality of the moment passing by?” asked Ricard, a French citizen who founded the Karuna-Shechen humanitarian association. “It doesn’t have to be blissing out under a mango tree, but some kind of joy.” Ricard’s been easy to spot in the cavernous Davos convention center this week, thanks to flowing robes of red and yellow fabric complemented by an Apple iPad. Bloomberg notes that PIMCO's chief investment officer Bill Gross, who apparently begged El-Erian to stay, "is a fan of many of the de-stressing techniques being advocated in Davos." FREE AppDownload
One of the themes of this year's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, is the rise of inequality.  Last night in the lobby of the famous Davos hotel Belvedere...Henry Blodget / Business Insider Meanwhile, in the Ukraine... via Katie Jacobs Stanton, Twitter FREE AppDownload
Michael Nagle/Getty Images(Reuters) - Activist investor Carl Icahn's stake in e-commerce company eBay Inc is more than previously reported at close to 2 percent, a source familiar with the matter said on Thursday. EBay said this week that Icahn had taken a 0.82 percent interest in the company earlier this month and made a non-binding proposal for eBay to spin off its PayPal payments business. EBay has a market capitalization of about $70 billion. Representatives for both EBay and Icahn did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the size of Icahn's stake. Icahn told Reuters in an interview he preferred a spinoff of the business to an outright sale "I personally think you do a spinoff tax-free. After that maybe it could potentially be sold at a great premium," Icahn said. EBay Chief Executive John Donahoe forcefully rejected Icahn's proposal on Wednesday, saying the company was better off remaining intact. Icahn has also proposed two nominees to the eBay board. EBay identified them as Icahn Enterprises LP employees Daniel Ninivaggi and Jonathan Christodoro, both of whom Icahn regularly nominates to boards. Christodoro is a director at Herbalife Inc and Talisman Energy Inc, while Ninivaggi is a director at Federal-Mogul Corp. Donahoe told Reuters on Wednesday that eBay had a "world-class" board. EBay is not the only technology company in Icahn's sights. The billionaire investor said Wednesday he had bought $500 million more shares in Apple Inc in just the past two weeks, bringing his investment in the iPhone maker to over $3 billion. (Reporting by Nadia Damouni and Phil Wahba in New York) FREE AppDownload
TeleboyFederer blowing a backhand. This weakness, which Nadal is excellent at exploiting, will likely cost him the match.I'm sitting in the "Central Lounge" in the Congress Center at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. It's a cool place to sit, because all day long a stream of interesting people pass by, and when you spot one who is particularly interesting, you can pop up and talk to them. Alas, right now, sitting here comes with a minor drawback, which is that the Central Lounge is not adorned with huge flat-screen TVs showing the sporting events taking place around the world. And one of those sporting events, a historic tennis match between an aging but resurgent Roger Federer and his nemesis and world No. 1 Rafael Nadal, is currently taking place 10,081 miles away, in Melbourne, Australia. I was resigned to having to just check the scores of this match and read about it after it ended, but thanks to the digital expertise of a Davos attendee sitting near me, I am now watching some of it. The Davos attendee, I noticed, was watching the match on his iPad. I asked him how he was doing that. He explained: An app called "Teleboy" that streams live TV from around the world. So I searched for Teleboy and signed up. Then I selected "Australian Open Semi-Final." And now, after watching a Red Bull ad (the price of admission), I'm watching the SRF Sport Live stream of the first set tiebreaker. That's awesome! And it makes me more eager than ever for the day when I can finally watch whatever I want to watch whenever I want to watch it, without some annoying cable company or TV network creating friction ("authenticate?" What?) or, worse, doing whatever it can to make sure I can't watch what I want to watch when I want to watch it. I don't know how Teleboy works, and I don't care. All I know is that it is letting me watch what I want to watch when I want to watch it. Hooray for the Internet! Hooray for SRF Sport Live! Hooray for Teleboy! (Federer just lost the first set, by the way. That means he's probably toast.)ScreenshotTeleboy Australian Open FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Gerardo MoraNEW YORK (Reuters) - A propane shortage is affecting millions of Americans this week as brutal cold exposes the vulnerabilities of a network responsible for heating homes, schools and businesses across wide swathes of the United States. Prices of the fuel have rocketed to all-time highs in some regions, distributors are rationing supplies, and some schools have shut due to a lack of fuel during this year's second bout of Arctic weather. The National Propane Gas Association said on Thursday the states of Wisconsin, Minnesota and Missouri are worst hit and that it has heard that some retailers have run out of supplies. But as record cold coincides with pipeline outages and low inventories, the crisis has spread further. Most households are not connected directly to propane pipelines, and the system relies on truck fleets now running at full capacity to get emergency supplies to states across the Midwest, Northeast and Southeast. The U.S. Department of Transportation has issued emergency orders suspending the limits on the amount of time truck drivers can spend on the road for 10 Midwestern states and 12 Northeastern states, a rare regional order. A spokesman for Pennsylvania-based AmeriGas Propane, the largest U.S. propane retailer, said it was rationing deliveries to "small pockets" of Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee on Thursday, reducing supplies to 100 gallons per customer from the standard delivery of some 250 gallons. "Supply is very tight. There is propane to be had out there, but there are supply and transport issues across the country," spokesman Simon Bowman said. RATIONING, PRICE SPIKES U.S. propane production has actually grown thanks to the shale oil and gas boom in recent years, but because of the higher supply, domestic prices sank to below global levels which has encouraged exports of the fuel from the U.S. Gulf Coast to Japan and other Asian countries. The current shortage in the Midwest comes at a confluence of events. A record-breaking cold snap hit at the start of January when stocks were already low after large amounts of propane was used to dry out a bumper corn harvest in the fall. A pipeline outage during most of December exacerbated the situation and this week's freezing weather, which is expected to last to the end of the month, has heightened the situation. All the while prices have soared. Propane heading for the Midwest is priced against supplies in the hub in Conway, Kansas. Prices there touched almost $5 a gallon on Thursday, compared with Friday's pre-freeze price of around $1.75. Texas has lifted the need for out-of-state trucks to be registered with the state to allow other trucks to come and pick up supplies. "Long lines have formed at Mont Belvieu," said one Houston-based broker, referring to the largest propane supply hub in the country. "Lots of out-of-state trucks are showing up." LOW SUPPLIES In northern Tennessee, the Stewart County School System opted to close on Thursday and Friday because of warnings from suppliers they were focused on deliveries to residences of up to 150 gallons, said Leta Joiner, assistant schools director. "We're not sure how long this is going to last," Joiner said. "We decided to err on the side of caution." One propane supplier in Northern Indiana said customers pleaded for more fuel when he did his rounds on Thursday. Other customers were more hostile, accusing his company of exploiting the shortage to rack up prices. Few are willing to predict how long this supply squeeze will last. "We certainly hope that there is a break in the weather," said Roy Willis, president and chief executive officer of the Propane Education and Research Council. "It could be days or it could be weeks. It really depends on the weather and the logistics of moving the propane." (Reporting by Sabina Zawadzki, Edward McAllister, Robert Gibbons and Julia Edwards in New York, Tim Ghianni in Nashville; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Inequality is the number one issue at the World Economic Forum's annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. But when the world's most elite minds gather to talk about global inequities while chilling out in a plush ski village, it makes for funny optics. So Davos got the full Jon Stewart treatment on last night's Daily Show. "Inequality. Yes, they're talking about it in the cigar lounges, in the champagne pavilions, in the cocaine-atoriums," Stewart joked. And as for the Oxfam report showing that the world's richest 85 people have equal wealth to the poorest 3.5 billion? "There's more people in Arcade Fire than that." Stewart called Davos an "orgy of self-congratulatory excess," and lambasted financial TV journalists for acting straight-up giddy for getting invited to the "money Oscars." Stewart also poked fun at another international issue happening in Switzerland right now, the Syria peace talks. Check out the clip via Mediaite:  FREE AppDownload
The Aussie dollar has closed lower on 12 of the last 14 weeks. While some part of that has been an outflow of investors from Australia as they seek better returns in other markets a big part of the sell off has been because of the aggressive verbal intervention of the RBA Governor and his Board. Today we heard from RBA Governor and former head of the Australian Industry Group, Heather Ridout, who told the Wall Street Journal that the Aussie hadn’t fallen far enough and a price “around US$0.80 would be a fair deal for everybody.” Yeouch. The Aussie reacted by trading down to a new 3 and a half year low of 0.8687 before rallying a little to sit at 0.8710. BI Australia The RBA is actively trying to talk the Aussie dollar down because it is concerned that up until around 3 months ago the Aussie traders weren’t reacting to the deterioration in the terms of trade in the manner they should have been – by selling. It’s Friday night before a public holiday in Australia which could make trading thinner than normal given the extra day traders need to hold any positions instituted tonight. So, if the bears want to push the Aussie lower they have just received all the ammunition they need. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter   This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyA man looks at an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Shanghai March 15, 2011. China's main stock index closed down 1.4 percent on Tuesday, as worries that China's central bank will continue to drain funds from the financial system added to fears about Japan's nuclear crisis. Markets turned red again today as Japan got whacked down 1.94% in overnight trading. Shanghai was up 0.60%, but Hong Kong fell 1.25%. Emerging markets are getting crushed and Japanese futures are falling more. In Europe, things were also down across the board. France's CAC 40 is trading down 1.4% while England's FTSE and Germany's DAX are both down as well. Once again, the Australian dollar is getting hammered. All of this comes a day after a very wild day in the markets. China's flash PMI missed expectations, sending Asian markets into a tizzy. And the currency markets were also nuts yesterday, with the Argentinian peso falling 13% against the dollar. U.S. futures were pointing to a much lower open. It's been a relatively quiet week of economic data. No major releases today. FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Nobel Laureate economist Robert Shiller is on a panel at Davos about digital trends in financial markets. Almost immediately he started talking about Bitcoin. He says that he finds it to be an "inspiration" because of the computer science. But he's not into it as an economic advance. As a currency he says it's a return to the dark ages. Shiller is a student and expert in the nature of bubbles, and he's adamant that Bitcoin is one. He says he's blown away by how much fascination Bitcoin has engendered, though it makes sense because human nature causes us to be interested in markets that exhibit extreme volatility. Says Shiller: "It is a bubble, there is no question about it. ... It's just an amazing example of a bubble." He added that he's "amazed by how people are so excited about it" and that he tells his students that "No, it's not such a great idea." FREE AppDownload
