REUTERS/Hyungwon KangU.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson looks over his entourage after announcing that the Treasury Department will take equity stakes in potentially thousands of banks totaling about $250 billion at the Treasury Department Cash Room in Washington, October 14, 2008.Six years ago, the financial crisis crippled the American banking industry, and the devastating effects ripple across the world. Businesses went down, and people lost their jobs. But the memory of the key events of the financial crisis is slowly fading. Hearings, lawsuits, bailouts — it all gets muddled together. Business Insider has outlined the major moments from 2007 to 2009.   From the initial reports of subprime defaults to the collapse of Lehman Brothers to AIG's second bailout, here are the 27 scariest moments of the financial crisis. Editor's Note: Former Business Insider reporter Steven Perlberg contributed to this feature. FREE AppDownload
Pabo76/FlickrStroll beneath the changing foliage of Central Park.New York City is a magical place in the fall. There are crisp days perfect for walks in the park, hot apple cider from local farmers markets, and football. Plenty of events and festivals, from the New York City Marathon to the Wine &amp; Food Festival, also take place. Autumn officially starts Sept. 22, so get ready for the new season with our ultimate guide on what every New Yorker should do this fall.
Flickr/Jaguar MENA West—the vice president and director of Governance Studies at Brookings, the founding director of the Center for Technology Innovation, and the Douglas Dillon Chair—examines the "wealthification" of politics and society and offers ideas for improving opportunities and fairness.    This article originally appeared at The Brookings Institution.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Brookings Institution on Twitter. FREE AppDownload

 A yes vote in Scotland this week would be a very, very bad idea. Anybody who looks at it taking an on-the-one-hand, on-the-other-hand approach is going to end up voting No, as they should. But I’m not going to rehearse all of the No campaign’s arguments here. Instead, I’d like to try to explain, to a largely befuddled American audience, how on earth the UK found itself on the verge of divorce. As I see it, there are five main necessary conditions to explain how we got here: The creation of the EU created a safe space for small independent countries, especially after the Cold War ended. No longer did Scotland need the protection and strength of a nuclear UK: it could choose instead to go it alone, like, say Slovakia. The rise of the EU, and the end of the Cold War, coincided with a 19-year period of Tory rule by the end of which the Conservative Party was pretty much obliterated in Scotland. There’s something deeply conservative-with-a-small-c about the Scots, and if the No vote wins on Thursday it will be in no small part thanks to that conservatism. But the Thatcher-Major years convinced Scotland that the Tories only cared about England, and would pursue policies which few if any Scots wanted. Essentially, by 1997, Tory rule was considered tantamount to foreign rule, in Scotland. Still, in 1997 the alternative to the Tories was Labour, not independence. With the Labour party in power Scotland got its own parliament, and there was, at least initially, much less opposition to Westminster policies than there had been in the Tory years. After all, Tony Blair was Scottish! Then, however, came the invasion of Iraq, and the transformation of Blair into a nightmarish vision of a bloodthirsty poodle. Clearly, Labour<U+200A>—<U+200A>even a Labour party run by Scots<U+200A>—<U+200A>couldn’t be trusted any more than the Tories could. And then came the final straw: with Gordon Brown<U+200A>—<U+200A>another Scot<U+200A>—<U+200A>in power, and Scotland’s very own banks (run from London) helping to fuel the craziness, the London-based UK financial system managed to precipitate a global economic crisis from which Scotland still hasn’t recovered. At that point, Scotland lost faith not only with the English elite, but with most of the Scottish elite, too<U+200A>—<U+200A>the kind of bankers and civil servants who would mark out successful careers in London before returning to a quiet retirement in Midlothian. That’s why it was such a dreadful idea for the No campaign to be led by the ultimate technocratic Westminster-based Scot, Alistair Darling. He’s not a sign of Scotland’s influence in London: instead, he epitomizes the way in which the Labour Party buggered up the entire country. (He was finance minister, after all, during the financial crisis.) The final straw, of course, was the return of the the Tory party to power in 2010, under the leadership of the insufferable toff David Cameron. Scotland didn’t vote for Cameron, doesn’t want him in power, and has effectively no ability to kick him out through the traditional ballot box. (The referendum vote, however, is different: it’s hard to imagine Cameron surviving a Yes vote.) Labour was bad, the Tories are worse: it’s easy to see how Scotland would prefer to try to run things itself. At least then it would be responsible for its own mistakes. Thus are the lines drawn: on the No side, you have the hated Westminster elite, who have done a bad job governing the UK and a particularly bad job governing Scotland over the past 35 years. Many of them are Scottish themselves, which only really makes things worse. Meanwhile, the Yes side is young and angry and betrayed and proud and, most importantly, really Scottish: they live Scotland every day, and they want self-determination. They want to run themselves, to make their own decisions, rather than chafing under the rule of Londoners (of whatever nationality) who spend much more time thinking about Brussels or Berlin or Washington than they do about Glasgow or Aberdeen. In terms of economics, bigger is nearly always better. On purely economic terms, Ireland would probably be better off it was part of the UK; Canada would be better off if it were part of the US; in Europe, it would make perfect economic sense for the Netherlands to merge with Luxembourg and Flanders, while Wallonia joined up with France. But no one in any of those countries actually wants those things to happen. These days, countries don’t merge (the reunification of Germany being the main exception): they break apart, like the Soviet Union, or Czechoslovakia, or Yugoslavia. Or, quite possibly, if Scotland becomes independent, Spain. The main hope for the No campaign, then, is path dependence: that the UK (or at least Great Britain) has been a unified political entity for so long that it seems more natural together than apart. That, and the pragmatic nature of the Scots. I still think the Yes campaign is going to win, just because, given the choice, nations tend to want independence. Especially when they’re voting for a peaceful divorce from a country (more realistically, a city) which doesn’t care about them and doesn’t share their values. Would Scotland be worse off as an independent country? Yes. Is that sufficient reason to vote no? No. That said, true independence is not an option here<U+200A>—<U+200A>which does gives me some hope for a no vote. Scotland wants to retain the pound, and if it can’t have the pound it will have the euro; either way, it won’t control its own currency. London and Brussels will continue to have a large amount of sway over what happens in Scotland no matter which way the independence vote goes. Which says to me, at least, that a combination of devolved powers with 59 seats in the UK parliament is probably a better bet than having much the same powers with no UK voice at all. Of course, if it were up to English people like me, the vote wouldn’t even be close. To a first approximation, everybody in England wants Scotland to vote no. The question which we’re going to see answered on Thursday is not what the English think, it’s what the Scots think. And my feeling<U+200A>—<U+200A>my fear<U+200A>—<U+200A>is that they’re going to vote for change. This post previously appeared on Medium. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonTesla CEO Elon Musk.Tesla stock is up 1,400% since the middle of 2010, just as the company began to realize Elon Musk’s vision and grow its revenue base. Of course, Musk is not without his own opinion on the stock price. On September 4th, while finally announcing the much anticipated location of Tesla’s Gigafactory (Nevada), Musk also offered a valuation assessment: “I think our stock price is kind of high right now.” The stock dropped from its all-time high, but has found a steady equilibrium since the declaration. Of greater interest to Tesla shareholders is the promise of the Gigafactory, with projections pointing to 500,000 cars built and delivered per year by 2020. In 2013, Tesla sold  about 25,000 cars. When looking for a valuation methodology for Tesla, don’t look to Elon Musk, but to a single fundamental measure of the firm: revenue. This chart shows Tesla's total revenue against its stock price over the last four years, and from this chart we could make an argument that not only have we found the right valuation methodology for the company, but that Tesla stock is priced perfectly. Capital Markets Laboratories This article originally appeared at Capital Market Laboratories.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons We're living in a golden age for a certain kind of very-public investing strategy, where big-name hedge funders get up on stage, or produce PowerPoint presentations laying out their investment thesis on a given company. Julia LaRoche, Business InsiderBill Ackman is known for his big public presentations on his investment ideas. Other investors have done similar things, though the scope has been a bit less ambitious. Last year, Whitney Tilson put together a big presentation on a private education company whose stock he thought would go down. Other hedge funders have done slideshows on a certain theme, like the bullish case on housing. There are whole conferences basically devoted to this kind of investing. Sometimes, as in the case of Ackman, the investor is an "activist" trying to get something to happen (in his case, government involvement in Herbalife. Others are trying to get board seats. A lot of times the focus is on financial engineering ("Well if you spin off the real estate into a separate entity, and sell the brand name to a holding company in Antigua, you could reduce taxes by 200 basis points...") But while some of these presentations are dry, and some (like Ackman's) seem designed to overwhelm you into submission, a new entry into the field has taken the genre of a hedge fund presentation to a whole (and awesome) new level. Reuters/ Rick WilkingJeff Smith, founder of Starboard Investments. A lot of the media coverage of the presentation centered around a small part of it where Smith talks about Olive Garden's breadsticks strategy. Some of the headlines from the presentation include: "Olive Garden Investor: Back Off On Breadsticks" (AP), "Investor tells Olive Garden: Fewer breadsticks, sell more booze" (Fortune),and  "Is Olive Garden’s problem that it’s serving you too many breadsticks?" (Washington Post). But if you're main takeaway from all this is that Scrooge-like investment manager Jeff Smith thinks Olive Garden should stop giving away so many breadsticks, then you're actually missing the real story.  Smith likes the unlimited breadsticks idea. He just thinks they should be served differently. Rather than a waiter bringing out a huge bowl of breadsticks (many of which will turn cold and stale fast) he wants them to be served when demanded. Here's the slide from his presentation where he explains what he wants. Starboard Smith is upset about the waste, the deterioration of quality, and he doesn't like the fact that if the server just dumps a bunch of breadsticks on the table, then they don't have to come back to the table as often, and that will leave the customer service experience wanting. The argument is both subtle and powerful, and can not be reduced to "back off on the breadsticks." What's amazing is that the presentation is page after devastating page of this type of takedown for the company. Unlike many presentations which can get boring, this one makes for riveting reading, and awe at the amount of research that went into taking down a chain Italian restaurant. The presentation also blends its nuts-and-bolts take on Olive Garden's operation with data to back things up. So in the section on breadsticks and wasted food, Starboard shows that despite a pasta-heavy menu, Olive Garden's food costs are among the highest in the industry. Starboard In addition to food waste, Starboard sees wasteful packaging practices. Note the point about the length of straws at Darden Restaurants. Starboard The presentation also takes aim at menu complexity, which it says is overwhelming for customers, and contributes to kitchen inefficiencies. Starboard Also, it wouldn't be a complete hedge fund presentation if there weren't a populist element. In this slide, Starboard attacks the company for its wastefully luxurious corporate HQ. Starboard On the flipside, Starboard believes that Darden isn't paying enough to its restaurant General Managers, and that it's failing to create a sense of ownership and innovation down at the restaurant level. This slide shows how Darden's competitors are paying more to their GMs, and offering them more in bonuses. Starboard The presentation goes on and on, poking hole after hole in how Darden (and the Olive Garden specifically) is being run. There's a whole section on how the food looks like garbage... Starboard And a slide about how Olive Garden has strayed too far from its Italian roots... Starboard And of course there's also a deep financial dive, including a part about how Olive Garden is sitting on substantial, under-appreciated real estate assets. Starboard Other crucial parts of the presentation include a detailed look at the current board of directors (and the proposed replacements), a criticism of the fact that Olive Garden doesn't put salt in its pasta water (to increase the longevity of its pans), and detailed survey data (partly done by mining Yelp) showing how people rate Olive Garden food (not well). In short, the presentation is thorough, creative, multi-faceted, and above all leaves the reader with the rock solid sense that Olive Garden is being run into the ground. The amount of depth, and research into the operations of the company (not just the financials) really sings. Now of course, this is just one side, and Olive Garden management might have counterpoints to much of it. But that's not the point. As a sales job, it's perfect. And so we've seen the first true masterpiece of the era of hedge funds and their highly-public investment theses.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA, the cash-strapped Brazilian oil company controlled by former billionaire Eike Batista, is pictured in downtown Rio de JaneiroBRASILIA (Reuters) - The Rio de Janeiro prosecutor's office has asked a federal court to freeze financial assets and up to 1.5 billion reais($641 million) worth of property from Eike Batista, accusing the fallen Brazilian tycoon of market manipulation. In a statement on Saturday, the prosecutor's office said that Batista deceived investors with a "simulated" promise two years ago to invest $1 billion in oil company OGX, now known as Oleo e Gas Participacoes SA, if shares fell to a certain level. Batista failed to fulfill his promise, known as a put option, when the shares touched that level. Batista is also accused of using privileged information on several occasions last year to make a profit of 236 million reais with the sale of company stock, the statement said. A representative for Batista and his industrial group EBX could not be reached for comment on Saturday. Batista has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing in previous public statements on the case. OGX filed Latin America's largest-ever bankruptcy-protection petition in Rio last October after its first oil wells produced less than expected and investors lost confidence in the company's ability to keep up with debt payments and finance new oil-field development. The prosecutor's office said Batista knew in advance that those wells were not worth the price of the stock. It said the charges against Batista could carry up to 13 years in prison. Changes to Batista's put option were part of an updated restructuring plan of Oleo e Gas, as OGX is now called, released in May. A final decision on the put option will be based on reports from independent legal advisers, according to the document released by Oleo e Gas. The prosecutor's office asked for the freeze of Batista's planes, boats, cars and other financial assets in Brazil to later compensate investors hurt by his alleged market manipulations. Back in May, a Brazilian court ordered up to 122 million reais in assets held by Eike Batista be frozen as part of an investigation into unfair market practices. Brazil's market regulator, CVM, is also investigating alleged market manipulation by Batista. (1 US dollar = 2.3390 Brazilian real)  (Reporting by Alonso Soto; Editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
The iPhone is the best smartphone you can buy right now. It's extremely user-friendly, and we'd be lost without it. While the iPhone is already chock-full of useful apps and games, it's also packed with a bunch of hidden features that can make life with your smartphone a whole lot easier. Here are ten things you didn't know you could do with your iPhone. Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Denis BalibouseA far cry from Apple's Watch.Apple has officially unveiled its long-awaited Watch, and while some in the tech and fashion industries are praising the latest gadget, don’t expect it to take over the traditional watch market anytime soon. Watches have been around for more than 500 years, surviving wars and technological revolutions. We may have advanced past the mechanics of the classic wristwatch, but we're still a long way from trading our Rolexes for smartwatches. "The Apple Watch ... won't have a dramatic impact on the Swiss watch market at this stage, as the majority of the market is composed of brands at a luxury level, David Sadigh, founder and CEO of the Digital Luxury Group, told Business Insider. "Folks at Vacheron Constantin, Rolex, and Patek Philippe can still sleep well at night." Here's why we aren't concerned about the fate of classic watches. Although the Watch wasn’t what some in the tech community were expecting, Apple no doubt attempted to appeal to watch purists, the fashion world, and the general public with familiar dials and watch faces (fashion editors were even invited to attend the Apple keynote for the first time).Business InsiderApple’s Watch is designed to be recognizable as a wristwatch. It's shaped like a traditional timepiece with a square clock face and even a digital crown on the side that can be spun and twisted to control what appears on the touch screen. Yet the gadget looks first generation, to put it mildly. Clunky and thick, the Watch tries too hard to look analogue, and not hard enough to look like the new-age smartwatch Apple fans were anticipating. Aside from its appearance, another concern is the battery life.  The Watch must be charged each night, which means you can't sleep with it on your wrist, as Business Insider's Jim Edwards points out. What the Apple Watch does have going for it is customization. Don’t like your watch face? Tap for a new one. Can’t decide between a leather wrist band or sporty fluoroelastomer band? Get both. This is by far the most customizable product Apple has ever introduced. Another pro is how sporty the Watch is. It can provide plenty of data for fitness enthusiasts and will compete with the FitBit and Nike FuelBand, as well as wearable devices from tech industry rivals. But the Apple Watch is still not handsome or long-wearing enough to compete with real watches. Mechanical watches have remained popular through the digital age because of their craftsmanship and superior quality. "We're all extremely attached to our cameras, our phones, our computers, our iPads, and I think there's something charming about owning something analogue," Stephen Pulvirent, former associate editor of online watch publication HODINKEE, told Business Insider last year. "I'm going to replace my iPhone sometime in the next few years. But a really high-quality watch I can wear and enjoy on a daily basis.”  REUTERS/Hans DerykIt may not be able to ready you heart rate, but classic watches can last for decades.Watch buyers accept that they're paying tens of thousands of dollars for what went into making their watch because they expect it to last. It takes master watchmakers months and sometimes years to create the elaborate interior mechanisms that make collectors' watches so special, such as a split-second chronograph (two second hands to time different events) and perpetual calendars (which are designed to display the correct date on any given day in the future). And never underestimate the power of history and nostalgia. Watch brands recognize that even if people aren't necessarily wearing watches to tell time, the watch can still be a symbol of something more personal.  "I can give my watch to my children and they can give it to one of their children," Pulvirent said. "It's something that works in perpetuity since watches aren't something that needs to be changed constantly."  On the other hand, if you buy an Apple Watch when it's released next year, it will quickly become obsolete once the next generation of the product is released. Apple announced that the watch will be available beginning in 2015, with a base price of $349.  At that price, the Watch only competes with a small segment of the market. “While the new Apple Watch won’t replace the inherent beauty and elegant utility of a vintage Patek Phillippe, it will disrupt the low-end market for overpriced quartz wristwatches (and maybe even some mechanical watches),” writes Kelly Jasper at HODINKEE. High-end Swiss watchmakers shouldn't blink an eye at the Watch, but it could compete with mass-market watch brands like Rado, Citizen, and Fossil, which sell timepieces at similar price points. And while Swiss watchmakers now export more than $20 billion worth of watches, growth within the segment has been uneven, Pulvirent, now at Bloomberg Businessweek, writes, noting: Dollar and unit exports of battery-powered electronic watches have been flat, while the market for luxury mechanical watches has nearly quadrupled. In 2000, mechanical watches accounted for only 8 percent of the watches leaving Switzerland; in 2013 they represented 27 percent. Nearly all this growth is coming from watches priced over 3,000 francs. Global consumer interest in luxury watches grew 5.7% worldwide in 2013, with China, India, and Russia experiencing the biggest year-over-year increases. And the market for vintage luxury watches remains strong as well.WorldWatchReport   Apple is equipped to handle these challenges down the line. The Watch's design can be made more streamlined, and the battery life can be improved as technology advances. Designers and celebrities may also start to team up with Apple to make more fashionable versions of the Watch (à la Google Glass and Diane von Furstenberg), giving it more clout and desirability in the marketplace. The Apple Watch is just the newest player in the game though, and there will always be people who want impeccably made watches that last for decades (and don’t need to be charged every night, or used exclusively with an iPhone).  The classic wrist watch has lasted this long, and it isn't going anywhere.  FREE AppDownload
Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images A new poll has dealt a blow to the Scottish independence campaign. The Survation poll, which was conducted by phone from Sept. 10-12, saw 54% of respondents saying they'll vote "no" and just 46% saying they'll vote "yes." The numbers exclude people who said they were undecided. The poll comes from the pro-union Better Together campaign, according to Reuters. This poll comes less than a week before the Sept. 18 referendum for independence. Scots will vote whether to leave the UK and become an independent country. The last YouGov poll put "no" votes at 52% and "yes" votes at 48%. The "yes" campaign gained ground last week when a YouGov poll showed the "yes" vote taking the lead, but it seems that the "no" vote has now seen a resurgence. Up until last weekend, polls consistently came out on the "no" side, but the "yes" vote has been steadily growing, as this graphic shows: YouGov FREE AppDownload
Archaeological researchers in England have discovered evidence of new hidden monuments near the prehistoric site of Stonehenge, the ancient Briton site built sometime between 3,000 and 1,600 BC, raising new possibilities about what the monument may have been used for. 
From Tim Logan and Andrew Khouri at the LA Times: Housing price cuts point to a shift in Southland market The latest sign that buyers are gaining leverage in Southern California's housing market: Price cuts are back. The number of homes with reduced asking prices has risen sharply in recent months ... In Orange County, the region's priciest market, about one-third of sellers have been forced to cut prices, according to data from real estate firm Redfin.  ... These trends have been building all year. But home sellers -- often the last to see market shifts -- are finally getting the message, said Paul Reid, a Redfin agent in Temecula. "A lot of what we've seen over the last six or eight weeks is people lowering their prices to get buyers in the door," Reid said. Inventory has increased significantly in a number of markets, after bottoming in 2013.  And more inventory means slower price increases (maybe even price declines in some markets).  Yet many sellers have listed their homes assuming the double digit price increases would continue.   FREE AppDownload
YouTubeRich Handler, Jefferies CEO  Jefferies CEO Rich Handler sent an open letter to his firm's senior-level bankers providing them with five ways to help make life better for the young analysts and associates, Dealbook reports. In the last year, Wall Street banks have been criticized for the brutal workload their young analysts tend to take on. Many firms responded by cutting back the long-hours and requiring analysts to take weekends off. Handler is taking it a step further and reminding his managing directors to appreciate and get to know their underlings.   "Between the work challenges and the personal obligations, it is very easy to forget, overlook, or take for granted our most precious and critical partners who enable the Jefferies world to keep revolving and our individual careers to continue to shine: our analysts and associates," Handler wrote. Here are Handlers five thoughts (via Dealbook):  1. It wasn't that long ago (or at least it doesn’t seem it) that we were the ones that were so eager to help, learn and get the job done for no personal gain, except for the good of the team. Remember what that felt like and personally thank every person that is helping you get your job done today. Yes, a simple acknowledgment and thank you feels good to the recipient and makes a big difference. 2. Everyone wants a mentor, but few work endlessly to find a “mentee.” Pick an associate or analyst to whom you feel some kinship or relationship, or in whom you see a special spark, or perhaps you just like as a person … and get involved in his or her career and personal development. Someone did it for you. Never forget that. It’s time to give back, and every one of us has a little spare time. 3. If you don’t respect the need for some type of normal life balance in the lives of our associates, analysts and support team, shame on you. Now we all know there are periods of time or circumstances that call for time and effort beyond the normal call of duty, but we are not a fraternity or sorority that hazes or takes advantage of people because of the way it was when we were cadets. Waiting until the last minute to hand out work, creating unnecessary projects or deadlines, or just being insensitive makes you a jerk. We do not have or want jerks at Jefferies. 4. Every analyst and associate needs real client contact, as often as possible and practical. If he or she is up all night or weekend on a pitch book, tell her or him to sprinkle some water on their face, straighten out the scarf or tie, and join the team at the meeting. By the way, the clients typically love it. 5. Make it personal. Get to know our young folks as our potential long-term partners. Take an interest in where they grew up and the school from which they recently graduated. Understand their career aspirations and goals. Learn about their families and friends. Nobody gets into Jefferies unless they are amongst the best and brightest and every last one of our associates and analysts is special. Quite frankly, we should all wonder if we could get ourselves into our firm today if we were competing heads up with all of them. They are our future and if we don’t all take a personal interest in each of them, what does that say about our future? Well said, sir. Well said.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPortuguese bank Novo Banco (New Bank) CEO Vitor Bento smiles before a television interview in Carnaxide, on the outskirts of LisbonLISBON (Reuters) - The three key executives charged with rebuilding Portugal's Novo Banco - the successor to Banco Espirito Santo after a state rescue last month - said on Saturday they had tendered their resignations. The announcement followed a reported disagreement over strategy with the central bank. Chief Executive Vitor Bento, Financial Director Joao Moreira Rato and Deputy Chief Executive Jose Honorio said in a joint statement they had communicated to the Bank of Portugal their intention to resign earlier this week "giving time to prepare a smooth transition to a new management team". "Our decision to resign is due to the fact that our mandate significantly changed since we began our roles, in mid-July. During our time at Novo Banco, we have contributed to the stabilization of the bank, taken steps to normalize operations and improve systems and launched a medium-term plan," they said.  (Reporting By Andrei Khalip; Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWads of euro banknotes are stacked at the GSA company's headquarters in Vienna MILAN Italy (Reuters) - The European Union sought ways on Saturday to marshal billions of euros into its sluggish economy without getting deeper into debt, casting the net wide to consider options from a pan-European capital market to a huge investment fund. Finance ministers from the bloc's 28 countries are fleshing out a host of ideas circulating in European capitals. With interest rates already at record lows, ministers need radical steps to help growth at a time of near record unemployment. From Poland's 700-billion-euro ($907 billion) 'European Fund for Investments' to the European Central Bank's plan to resurrect the EU's market for asset-backed securities, Europe's ability to get credit flowing to small companies is central to its economic revival. "We're thinking about instruments that facilitate investments," Italy's economy minister, Pier Carlo Padoan, said as he arrived for the gathering in Milan. "Resources (for investments) will come mostly from the private sector but of course public sector resources will be instrumental in leveraging them," he said. The European Union's economy, which generates about a quarter of global output, grew by just 0.1 percent last year and its jobless rate is almost double that of the United States, with around 25 million people unemployed. Investment is the new buzz word among ministers, overriding the German mantra of budget cuts. Germany is under growing pressure from partners like France and Italy to loosen the fiscal reins and use its overflowing government coffers to ramp up public investment. AP ImagesMario Draghi But German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble this week rebuffed calls for Berlin to spend more to boost the euro zone economy which showed no growth in the second quarter as recovery stalls. In a speech in Milan, ECB President Mario Draghi described business investment as "one of the great casualties" of the financial crisis, saying it has fallen 20 percent since 2008. "We will not see a sustainable recovery unless this changes," he told officials on Thursday night. The incoming president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, wants a 300 billion-euro ($410 billion) investment program to revive the European economy. Unlike in the United States, European companies rely on banks to provide 80 percent of loans, but banks are reluctant to lend following the worst crisis in a generation. In Italy, Europe's fourth-largest economy, credit to companies has shrunk by more than 70 billion euros since mid-2011 and is still contracting, central bank data shows. That problem is mirrored across Europe, holding back the recovery because smaller companies provide two out of every three private-sector jobs in the European Union. ITALIAN ORGANIC JAM Indebted countries like Italy and France have little public money for businesses. Another hangover of the crisis is the differing cost of financing across the euro zone in a currency area that aimed to create the same financing conditions for all. At their meeting, ministers have four ideas in front of them: an Italian paper on new financing tools for companies, a Franco-German proposal on how to boost private investments, a Polish proposal on creating a joint EU fund and the Juncker Commission's call for the 300-billion-euro program. Poland wants a 'European Fund for Investments' that would be able to finance, through leveraging its own capital, 700 billion euros worth of investment. The fund could be a special-purpose vehicle under the umbrella of the European Investment Bank, the EU bank owned by European governments. "The European Investment Bank isn't short of money. There's a shortage of projects and if we can match the money with good projects, we'll get there," said Luxembourg's finance minister, Pierre Gramegna. Italy's proposal is a pan-European market, where smaller companies can raise capital, building on its "minibond" legislation in 2012 that allows unlisted companies to issue. That could be part of a EU capital-market union, building on the euro zone's banking union, but that will need to closely involve London, the leading financial center in Europe. Twenty-six Italian family businesses, including one that makes organic jam, issued bonds in the past two months, raising 1 billion euros combined, according to the Italian treasury. "This is not just about funding small companies per se, it is about funding high growth companies," said Nicolas Veron, an expert on capital markets at the Bruegel economic think-tank in Brussels. "They start small but the ones you are really interested in are the ones with the high growth potential." (Reporting by Robin Emmott, James Mackenzie, Gavin Jones, Francesca Landini, Martin Santa, Jan Strupczewski, Valentina Za; Writing by Robin Emmott; Editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
