tanakawho / FlickrCopper prices have been tumbling on concerns about China's economic slowdown and an unwinding of copper-backed loans.  But Sijin Cheng at Barclays writes that grid spending could "help dispel" concerns about Chinese copper demand.  China's grid companies invested 40 billion yuan (about $6.4 billion) in the first two months of the year, up 22% year-over-year. This comes "despite a high base; in January-February 2013, [when] investment rose 44% from a soft 2012." While some cable providers reported "sharp slowdowns" in the Jan-Feb period, Cheng attributes this to "the temporary mismatch in investment and orders. ...As orders are executed, however, copper demand could begin to improve sequentially." Cheng says "two major gridcos both expect to invest 13% more than last year. It's unclear if he's referring to China Southern Power Grid Company Limited and the State Grid Corporation of China. "Energy regulators have been urged to accelerate the approval of ultra-high voltage networks, which could boost investment." "If gridcos meet these targets, we expect the growth from the power sector, which accounts for more than 40% of China’s total copper consumption, to help offset headwinds from other sectors such as property," Cheng writes. FREE AppDownload
In 2011, hedge fund titan David Tepper famously bought a $43.5 million oceanfront mansion in Sagaponack — and promptly tore it down so he could build one twice the size. Now, three years later, construction on the project is nearly finished. At this rate, Tepper could be in his new home by the start of the Hamptons summer season. Aerial photographer Jeff Cully at EEFAS recently flew by the beachfront estate on Gibson Lane and took some great photos of the construction site, which he shared with Business Insider. In addition to a massive pool, it looks like the home will have two hot tubs, a backyard fountain, gazebo, and tennis court. Jeff Cully/EEFASIt appears that Tepper also benefitted from Southampton's $26 million beach nourishment project, a major effort to protect the waterfront and the homes located along it. Note the three zig-zagging fences on the beach in front of the home, which are part of the plan to redevelop dunes in the area.Jeff Cully/EEFASConstruction of the estate has been a massive undertaking. Here's what it looked like in January 2013:Jeff Cully/EEFAS And this is what the construction pit looked like in March 2012, a year after Tepper tore down the home that once stood there:Cully/EEFASThis was the 6,000-square-foot home Tepper tore down. It wasn't too shabby:">www.sothebyshomes.com
REUTERS/William HongHSBC China Flash PMI fell to an eight-month low of 48.1 in March. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a reading of 48.7, up modestly from 48.5 in February. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. The manufacturing output sub-index fell to an eighteen month low of 47.3. Most of the sub-indices deteriorated, but new export orders offered a silver lining, increasing in March. "The HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI reading for March suggests that China’s growth momentum continued to slow down," Hongbin Qu, HSBC China's chief economist said in press release.  "Weakness is broadly-based with domestic demand softening further. We expect Beijing to launch a series of policy measures to stabilize growth. Likely options include lowering entry barriers for private investment, targeted spending on subways, air-cleaning and public housing, and guiding lending rates lower." Here's a breakdown of all the sub-indices: Markit Economics This chart from Markit Economics shows the trajectory of PMI: Markit Economics So far experts had attributed the slowdown to the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday.  But after last month's release, Societe Generale's Wei Yao pointed out that a "0.8 point decline in January and February combined was still sharper than the average decline of 0.5 point during the same period historically." And the decline was broad-based. China has set a GDP target of 7.5% this year but premier Li Keqiang has said the policymakers will tolerate a slower pace of growth. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeEmployees walk past the company logo at the JPMorgan Beijing office in Beijing.JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's chief executive for China investment banking, Fang Fang, has decided to leave the U.S. bank after more than a decade amid a probe of its Asian hiring practices, the Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday. An internal announcement about Fang's departure could come as early as Monday, the financial daily reported, citing people familiar with the situation it did not identify. Fang recently told the bank he wanted to retire, the Journal cited one of the people as saying. The newspaper added that it was not known why Fang wanted to step down now. U.S. authorities have been investigating whether JPMorgan violated bribery laws by improperly hiring the relatives of well-connected Chinese officials. JPMorgan has provided U.S. prosecutors with emails from Fang, who is also the bank's vice chairman of investment banking in Asia, discussing the hiring of China Everbright Group Chairman Tang Shuangning's son, the Journal reported. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecutors from the Justice Department are examining whether the son's employment helped JPMorgan win assignments from Everbright, it added. Representatives for JPMorgan and China Everbright did not immediately respond to requests for comment. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIsland Neuwerk near Hamburg in the German Wadden Sea.This week, we'll get some February economic reports that should give us a sense of how we've done in the wake of the unusually harsh winter. We'll also get an early read on consumer and business sentiment in March as tensions in Eastern Europe waned. Still, we continue to experience sluggish growth in what Mohamed El-Erian has dubbed "the New Normal." However, El-Erian thinks the likelihood of things getting better (or worse) has increased. "Over the short-term, the economic baseline calls essentially for more of the same, along with fatter two-sided tails for the distribution as a whole," he wrote in a new post for Business Insider. "Specifically, absent major policy mistakes or geo-political/market accidents, western growth will gradually improve in 2014, but unfortunately still fall short of escape velocity. Over the medium-term, however, the probability of tipping into one of the two tails is likely to increase: so either the west reaches a critical point of internal healing that enables growth at or above potential for a while; or now-deeply embedded structural problems contribute to more prolonged low growth with significantly higher probability of financial volatility." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last week, S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices published their latest scorecard of S&amp;P indices versus active funds. It confirmed that over the long-run, most active investment managers across all categories fail to deliver returns that beat the market. Fund manager Clifford Asness recently made an interesting observation about the fund management industry. ... In fact, in our years of managing money, it seems like whenever we have found instances of individuals or firms that seem to have something so special (you never really know for sure, of course), the more certain we are that they are on to something, the more likely it is that either they are not taking money or they take out so much in either compensation or fees that investors are left with what seems like a pretty normal expected rate of return... Simply put, fund managers who are truly convinced they can beat the market aren't that interested in sharing those returns with you. It's something to think about, especially in this era of exorbitant fund management fees. FREE AppDownload
Library Of CongressIn the wheat pit of the Board of Trade of the city of Chicago, 1920."The large operator does not, as a rule, go into a campaign unless he sees in prospect a movement of from 10 to 50 points. Livermore once told me he never touched anything unless there were at least 10 points in it according to his calculations." So writes Richard Wyckoff, the legendary trader who in the 1930s wrote a manifesto that gained him a cult following on Wall Street. His 1931 book, "The Richard D. Wyckoff Method of Trading and Investing in Stocks – A Course of Instruction in Stock Market Science and Technique," is out of print and somewhat difficult to find these days (not impossible), but even in 2014, hedge fund managers still swear by it. One of the key takeaways from the book is that if you want to succeed, you have to learn to recognize the professionals and understand what they are doing. That's what those who follow Wyckoff do — they watch the large operators. Wyckoff walks us through the process of how a large operator will manipulate a stock up or down — so that next time one sees it unfolding on the screen before his or her own eyes, he or she can react accordingly. This, you could say, is real technical analysis ... FREE AppDownload
Andrew A/Flickr My colleague Jim Edwards reports that a growing number of VC investors are beginning to fret that low interest rates are causing another bubble in technology. On the surface, it's not hard to see why people are telling this story. Startups are increasingly commanding valuations of several billion dollars without much profit to show for it. The most famous of these right now is WhatsApp, which just got Facebook to cough up $19 billion for it, despite the business side being negligible. AirBNB (the site where you can rent out your house to travelers), meanwhile, is reportedly raising money at a $10 billion valuation, which would make it more valuable than Hyatt Hotels. Examples of breathtaking valuations abound. On the flipside, nominal interest rates are famously quite low. Also, the Fed for years has been buying up bonds in an attempt to decrease interest rates even further and make the system more liquid. One way this Fed activity theoretically works is through the substitution effect. If the Fed is removing Treasuries from the system, then would-be Treasury holders have to put their money somewhere else if they want a return. So maybe they go invest in riskier areas, like mortgage lending or car loans. The story being told by the people screaming bubble is essentially that the substitution effect is spilling dramatically into startups, that the Fed is pumping all this money into the system, and it doesn't have many places to go, so it's driving up the valuations of your Pinterests, Snapchats, AirBNBs, and so forth. But the data doesn't back up this story. And the easiest way to see this is to look outside tech. It stands to reason that if the tech boom were about a tidal wave of cash looking for risky companies to invest in, then the boom wouldn't be limited to just tech. All manners of industries would be seeing the rush of cash. So let's take a look. PriceWaterHouse Coopers MoneyTree Report has a great website tracking total VC investment by sectors historically. Here's a quarterly look at software industry dealflow. You can see that over the past 10 years there's been a pretty steady increase in investment amounts (excluding, of course, the 2008-2009 crash). The dollar number represents total amount invested in that quarter. The second number represents what that represents as a % of total VC investment that quarter. And the third column represents total deals. Ok, so here's VC investment in software ... But now let's look at healthcare... there's really no trend at all. While Q4 2013 was pretty huge, it was actually down for Q4 2012. PWC Moneytree Here's biotech (which is a hot sector in the stock market). Again, nothing unusual in terms of growth. PWC MoneyTree Here's financial services. Nothing special going on. PWC MoneyTree  You can play around with the data more here, but it seems pretty clear that the only industry that's seeing a huge rush of investment cash is tech (specifically software). This alone is pretty devastating to the argument that the Fed is causing a new tech bubble because the Fed argument relies on the idea that cash is being pushed into the market and creating a insane appetite for risk. But if that were the big story, we'd be seeing that cash pop up in all sectors, not just tech. The above data forces us to look for an alternative explanation of what's going on. Why is software seeing this gigantic boom while other VC sectors are not? I'd argue that the answer lies in the ridiculous speed at which companies with minimal cash needs can become world-changing behemoths or cash faucets. Say what you will about WhatsApp, but you can't not be astounded that a company founded only in 2009 with just a handful of employees has surpassed in volume the entire size of the text messaging industry. That's a story that's got nothing to do with the Fed. Or take Candy Crush. Look how quickly the company has gone from virtually zero in revenue to a run rate of over $2 billion. SEC  Again, that's not the Fed's doing. This week it was reported that Apax, the one company that invested in Candy Crush, is poised to see a 10,000% return on their investment. Why does this matter? The VC game has always been having a few number of big winners cancel out the majority of losers. In tech right now, we're seeing those big winners reach dizzying heights extraordinarily quickly. The dynamics aren't really the same in other industries. Healthcare and biotech, as exciting as they are, don't have the same winner-take-all effects that help a company like WhatsApp become such a big thing. Financial services is an area that's ripe for "disruption" but it's hard to imagine a path from zero to billions in an industry so filled with regulation. So tech is unique in that winners (which are always rare) can become gargantuan in a short period. Of course, none of this means that current levels of investment spending in tech is sustainable. A lot of it will end in tears. There will be inevitably too much copy-cat investment trying to repeat Candy Crush that will end up being money flushed down the toilet. And of course there are and will be companies in the red-hot "messaging" space that offer perfectly fine services that go nowhere just because they didn't catch the network effects just right. The point though is that there are way more compelling and interesting dynamics than the Fed. The Fed argument just fails on so many levels. It fails to explain why cash isn't flying into non-tech speculative areas. And it's not consistent with how people invest. Sorry, but if you're looking at trying to get the next Candy Crush, and you know that the last investor made 10,000% on their money, do you care whether interest rates are 0%, 2%, or even 10%? No, you don't. That's not to say the Fed can't change investor behavior, but it makes much more sense that it would change the calculus of an investor looking at whether a mortgage bond yielding 6% is compelling or not. At these levels a tiny change in rates might make a big difference. For tech? Not so much. FREE AppDownload
SonyWhy, yes, Sony's new virtual reality headset does bear a striking resemblance to the Oculus Rift, that scrappy upstart turned king of the virtual reality hill you've been hearing so much about. After its fast ascension powered by a healthy run on Kickstarter, the Rift is currently synonymous with virtual reality (VR) gaming, even though the system isn't publicly available (though that may change soon now that the company has announced its second developer kit). By all accounts, virtual reality is set to revolutionize immersive virtual experiences in a way that the faltering promise of 3D gaming could never quite deliver. With the PlayStation 4 setting the pace for next-gen consoles, Sony’s newly-announced Project Morpheus could do the same thing for commercial VR. Microsoft ships every Xbox One with a Kinect (these days, little more than a glorified Siri for your living room), but Sony might just have the jump on the next big thing. Interestingly, Sony's actually been tinkering around with a VR headset since as early as 2011, when it unveiled a buzzy but not very functional dual-OLED prototype at CES. An iteration of that “personal 3D viewer,” the HMZ-T1, actually went on sale abroad (and apparently you can still buy it on Amazon for a meager $758.88!) Four years ago, interactive peripherals like Microsoft's Kinect and Sony’s own PlayStation Move began paving the way for VR, acclimating gamers to immersive oddities like motion-tracking and gesture controls. But back then, Microsoft’s 3D sensor was a smash hit while the Playstation Move floundered. The disparity in that department is now clearer than ever: The Kinect is bundled with every new Xbox One and Sony has since admitted the PlayStation Move was a mistake. For all its quirks, the Kinect spearheaded motion-based gameplay, effortlessly stealing the wind from Nintendo's sails and making Sony's awkward glowing bauble look downright foolish. But it's Opposite Day for this latest generation of console gaming. Now the Xbox One wants to be the casual-friendly living room entertainment option (at a $100 premium, no less), while the PS4 is, in some ways, a return to Sony's roots of wooing core gamers with an open set of policies and indie-friendly platform, leaving unwanted peripherals out of the box. Oculus Console wars aside, could a proprietary VR peripheral compete against the Oculus Rift's grassrootsy success? The answer is "most definitely"—especially if the games are there. The two VR headsets face opposite challenges. Oculus built a hardware wonder with the Rift, but now the nascent, still-not-commercially-available platform needs software that makes it shine. Oculus admits that convincing AAA title makers to gamble on an entirely new, mind-bending medium has been a challenge. In Sony's corner, the corporate behemoth has no trouble drumming up quality titles—after all, it’s owned as many as 16 game development studios tasked with crafting in-house PlayStation hits like "Uncharted" and "LittleBigPlanet." According to Sony, the Project Morpheus prototype "will serve as the first development kit for PS4 developers that are as enthusiastic about this new medium as we are.” If the prototype pans out, game devs working on VR would naturally be attracted to the PS4’s well-established platform and marketplace. Oculus is an awesome company with a lot of indie momentum—its massive footprint at SXSW this year was a testament to that. But if Sony can nail the hardware, create VR software that transcends proof-of-concept status, andprovide developers with an indie-friendly storefront, Project Morpheus could really change the game for Microsoft, Oculus and its own PS4 all at once. Right now, gamers are excited about virtual reality—and with good reason. From the moment you try the Oculus Rift that first time, you can feel the almost alarmingly immersive potential of virtual reality. The VR experience being pioneered by Oculus generates its own buzz—it’s the exact opposite of the way the 3D TV market worked, with major companies telling us how excited we should be ad nauseum without ever managing to make a dent in the market. Project Morpheus, if timed right and executed just so, could define the way we play games in the coming decade. Sony missed the mark on Kinect-style motion based gameplay, finding its efforts steamrolled by Microsoft's cheap, eminently hackable 3D motion camera. But now, the stakes are much higher. If the Kinect (and to a lesser extent, the Wii) had a universal whoa factor, with virtual reality, that “whoa” becomes a full-on holy shit, this is the future and it’s insane reaction. For VR gaming, Oculus really kicked the door open, but Project Morpheus might very well waltz right on through. FREE AppDownload
Stephen Lam/ReutersFacebook CEO Mark ZuckerbergCan’t stand the big boss at work? Try getting a job at LinkedIn, Facebook, or Starbucks. Employees at these companies claim to have three of America’s most beloved CEOs. That’s according to a new report by Glassdoor, an online jobs and careers community. The 2014 Highest-Rated CEOs report relied solely on the input of employees who elected to participate anonymously in an online company review survey. Respondents were asked to rate their CEO and say whether or not they approve of the way he or she is leading the company. To be eligible for the final ranking, each CEO had to have at least 100 approval ratings, senior management ratings, and company ratings between February 2013 and February 2014.  “There are some common traits that these highest-rated CEOs share,” says Scott Dobroski, Glassdoor’s community expert. “For instance, we see that employees say these CEOs communicate clearly on where the company is headed, how it’s going to get there, and how each employee plays a vital role on this path, along with being accessible, personable, and transparent to employees. These CEOs also know how to motivate their employees and rally the troops to get the job done.” Dobroski says there’s a strong correlation between highly rated CEOs and high employment satisfaction at their respective companies. “This isn’t necessarily a surprise because leadership and company culture comes from the top down, starting with the CEO. When employees approve of the way their CEO is leading the company, it tends to mean that they respect them, appreciate them, and want to work hard for them, which can lead to business success and growth.” FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of MarqueeMarquee NYCIn the world of New York City nightlife, the cardinal, absolute worst, number one sin is to be boring. Never do it. It's with that knowledge that the party minds over at Strategic Group (specifically, partner Jonathan Schwartz) have decided to introduce a game. It's called The Swap. Four DJs — Size Records artists AN21, Max Vangeli, Third Party,and Qulinez — will switch off between two clubs, Marquee and LAVO, over one night. With one ticket, revelers will have the opportunity to experience these DJs in completely different vibes. And as you know, vibe is everything.  Marquee is a massive multi-floor playground/warehouse with 28-foot ceilings. LAVO, on the other hand, is also a killer dinner (and wild brunch) spot with intimate underground dance floor. Both will have your LED lights, your bottles, your models, your general debauchery. It's just that for one night, you can switch off between the two whenever, however you want. It all goes down on April 19. Here are the set times: LAVO · Midnight-1 a.m.: Third Party · 1 a.m.-2 a.m.: AN21 · 2 a.m.-3 a.m.: Qulinez · 3 a.m.-4 a.m.: Max Vangeli Marquee New York · Midnight-1 a.m.: Qulinez · 1 a.m.-2 a.m.: Max Vangeli · 2 a.m.-3 a.m.: Third Party · 3 a.m.-4 a.m.: AN21 Tickets will be available starting March 19, 2014 on MarqueeNY.com and LavoNY.com starting at $30. Marquee New York is located at 289 10th Avenue and LAVO Nightclub is located at 39 E 58th Street. And check out the flyer below: Strategic Group FREE AppDownload
Shamil Zhumatov/ReutersArmed men believed to be Russian soldiers stand guard at a military base in Crimea.Russian forces gathering on the border with eastern Ukraine may be poised to invade, the White House warned on Sunday, as the government in Kiev said that the prospect of war with Moscow was continuing to grow after the annexation of Crimea. Speaking after Nato's top commander in Europe voiced alarm about the size and preparedness of the Russian troop buildup, President Barack Obama's deputy national security adviser, Tony Blinken, said President Vladimir Putin may indeed be readying further action. “It's deeply concerning to see the Russian troop buildup on the border,” Blinken told CNN. “It creates the potential for incidents, for instability. It's likely that what they're trying to do is intimidate the Ukrainians. It's possible that they're preparing to move in.” Thousands of Russian troops held a military exercise near the border even before Putin last week formally annexed Ukraine's southern Crimea region following a referendum – condemned as illegal by western governments – that endorsed unification with Russia. General Philip Breedlove, Nato's supreme allied commander in Europe, said earlier on Sunday that the Russian military force gathered near the Ukrainian border was “very, very sizeable and very, very ready” and could even pose a threat to Moldova, on the other side of the country. Andriy Deshchytsia, Ukraine's acting foreign minister, said the chances of all-out war between his government and Moscow “are growing”, adding: “The situation is becoming even more explosive than it was a week ago.” Deshchytsia told ABC News: “We are ready to respond. The Ukraine government is trying to use all the peaceful diplomatic means … to stop Russians, but the people are also ready to defend their homeland. “At this moment, when Russian troops would be invading the eastern region,” Deshchytsia went on, “it would be difficult for us to ask people who live there not to respond on this military invasion”. Russian forces in the Crimean city of Belbek on Saturday aggressively seized a military base that was one of the last strongholds of the Ukrainian military in the region. Moscow, meanwhile, allowed civilian observers from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to begin monitoring elsewhere in Ukraine. The Russian deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, told state media on Sunday: "The Russian defence ministry is in compliance with all international agreements limiting the number of troops in the border areas with Ukraine." Speaking from the Georgian capital, Tbilisi, Mike Rogers, the chair of the House of Representatives intelligence committee, said US intelligence officials were convinced “that Putin is not done in Ukraine”. “It is very troubling,” Rogers told NBC's Meet the Press. “He has put all the military units he would need to move into Ukraine on its eastern border and is doing exercises. We see him moving forces in the south in a position where he could take the southern region over to Moldova.” Nato officials are concerned that Putin could have designs on Transnistria, a restive Russian-speaking region in western Moldova also known as Trans-Dniester, where separatist leaders have demanded to be allowed to join Russia following the annexation of Crimea. Breedlove, the Nato commander, said during remarks at an event held by the Marshall Fund thinktank that in the Kremlin's view, the region was the “next place where Russian-speaking people may need to be incorporated”. “There is absolutely sufficient force postured on the eastern border of Ukraine to run to Trans-Dniester if the decision was made to do that,” said Breedlove, “and that is very worrisome.” Moldova's President Nicolae Timofti warned Putin last week against considering the annexation of Transnistria. Pressed on whether Obama was managing to punish Putin, Blinken claimed that the Russian president had already seen “a real cost” economically, and that the US president would continue working to “bring the world together in support of Ukraine, to isolate Russia” on a visit to Europe next week. “We see investors looking at Russia and sitting on the fence, because they are looking for three things – they are looking for stability, looking to see if the country makes good on its international agreements, and to see if the country is integrated with the world economy,” said Blinken. “On all three of those areas Putin holds tremendous doubts, and we have extended those doubts.” However, Rogers, a Michigan Republican, said “I don't think the rhetoric matches the reality on the ground” and called for increased US action in support of Ukraine to allow those potentially in Putin's sights to “protect and defend themselves”. “We're talking about small arms so they can protect themselves. Maybe medical supplies, radio equipment … defensive-posture weapon systems,” said Rogers. Asked if the White House would consider direct military aid, Blinken said: “All of that is under review.” This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Osman OrsalTurkey's economy is expected to have grown 3.9% year-over-year in 2013, and is forecast to rise 3.9% this year. After contracting 4.8% in 2009 following the global financial crisis, real GDP surged 9.2% in 2010, before plunging in 2012. Turkey's economy has been stuck in a rut and the issues that have bogged down its economy have also plagued other emerging markets. Here's a look at some of the big issues. Turkey's current account balance is nearly -8% of GDP and is one of the reasons the IMF has marked it as one of the most vulnerable economies with external and internal vulnerabilities.  Mamta Badkar/Business InsiderCore inflation continues to stay high and jumped to 8.4% in February, from 7.6% the previous month. Deutsche Bank's Robert Burgess expects it to peak at about 10% this year. Deutsche BankThis is putting pressure on the Turkish lira making it more expensive to import goods. This chart shows the U.S. dollar has run up over 23% against the Turkish lira in the last year. Google FinanceAnd experts worry that this will lead to lower growth. Turkey is on track to post a CAD of over 5% of GDP for its fifth consecutive year. In a Financial Times column, Morgan Stanley's Ruchir Sharma writes that since 1960, 15 large economies "have run a current account deficit of this scale and duration," since the 1960. "If Turkey follows this path, its annual GDP growth will slow by half in the next five years, to barely 3 percent." Morgan StanleyWhat's more, Turkey's government has come under fire for corruption, and support for the ruling AK Party is crumbling. Another feature plaguing emerging markets are corrupt governments that have been blamed for the economic rout. Remember, a bunch of emerging markets face elections this year which means major reforms are unlikely leading up to them. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cris Toala OlivaresA protester is pictured through a Moroccan national flag during a protest against Geert Wilders, leader of the Dutch hard-right Freedom Party, in Amsterdam March 22, 2014. AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - Dutch right-wing populist Geert Wilders has been hit by a further prominent resignation from his party after leading an anti-Moroccan chant, deepening the crisis for his Party for Freedom (PVV), which had been leading in opinion polls. Laurence Stassen, who heads the PVV in the European Parliament, announced her resignation late on Friday in a statement circulated by Dutch news agency ANP. "I deeply regret having to take this decision, but staying in my function was not an option after these comments," Stassen said in a statement, adding that she had resigned as head of the party in the European Parliament. Wilders led an anti-Moroccan chant at a rally after municipal elections last week, asking supporters in The Hague: "Do you want more or fewer Moroccans in this city and in the Netherlands?" The crowd chanted: "Fewer! Fewer! Fewer!", to which Wilders responded: "We'll take care of that." The comments unleashed widespread condemnation in the Netherlands and abroad. Thousands of people filed complaints of discrimination with Dutch prosecutors, while several PVV members have quit from the national assembly and city councils. Wilders on Saturday stood by his comments. "I have said nothing wrong, I have no regrets, and will apologize for nothing and to nobody," he told reporters. He said he is fighting against the excesses of multiculturalism and the Islamisation of Dutch society, and said that in terms of having criminal records and welfare dependency, Moroccans are at the top of the list. "I have not said that we want to chase all Moroccans from the country. I have said that we want to this with the proverbial three-stage rocket," he said. Wilders said he wants to limit immigration of people from Islamic countries, including Morocco; to encourage voluntary emigration; and to expel "criminal Moroccans" by taking away their Dutch passports if they have dual nationality and send them back to the country of their second nationality, Morocco. Wilders has built his political career on grabbing media attention with anti-Islam one-liners and has climbed to political prominence in a wave of anti-immigrant sentiment in the Netherlands. The most recent opinion poll, published before the anti-Moroccan chant furor, indicated the PVV would become the single largest party in the Dutch parliament if national elections were held now. Some analysts say that an essentially one-man party built around Wilders will suffer little from the defections of the past days, but political commentator Tom-Jan Meeus wrote in Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad on Saturday that Wilders' political future had come under threat. "He has lost his closest allies, his best member of parliament and his European assembly member," he wrote. "In two months there will be European elections and it's going to be tough campaigning for him." According to a poll of 1,200 PVV voters by EenVandaag published on Saturday, 85 percent of PVV voters still have confidence in Wilders; 26 percent think he went too far. (Reporting by Anthony Deutsch and Geert De Clercq; Editing by Mark Potter and Eric walsh) FREE AppDownload
Citi ResearchMany investors have gotten used to lumping the world's emerging markets into one big asset class. But in the past year, the drama in Turkey, Venezuela, Argentina, Russia, Indonesia, India, China ... all of these countries have had unique local stories that made it very clear that the emerging markets should not be considered as one big thing. "Amid the pervasive bearishness about developing economies, the term 'emerging markets' has never been more unhelpful and misleading," said Nicholas Spiro last month. "Differentiation remains the watchword, and it's time the term 'emerging markets' was jettisoned." Above is a chart from Citi's global economics team that breaks the emerging markets into five regions. While these regions may also be too broad and general, we at least begin to see the how different the growth stories have been. FREE AppDownload
Silicon Valley venture capital investors — the people who pour millions into tech startups in the hopes of selling them later for billions — are beginning to worry that low interest rates might be inflating a tech bubble. Fred Wilson, founder of Union Square, recently wrote that spiraling valuations placed on brand-new companies seem to be reflections of low interest rates, because as a rough rule of thumb, the two move in opposite directions. "Valuations are at extreme levels because you cannot get a decent return on your money doing anything else," he wrote. And Bill Gurley, a partner at Benchmark Capital, recently said that tech employees did not appear to understand the risks they were taking by working for companies that don't actually make money. Those are startling discussions to hear, because venture funders have most to gain from low interest rates and the investment bubbles they tend to cause. And of course, VC funders tend to be older, and thus remember the disastrous tech bubble crash of 1999 — unlike the 20-somethings they are giving money to right now. So what we're listening to are the people who are essentially fueling the bubble worrying aloud that they are fueling a bubble. If you're not an economist, the link between low interest rates and tech bubbles is not obvious. Here is how it works, and then we'll explain why it's so serious that venture funders are talking about this now. Generally, investors have a choice if they want to use their money to make even more money. They can save it in interest-paying, risk-free bank accounts or invest it in riskier assets that may pay more money over time. When the interest on cash that banks pay is close to zero, virtually any other kind of investment is likely to pay more because the risk-free alternative is so lousy. Money is also cheap to borrow or lend, precisely because interest rates are so low. So investors take their money out of cash savings, and dump into into ... pretty much everything else. Stocks tend to go up. And investment asset bubbles get created, even in sectors like tech startups, which don't have stock that is traded publicly. This has macroeconomic knock-on effects, which you can see in these two charts. First, this is the Federal Reserve's target interest rate for the last 10 years. It's the rate that sets all other rates, including interest on cash savings in the bank. As you can see, it's been close to zero for years: FRED With no money to be earned from interest on cash, money has poured into stocks, pumping up their prices. Here is what has happened over the same time period in the NASDAQ, which has a preponderance of tech stocks within it: Yahoo Finance Investment money doesn't just go into stocks, of course. Investors — particularly institutional ones and private equity funds looking for something more than the ~8% average that U.S. stock indexes gain every year — look far and wide for new investments. That's why you're seeing tech companies with no revenues and no profits get hundreds of millions in investment funding on "valuations" in the billions. The most infamous of which, of course, was Facebook's $19 billion acquisition of WhatsApp, a company that makes only a tiny fraction of that in revenue and has no intention of monetizing itself more aggressively anytime soon. A couple of years ago, people gasped when Tumblr and Instagram were both bought for $1 billion, even though they had no revenue. Now those valuations, dizzying then, seem almost modest by comparison. RRE investor Steve Schlafman recently pointed out that cheap capital does in fact create nonsensically high valuations out there in the real world (i.e. Silicon Valley): When one of the big players emerge [in a market], then you have these big firms that need to deploy a lot of capital ... A lot of these companies don't need to raise more money ... the only way these companies are going to raise more money is on a much higher multiple. But I wouldn't call it irrational exuberance. These are big spaces with likely one or two winners (transportation, music, discovery, messaging). What is unspoken in that quote is that investment firms only "need to deploy a lot of capital" because keeping it in the bank earns 0%. Tech news site The Information also pointed out this example of recent tech stock froth: This week’s IPO of healthcare software maker Castlight Health—a company with just $13 million in revenue in 2013 and $62 million in losses—provided the clearest indicator yet of unabated investor appetite for all things tech, even at valuations with no connection to earnings. The shares rose 149% on its first day of trading, giving the firm a market value of about $3 billion. The unspoken corollary of a low-interest-rate environment is that when the Fed decides to tighten the money supply by raising interest rates, all that money starts to flow in the opposite direction. People begin selling stocks and other riskier investments in order to enjoy the risk-free interest rates they can get by keeping their cash in savings and CDs. Money suddenly becomes more expensive to borrow and lend, and therefore more scarce. Venture capital dries up.  Companies with no profits or no revenue will suddenly run out of the investment funding that kept them alive. And the bubble ... pops. That's why it's interesting when VCs start saying things like this, from Fred Wilson: ... the multiple of earnings one should pay for a business is roughly the inverse of interest rates. ... valuations are at extreme levels because you cannot get a decent return on your money doing anything else. Or this, from Bill Gurley: Ask yourself this question. What is the percentage of employees in Silicon Valley that are working at profitless companies (i.e. companies that are losing money or have negative cash flow)? And how has that trended over time? What was that percentage in 1999? What was it in 2003? And what is it today? An employee’s decision to work for a company that is losing money is an implicit decision to discount risk. If the macro environment changes, that company is under much greater stress than one that is profitable. Yet many individuals are making just such a decision today. And then The Information stated the obvious about Pinterest, another company with zero revenue (but $338 million in investment funding): Cash in the bank yields almost no interest. Cash in Pinterest produced a 52% return, at least on paper, between the company’s series D and E funding rounds, according to media reports. Pinterest is reportedly beginning to sell advertising, and may yet create a revenue model that can work off that investment or make it attractive enough for an IPO or an acquisition. Both scenarios would make its investors whole. In the meantime, those gains are, as The Information puts it, merely "on paper." The Fed is believed to be likely to raise interest rates starting in 2015. Investors better hope it doesn't fast-forward that schedule. FREE AppDownload
One of the sub-stories in the Ukraine crisis is the significant role played by Russia in providing natural gas to the rest of Europe. This affords Putin some leverage. A map published by Gazprom at a recent investor day (.pdf) lays out the breathtaking size of its natural gas pipeline infrastructure. Gazprom.com Check out the whole presentation here &gt; (via Alexander Jarvis)
REUTERS/Jonanthan ErnstInvestors are constantly confronted by advertisements and promotions telling them that they can "beat" the market. Beating the market is always a "seductive" pitch because basically it's an offer of free money — the idea that without any extra effort or knowledge on the investor's part they can get returns on their money that are superior to everyone else's.  Earlier this month, famed hedge fund manager Cliff Asness and John Liew wrote a great, long article for Institutional Investor about the Efficient Market Hypothesis, and whether markets were in fact beatable. The article was framed around this year's economics Nobel Prize winners Robert Shiller (who is famous for writing about bubbles and irrationality in markets) and Eugene Fama (who is the father of the Efficient Market Hypothesis). Asness and Liew find a way to reconcile the two approaches, which at first blush might seem to be polar opposites. One paragraph from the piece really stands out. It pertains to mathematician and hedge fund manager Jim Simons whose fund Renaissance Technologies is renowned for its extraorindarily high returns over years and years of trading: That’s not to say we think [beating the market is] impossible. Take, for instance, our favorite example, briefly mentioned earlier, of people who seem to be able to consistently beat the market: Renaissance Technologies. It’s really hard to reconcile their results long-term with market efficiency (and any reasonable equilibrium model). But here’s how it’s still pretty efficient to us: We’re not allowed to invest with them (don’t gloat; you’re not either). They invest only their own money. In fact, in our years of managing money, it seems like whenever we have found instances of individuals or firms that seem to have something so special (you never really know for sure, of course), the more certain we are that they are on to something, the more likely it is that either they are not taking money or they take out so much in either compensation or fees that investors are left with what seems like a pretty normal expected rate of return. (Any abnormally wonderful rate of return for risk can be rendered normal or worse with a sufficiently high fee.) Yes, consistently walloping the market can be done. But the people who can do that aren't interested in your money. FREE AppDownload
Huang Qingjun If you’ve ever travelled light for an extended amount of time, you’ve probably been surprised at just how little we really need to get by. While it’s easy to get carried away on the waves of consumerism and caught up in the throes of the technological age, it’s just clothes, some food and a roof over our head that’s really on our list of basic needs for survival. One photographer in China has been challenging people to consider their own lifestyles and necessities with a thought-provoking series of photos of Chinese households. By photographing people surrounded by their belongings, these pictures seem to ask the question, “What do you need to survive?” and “What makes for a happier household: some company and the basic essentials or a modern lifestyle full of slick and shiny extras?” The series, called Jiadang, which translates to Family Stuff, was shot by Chinese photographer Huang Qingjun and took almost ten years to complete. He travelled to 14 of China’s 33 provinces and took most of his photos in poor, remote areas to capture a glimpse of life away from the big cities. While each household was different, they were all fascinating in their storybook-like openness.  Huang Qingjun Huang Qingjun Some of the photos show households in particularly harsh environments. Huang Qingjun Huang Qingjun Huang Qingjun While others closer to the city show relative wealth and luxury.  Huang Qingjun Huang Qingjun The remoteness of some households was offset with the company of a TV set or furry friend. Huang Qingjun Huang Qingjun From a house cut out of the side of a mountain to a houseboat on the water, people can build their lives in many different ways. Huang Qingjun Huang Qingjun While even some of the most remote-looking households here show signs of modern consumption with televisions, telephones and even satellite dishes, we wonder if it’s simply human nature to want more and have more during our short time here on earth. Whether we’re slaves to the nesting instinct or not, our curiosity about the way others live their lives often has us looking at the way we live our own. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman holds an electoral card at a polling station in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - Voting got underway in France on Sunday in the first round of mid-term local elections that could hit the ruling Socialist party with potentially heavy mid-term losses, jeopardizing reforms. Major gains are possible for the far-right National Front in the elections for mayors in towns and villages across the country. Dissatisfaction with President Francois Hollande's rule - his approval rate is at record lows of 19 percent in opinion polls - and a string of legal issues involving opposition conservatives are seen hitting turnout and helping the anti-immigrant Front (FN), which hopes to win outright in a record number of towns. Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault this week called on the opposition conservative UMP party to urge its voters to back Socialist candidates in towns where it stood no chance of election, promising the Socialists would do the same in a joint effort to keep out the FN out. One Hollande aide forecast turnout of around 55 percent, about 10 points lower than normal, while recent polls have pegged it at around 60 percent. The abstention rate reached 33.5 percent in the last town hall elections of 2008, a record that many fear could be topped. "Voting is up to a slow start. In the first half hour since the bureau opened we have had about 15 voters while we usually have about twice that number in that kind of election," Charef Lhiou, a polling official at voting station 17 in the 9th district of Paris, told Reuters. Polls will generally close at 6 pm (1700 GMT) although voting stations in big cities will remain open two hours longer. Two days before the first round, former president Nicolas Sarkozy, expected to run for re-election in 2017, injected himself into the campaign when he wrote in Le Figaro that judges who ordered the tapping of his phones were acting like secret police from ex-communist East Germany. The comments prompted a backlash from Hollande who said comparing France to a dictatorship was "intolerable". It was unclear how Sarkozy's comments would impact voters' choices. The election, opened to France's 44.5 million registered voters, is the first mid-term test for Hollande since he won the presidency in May 2012. Heavy losses for Hollande's Socialists could trigger a re-shuffle of the unpopular cabinet amid high unemployment and a sluggish economy and encourage backbench attacks of new pro-business policies on which Hollande has called a mid-year vote of confidence in his government. Polls show the Socialists are favorite to hang on to Paris where the gaffe-prone efforts of the conservative candidate Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet to lure so-called "bobo" (bourgeois-bohemian) voters have been widely derided on social media. But the right-wing incumbent in Marseille, the UMP's Jean-Claude Gaudin, looks set to win a new term in France's second city as rival Socialist candidate Patrick Mennucci suffers from his links to an unpopular government. The emergence under Marine Le Pen of the National Front as France's third political force adds unpredictability with many of the March 30 run-offs set to be three-way contests. (Additional reporting by Mark John and Nicholas Vinocur Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceOn Friday, biotech stocks got slammed. The iShares Biotechnology Index (IBB) fell by 4.7%. Once again, we have to wonder if biotech stocks have been in a bubble and if that bubble is beginning to burst. As you can see in the chart to the right, returns in biotech stock have eclipsed the impressive returns of the S&amp;P 500. Unfortunately, it's particularly difficult to judge whether or not a biotech stock is too expensive. Most of these companies generate no revenue and bleed cash in R&amp;D for years. Investors generally focus on the addressable market of the product, betting on the odds it'll eventually get the green light from the FDA. Drugs like Lipitor and Viagra lost tons of money before becoming blockbuster billion-dollar drugs. The stat that has market-watchers particularly worried is IPO volume. According to data compiled by Renaissance Capital, 2013 was a historic one with a whopping 37 U.S. biotech IPOs. Through March 20 of this year, however, we've already seen 24. At that rate, we're looking at over 100 biotech IPOs this year (not that there are actually that many deals in the pipeline right now). "I don't think it is a bubble," said Rich Bernstein in an email to Business Insider. "It's certainly very speculative, but speculation alone doesn't make a bubble." So, is biotech in a bubble? Who knows. We do, however, know there have been a ton of IPOs lately. Renaissance Capital FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChristine Lagarde makes a speech during the China Development Forum in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde said on Sunday that there was not much she could do to push reform at her organization and give emerging economies a bigger say without the support of the United States. China in January called on IMF member nations to stick to a commitment to give emerging markets more power at the global lender after U.S. lawmakers set back historic reforms that would give developing countries a greater say. The remarks by China's foreign ministry were an indirect criticism of the United States, the biggest and most powerful IMF member, where lawmakers that month failed to agree on funding measures needed for the reforms to move forward. The U.S. Congress must sign off on the IMF funding to complete 2010 reforms that would make China the IMF's third-largest member and revamp the IMF board to reduce the dominance of Western Europe. Speaking at Beijing's elite Tsinghua University, Lagarde said this was a matter for the United States to complete the process and ensure that the relevant legislation can be passed. "This is not something I can do much about," she told students. She added that she hoped emerging economies could have a bigger voice within the institution. The reform of the voting shares, known as quotas, cannot proceed without the United States, which holds the only controlling share of IMF votes. After putting off the request in 2012 because of the U.S. presidential election, the U.S. Treasury has sought to tuck the provision into several bills since March of last year. The administration's requests, however, have been met with skepticism from some Republicans, who see them as tantamount to approving fresh funding in a tight budget environment. Some U.S. lawmakers have also raised concerns about how well the IMF is helping struggling economies in Europe and the risks attached to IMF loans, suggesting Congress is in no hurry to approve any changes. Developing nations have long viewed the IMF with suspicion for promoting disastrous privatizations that complicated the transition from communism for some emerging nations in the early 1990s, and for pushing budget cuts that exacerbated debt crises in Asia and Latin America a few years later. That suspicion has been compounded by a power structure that dates to IMF's founding in 1944. The structure was shaped by the victors of World War Two - the United States and other Allied nations. (Reporting by Shao Xiaoyi and Ben Blanchard; E$diting by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Renaissance Capital An entrepreneur comes up with an idea, builds a company, and sometimes he or she will raise capital for that business via an initial public offering or (IPO). In recent years, we've seen some big tech IPOs in the social media space like LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter. Based on anecdotes, some folks have gotten nervous that we may be repeating the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s. It's hard to draw any definitive conclusions about bubbles and general market sentiment based on big picture IPO stats like annual IPO volumes. Perhaps it was just a good year for ideas. Perhaps it wasn't. However, the analysts at Renaissance Capital offer an interesting IPO screen. It's the number of IPOs with 100%+ returns on the first day of trading. This is an interesting angle because it tells us something about the market itself, not just the company. Specifically, it shows how much investors are willing to pay up just to get in early on a company. With limited operating histories, most of these companies that IPO are considered to be high-risk investments. By looking at the volume of IPOs with 100%+ first-day returns, we get a rough sense of the appetite for risk during a given year. As you can from the chart, the numbers of IPOs that fit Renaissance's screen eclipse the numbers we're witnessing today. 2014 is off to a decent start, but for now Renaissance says it's "not yet a bubble." FREE AppDownload

Stephanie Abrams FacebookThe Weather Channel's Stephanie AbramsToday, March 23, is World Meteorological Day. To celebrate the occasion, we've rounded up a fun group of weather experts and climate reporters who are active on social media and helping to make normally complicated data accessible to the general public.  They use terms that everyone can understand and push out maps that make snowstorms, hurricanes, and other weather-related happenings interesting. Below is a list of the some best weather people to follow on Twitter. You might even learn some meteorology. Eric Fisher — Chief meteorologist at CBS BostonHandle: @ericfisher Wooo boy that looks like fun. A wild couple days for parts of IA, MN, MI, WI. pic.twitter.com/GllIu3szOJ Mike Seidel — On-camera meteorologist and field reporter for The Weather Channel. He also covers breaking news for NBC, MSNBC, and CNBCHandle: @mikeseidel WOW! Like a scene from @WalkingDead_AMC I-75 outside @weatherchannel is barren of vehicles today unlike 2 weeks ago. pic.twitter.com/VJ8jhaXTgi Cory Mottice — Meteorologist for AccuWeatherHandle: @EverythingWX Dust in the atmosphere sure can play tricks on your eyes. The sun looks like a spec in the sky in July of 2013. pic.twitter.com/AaYDWoZvOY Stu Ostro — Senior meteorologist at The Weather ChannelHandle: @StuOstro #context of cent-east U.S. cold MT @NOAA: January 2014 highest Jan. #global temp since 2007 http://t.co/Y6wKG58U0g pic.twitter.com/XSlgxndU99 Tornado probabilities tonight. Main threat is from straight line winds. #alwx pic.twitter.com/ijgdnxo8yQ Stephen Stirling — Data reporter for the Star-Ledger in New JerseyHandle: @SStirling While heavy snow could continue for a while in NJ as storm intensifies, this is New England's storm. NWS still forecasting 2-4 in. for NJ   Eric Holthaus — Meteorologist, currently writing for SlateHandle: @EricHolthaus At this moment, I was quite probably the coldest I've ever been. My photos of the ice caves: http://t.co/nm6bAVY9c5 pic.twitter.com/hUo0PW4K8q   Andrew Freedman — Senior climate reporter for MashableHandle: @afreedma To be crystal clear: NWS said today there is a 1-in-1,000 chance that Calif's rainfall deficit will be eliminated this winter. (1 of 2) Jim Cantore — Broadcast meteorologist appearing on The Weather ChannelHandle: @JimCantore Here's EURO 4cast RT @WSI_Energy 12z ECMWF snow bomb for I-95. 6-12" DCA to NYC, 20" BOS (WSI snow algorithm based) pic.twitter.com/mrBZH4VMqO   Stephanie Abrams —  Meteorologist for The Weather Channel who hosts the "Wake Up with Al" show with Al Roker.Handle: @StephanieAbrams Suriously? Another round of snow for the MW &amp; NE? This is becoming comical! #FeelForYa but also #HappyForSnowLovers pic.twitter.com/HicDXupCyp Tom Niziol — Winter Weather Expert at The Weather ChannelHandle: @TomNiziol Squall line of #thundersnow !! Check out KYNG. pic.twitter.com/5iGoxbkLS2 Ari Sarsalari — Broadcast meteorologist for WAAY 31 in Huntsville, Ala.Handle:@AriWeather ALERT: If you see this pic, DON'T share. It's INACCURATE, and from an internet troll who is NOT a meteorologist pic.twitter.com/3dE3koGNKF Here are some general news sites that are also good to follow: Breaking News Storm — Real-time severe weather updatesHandle: @breakingstorm With today's 1.5 inches of snow in Central Park, 2nd snowiest February on record in New York; 7th snowiest season - @NBCNews National Weather Service — Weather updates for the entire country from NOAAHandle: @NWS Today's Weather: Severe wx threat from OH Vly to Gulf, winter wx form Midwest to New England: http://t.co/gD9vPulaQp pic.twitter.com/pdTU1aGXmn AccuWeather.com —  Breaking news and weather stories from AccuWeather.comHandle: @breakingweather Severe weather risk Thursday; make sure you know the difference between a watch and a warning: http://t.co/gmruOY2W6U   WeatherBugHandle: @WeatherBug // <![CDATA[Weatherbug// ]]> crazy! RT @smartinWNTV: #Iowa: nothing like #severe t'storm warnings and #blizzard warnings at the same time. #iawx pic.twitter.com/DC4z6WL6qx FREE AppDownload
Masters of the Universe aren't known for having anything resembling a jewelry collection except for one item — a watch. They're collectible, gorgeous and at times incredibly expensive pieces that can be handed down from generation to generation Exactly the type of thing a titan of any industry would want. We've put together a list and commentary about the wristwatches worn by some of Wall Street's most public executives.  As expected, a couple of the watches are flashy. A few of them are really, really cheap by Wall Street standards. And one prominent banker doesn't even wear a watch. Ever.  (If you know of the type of timepiece that an executive at your firm wears, feel free to send the tip to jlaroche@businessinsider.com) Check it out:  AP Images Buffett, the "Oracle of Omaha," wears a gold Rolex Day-Date.  Reuters/ Lucas JacksonGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein rocks a Swatch with what appears to be a clear plastic band. Swatch's tend to range between $50 to $245. It's also not exactly the sort of timepiece you'd expect a chief executive of a Wall Street investment bank to wear. Then again, Goldman is "the most hipster" bank on Wall Street.   Reuters/ Tim ShafferInvesting legend Jack Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group, wears a $14 wristwatch he received from a shareholder. "I received in the mail a wristwatch from a devoted shareholder in California. On the dial were printed our Vanguard logo, my name, and a phrase that was an indication I was still looking out for our shareholders: "Still on Watch." It was also an outrageous pun: "Still on Watch." Confident that it would be my rabbit’s foot, I put the watch on my wrist, where, having proved itself, it remains to this day. (Yes, I knew about the $50 limit on gifts. So I checked the catalog for the price. It was $14. Talk about value!)," he wrote.   Reuters/ Jessica Rinaldi We learned about Jeff Gundlach's watch collection when he had a bunch of his artwork and personal property stolen.   According to the Santa Monica Police Department report, the watches that were stolen included a Glashutte, Breitling, A. Lange &amp; Sohne, TAG Heuer and a Patek Philippe. We couldn't nail down prices for these specific models, but every one can run in the tens of thousands of dollars or more. See below:  Santa Monica PD Talk about some serious wrist candy. Fortunately, the DoubleLine Capital CEO brilliantly helped the FBI recover his stolen property. Reuters/ Brian SnyderBill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital, sports a watch with a black band and dark face. It's classy and not flashy. We can't identify the watchmaker, though.  AP ImagesPrivate equity chief Lynn Tilton, the founder of Patriarch Partners, wears a MASSIVE bejeweled timepiece by Jacob the Jeweler. It's definitely fits her "dust to diamonds" persona. Reuters/ Brendan McDermidHedge funder Phil Falcone wears a black sports watch (it looks like Casio G-Shock) and some friendship bracelets and beads (We're assuming his twin girls made those for him). Reuters/ Yuri GripasJames Gorman wears a stainless steel Rolex Daytona, according to Ben Clymer, the founder of watch site Hodinkee. Reuters/ Yuri Gripas Jamie Dimon doesn't wear a watch. Ever. Apparently, he doesn't care for jewelry.  FREE AppDownload
RippleMost people know Bitcoin as a digital currency, with a value that has fluctuated wildly over the past six months. But there's more to Bitcoin than just the currency.  Bitcoin has gotten an equal amount of attention for its novel technology. You don't need a third party to perform a transaction (although as a practical matter many now use one of the various consumer wallet sites). All transactions are noted on a ledger, meaning you're no longer subject to the-check-is-in-the-mail risk. And unlike a real bank, Bitcoin is basically neutral on the price and time that it takes to process an overseas or large transaction. Even Goldman Sachs analysts — who in a recent report otherwise came off pretty bearish on the currency aspect of Bitcoin — said the technology could prove useful. So it was only a matter of time before someone carved out all the meaty parts of Bitcoin while leaving the gristle for others.  Enter Ripple, which indeed captures the three aforementioned elements of the cryptocurrency's underlying structure. But it does more than that: Its technology allows users to execute a transaction from any currency into another simultaneously, while eliminating exchange-rate risk. Users are also able to hang onto their fiat, rather than having to separately purchase Bitcoin. This helps eliminate the security problems experienced by some Bitcoin wallet service users.  And whereas Bitcoin transactions take at least 10 minutes to confirm, Ripple confirmations are instant, thanks to its use of a consensus algorithm; the Ripple network is a closed system, so only approved "nodes," which would approve the transaction, can access it.  "Bitcoin solved the double-spend problem," Ripple CEO Chris Larsen told BI recently. "The key problem was payment confirmation without central clearing. Bitcoin's solution was ingenious but wasteful — it's fairly slow, and you can't put other things on it. It's premised on forcing the world to adopt to Bitcoin, which is like making everyone switch to Esperanto." Susan Athey, a Stanford economist and paid adviser to Ripple, explained another key distinction between Bitcoin and Ripple. While the former is based on a community, the latter is designed to solve problems of commerce. "Bitcoin is sort of an open-source movement that is bootstrapping and getting big through the enthusiasm of a whole variety of different communities. It's a user-driven phenomenon. That's a great way to get a platform going, but another way to build a platform is to solve problem of a particular customer extremely well, and if it's a large customer, then all in one go you get a lot of adoption and utilization. Then smaller users follow." She continued: "With Bitcoin, we know it's amazing, and they can both be very effective. But what parts of [Bitcoin] are really necessary? Do I really need the mining ... the anonymity [is problematic] ... what is the essence of the system?" Ripple's pedigree is impressive. Google Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz are both backers. The CEO of China-based IDG Capital, which invests in some of China's largest tech firms, said upon completing his round: "We are excited about the prospect for a global payments system that powers instant, free, and secure transactions in any currency." It's extremely early in Ripple's life span, as far as widespread use goes. The basic structure of the technology is a decade old, but Ripple Labs (originally known as OpenCoin Inc.), the corporation that now owns Ripple, was only launched in 2012. And they only opened it up for developers to build on top of last fall. Though at $1.4 billion Ripple has the No. 2 market cap in the digital currency world, that's only because all Ripple coins have been 'pre-mined,' meaning all the coins that will ever come into existence have been created, by Ripple itself. (And again, the coins are largely perfunctory for users simply looking to use the network to send payments — they're basically just temporary vehicles for your fiat).  As a result, it's hard to find folks running Ripple. The largest is actually Bitstamp, now the world's largest dollar-traded Bitcoin exchange. This appears to show that the two technologies can coexist (if it wasn't clear already, you can also send Bitcoin over the Ripple network). Another is SnapSwap, an online transaction gateway. Founder Denis Kiselev told us what he saw on Ripple: "If you look at the cryptocoin universe available now, you see whole families of cryptocurrencies derived from Bitcion — they use the same technology," he said. "Ripple is the only one that's substantially different, with a different mechanism of transaction confirmation, that allows you to do instant transactions across currencies, and only cryptocurrencies. I see it as a major step forward, a major advancement."  You can watch the Ripple network live here » But Athey outlined clear uses of Ripple that are much harder to articulate for Bitcoin. One is that whole banking networks could be created based on trust using Ripple.  "Local banks could agree to only talk to other customers of their own, check their identities to know if they're a legitimate business, to know they're not in North Korea," she said. "That is potentially a much more palatable way for bank to enter the system. They have a lot of control on who they interact." The other is that the cost of tracking payments can go down precipitously. "Companies are spending a lot of money for keeping ledgers of international currency flows. That's a business service. Some firms do that themselves, some hire external service providers, to help manage international flows. It's a big investment that's very important, and these systems are very complicated." Ripple's Larsen said they have begun preliminary discussions with mega financial institutions to see about using it as their primary "payment rail" for executing in-house transactions.  "If you were executing a transaction involving all kinds of hedge funds, a path could be directed that instead of 20 hops would take one instant hop," he said. Again, it's still early, but definitely something to watch. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred Prouser The Wall Street Journal's Gregory Zuckerman reports Andreessen Horowitz plans to invest "hundreds of millions" more dollars in Bitcoin-related businesses, on top of the $50 million they have already dropped, mostly on Coinbase. Bitcoin prices have lost nearly 50% of their value over the past four months or so, and now trade at around $570. Analysts from Goldman Sachs recently cast doubt on the viability of the digital currency itself, though added its underlying technology may yet prove useful.    Andreessen says he's unfazed: Mr. Andreessen says he is convinced of the bright outlook for digital currencies despite setbacks such as the collapse last month of Tokyo-based Mt. Gox, one of the most prominent bitcoin exchanges, which said it lost hundreds of millions of dollars worth of the virtual currency. 'I'm completely unfazed and plan to invest more," he said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. Andreessen is not the only big-time investor who remains bullish on Bitcoin: SecondMarket's Barry Silbert announced this week he is aiming to launch an over-the-counter Bitcoin ETF that would challenge the one announced — but as yet unrealized — last year by the Winklevoss twins. Read the full story at WSJ.com » Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
