A 100-carat yellow diamond sold for 14.5 million Swiss francs ($16.3 million,11.9 million euros) at auction in Geneva on Tuesday. The 110.09 carat diamond went unsold at first, with the bids too low, before the Sotheby's auctioneer unexpectedly announced that the diamond was going back under the hammer, explaining that there had earlier been some confusion over the currency displayed. The sole bidder was a woman in the auction room who bought it for 14.5 million Swiss francs, which the auctioneer described as "a very good price". The pre-sale estimate had been $15-25 million. The Graff Vivid Diamond is one of the largest yellow diamonds in the world, it's colour is given as "daffodil yellow." Another highlight of the Geneva spring auction season will be Wednesday's sale by Christie's of "The Blue" a spectacular 13.22 carat diamond estimated to go for $21-25 million. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. FREE AppDownload
You would be surprised at the amount of time you can save on your Mac computer with the knowledge of a few keyboard shortcuts. Here are some simple ones that can boost your productivity.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
REUTERS/Seo Jae-hoonJay Y. Lee, son of Samsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-hee and the company's chief operating officerSEOUL (Reuters) - Unassuming, media-shy and, as yet, unproven, Jay Y. Lee is the unofficial heir-apparent to lead Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, as the world's biggest technology group by sales approaches a crossroads after years of explosive growth. The only son of Samsung's frail 72-year-old chairman Lee Kun-hee, Jay has been groomed for years to take over the sprawling South Korean family-run "chaebol", a conglomerate with interests spanning technology and insurance to shipbuilding and construction. Samsung Group's 2012 revenue of 380 trillion won ($371 billion) was more than a quarter of South Korea's nominal GDP. The younger Lee, 45, became Samsung's vice chairman in 2012 after a spell as chief operating officer in what appeared to be a well choreographed long-term succession plan. But his father's ill-health - Lee senior was hospitalized for a heart attack at the weekend - has raised concerns over whether Jay is ready to take control. "(Our) vice chairman is a strategic thinker and is very tenacious," said a senior Samsung executive, who didn't want to be named as he's not authorized to talk to the media. "He's been doing things that senior executives can't easily resolve on their own. For example, he spends a lot of time meeting key clients and then manages to cut a deal that would seem almost impossible." "We've actually benefited significantly from his deal brokering and strategic decision making. He's been doing far more than what many people outside Samsung might guess. He's been learning for years from the chairman and has already been deeply involved in daily operations." MEETING PEOPLE Fluent in English and Japanese and dubbed the "Crown Prince of Samsung" by local media, Jay Lee has become the public face of Samsung in recent years, at meetings with corporate leaders, and politicians from China and the United States, building relationships for a group which had been regarded as secretive. When South Korea's president invited Google Inc CEO Larry Page to visit Seoul a year ago, one of the first to meet him was Lee, who flew Page to a display plant south of the Korean capital to show off the latest technology Samsung was working on, including flexible screens that could potentially be fitted to Google Glass wearable devices. The two firms haven't signed a deal on supplying bendy screens, but have since agreed global patent cross-licensing in a joint attack against Apple Inc - defying speculation of fraying ties as Samsung, the biggest smartphone maker using Google's Android platform, develops its own mobile operating system. Lee has generally shunned the limelight. He has no official Twitter account and little is known of him outside the company - bar a high-profile divorce in early 2009. He has a degree in East Asian History from Seoul National University, an MBA from Japan's Keio University and a business administration doctorate from Harvard. He joined Samsung Electronics in 1991. While some critics say Lee doesn't have the experience for the top job, and lacks his father's charisma, insiders say his quiet, urbane manner disguises a steely determination and a tenacity to get things done. "He was born with a silver spoon. We don't know whether he is capable of running (things) yet as he has no track record," said a senior official at Samsung Electronics, who asked not to be identified. However, a second Samsung executive who worked closely with Lee said he was "very insightful," was on top of key issues and asked probing questions. "He's very sharp and thinks outside the box," said a third executive at the group founded by Lee's grandfather in 1938. A fourth executive, who has known Lee since childhood, said he is "very committed to work and a serious businessman." Other insiders have noted that despite his powerful position, Lee takes time to reply personally to emails and enjoys horse-riding and golf. FUTURE DRIVERS Beyond the confines of Samsung's headquarters, investors said Lee would naturally be under pressure to succeed, but this could be an opportune time to hand over power as smartphone growth slows and the group looks to new businesses to drive future growth. Samsung's mobile business is expected to show a first annual profit decline in three years as smartphone sales weaken. "The new businesses Samsung has been preparing are starting to take shape, and I think they will start showing us something concrete from this year," said Hong Jeong-woong, a fund manager at Alpha Asset Management in Seoul. "It's inevitable he'll feel pressured to prove his abilities to become chairman, so we may see Samsung pick up the pace on pushing new businesses. I think the risk of any management vacuum is small." Samsung has also been looking at solar and bio healthcare as potential future growth engines, and other senior executives Lee has met include those from global automakers Nissan Motor Co, Volkswagen AG, Toyota Motor Corp and BMW - potentially eyeing opportunities in electric batteries and screens, as well as possibly embedding smartphones into auto navigation systems. Analysts noted that Samsung has taken recent steps to ease Lee's path to leadership, including the planned listing of Samsung SDS Co, which provides IT services to Samsung Electronics. Lee junior is one of the main shareholders in Samsung SDS, with a stake of more than 11 percent, and the listing could net him more than $1 billion in cash he can use to buy shares in other Samsung companies or earmark for tax related to inheriting his father's wealth, analysts said. Forbes last month estimated Jay Lee's fortune at around $5 billion. "Lee needs to free himself from controversy related to SDS. His stake could lead to negative talk once the company goes public," said Hong at Alpha Asset Management. "SDS could be the part of Samsung that takes the lead on new businesses like the 'Internet of things' or remote medical services."   (Additional reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Radu Sigheti FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Advisors Shouldn't Exclusively Use Active Funds (Vanguard)  Advisors that use active funds exclusively risk losing clients in volatile markets, according to Vanguard white paper that argues for combining active and practice strategies. And this risk can't really be offset by client referrals that come through when times are good. "That is, although the upside of outperformance may be a marginally greater share of wallet or referrals, underperformance can lead to a client’s questioning of the strategy or withdrawing of assets—plus nonexistent referrals." "Indexing can help alleviate this asymmetry by truncating the risk of unwise investor behavior and negative feedback loops for the advisor’s practice. Moreover, adding a slice of passively managed funds or ETFs can help free up resources typically spent on manager research and oversight. These resources can then be redirected toward improving relationships with existing clients or attracting new clients." Vanguard is of course known for championing index funds — funds that are created to replicate an index. Morgan Stanley Advisors Depart For Wells And Raymond James (The Wall Street Journal) Stephen Besse has joined Raymond James from Morgan Stanley, with about $360 million in client assets and $1.35 million in annual fees and commissions. Meanwhile, a team of brokers that managed over $236 million in client assets departed Morgan Stanley Wealth Management for Wells Fargo Advisors. Here's The Best Indicator Of The Start Of Bear Markets (LPL Financial)  While we've seen stock market volatility this year and can expect more, LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop thinks a 2014 bear market is very unlikely. "A key basis for our high degree of confidence in this forecast is an indicator with a flawless track record over the past 50 years: the yield curve," he writes. While many are worried that the Fed will begin its rate hikes next year, Kleintop thinks "bull markets end and bear markets begin, as they did in 2000 and 2007, when the Fed pushes short-term rates above long-term rates. This is referred to as 'inverting the yield curve.'" "Why does an inverted yield curve signal a major peak for the stock market? Because every recession over the past 50 years was preceded by the Fed hiking rates enough to invert the yield curve. That is seven out of seven times—a perfect forecasting track record. The yield curve inversion usually takes place about 12 months before the start of the recession, but the lead time ranges from about five to 16 months. The peak in the stock market comes around the time of the yield curve inversion, ahead of the recession and accompanying downturn in corporate profits." LPL Financial Compliance Concerns Is Prompting Firms To Cut Their International Business (The Wall Street Journal)  Barclays' U.S. based financial advisors won't be able to service clients in Latin America in the second quarter of this year. Barclays is also curbing its international business, though it isn't the only one to do so. "There's been a big uptick in firms that have been restricting activities of these foreign accounts," Brian Hamburger, founder and CEO of MarketCounsel told Corrie Driebusch at the WSJ. These firms "are taking a much more conservative position than they ever have before." While firms aren't outright saying it, compliance is expected to be the biggest cause, and this has left many advisors with an international clientele scrambling. More Assets Don't Make For More Diversification (Richard  Bernstein Advisors) Investors are focused on protecting against the downside risk in equities but  "continue to confuse the number of asset classes with diversification," writes Richard Bernstein at Richard Bernstein Advisors. "Diversification isn’t based on the number of asset classes, it’s based on the correlation of returns among the asset classes." The chart below shows that 1. "Very few asset classes have exhibited true downside protection." 2. "Only one asset class, long-term treasuries had negative correlation to stocks, i.e., negative upside and downside capture ratios;" 3. "Although we don’t find gold attractive within the current market environment, gold was a reasonable diversifier over the past ten years;" 4. "Hedge funds are not a panacea. Note that hedge funds have historically offered about 70% of both the upside AND the downside;" 5. "Cash is generally a worthwhile diversifier. It exhibited minimal upside, but slightly negative downside." RBA FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNewton's CradleFor the first two months of the year, investors could earn outsize returns by simply following the market’s momentum, selling underperforming emerging markets equities and buying outperforming small-caps and growth stocks. But in March, those momentum trades reversed without warning. The upheaval in momentum trades has led some to think that we’re witnessing a break in the post-financial crisis bull market, but Credit Suisse’s global equities strategy team disagrees. There’s no doubt something has changed: Emerging market equities outperformed American stocks by 5 percentage points from March through the end of April. Global large caps outdid small caps by 3 percentage points, and global value stocks are up 4 percent since the beginning of the year, compared to 1 percent for growth stocks. But does such a shift portend a bear market? Not likely. In a recent note entitled, “What Lies Behind the Reversal in Momentum?” the strategists say the about-face signals that momentum trends were simply overbought – not that global equity markets are in trouble. Credit Suisse’s strategists point out that markets don’t appear to be in “risk-off” mode – relatively risky assets such as emerging market equities and currencies as well as peripheral European equities have outperformed. The reversal can’t be explained by a simple change in investor thesis, either. If investors were flocking to emerging market and value stocks because they were optimistic about global growth, they wouldn’t have dumped small caps, which tend to follow the business cycle. Likewise, if the move to large-caps and value stocks were motivated by concern over an early interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve or the Bank of England, they would have dumped emerging markets equities instead of buying them. Instead, it seems more likely that several idiosyncratic factors drove the reversal – the most important of which was the fact that some trades had done quite well to that point, while some others looked compelling. Before the March shift, the price-to-earnings ratio of U.S. small caps was at a six-year high relative to large-caps, while emerging markets were trading at a 30 percent discount to developed-market stocks. The fact that investors took profits on high-performing assets and bought seemingly undervalued ones doesn’t mean a bear market is around the corner. There is also no solid historical evidence that momentum reversals predict a more widespread drop in equities. The numerous momentum selloffs that occurred between 1980 and 1994 had no clear correlation with the larger market – they happened when stocks were rising and at turning points. Since then, momentum reversals have tended to happen after a broad-based sell-off—in 1994, 1998, and 2006, momentum reversed at market troughs. While it is somewhat troubling that momentum sell-offs occurred three to four months ahead of major stock market declines in 2000 and 2008, two data points are hardly a reliable predictor. What’s more, one that is – the direction of credit spreads – is still flashing green. Such spreads tend to widen three months ahead of an equities peak, and they’ve actually tightened since the beginning of this year. Add to the above the fact that we don’t seem to be in a period of irrational exuberance. While the number of companies with rising stock prices still outnumbers those with falling prices, global risk appetite and equity sentiment remain below historical averages, and even high-flying tech stocks are trading at lower multiples than before the dot-com bust. Companies trading at price-to-sales ratios of 5 or more make up just 18 percent of the NASDAQ’s market cap, compared to 91 percent during the tech bubble. In short, Credit Suisse forecasts that global economic growth will continue to benefit stocks in the back half of the year. The bull market is getting a little long in the tooth, but it’s not over yet. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
I attended the Super Tuesday auction in Atlanta this week. The video below shows four foreclosure auctions happening simultaneously. The "crier" comes out, states the property address, reads a three-minute disclaimer, spends one minute completing the auction and then five minutes collecting the cashier's checks. The tents you see are primarily from four major institutional investors who provide relief from the 88 degree heat for their staff. Each team probably had over $1 million in cashier's checks with them. Here's a quick clip I was able to capture on my phone.  Anyone who actually needs a mortgage has no chance of winning the auction. Is this the right way for banks to maximize value? This process occurs at county courthouses all over the US and has so for decades. There has to be a better way. FREE AppDownload
Last year, for the first time, people in the United States purchased more wine than people in France, according to a report from the International Organization of Vine and Wine. France's per capita consumption is still much higher than America's, but total wine consumption in France fell while it rose in the U.S. Americans bought 29.1 million hectolitres of wine in 2013, while the French bought only 28.1 million hectolitres, a decline of almost 7% from the previous year. The New York Times wrote about wine's decline in Europe last year, explaining: Americans who are embracing wine live in the greatest era in wine history, when more fascinating wines are readily available than ever before and in a greater diversity of styles from more different places. But travel to Europe and what do you see? Europeans behaving more like Americans, working longer hours with shorter lunches, as well as grabbing dinner on the go rather than gathering as a family. Wine is still hugely popular in Europe, however. Reuters notes that the average French person drinks 1.2 bottles of wine per week, which is six times higher than consumption for the average American, according to 2011 data. And France still produces more wine than the U.S., but a significant portion of the world's wine is consumed in America. Check out the map below (it's in French — darker colors indicate more wine consumed): International Organization of Vine and Wine As the map notes, nearly half of the world's wine is consumed by just five countries. One explanation for the decline in wine drinking in France could be a focus on higher quality wines that the French buy in less quantity. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman answers a a question during a news conference in his New York City office, Friday, March 18, 2011.New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman vowed to continue his attempts to investigate Airbnb users on Tuesday after a state Supreme Court judge threw out the subpoena he issued the roomsharing startup. A spokesman for Schneiderman, Matt Mittenhal, told Business Insider the court's ruling was based on a "narrow technical issue" and the attorney general plans to re-issue the subpoena Wednesday. The subpoena requested records of hosts offering rooms on the site in an effort to identify violators of a 2010 New York law that prohibits renters from subletting entire apartments for less than 30 days at a time in buildings with three apartments or more. "Our office is committed to enforcing a law that provides vital protections for building residents and tourists alike. The judge rejected all of AirBnb’s arguments except for a narrow technical issue, and we will reissue the subpoena to address it," Mittenhal said in an email.  Schneiderman's office maintains illegal listings on Airbnb are widespread. In his statement, Mittenhal pointed to the fact Airbnb removed thousands of listings on the site after Schneiderman filed an affidavit in support of the subpoena last month.  "The judge’s decision specifically found evidence that a ‘substantial’ number of Airbnb hosts may be violating the tax laws and the law that prohibits illegal hotels," said Mittenhal. "This comes as no surprise, given that Airbnb itself removed some 2,000 New York-based listings from its site." Airbnb spokesman Nick Papas issued a statement after the ruling describing the judge's decision as "good news." Papas added the company hoped it could work together with Schneiderman in the future. "This decision is good news for New Yorkers who simply want to share their home and the city they love. Now, it’s time for us to work together," Papas said. "Airbnb hosts and the Attorney General share a common goal: we all want to make New York a better place to live, work and visit. We look forward to continuing to work with the Attorney General's Office to make New York stronger for everyone."     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerThe S&amp;P 500 topped 1,900 for the first time ever earlier today, and both it and the Dow closed at a new all-time highs. Scoreboard: S&amp;P500: 1,897.45, +0.04%Dow: 16,715.44, +0.12%NASDAQ: 4,130.17, -0.33% And now the top stories: Don't Miss: Citi's 10 Innovations That Are Transforming The World »   FREE AppDownload
Skye Gould/Business InsiderThere are certain neighborhoods in America where even the wealthiest among us might feel average. FindTheBest, a research engine for thousands of topics, has put together a list of the richest zip codes in America. The team used data based on the 5-year averages from the American Community Survey — a part of the U.S. Census Bureau — to sort by the percentage of households making more than $150,000 per year. FindTheBest only included zip codes with at least 10,000 residents. Keep reading to see the 15 richest zip codes in the U.S. FREE AppDownload
Supporting these less-than-scientific results, there have been numerous academic studies that suggest investors’ reactions to market risk are not symmetric. Investors consistently react more negatively to losses than positively to gains. At RBA, we incorporate this asymmetry in our sentiment work. At the beginning of a typical market cycle, investors are more fearful of losses than normal. In the mid-cycle, they tend to be more accepting of risk, and appear to have more normal risk tolerances. In the late cycle, investors generally embrace risk and attempt to accentuate returns because they believe there is no downside risk. Data clearly show that no group of investors is currently willing to take excessive US equity risk. Pension funds, endowments, foundations, hedge funds, individuals, Wall Street strategists, and even corporations themselves remain more fearful of downside risk than they are willing to accentuate upside potential. One might argue that the valuations of stocks like social media, biotechnology, small energy argue that there is a “bubble” forming in stocks. These areas of the stock market do indeed seem excessively speculative, but the enthusiasm for these groups has not translated into enthusiasm for US stocks as a whole. As we have previously pointed out, high beta stocks within the S&amp;P 500® are near historically low relative valuations. The probability of a bear market still seems low to us. Bear markets are made of tight liquidity, significantly deteriorating fundamentals, and investor euphoria. Although the Fed is starting to reverse course, there are no signs yet of a significant tightening of liquidity. Rather, the data are beginning to suggest that private sector credit growth is starting to replace the Fed as the provider of liquidity. Corporate fundamentals continue to be healthy, and investment, whether in inventories or capital equipment, has yet to show any sign of extreme. As mentioned, we can find no group of investors who are shunning diversification or leveraging upside participation in US equities as an asset class. Regardless of these healthy signs, most investors continue to focus on protecting the downside. However, investors don’t seem to have learned the lesson of the past cycle. Investors continue to confuse the number of asset classes with diversification. Diversification isn’t based on the number of asset classes, it’s based on the correlation of returns among the asset classes. One central tenet of our portfolios remains that there are very few asset classes that truly “protect against the downside risk in equities”. Upside/downside capture is a simple measure that shows how an investment relates to the movements of the stock market. Returns are separated into two groups: those when the stock market rises and those when the stock market falls. The capture shows the proportion between the asset’s returns and the overall stock market’s return. For example, if the average up return for the S&amp;P 500® was 10% and the average up return for a particular asset was 7.5%, then the upside capture ratio would be 75% (7.5/10). Similarly if the average down return for the S&amp;P 500® was -10% and the average down return for the asset was 12%, then the downside capture ratio would be 120% (-12/-10). The goal is to find assets that have a high upside capture, but a low or negative downside capture. Chart 1 shows a scatter of upside/downside capture ratios for a broad set of asset classes based on returns during the past ten years. The quadrants depict the four possible combinations, i.e., lower upside/lower downside, lower upside/higher downside, higher upside/higher downside, and higher upside/lower downside. The 45-degree line shows equal upside/downside ratios. RBA There are several points that investors should consider when reviewing this chart: Investors, regardless of whether they are institutional or individual, tend to follow trends when determining asset allocation decisions. Yet, history has shown that swimming against the tide and investing in unpopular asset classes has been the route to true diversification and investment success. Our core investment philosophy has always been that uncertainty equals opportunity. The data suggest that we continue to differ with the consensus regarding our bullish views toward the US market, and regarding our views regarding which asset classes offer diversification and downside protection. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
How should a dress shirt fit? Seems like a simple question – yet look around you. The vast majority of men are wearing dress shirts that are one to two sizes too large.  Why does this matter? Simply put – an ill-fitted dress shirt: Either of these should be enough to motivate you to either have your current dress shirts adjusted to fit by a local tailor or consider buying custom dress shirts. Although both options cost a little coin – the end result is a dress shirt that wear and feels great. Dress Shirt Collar Fit Just Right:The perfect collar fit touches the skin all the way around the neck, but does not press against it. You should be able to slip a finger in between your neck and the shirt at any point without struggling or forcing. Too Tight: The collar is close enough to actually press against the skin underneath it. There’s a discernible sensation of constriction. It would be impossible to put a finger between the neck and collar without stretching, tugging, or forcing. Too Loose: The collar does not touch the neck, but rather rests off the body. You could slip a finger in next to the neck without moving the cloth at all.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Shoulder Fit Just Right: The vertical shoulder seam sits at the edge of the shoulder, where the plane of the shoulder meets the plane of the outer arm. The armscye (the hole where the sleeve joins the shirt body) is large enough that there’s no tugging or twisting on the shoulder seam. Too Tight: The seam will be shifted up the shoulder toward the neck. Some of the sleeve rests on top of the shoulder. If the tightness is in the armscye, there may also be twisting that causes wrinkles or distortion along the seam. Too Loose: The shoulder seam slumps off the shoulder, down onto the outside of the bicep. There may be billowing under the arm as well, if the armscye is too big.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Torso Fit Just Right: The buttons close comfortable and the underside of the placket (the strip where the buttons and buttonholes are located) rests lightly against the sternum (the central bone of your ribcage). The shirt tucks in with no billowing at the sides. Too Tight: The buttons strain to close, causing radiating wrinkles around the buttonholes. Tightness may also cause pulling on the sleeves, distorting the armscye and shoulder seams. Too Loose: Excess fabric hangs slack around the stomach or chest, causing visible billowing. The shirt placket moves about and does not rest against the sternum. Tucking the shirt in causes billowing, ballooning, or “muffin-topping” near the trouser waist. Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Sleeve Fit Just Right: The sleeve is slightly wider at the upper arm than the cuff, with a smooth, even taper. There should be some looseness when the arm hangs straight (so that the elbow isn’t constricted when the arm bends). Looseness should be evenly distributed, not bunched up at the shoulder or cuff. Too Tight: The fit is snug when the arm hangs straight, causing pinching when the elbow or shoulder moves. Tautness may cause radiating wrinkles at the shoulder seam or elbow. Too Loose: There is so much slack that gravity pulls it downward and creates hanging folds of cloth, especially around the cuff. Loose sleeve fabric can also flap and sway around the elbow and bicep.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Sleeve Cuff Just Right: The cuff is close to the body but allows a bit of space between the cuff and the skin. It should be possible to put the shirt on or take it off without unbuttoning the cuffs. Enough room for a pair of fingers (or for a normal-sized dress watch) is a good amount of slack. Too Tight: It is impossible to pull the shirt off without unbuttoning the cuffs (or popping a button). The cuff presses against the skin all the way around the wrist. Wrist watches can only be worn below the hem of the cuff, and the cuff bunches up if it meets them rather than sliding over the watch. Too Loose: The cuff is wide enough that it can slide loosely over a wristwatch and still have room for several fingers to be inserted between the cloth and skin. Folds or wrinkles form in the fabric of the cuff when the arms are rested against a surface like a tabletop.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Sleeve Length Just Right: The sleeve comes all the way down to the large wrist bone at the base of the pinky/ring fingers. If a jacket is worn, about a half-inch of shirt cuff should show beyond the end of the jacket sleeve. The cuff should at least touch (and in some postures cover) the wristwatch, if one is worn. Too Short: The cuff leaves the wrist bones exposed, or is hidden completely beneath jacket sleeves. Too Long: The cuff falls all the way to the point where the hand begins to widen outward from the wrist. This can cause bunching if the sleeves are so long that slack piles up behind the point where the cuff stops. If a wristwatch is worn, it is completely covered by the sleeve at all times.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Bottom Hem Length Just Right: When untucked, the hem falls far enough to cover the belt. It should be long enough at all points (including the sides, if the hems are scalloped) to tuck at least an inch or so into comfortably-worn trousers. Too Short: The untucked shirt does not completely cover the belt or waist of the trousers. When tucked in, points of the hem remain exposed, or have so little cloth tucked in that they are likely to pop out when the body moves and bends. Too Long: The shirttails fall all the way to cover the crotch in front or bottom in back. When tucked in, excess fabric has to be shoved down between the legs to hide bunching up.Real Men Real Style This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Noto has been with Goldman for more than a decade, with a two-year carveout serving as CFO of the NFL. He was once ranked Wall Street's No. 1 internet analyst.  The hedge fund, Coatue, which also has investments in FlipBoard and Hoteltonight, recently launched a $300 million fund in early 2013 for high-growth, pre-IPO startups.  BI's Alyson Shontell profiled Coatue this winter after the Silicon Valley fund invested $50 million in Snapchat.  Noto will be based out of New York. He is actually on Twitter at @anthonynoto. (Warning and/or great news: It's 90% sports and 10% tech and business.) FREE AppDownload
Danny Moloshok/ReutersSir Richard BransonBritain is the billionaire capital of the world, at least on a per capita basis. A total of 104 billionaires call the UK home, according to The Sunday Times Rich List, which is due to be published on May 18. That’s a rise of 16 from the 2013 survey and is more than triple the number from a decade ago. It's also the first time the figure has topped 100.  That means Britain has one billionaire for every 607,692 residents, more than any other country on the planet. In the United States, which ranked second on the super rich list, there is one billionaire for every million or so people. The ratio in Russia is about one in every 2.5 million people. Their combined wealth of GBP301 billion ($508 billion), versus GBP245 billion in 2013, is the equivalent of Norway’s gross domestic product and is more than twicethe value of the Irish economy. It's also higher than pre-recession levels of 2008. Only one of the top 10 richest billionaires — the Duke of Westminster, who ranked 10th with a personal fortune of GBP8.5 billion — is originally from Britain. Indian-born brothers Sri and Gopi Hinduja topped the list with a fortune of GBP11.9 billion, followed by Uzbek-born Alisher Usmanov (GBP10.65 billion) and Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal and his family (GBP10.25 billion). Not surprisingly, most of the billionaires live in London. The city has 72 sterling billionaires, well ahead of Moscow and New York, which have 48 and 43 respectively.  But if you have more money than you could possibly need in several lifetimes, why would youchoose to live in the UK, which, let's be honest, has some of the worst weather in the world?  “London is the financial centre of the world, it straddles time zones so people can get the best financial advice trade, the tax regime is good and they feel safe here,” Phillip Beresford, the author of the rich list, was quoted as saying. Aha, there it is: Britain’s lenient tax regime. Indeed, that is a major attraction for mega rich people loathe to part with their money. Unlike the United States, UK residents registered for non-domiciled status don’t pay tax on their global wealth, only on their British income. So if you run a multi-national company, that’s a huge saving every year. And while nearby France might have better weather than the UK, the government there has slapped a 75 percent take on the super wealthy. Having a mere billion in the bank is no longer enough for inclusion among the top 50 ridiculously rich people. The entry point is now GBP1.7 billion, compared with GBP700 million a decade ago. FREE AppDownload
Congratulations, Class of 2014! Unfortunately, you are graduating into one of the hardest moments ever for young workers. Here's a rundown of where you are and of some of the challenges ahead of you. College has been getting more expensive. Here's a chart, based on data from the College Board, showing how tuition and fees, in inflation-adjusted 2013 dollars, have dramatically increased over the last decade: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from The College Board For the 2003-04 academic year, these costs were $5,900 for a year, and in the 2013-14 year, they were $8,893. This represents about a 51% total increase over that decade, or an average annual real growth rate of about 4.2%. As a result of rising tuition, student loans have been growing dramatically as well, as can be seen in this chart from a 2013 New York Federal Reserve presentation on student debt: New York Fed Many young adults have trouble paying back this debt.  FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax In recent years, 25- and 30-year-olds with no student debt have had much higher credit scores than their peers who do have debt, as this chart from the New York Fed's Liberty Street Economics blog shows: New York Fed How are college graduates doing in the job market? A recent study by the liberal think tank Economic Policy Institute takes a look at labor market conditions for young people and recent college graduates. Disregarding education levels, young workers have historically had higher unemployment than workers as a whole, regardless of the overall state of the economy. That means that the overall weak labor market of recent years has hit young adults especially hard: Economic Policy Institute Over the last 45 years, workers under 25 have had about double the unemployment rate of all workers. The unemployment rate just captures people who are actively looking for work. It is also worth looking at discouraged or missing workers: people who want a job, but have given up looking because they believe there are no jobs out there for them. This chart compares youth unemployment to unemployment with the discouraged workers added in: Economic Policy Institute While young adult unemployment and the number of discouraged young workers have been improving, it's been a very slow process. While young college graduates have a lower unemployment rate than all young people, the labor market situation has gotten worse for them over the last few years: Economic Policy Institute In addition to higher levels of unemployment than those seen in the past, young college grads face higher levels of underemployment, a measure combining unemployed workers, discouraged workers who have given up looking for work, and people who have part-time jobs but want full-time work and can't find it.  Young workers who do get a job have seen stagnant wages in the 2000s, and a decline since the recession: Economic Policy Institute College graduates who do find work are frequently taking jobs where they aren't using their degrees. The New York Federal Reserve published another study analyzing what kinds of jobs are taken by recent college graduates. They defined underemployment as having at least a bachelor's degree, but being in a job that may not require a four-year degree. The authors of the study found that, while it's somewhat normal for recent graduates to take a few years to fully enter the job market, the rate of recent college graduates with non-degree-requiring jobs is higher in recent years than in the 1990 or 2000: New York Federal Reserve As a result of all this labor market strife and uncertainty, young people are more likely to move back home in their early to mid 20s. We recently posted this chart from John Burns Real Estate Consulting showing the share of households with at least one child living at home in their late 20s or early 30s has risen in the aftermath of the recession: John Burns Real Estate Consulting FREE AppDownload
The unconventional technology that enables us to extract oil from shale has triggered a boom in American energy. While North American energy production has exploded, this doesn't necessarily put the the region on a level playing field as the mega-exporters in the Middle East. One reason why the Middle East continues to be in a relatively comfortable spot is because cost of production is so low. Morgan Stanley analysts recently included this chart of crude production costs. Onshore Middle East oil sites are much cheaper to tap than North American shale, which costs about $65 per barrel to extract. Horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing isn't cheap. This is a huge advantage, especially as fluctuating prices often make production unprofitable for higher cost sources. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
If you think Samsung only makes phones, you're mistaken – here's how large the company actually is. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
Google imagesA Hong Kong VC fund has just appointed an algorithm to its board. Deep Knowledge Ventures, a firm that focuses on age-related disease drugs and regenerative medicine projects, says the program, called VITAL, can make investment recommendations about life sciences firms by poring over large amounts of data. Just like other members of the board, the algorithm gets to vote on whether the firm makes an investment in a specific company or not. The program will be the sixth member of DKV's board. VITAL's software was developed by UK-based Aging Analytics.    "[The goal] is actually to draw attention developing it as an independent decision maker," Deep Knowledge Venture's Charles Groome told BI.    How does the algorithm work? VITAL makes its decisions by scanning prospective companies' financing, clinical trials, intellectual property and previous funding rounds. Groome says it has already helped approved two investment decisions (though has not yet cast its first vote), both of which resemble its own function: In Silico Medicine, which develops computer-assisted methods for drug discovery in aging research; and In Silico's partner firm Pathway Pharmaceuticals, which employs a platform called OncoFinder to select and rate personalized cancer therapies.  "It's not what you’d call AI at this stage, but that is the long-term goal," Groome said. (Via Beat Beat) FREE AppDownload
The New York Fed just put out its latest quarterly Household Debt and Credit Report.  Total household debt was up $129 billion from the previous quarter and stood at $11.65 trillion in Q1 2014, up 1.1% quarter-over-quarter. "We’ve observed household debt increase three quarters in a row and delinquency rates at their lowest levels since 2008," Andy Haughwout, vice president and economist at the New York Fed said in a press release.  "However, the direction of future mortgage originations will have an important implication on the household financial outlook and we will continue to monitor it." Here are some of the highlights from the report: NY Fed/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Chance ChanYesterday we published a two-paragraph bull case from Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels. The argument was basically this: The world's central banks are adopting an easing bias, and that with all this cheap money flowing, there's little reason to be bearish. The argument is especially strong, since there's so little inflation. Here's his take. The bolded parts are key: Well, the key thing to watch in this respect is how fast slack in the economy and particularly in the labour market might erode. My colleagues Ellen Zentner and Melanie Baker hone in on this question in their notes published this past week for the US and the UK, respectively, with a particular focus on wage growth as a measure of slack. For the US (see here), Ellen finds that smaller companies’ wage practices are a leading indicator for broader measures of wage growth such as the Employment Cost Index (ECI), and that the continued climb in the smaller companies’ gauge points to an acceleration in broader wage metrics later this year. However, the extent of acceleration should remain historically muted, which will buy time for the Fed. Similarly, for the UK, Melanie looks for only a modest pick-up in average earnings growth and some offset from productivity gains, so that the MPC can take its time in raising rates until mid-2015 or so (see here). Bottom line: we stick to our ‘low for longer view’ for US and UK official interest rates, but if we’re wrong it will most likely be because wage growth accelerates faster than we expect. Meanwhile, two other major central banks crept closer to easing policy further this past week: the ECB and the PBoC. In China, my colleague Helen Qiao notes here that with CPI inflation surprising on the downside in April (dropping to only 1.8%Y), the chances for monetary policy easing with a strong signalling effect, such as a RRR or an official interest rate cut, have increased significantly. And in the euro area, Mario Draghi (see Quote of the Week below) dropped a surprisingly clear hint that a cut in the refi rate, and potentially also the depo rate, in June is in the offing, in line with my colleague Elga Bartsch’s long-standing call (see ECB Watch: Arrivederci a Giugno!). Taken together, with all the major central banks on hold for longer or even easing further, the grab for yield looks set to continue. Let the good times roll! And today this argument got bolstered. We got news that the Bundesbank will probably support ECB easing in the near future. And we got news that Fannie and Freddie will make mortgages more available, which is goosing the housing stocks. More spigots are being turned on. Hard to be bearish in light of that. FREE AppDownload
Yuya Tamai/flickr The administrators of Doge Vault, a popular online wallet for the Dogecoin cryptocurrency, say the site has been the subject of a massive hack.  According to TheCryptoCurrencyTimes, the thieves may have stolen at least 111 million Dogecoins, worth approximately $50,000. Doge prices are down 1% to $0.000454. The site's been shut down and replaced with the following statement: On the 11th of May, the Doge Vault online wallet service was compromised by attackers, resulting in a service disruption and tampering with wallet funds.   As soon as the administrator of Doge Vault was alerted, the service was halted. The attackers had already accessed and destroyed all data on the hosted virtual machines.   We are currently in the process of identifying the extent of the attack and potential impact on user's funds.  This involves salvaging existing wallet data from an off-site backup. We will also closely be investigating potential attack vectors, and determining the security breach which enabled the attacker's to compromise the service. Please do not transfer any funds to Doge Vault addresses while our investigation is under way.   Thank you for your patience - we will issue an additional statement including our findings and plan of action within the next 24-48 hours. Many in the Dogecoin community prides themselves on their friendliness and relative lack of profit-seeking compared with the wider Bitcoin community. One anonymous Tweeter has been donating huge sums of Dogecoin in San Francisco to bring attention to income disparities there.  So the is likely to shake the community up a bit.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / dno1967bWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on Tuesday laid out new policies that could make it easier for many Americans to obtain mortgages, in part by holding off on any reduction in the size of mortgages the two firms can buy. Federal Housing Finance Agency Director Mel Watt, in his first public speech since taking office in early January, also said the two government-controlled firms would ease standards that govern when banks must buy back faulty loans from the two mortgage finance giants, which could also help loosen the credit taps. "FHFA will not use its authority as conservator to reduce current loan limits," Watt told the Brookings Institution. "This decision is motivated by concerns about how such a reduction could adversely impact the health of the current housing finance market." In easing standards for so-called mortgage put-backs - when banks are required to repurchase faulty mortgage they sold to the two companies - Watt took aim at a risk lenders cite for the still-tight credit that has hindered the housing recovery. Tight lending standards have made it especially hard for first-time buyers and those with weaker credit to get mortgages. Watt said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy about 60 percent of new home loans and package them into securities they issue with a guarantee, would relax the mortgage payment history requirements lenders need to meet. FHFA has sued 18 financial institutions, alleging they saddled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with bad mortgages. Those lawsuits have resulted in settlements of about $16 billion so far. "Repurchase risk remains a top concern for the mortgage industry," Watt said. "Ultimately, this undermines the goal of improving access to mortgage credit for creditworthy borrowers." (Reporting By Margaret Chadbourn; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
via Deck The HolidaysThe S&amp;P 500 just passed 1,900 for the first time ever. This is an all-time intraday high. The previous intraday high of 1,897.28 was set on April 4. Earlier today, we learned that the NFIB's Index of Small Business Optimism jumped to its highest level since October 2007. The NFIB also indicated that the labor market was tight and that credit conditions were loose. It's worth pointing out that indexes like the Dow and S&amp;P 500 are heavily skewed toward large- and mega-cap companies. According to FBN Securities' J.C. O'Hara, the average stock in the Russell 2000 and Nasdaq Composite, which include many small-cap companies, is down by more than 20% from its 52-week high. However, this sell-off in popular growth names may actually be part of the economic growth story. "We anticipate GDP growth to broaden in 2014 and this implies that growth will be less scarce in terms of companies achieving better revenue profiles," predicted JP Morgan's Tom Lee back in December. "Hence, investors will likely be less willing to chase traditional growth stocks and “unit growth” stories." You see, since the financial crisis, revenue growth prospects have broadly been pretty anemic due to uncertainty and weak economic growth. Investors seeking growth had been to turn to secular growth (that is, businesses that grow regardless of economic conditions) like the social media stocks. But with economic prospects improving, growth has broadened. In other words, growth companies like the social media stocks aren't the only growth plays in town. This is what Lee meant when he said that "growth will be less scarce." However, we can't ignore the fact that the April retail sales report was pretty disappointing. "Net net, consumers are down, but not out, not by a long-shot," argued Chris Rupkey of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. "Don’t be fooled by the 0.1% rise in April.  They hit the stores hard in February and March, and apparently took the month of April off.  The consumer’s cupboard is stocked for now.  The momentum of retail spending is enormous however and this means we should see strong growth overall in the second quarter.  Retail sales in the second quarter is running 5.7% with only data for April so far.  This is the fastest quarterly pace of consumer spending since way back in the first quarter of 2013." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee.There's been a violent "internal correction" going on in the stock market, with investors and traders dumping high-growth momentum stocks for more cheaply priced value stocks. This phenomenon has caused the Dow Jones industrial average and S&amp;P 500 to hit new highs, even as the average stock tumbles into bear markets. Some folks like UBS's Art Cashin have warned that these types of trading patterns precede bear markets. But the fact that we continue to get signs of economic growth presents a conflict for the bears. Just today, we learned that small-business optimism is at its highest level since the financial crisis. Before Tom Lee unexpectedly left his position as chief U.S. equity strategist at JPMorgan, he predicted this rotation from growth stocks into value and explained how it would work in the context of economic growth.  It was his second of "6 Investment Themes For 2014," which he outlined in his Dec. 13, 2013, note (unfortunately, we don't have permission to repost his figures): #2: Value to further outperform Growth ... Growth looks likely to see its 6 year winning streak end in 2013. As shown on Figure 23, Growth is underperforming by 274bp this year after a very impressive streak of outperformance (2007-2012). The reason we expect Value to outperform in 2014 comes down to the following framework: That first bullet is key. You see, since the financial crisis, revenue-growth prospects have broadly been pretty anemic because of uncertainty and weak economic growth. Investors seeking growth had been to turn to secular growth (that is, businesses that grow regardless of economic conditions) like the social-media stocks. But with economic prospects improving, growth has broadened. In other words, growth companies like the social-media stocks aren't the only growth plays in town. This is what Lee meant when he predicted that "growth will be less scarce." The NFIB regularly surveys small businesses, asking managers for what they consider to be the single most important problem. What's striking is the collapse of sales as a concern. This would imply that sales prospects are improving for small businesses. NFIB When Lee was still at JPMorgan, he had a 2,075 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500, which at the time was the most bullish forecast on Wall Street. FREE AppDownload
Jarle Naustvik/flickr Atlanta-based Bitcoin-payments processor Bitpay has reportedly raised $30 million from a bunch of investors including Sir Richard Branson. It's the largest funding round a Bitcoin company has ever produced. As of December 2013, Bitpay was used by 15,500 merchants. Last year, Branson announced he'd begun accepting Bitcoin for Virgin Galactic.  In a statement this morning, Branson said the following about his Bitpay stake, the amount of which was not disclosed: Banking as we know it is in the midst of enormous change and innovation. We have jumped in by investing in alternative payment models and also by accepting bitcoin for tickets on Virgin Galactic, the world’s first commercial spaceline.  Bitpay has proven itself to process bitcoin safely and reliably, growing the market and increasing adoption, which continues to build trust, legitimacy and momentum in this exciting currency revolution. It's hard to argue with the premise that traditional banking is in trouble. Digital banking featured as one of Citi's 10 innovations reshaping the planet, and much of the focus in Bitcoin shifts from its speculative value to how its underlying technology can be used. For further evidence, check out our recent list of 10 companies already upending the payments space » FREE AppDownload
Isaac Brekken / Getty ImagesRetail sales went mostly nowhere in April, according to Census data. The headline figure came in at 0.1%, down from a revised 1.5% from March and below 0.4% expectations. Ex-autos, sales didn't climb at all; expectations were for a 0.6% gain. March was revised up to 1%. Ex autos and gas, sales slipped 0.1%, compared with an expected 0.5% gain and 1.4% revised March.  Import prices fell 0.4% from March compared with expectations for a 0.3% increase.   ED&amp;FMan's Tom DiGaloma called the report "shockingly weak," and Capital Economics said they are now doubting whether Q2 annualised real consumption growth can surpass Q1's 3.0% figure, though are not totally bearish. They write:  ...the rebound in GDP growth in the second quarter may not be as large as we were expecting. Nonetheless, a rebound from the weather-induced weakness in the first quarter is still on the cards. Moreover, the strong run of employment gains suggests that the outlook for consumption is strengthening. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson says there was some late-Easter noise. We doubt April sales really were as soft as these data suggest,  just as we doubt March sales were anything like as strong as the +1.5% revised number. History shows clearly that the seasonal  adjustments can't cope with very late Easters, which tend to boost reported March sales at the expense of April, hence our forecast for weak-looking numbers. But taking March and April together, our measure of core sales - we exclude autos, gasoline and food - rose by an average of 0.8%, well above the prior trend. Looking at the whole winter period and the sub- sequent rebound, core sales still have a bit of catching up to do, but these numbers are nothing like as weak as the headline. It's true that there tends to be a lot of monthly noise in this data set, as you can see in the table on the left. But the year-over-year trend is unmistakable.  REUTERS Here's the table. The largest declines came from electronics and miscellaneous. Gains were seen in department stores and clothing. Census FREE AppDownload
While stocks were relatively unchanged for the week of May 5–9, 2014, daily and intra-day volatility has been notable—the S&amp;P 500 saw 1% intraday moves on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. The stock market volatility of the past few weeks seemed to shake the nerves of individual investors leading to a week of net outflows from funds that invest in U.S. stocks after seeing net inflows in five of the past six months, according to data from ICI. The volatility we call “market storms” is likely to continue to be a characteristic of markets this year, caused by well-known factors, such as: geopolitical conflict in Russian border countries, slower economic growth in China, or a weak start to the year for the U.S. economy, among others, but also lesser-known factors like the Oklahoma earthquakes, solar flares disrupting communications, and the Ebola outbreak. So, while ongoing volatility with pullbacks of 5% or more is likely, a bear market—defined by a decline of 20% or more—is very unlikely in 2014. A key basis for our high degree of confidence in this forecast is an indicator with a flawless track record over the past 50 years: the yield curve. Market participants have become worried about when the Federal Reserve (Fed) may start to hike short-term interest rates. Many market participants expect the Fed to begin rate hikes next year. But history shows that the start of rate hikes does not really matter that much to stocks after an initial dip and quick recovery. Instead, bull markets end and bear markets begin, as they did in 2000 and 2007, when the Fed pushes short-term rates above long-term rates. This is referred to as “inverting the yield curve.” For example, the S&amp;P 500 peaked in 2000 and 2007 when the 3-month to 10-year yield curve was inverted by about 0.5% (3-month Treasury yields were about one-half of one percentage point above the yield on the 10-year Treasury note) [Figure 1]. LPL Financial Why does an inverted yield curve signal a major peak for the stock market? Because every recession over the past 50 years was preceded by the Fed hiking rates enough to invert the yield curve. That is seven out of seven times—a perfect forecasting track record. The yield curve inversion usually takes place about 12 months before the start of the recession, but the lead time ranges from about five to 16 months. The peak in the stock market comes around the time of the yield curve inversion, ahead of the recession and accompanying downturn in corporate profits. How far the Fed must push up short-term rates before the yield curve inverts by 0.5% depends on where long-term rates are. Even if long-term rates stay at the very low yield of 2.6%, to invert the yield curve by 0.5% the Fed would need to hike rates from around zero to over 3%! Based on the latest survey of current Fed members that vote on rate hikes, conducted earlier this year, members do not expect to raise rates above 3% until sometime in 2017, at the earliest. The facts suggest the best indicator for the start of a bear market may still be a long way from signaling a cause for concern. While there are reasons the U.S. economy could experience a recession without first experiencing an inversion in the yield curve, the flawless track record earned over 50 years of varying economic, legislative, regulatory, geopolitical, and social conditions is a testament to the robust nature of the yield curve as an indicator. So while we do expect more volatility this year, we do not expect a bear market. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Tyler & Christina MussetterLinkedIn (NYSE: LNKD  ) and Twitter (NYSE: TWTR  ) shares have sold off by huge margins this year: LinkedIn shares are down 42% year to date, while Twitter's shares are down 37% this year They are the fastest growing social media companies today. But, LinkedIn's top-line growth is showing signs of slowing down. It fell to 46% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, from an average yearly growth of 57% in fiscal 2013. Assuming that the company grows at the top end of its guidance, then it will finish fiscal 2014 with a revenue of $2.08 billion, or a 36% growth. What's going on at LinkedIn?LinkedIn managed to make a profit in seven out of the eight last quarters between 2012-2013, before reporting a net loss of $13.4 million in the first quarter of the current fiscal year. LinkedIn is facing the bugaboo of many companies experiencing high-revenue growth: spiraling sales and marketing costs. The company spent $510 million, or 34%, of its 2013 revenue, on sales and marketing expenses. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, growth in sales and marketing costs outpaced revenue growth: 52% vs. 46%. Product development costs, the company's second-largest expense category, grew 49% during the quarter, 3 percentage points faster than revenue growth. Oddly, LinkedIn's general and administrative expenses, its third largest category, grew 74%. LinkedIn's user base grew 36% during the quarter compared to last year, but its page views grew just 5%, indicating a rather worrying lack of user engagement. The bright spot in that rather flat report was that the company expects its sales and marketing expenses for the full year as a percentage of revenue to be below last year's figure of 34%. Although the company's stock-based compensation in fiscal 2014 is expected to grow to $305 million from $193.9 million last year, it will represent ''just'' 14.7% of its revenue. In contrast, Twitter's stock-based compensation of $640 -$690 million for the current year represents about 54% of its expected 2014 revenue. LinkedIn has more than $2 billion in cash and short-term securities, while Twitter is cash-flow negative. Twitter's Achilles' heelWhile most of LinkedIn's problems look like temporary ones that the company is likely to outgrow, Twitter's case is not as easy. The bad part is that some of Twitter's biggest problems are not necessarily of its own making, and there isn't much the company can do about them. Let's have a look at three of these reasons. 1. Poor monetization rates for international usersTwitter's business exhibits an odd dichotomy. The company has far more international users (non-U.S.) than domestic ones (U.S.): 186.8 million vs. 54.1 million. While there is nothing unusual about this, the worrying part is that international users account for just 26% of the company's revenue. Non-U.S. users have been growing 1.5 times faster than U.S. users: 33% vs. 21%. Twitter's advertising revenue per 1,000 timeline views stands at $3.80 in the U.S. and just $0.60 for the rest of the world. Assuming that 80% of the U.S. population will eventually become Twitter users ( a very generous assumption), and growth for both local and international segments continue at the current rates, the U.S. market will be fully covered in just eight years, after which the rest of the company's growth will have to come from international markets. It's very likely that U.S. growth will max out much sooner than the eight years we have assumed here, possibly in just five years. With such poor monetization rates for international users, the company could be facing a revenue cliff in a very short period of time. Twitter's reprieve, however, might come as smartphone adoption rates in the developing economies continues to increase. Currently, a huge percentage of these users are viewing Twitter through feature phones, which are not very advertiser friendly. But assuming that smartphone adoption in these countries helps to double their revenue per 1,000 timeline views to $1.20 in about five years, it will still be far short of the U.S. average. 2. Crowded online advertising industryTwitter happens to be a tiny player in a crowded online advertising industry. The company has roughly 1% market share vs. 51% for Google (NASDAQ: GOOG  ) and 11% forFacebook (NASDAQ: FB  ) . There are a raft of other top players in this industry, too, including Yahoo, Baidu, LinkedIn, and Yelp. Facebook can sell its users' data to advertisers; LinkedIn is busy steamrolling human-resource industries with its profiles and content, while Google is busy growing its already dominant market share in online advertising. The space looks quite hostile for Twitter. Twitter shares still look quite expensive even after the big sell-off this year. 3. Stock-based compensationTwitter's stock-based compensation for its executives and employees is a major drag on its bottom line. The company reported a net loss of $645.3 million in fiscal 2013, after taking a $600.3 million hit from stock-based compensation. The situation is not expected to improve in fiscal 2014 when the company will dole out stock-based compensation amounting to $640 million-$690 million. Foolish bottom lineTwitter shares seem to be priced for a lot of growth in the coming years. But with the company making so little money from its international markets, and growth in its core U.S. market likely to hit a ceiling soon, it's going to be difficult for the company to maintain good growth five years or so down the line. LinkedIn is more likely to outgrow its problems sooner than Twitter, and is therefore the better long-term investment. FREE AppDownload
The NFIB's Index of Small Business Optimism jumped to 95.2 in April from 93.4 in March. "This is the first time the Index has reached 95 since October 2007," noted the NFIB. "The gain is modest but it is still the best reading post-recession. The main contributor to the improved Index came from expected business conditions. Small-business owners are a bit more optimistic in this area but still 9 percent more owners expect business conditions to deteriorate than improve." All of this is great news for those who had doubts the economy might struggle to accelerate again after the unusually cold winter. The report included some good insight into the state of the labor market and the availability of credit, a leading indicator of business spending. "Twenty-four (24) percent of all owners reported job openings they could not fill in the current period (up 2 points)," reported the NFIB. This is a sign of labor-market tightness, which also means that the risk of wage inflation is increasing. NFIB Like the NFIB's headline index, loan availability is at its highest level since the financial crisis. Easy lending standards are generally considered leading indicators of business investment and hiring and economic growth in general. NFIB Meanwhile, the optimism expressed by small businesses is mirrored by large public companies as well. Dan Greenhaus of BTIG notes that on earnings conference calls this quarter, there was a lot of talk about how the economy really picked up after the winter ended. He writes: So small-business optimism is up. Job openings are rising. Credit is more available. And large companies saw a nice comeback in April. Maybe it's real this time? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserCol. David B. Gaffney, commander, National Training Center Support Brigade walks past a tactical hybrid electric power system at the Army National Training Center in Fort Irwin, California July 31, 2008.Demand for solar energy is heating up across the United States, and the nation's military is becoming one of the sector's major customers. The Department of Defense wants renewable energy to make up at least one quarter of its total energy use by 2025, and solar energy is squarely within its sights.    The Military just recently began construction of a solar power plant at Fort Huachuca in Arizona, where solar panels will be installed over 68 acres, constituting the largest solar array of any military base in the U.S. According to the commanding general of the base, Maj. Gen. Robert Ashley, the project reflects the military's commitment to energy security.  Whether it be engaged in disaster relief, humanitarian missions or in military operations, the military needs reliable energy that is "off the grid," since public electrical utilities are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and potential sabotage. The military also needs to be ready for possible disruptions to the oil supply, which could cripple it and the nation's economy.   Such risks to national security are turning the armed forces into a vast laboratory for the development of solar technology and the creation of "net-zero" environments, where energy consumption equals the energy created on-site. The military already used solar arrays at fixed-site locations in Afghanistan.   By moving to solar power, the military could also avoid the high costs of transporting gasoline to remote areas of the world.  In the past, moving gasoline to bases in Afghanistan could cost up to $400 per gallon.  Even more significantly, by using more solar energy, the military reduces the danger to soldiers who carry and protect fuel supplies in truck convoys, which are a vulnerable target, being large, slow, and highly explosive. An army study showed that one out of eight U.S. soldiers were killed in Iraq near fuel convoys between 2003 and 2007.  As the Department of Defense allocates more money for solar power use, a number of companies stand to profit. One such company is SolarCity (NASDAQ: SCTY  ), chaired by Elon Musk.  SolarCity seems particularly well situated to serve the military's housing needs. In 2011, it announced a plan to build more than a billion dollars of solar energy projects for a number of military housing communities. The plan, called "Project SolarStrong," looks to be the largest solar photovoltaic project for residential homes in American history. Up to 120,000 military housing units will be served, with up to 300 megawatts of solar generation.  SolarCity is clearly cultivating its relationship with the DOD. The company has encouraged veterans to apply for employment, and on its website, a former marine professes to "keep our customers safe."  Nonetheless, while revenues appear to be increasing, an investor might want to wait until the company is expected to have positive earnings for the coming year, and demonstrates that it can manage its debt as well maintain margins while it continues to grow. The potential, however, is clear. The Department of Defense has become the greatest energy consumer on the planet, spending $20 billion annually on energy. SolarCity is already taking advantage of this vast market, and its future appears to be bright. Investors who could incorporate the stock into a much wider portfolio, and who can buy and wait for the long term as the company continues to grow, should give consideration to SolarCity. FREE AppDownload
Google Drive is becoming a crucial part of our technological lives, you should know how to get the most out of it. Produced By Matt Johnston.   Produced by Matt Johnston. Originally published in March 2014.
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukRussia's Sergei Kalinin (L) and Sergei Shirokov (R) scuffle with Craig Smith (15) and Tyler Johnson (9) of the U.S. during the second period of their men's ice hockey World Championship group B game at Minsk Arena in Minsk May 12, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. We're At An All-Time High. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P 500 closed at record highs on Monday. And U.S. futures are signaling more green with Dow futures up 26 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 2.4 points. Markets in Asia closed higher led by a 1.9% jump in Japan's Nikkei. In Europe, Britain's FTSE, France CAC, and Germany's DAX are all higher. Euro Tanks After Bundesbank Shocker. "Germany's central bank is willing to back an array of stimulus measures from the European Central Bank next month, including a negative rate on bank deposits and purchases of packaged bank loans if needed to keep inflation from staying too low, a person familiar with the matter said," reports the Wall Street Journal's Brian Blackstone. This would be a major reversal coming from an organization that is notorious for being very tight about monetary policy. China's Slowing. China released three key economic stats overnight and all three missed expectations. Industrial production growth fell to 8.7% year-over-year in April from 8.8% in March; economists were looking for 8.9% growth. Retail sales growth fell to 11.9% from 12.2%; economists were forecasting a 12.2% print. Fixed asset investment growth year-to-date slowed to 17.3% in April from 17.6% in March; economists were looking for 17.7% growth. "By breakdown, we believe the anti-corruption campaign and property downturn are the two major factors behind the moderation in FAI growth," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "On a positive note, the 8.7% yoy IP growth reading in April, if sustained in May and June, means GDP growth in 2Q14 could be similar to the 7.4% pace in 1Q14, suggesting a rebound in sequential growth from 1.4% in 1Q14. " German Economic Confidence Crumbles. Germany's ZEW Economic Sentiment index plunged to 33.1 in May from 43.2 in April. Economists were forecasting a 40 print. "Growth in Germany is currently strong, but we expect it will lose momentum in the second half of the year," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "The ZEW sentiment survey generally gets a bad reputation for being too volatile, but we beg to differ. It is the earliest sentiment reading we get for the reference month, and if we look at the smoothed spread between analysts’ views of the current situation and expectations we get a good forward looking indicator for growth. " US Treasury Secretary In China. Secretary Jack Lew "called on Beijing to "renew" a pledge to overhaul its exchange rate policy, in his first visit to the Chinese capital since the renminbi began to reverse its climb against the dollar earlier this year," reported the Financial Times' Tom Mitchell. "It is important that China demonstrate a renewed commitment to move to a more market-determined exchange rate which will help provide for more balanced domestic growth and global trade, while also moving to a more transparent exchange rate policy," said Lew. $50 Billion Mega-Merger In The Works. "AT&amp;T Inc. is close to sealing a takeover of DirecTV that could put a value of nearly $50 billion on the satellite-television provider, people familiar with the matter said," reports the Wall Street Journal's Dana Cimilluca, Shalini Ramachandran and Thomas Gryta. "An agreement could be reached in two weeks if not soon, according to the people." Pfizer Goes To Parliament. Pfizer CEO Ian Read is getting grilled by a British parliamentary committee over the company's proposed takeover of UK drugmaker AstraZeneca. The big concern for lawmakers is the magnitude of job cuts and reduction in R&amp;D activity in the country. "We'll be efficient by some reduction in jobs. What I cannot tell you is how much or how many or where," said Read. "We'll look at this as our global combined footprint and then we'll make decisions." Credit Suisse's Potential $2 Billion Settlement. "New York state's banking regulator is seeking hundreds of millions of dollars from Credit Suisse in its probe of potential tax evasion involving the Swiss bank, according to sources close to the matter, which could push an eventual settlement with U.S. authorities over $2 billion," reports Reuters' Karen Freifeld and Aruna Viswanatha. Retail Sales Check. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the April retail sales report. Economists estimate retail sales climbed by 0.4% in April, 0.5% excluding autos and gas. "We expect decent retail sales but more moderate than March’s sharp rebound from winter weakness," said Credit Suisse economists. "Unit vehicle sales fell slightly on the month. Last month’s 1.9% spike in general merchandise sales looks ripe for a reversal. Income growth has been decent, however, so other components are expected to pick up the slack." An Incomplete Fed. Federal Reserve governor Jeremy Stein has previously announced that he would be stepping down from he Fed on May 28. Stein is the chairman and sole member of the "the internal committee that monitors financial markets for signs of trouble and of the committee that watches the way banks treat their customers," notes the New York Times' Binyamin Appelbaum. "The dwindling of its board is straining the Fed’s ability to manage its complex responsibilities, which extend well beyond its enormous economic stimulus campaign and its lead role in the overhaul of financial regulation." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo Whitaker Traders work on the main floor of the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange market in Sao Paulo October 8, 2008. Brazil's benchmark stock index sank more than 5 percent in early trade on Wednesday as markets from Asia to Europe declined on concerns that efforts by central banks around the world to cut rates would not be enough to avert global recession. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top stories that traders are talking about today: US Futures are up 20bp, just off fresh all-time records.  With the Russell coming off best day in 2 months, we are not seeing any major pullback in Momentum stocks overnight. There was a fair amount of “technical” buying yesterday, as Options expiry is a huge tailwind this week, and many major indices were able to get upside of key Moving Averages – IWM over 200dma, QQQ thru 50 and 100dmas, IBB bouncing off the 200dma, etc…  In Europe, the DAX is up 1% in very heavy trade – 45% above normal trends.  Despite the EU fins being in the red (Capital headlines) – most EU markets are euphoric as German investor confidence fell in May, sparking Dovish hopes from the ECB.   The Ukrainian situation had no major flare-up overnight, and Russia’s Micex Index climbed over 1% percent, extending gains to a fifth day - the longest streak of increases this year.  Over in Asia, focus was on Chinese investment, retail sales and factory output growth all disappointing – but there was muted response from China and Aussie markets.   Japan leapt 2% as the Yen continued to weaken near 1M lows, and India leapt further on election results.   Keep an eye on the breakout in Emerging markets, with the EEM trading at 5M highs this AM.     The 10YY in the USA has reversed lower, and the € has plunged through the 100dma and nears 3M lows against the Greenback as Bundesbank signals willing to back stimulus at the June ECB meeting.   The $/Yen remains just off highs, an additional tailwind for equities.   Overall, with the DXY higher we have a large headwind for commodities – Gold is retreating quickly under $1300 on the Bundesbank headlines, while China headlines have copper retreating only small.   The Energy Complex is higher across the board as we near US inventory reports – and chatter increases about the US reversing the Oil Export Ban – WTI is squeezing above the 50 and 100dmas this AM to May peaks.   We have a full slate of Catalysts today - NFIB Small Business Optimism at 7:30, New York Fed's Q1 Household Debt and Credit Report at 8, April Retail Sales at 8:30, Business Inventories at 10, Fed's Lacker speaks at 10:30, we have a very small POMO at 11, and the Brazilian Central Bank President speaks at 1.   Reminder that David Tepper will be speaking at the SALT conference on Weds at 7pmET - Says he will give his outlook - has certainly moved things in the past FREE AppDownload
Christopher Polk / GettyJimmy Iovine, Peter Chou And Dr. Dre Announce The Strategic Partnership Of HTC And Beats By Dr. DreBeats Music, the streaming service set up by Dr Dre as part of his headphones brand, had just 111,000 subscribers in March, according to a leaked royalty report. Since its launch in January in the US, Beats Music has added 49,371 individual accounts and 61,621 "family" accounts, which can have up to five users, according to a royalty statement published by the music industry blog Trichordist. But because the US mobile phone provider AT&amp;T has been offering a 90-day free promotion, it's unclear how many of those Beats accounts are paid-for. Apple is said to be pursuing an acquisition of Beats, including its headphones, speaker and streaming music brands, for $3.2bn. Dre seemed to confirm the purchase last Friday, stating on video that he had just become the “first billionaire in hip-hop”. But the deal has yet to be confirmed either by Beats or by Apple. Beats Music individual accounts cost $9.99 (£5.93) a month, while family accounts bought through AT&amp;T for $14.99 a month for up to five users. The number of users is small compared with Spotify at this stage, which currently has more than 24 million active users globally, of which more than 6 million are paying subscribers, with the remainder using Spotify’s ad-supported streaming service. In the US, Spotify had 1 million paying subscribers as of March last year. The Beats Music family plans were all offered with a 90-day free trial, which means it is unclear whether many of them are actually paying for the service, given it only launched in January. It is also unclear how many users each family plan has; the 61,621 family accounts could account for up to 308,105 people. Beats Music has since added options for in-app subscription payments to its iPhone app, which has propelled the app up the App Store charts behind other US music streaming apps Pandora, Rdio, Slacker and Rhapsody. That could indicate a surge in subscribers. Beats Music pays artists $0.000126 per play, according to the report, which is significantly less than the average payout to rights-holders for a single play of a track made by Spotify, which is between $0.006 and $0.0084. Beats Music has often been hailed as friendly to music artists and striving to make music streaming profitable for artists; the royalty figures from the report suggest a different story. The report also suggests good engagement by users, with 49,371 individual subscribers playing 116.4m tracks in March alone – an average 2,357 songs each, or 76 a day. It is still unclear whether Apple has bought Beats for the reported $3.2bn, but many have speculated that Beats Music and the company’s ties into the music industry is the jewel in the headphone maker’s crown for Apple, and could be used to bolster the company’s iTunes Radio streaming music offering. • What does Apple stand to gain from snapping up Dr Dre, Jimmy Iovine and their Beats headphones? This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
AFPChina's vast "shadow banking" sector is now valued at $4.4 trillion, according to the government's premier research group the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) as it warned of potential risks to the financial system. Shadow banking in China encompasses a huge network of lending outside formal channels and beyond the reach of regulators, including activities by online finance platforms, credit guarantee companies and microcredit firms. The system is worth 27 trillion yuan ($4.4 trillion), equivalent to nearly one fifth of the domestic banking sector's total assets, according to a report by the Institute of Finance and Banking under CASS -- China's highest academic research organization in the social sciences. The figure is slightly lower than an earlier estimate by ratings agency Moody's, which put shadow banking activities at $4.8 trillion in 2012, more than half of the country's gross domestic product. "What matters most is not the scale of the shadow banking system," CASS said in a statement for the launch of the report provided to AFP on Tuesday. "Once big risks arise from the shadow banking system, they could rapidly spread to the banking segment and the real economy through the monetary and credit markets, posing systemic financial risks," it said. China's financial markets were rocked by several debt defaults earlier this year. In one case, a $160 million investment product structured by Jilin Province Trust and backed by a coal firm failed to make capital and interest payments. Separately, a $500 million investment product structured by China Credit Trust avoided default in January after an unknown party made good on principal payments to hundreds of investors, though they did not received pledged interest. Chinese authorities have shown tolerance towards individual defaults, calling them unavoidable, but have pledged to keep potential risks in check. Analysts say the defaults could benefit the market in the long term by raising awareness of risk and making investors more selective. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Carl CourtHome ownership is pursued almost as a right in Britain but the housing market has a history of boom and bust -- and fears are growing of a new bubble.Home ownership is pursued almost as a right in Britain but the housing market has a history of boom and bust -- and fears are growing of a new bubble. The Bank of England, three former finance ministers and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) have all raised concerns that rising prices could threaten Britain's economic recovery. House prices across the country rose at 10.9 percent in the year to April, the fastest rate for four years. In London, the increase was 18 percent, according to Nationwide, Britain's leading mortgage provider. The cost of a house in the capital is now 20 percent higher than it was at their previous peak before the financial crisis in 2008 sent values tumbling, although the rest of the country has yet to regain pre-recession levels. Buying their own place is a dream of many Britons, encouraged by successive governments, notably that of former prime minister Margaret Thatcher, which allowed tenants of social housing to buy their homes. But the dream is becoming harder and harder to realise. In the early 1980s, the average first-time buyer was 27 or 28 years old and paid an average of £17,000 (the equivalent of £49,000 or 60,000 euros/$83,000 in today's prices) for their home. Today, they are 30 and pay an average of just under £147,000, according to a study by HSBC. In London, the average property now costs £480,000 (590,000 euros) according to online portal Rightmove, 14 times the median salary and a sum beyond the reach of key workers such as nurses and many teachers. Some of the growth has been fuelled by foreign investors looking for a safe haven for their money. In a new record for property in London, a buyer from Eastern Europe reportedly bought a penthouse in an exclusive development overlooking Hyde Park recently for a staggering £140 million. Finance Minister George Osborne sought to calm the rampant overseas interest that risks transforming parts of the city into ghost streets, by announcing in March a new tax on high-end properties owned by non-residents. "We know we should be nervous about what's going on in the housing market," the Bank of England's outgoing chief economist Spencer Dale told parliament earlier this month. Jon Cunliffe, deputy governor for financial stability, has also said that spiraling property prices are the "brightest (hazard) light" on the Bank's dashboard. The OECD added to pressure to cool the housing market in a report last week, warning that prices were soaring when compared to rents and household incomes. It urged measures to "address the risks of excessive house price inflation", in particular by introducing more restrictions on the government's "Help to Buy" scheme. The programme was introduced last year in England to help buyers struggling to save a deposit, and has since then been taken up by 19,000 people. Participants need only provide a five percent deposit on a home up to £600,000, with the government providing a loan worth 20 percent and a mortgage making up the rest. Numerous experts, including three former finance ministers, have warned of a chronic shortage of housing and warned that "Help to Buy" is pushing prices higher. But Osborne has defended the scheme and insisted the Bank of England had sufficient powers to act if it felt the housing market needed cooling. "I've said we should be vigilant about the housing market and this government has given the Bank of England the powers, the tools to do that in an independent way," he told the BBC last week. As Britain's economic recovery picks up speed, the OECD expects the Bank of England to raise interest rates from 0.50 percent -- the record low maintained since March 2009 -- to 1.0 percent next year. This would raise the cost of mortgages with variable rates, about half of all mortgages in Britain, along with the accompanying risk of a rise in repossessions. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
YouTube / animalsaustralia This is a shocker. According to reports, the Bundesbank — Germany's famously hard-money loving central bank — might be willing to engage in more stimulus if inflation forecasts decline. The WSJ says the Bundesbank is open to "significant" stimulus, including possibly negative rates. The euro is diving on the news, though that's a good thing. It's been a source of consternation for th Eurozone that the Euro has been so strong against the dollar. A weaker currency would make exports more competitive. FinViz While Germany itself  has seen a robust economy, peripheral countries have been at risk of deflation, and by many accounts are badly in need of stimulus. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAlibaba Group Chairman Jack Ma addresses a conference in Hong KongBEIJING (Reuters) - Jack Ma, the founder and executive chair of Alibaba Group Holding, said investors and entrepreneurs can fall out like domestic couples squabbling over their children in a blog post published late on Monday as the Chinese e-commerce juggernaut prepares for its blockbuster initial public offering. "The relationship between investors and entrepreneurs is like a couple's, nobody can say who is taking advantage of the other," Ma said in an emoticon-filled post, written on Alibaba's mobile social networking app Laiwang. "Also, it is common for them to quarrel and break up because they have different opinions over how to raise and educate their child," he said. Alibaba, the world's biggest e-commerce company, is preparing for its U.S. IPO after filing its prospectus last week. This has the potential to be the biggest tech company listing yet, according to analysts, surpassing Facebook Inc's $16 billion filing in 2012. "Investors know they aren't your guardian angel," Ma continued. "The reason they invest in you isn't because they're kind-hearted." In a letter Ma sent to employees before the IPO filing, Ma emphasized that shareholders were not his priority. "After the IPO we'll still uphold the policy of 'customers first, employees second, and shareholders third,'" he wrote. Ma's checkered past with investors has raised concerns among some ahead of the IPO. In 2011 a decision to spin off Alipay, the online payment arm of then-listed Alibaba.com, caused a row between the company and major stakeholders Yahoo Inc and Softbank Corp. Alibaba, Yahoo and SoftBank settled the matter in 2011, but not before David Einhorn, the Greenlight Capital hedge fund manager, sold all of his Yahoo shares in frustration at what he deemed mutual "finger-pointing" between the companies. "Finding money is difficult, finding intelligent money is even harder, and finding a way to harmoniously coexist and develop with your investors after the investment is the hardest," said Ma in Monday's post. (Reporting by Paul Carsten and Beijing Newsroom; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
German economic sentiment — as measured by the monthly ZEW survey — has tanked. The reading of 33.1 is 10 below the previous month's reading, and well below expectations. ZEW One possibility here is that the crisis in Ukraine is starting to have economic ramifications, especially in the Eastern part of the country. That statement, however, isn't expressed explicitly in the report. The outlook for Europe is weaker, but much more stable. FREE AppDownload
Overnight we got fresh data in China that confirms a slowdown. Via BofA/ML, here's the scorecard. The top line shows the numbers that were reported vs. what was expected. In each case, numbers came in below expectations and below the previous month. BofA/ML BofA/ML cites the ongoing corruption crackdown as one major factor, and the firm doesn't believe that the economy is weak enough to warrant any additional stimulus just yet. FREE AppDownload
The World Cup is coming up in Brazil this summer, so watch out. "Bad things tend to happen in World Cup years." That's the message from Dario Perkins of Lombard Street research.  He writes: For many, the soccer World Cup is a time of anxiousness and suffering, followed by chaotic collapse (usually on penalties to Germany). England fans have come to expect this but, as a client recently pointed out, the pain doesn’t always stop there. Markets also suffer around World Cup time. The inaugural competition was in 1930, the first full year of the Great Depression. But look also more recently: 1986 stock market crash, 1990 US recession, 1994 bond market blow up, 1998 Asia/LTCM collapse, 2002 Dotcom bubble, 2006 US housing crash, 2010 global recovery stalls/euro crisis starts. OK, it’s not a perfect fit. The stock-market crash came in 1987 even though the seeds were being sown in 1986, and the 2002 collapse started well before the World Cup kicked off. He goes on to note some possible sources of blowups this year: Abenomics, China, Ukraine. Meanwhile, here's the chart showing spikes in volatility in World Cup years. Lombard Street Research FREE AppDownload
The most famous housing crash in Europe existed in Spain. In some sense, Spain was the "Florida" of the Eurozone crisis, as it experienced a gigantic housing boom in the good days, followed by a brutal real estate collapse, threatening the banking system. Anyway, like Florida, it's coming back, as the Eurozone crisis fades further into the rearview mirror. Via Markit, the YOY decline in Spanish home prices hit its best number in 3 years. Markit FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks during a news conference at Facebook headquarters in Palo Alto(Reuters) - Facebook Inc plans to open a sales office in China to work with local advertisers, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The world's largest social networking company is in talks to lease space in the Fortune Financial Center in Beijing's central business district, Blooming said, citing the sources. Facebook could open an office in China within a year, a person familiar with the matter said. (http://r.reuters.com/vag39v) Facebook could not be immediately reached for comment outside of U.S. business hours. The sales office would put, for the first time, Facebook employees inside mainland China, where its services are blocked. Facebook has a sales office in Hong Kong. (Reporting by Mridhula Raghavan in Bangalore; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Yesterday, the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 closed at new record closing highs. And now markets are on the rise again, although things are very quiet, with virtually no news happening. US futures are moderately higher. Japan had a big day, with the Nikkei surging nearly 2%. Germany's DAX index is up 0.6%. The UK's FTSE 100 index is up 0.3%. Today we get the latest on small business optimism and retail sales, the latter of which will be watched quite closely. FREE AppDownload
