Thomson ReutersHandout photo of Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther GeorgeMENLO PARK Calif. (Reuters) - A top Federal Reserve official on Thursday called for the U.S. central bank to raise interest rates soon after it winds down its bond-buying stimulus and to raise them more sharply than most of her fellow policymakers expect. The Fed is on target to phase out bond-buying completely by this coming fall. Fed Chair Janet Yellen has said short-term interest rates will stay at their current near-zero level for a "considerable" time afterward, and will then rise only gradually. Kansas City Fed President Esther George, among the most hawkish of Fed policymakers, staked out a dissenting view in remarks prepared for delivery to a group of prominent economists and fellow policymakers. "I would like to see short-term interest rates move higher in response to improving economic conditions shortly after completion of the 'taper,'" said George, who does not have a vote at the Fed's policymaking table this year but does participate in the discussions. Keeping rates low for as long as the Fed has, since December 2008, gives banks the incentive to take risks that could threaten financial stability, she said. Continuing to keep them low until even after the recovery is complete courts greater risk-taking than is necessary, she said. Fed officials on average forecast short-term rates to be at just 2.25 percent by the end of 2016, well below the 4 percent level that is the historical norm. "The degree of inertia suggested (by that forecast) goes beyond what is required to achieve a smooth exit" from the Fed's near-zero rate regime, she said. "In my view, it will likely be appropriate to raise the federal funds rate at a somewhat faster pace." When to raise rates is at the center of the current policy debate at the Fed, which next meets in mid-June. Fed officials have increasingly signaled they are sympathetic to the view that low rates may threaten financial stability by fostering bubbles. George said that while she believes supervisory and regulatory efforts to keep bank risk-taking in check are important, "I think monetary policymakers also need to maintain a careful eye on the financial system and how interest rate policy affects incentives for financial markets and institutions." Once the Fed starts raising rates, financial markets could become much more volatility, she predicted. But the Fed, she said, must stick to its guns. "In this environment, the pressure to quickly back away from a rising rate policy will be significant; such pressures will need to be resisted," she said. "If not, we risk moving into a confusing stop-and-go policy environment."   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
In this pricey market, it's getting increasingly difficult to find good deals. Contrary to the robust optimism priced into the market at large, one the world's most well-known tech brands -- Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL  ) -- is still trading at a very conservative valuation, giving investors an excellent point of entry. In fact, Apple shares may offer investors a better risk profile today than ever before. Will investors who buy Apple shares be rewarded later this year? I have no idea. Two years out, maybe? No clue. Attempting to speculate price swings is a fool's errand, one that real Fools are happy to avoid. But one thing investors can see in Apple today is that the company is still performing exceptionally well, even though its shares are trading at a valuation that assumes very little growth, if any, going forward. To highlight just how conservative the valuation is for Apple shares, consider that it currently trades with a price-to-earnings, or P/E, ratio of 15, compared to the S&amp;P 500's overall P/E of 18. Is the comparative conservative outlook for Apple's business merited? Probably not. The Motley FoolAAPL P/E Ratio (TTM) data by YCharts   Apple's risk profileRisk, in finance, is ultimately a measure of the chance that an investment position will lose value. Given that Apple is priced for nothing more than EPS growth in line with inflation, Apple only needs to grow its bottom line, over the long haul, at a rate that will meet or exceed this expectation in order for investors to earn meaningful returns. Can Apple achieve such growth? Two key parties seem to think so. Analysts expect Apple, with the help of its massive share repurchase program (backed by unprecedented cash flow), to grow EPS by 15% per annum during the next five years -- a rate that puts the historical rate of inflation to shame. Perhaps more importantly, Apple management seems more confident than ever in its product pipeline. Not only are investors in the fortunate position (thanks to comments from Apple CEO Tim Cook) of knowing Apple is going to introduce products in entirely new categories this year, but Apple's Internet Software and Services chief Eddy Cue said at this week's Code Conference that Apple has "the best product pipeline I've seen in my 25 years at Apple." Those 25 years include launches of the iMac, iPod, iPhone, and iPad, products that revolutionized the way we interact with technology. Then there's the company's robust and unparalleled ecosystem of integrated software, services, and hardware that keeps customers coming back for more. This ecosystem limits the risk of worst-case scenarios, e.g. if Apple's upcoming iPhone 6 is a flop. Is it reasonable to expect Apple can grow EPS at a rate that exceeds inflation during the next five to 10 years? Definitely. A conservative valuation combined with opportunity for meaningful EPS growth make Apple stock a steal, even after its recent run-up. Leaked: Apple's next smart device (warning, it may shock you)Apple recent recruited a secret-development "dream team" to guarantee their newest smart device was kept hidden from the public for as long as possible. But the secret is out, and some early viewers are even claiming its everyday impact could trump the iPod, iPhone, andthe iPad. In fact, ABI Research predicts 485 million of these type of devices will be sold per year. But one small company makes this gadget possible. And their stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors. To be one of them, and see Apple's newest smart gizmo, just click here!   Daniel Sparks owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Apple. The Motley Fool owns shares of Apple. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's RealtyThe owners of the most expensive estate on Nantucket are having a tough time selling. After several price-cuts, the property is now being offered for $35 million, down significantly from its initial asking price of $59 million, Curbed Cape Cod reports. The estate, called Swain's Neck, is now being sold as a 56-acre lot. It had included 70 acres when it first hit the market back in May 2012. Swain's Neck is being sold by the estate of the late Russell Dale Phelon, who made his fortune in the engine electronics business. It is listed with Great Point Properties. In addition to a 7,800-square-foot mansion, the estate has two moorings and two gated horse pastures. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Susan WalshFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 4 Mistakes Investors Should Avoid When Thinking Of International Investing (Charles Schwab) Michelle Gibley at Charles Schwab has identified four common international investing makers that people should avoid. 1. "Confusing a country's economy with its stock market. A growing economy doesn't guarantee a bull market in stocks, nor does a sputtering economy guarantee a bear market." 2. "Not researching what's actually in a country's index. You may not be getting as much diversification as you think when you invest in a country-specific index exchange traded fund (ETF) or mutual fund."3. "Ignoring currency differences: Currency exposure is part of the diversification benefit of investing internationally."4. "Substituting U.S. multinationals for international investments. …The stocks of U.S. multinational companies tend to move in tandem with other U.S. stocks, and U.S. multinationals typically still derive a large percentage of their profits from the United States. But this misses the point of investing internationally—to diversify into areas that aren't so highly correlated with the U.S. market." Investors Should Find Themselves Some Good Stock Pickers (PIMCO) PIMCO, the world's biggest bond fund, also has an equities fund business. Virginie Maisonneuve, deputy chief investment officer and global head of equities at PIMCO, argues that in the 'new neutral' — a low interest rate and low growth world — investors should look for good stock pickers.  "…Overall, however, the low rate environment will be supportive for stocks provided inflation remains subdued, as companies can take advantage of historically cheap financing," writes Maisonneuve. "While bank lending remains constrained, particularly in Europe, good companies – such as Apple recently – are good examples of how companies are using low rates to tap the market for liquidity. This access to financing is particularly helpful to companies in sectors or activities with attractive demand profiles relative to overall demand in an otherwise slow growth world. This outlook means that investors should look for alpha and stock- picking skills as opposed to equity beta in the years to come. Strong teams with strong processes and proven ability to exploit market inefficiencies are key..." BlackRock's Larry Fink Explains How To Be A Better Investor (BlackRock) There's a tendency among investors to get lost in the all the noise surrounding daily market movements. But doing so is going to distract people from their long-term goals, according to BlackRock's Larry Fink. This doesn't mean that investors should park their money in certain assets and forget about them, instead "Imagine your money is like an employee: you want it to work for you," Fink writes. "Are you going to stand over your money’s shoulder, micromanaging and questioning every single thing—and ruining its productivity? Or are you going to put it on a solid path and give it the room to succeed?" "...So when you think about what to do with your money, don’t think about what’s on the news. Don’t think about what’s important to talking heads or the Twitterati. Think about what’s important to you, and what your goals are. And remember just how long it takes to achieve each of them." Why Households Should Invest For College Instead Of Relying On A Loan (JP Morgan Funds) College costs have surged in recent decades. And tuition costs have increased faster (645% cumulative price change since 1983) than any other household expense, according to JP Morgan Funds' Michael Conrath and his team. And these costs are only expected to increase. Conrath and his team point out why households should look to investing rather than relying on a loan for college and they recommend starting early to get the benefit of compound interest. JP Morgan Funds The World's Largest Hedge Funds Control 90% Of Industry Assets (Reuters) The largest hedge fund managers in the world, each with over $1 billion in assets under management (AUM) control 90% of industry assets, according to a new report from Prequin reports Simon Jessop at Reuters. These 505 hedge fund managers manage $2.39 trillion in assets. "The increase in hedge fund assets is being driven by allocations from the largest investors in hedge funds, those which currently allocate more than $1 billion to the asset class," according to Amy Bensted, head of hedge funds products. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesGood morning, and welcome to Friday. Here’s what you need to know… Markets rise. Investors shrugged off a downward revision to US Q1 GDP that showed just how hard the harsh winter hit the American economy. In the end the S&amp;P 500 made an all-time closing high for the third time in four days, finishing at 1,920, up 0.5% for the session. The Dow was up 0.3% and the Nasdaq up 0.5%. Asia’s likely to follow the lead – ASX futures are pointing to a higher open with the futures contract up 10 points to 5,541 – and there’s little in the way of data. Aussie dollar rally. After a week of range trading the battler has been the big winner in currency markets over the past 24 hours after the stronger-than-expected rise in the 2014-15 capex estimate yesterday, and the upgrade to Q1 GDP expectations due next Wednesday. This morning the Aussie was at 0.9304, up 80 points from yesterday. Budget saw mill snag. Tony Abbott has met, or scheduled meetings, three out of the four crossbench Senators who take up their seats in July and hold the fate of the federal budget measures in their hands. But he hasn’t been able to get a meeting with Ricky Muir of the Motoring Enthusiast Party – because Muir can’t get time off his job at a saw mill. Don’t you love Australia? There’s likely some brinkmanship at play, with Muir part of Clive Palmer’s critical voting bloc in the Senate. Clive’s cars. Speaking of Palmer, the sight of the millionaire rocking up to Parliament in a Rolls-Royce Phantom V this week worked a treat for getting the attention he loves. Palmer collects classic and vintage cars and we’ve got photos of them here; we might be seeing him rock up to work in another one of these. Who to follow. Wondering who the best people are to follow in Australia for markets and economics news? Here’s a list of 30 of the best. The Rivkin legacy. The brokerage that carries the name of one of Australia’s most famous financial criminals, Rivkin, will never change its name. The company has reined in the excess since the years Rene Rivkin was running it but CEO Scott Schuberg tells BI he has always seen the brand “as a net benefit”. “I don’t want to be seen to be ducking and hiding,” he said. Modern map problems. There’s always a challenge laying out 3D shapes on a two-dimensional flat map. But there are significant distortions in how we see the world as a result. Nothing shows this better than how large Greenland looks in the Mercator map, one of the standard flat formats, in comparison to Africa’s land mass. This overlay showed up Reddit by user Asuros. The pink shape is Africa, while the purple represents Greenland. How to win an argument. This works in many scenarios but especially when it comes to a political barney: ask the person how they would do something rather than why. When people have to explain how their favoured policy would play out in the real world, the challenge of putting an idea into practice becomes apparent. Warne’s latest. After dating Liz Hurley, it looks like Shane Warne’s hooked up with the sexiest woman in the world. And that’s official – Aussie model and part-time DJ Emily Scott has owned that title from several lads’ mags in the past few years. The pair weren’t shy about cosying up at boxing champ Jeff Fenech’s 50th birthday on Wednesday night. Scott’s got stellar form herself, having previously been linked to Little Britain star David Walliams and the fat one from Take That. Touchdown. We’re all familiar with spaceships in sci-fi hitting their thrusters just before touching down. Yet somehow, our astronauts only ever land on wheels on with an undignified bomb in the middle of the ocean. Not any more – Elon Musk’s SpaceX says it has hit on a way to use thrusters safely, which may be able to land humans neatly and accurately on another planet. Here’s the video. Bonus item: The most-liked Instagram post of all time is now… instagram.com/kimkardashian Jackasses. Have a cracking weekend. Next week’s a big one. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
One of the most common questions job candidates have during their searches is “Why don’t employers or recruiters call me back?” Here are five reasons, and ways to improve your odds for getting a response:1. An unpolished resumé Your resumé is the first impression that hiring managers and recruiters have of you. In addition to showcasing your background, education and experience, your resumé can demonstrate your attention to detail, professionalism and even your intelligence.  But if you present one with spelling errors, typos or missing information — or even if the format is difficult to follow — this may prevent the employer from wanting to learn more about you.  What to do: Be sure to have someone proofread your resumé and look at it closely for format and content. A well-executed resumé, along with the right background and experience, should encourage a hiring manager or recruiter to pick up the phone and call you back.2. Gaps in your work history Unfortunately, an extended time of unemployment can be a non-starter, even if your background and skills are excellent. Hiring managers typically prefer hiring professionals who are employed. What to do: Sometimes being out of work is unavoidable, so what can you do to avoid gaps in your resumé?  Consider contract work. It’s an effective way to keep yourself in the game, get exposure to new and different professional experiences, retain your skills and make new contacts.3. Not showing the right skills on your resumé Many hiring managers are very specific with the skills, certifications and degrees they want from their new employees. If you may have the right ones, but your resume doesn’t show that clearly, your application could be dismissed.What to do: Ensure your talents are clearly noted. Include a technical summary in your resumé, and, if the posting called for something job-specific, repeat and highlight this information in your cover letter. Ask yourself questions like these: What software do I use?  How proficient am I in Excel?  What certificates do I have? Then, make your resumé stand out by saying so and by including any particular skills required for the role.4. Inconsistencies in your background Since employers may use a variety of career websites, such as LinkedIn, Monster and CareerBuilder, consistency about you online is critical. If your LinkedIn profile has employment information that differs from what’s on your resumé, it could create misgivings in the mind of hiring managers and recruiters, preventing you from getting called back.Many staffing agencies use software to track resumé information from the first time you register with them.  If you submitted a resumé in 2010 and again in 2014, but the information on them conflicts, your candidacy may be dismissed.What to do: Doublecheck to ensure your LinkedIn profile and resumé match up. If you spot a difference — because you inadvertently noted the wrong dates of job tenure at a former employer, for example — make the fix to keep things consistent and accurate.5. There is nothing to report This one is specifically for job-hunters working with recruiters.What to do: If a recruiter hasn't reached out after an initial conversation, you should follow up professionally.  At most, make a call every few weeks. Don’t inquire more often or you may be considered an overly aggressive candidate, which can be off-putting to recruiters. This, too, could get eliminated from contention.If you take all the steps above and are still not getting a response, it may be time to move onto a new opportunity or look for a new recruiter. This story was originally published by Next Avenue. FREE AppDownload
VolvoThe XC90 SUV has been Volvo's biggest seller for the better half of the last decade.  However, after remaining largely unchanged for 14 years, the Chinese-owned Swedish automaker has finally announced a new XC90 with a truly opulent interior, set to launch this year. The interior is part of Volvo's latest effort to transform its image from the maker of safe, bland, family cars to a full-fledged member of the luxury car fraternity.   And based on the overwhelmingly positive public reaction to the proposed interior, the company's efforts may finally be working.VolvoThe centerpiece of Volvo's new interior is a 9-inch touchscreen display, reminiscent of the screen in Tesla's Model S, that will run Apple's CarPlay user interface. The iPad-sized touchscreen dominates the XC90's clean and largely button-free center console; marking a stark departure from its predecessor's switchgear-laden dash.   While the overall design of the interior may draw much of the public's attention, it's the subtle upgrades in quality and materials that will catch the eye of more discerning customers. Volvo hopes the inclusion of fine Nappa leather, rich wood trim, diamond-cut switchgear, and a crystal shift-lever made by Swedish glass makers Orrefors will help it reclaim some the premium buyers it lost to German and British rivals. VolvoLike its predecessor, the new XC90 will accommodate the needs of family buyers with ample seating for seven, and the SUV's premium Bowers and Wilkins premium audio system will likely keep most riders entertained. The new XC90 will be the first model to ride on the company's new Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) which, according to Volvo, will improve the vehicle's drivability and crash worthiness. While engine options for the new generation has not be announced, it is likely to feature different and smaller powertrain options than the previous version's five, six, and eight-cylinder engines.VolvoAccording to the Telegraph, Volvo previously announced that models riding its SPA platforms will have gas or diesel engines with no more than four cylinders, though the addition of hybrid technology to boost power figures is a possibility.  Volvo has not yet revealed the new XC90's exterior design and pricing, but current generation 2014 models start at $39,700.  Volvo  FREE AppDownload
In a recent survey of affluent people in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, Mastercard found that people's definitions of success varied widely depending on where they were from. The survey looked at affluent people in the region, who are, on average, age 37, have one young child, and have investible assets of at least $200,000. The affluent population is growing quickly in the region, which is expected to be home to 70% of the world's affluent by 2017. Mastercard found that overall, in addition to finding satisfaction in buying and owning luxury goods, affluent people in the region view "wealth as the catalyst to experience the world." There are, however, some variations by country, as detailed in the map below:Mastercard  More and more, affluent individuals in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East are placing value in experiences over things. 30% of the survey's 1,000 respondents rated international travel as their most desired experience, followed by culinary experiences (23%) and golf (12%).   FREE AppDownload
Though New York City loses to Orlando as the best city for food trucks, it does offer an amazing selection of grub-on-the-go. With options like vegetarian, Mexican, Chinese, grilled cheese, and everything in between, the city’s roaming food trucks are as diverse as its population. Even so, many diners just stick to what they know. “According to a report from Emergent Research, 31% of a surveyed 2,250 respondents say they tend to purchase from a food truck because they happen to be passing by,” Ross Risneck, the founder of food truck website Roaming Hunger, told Business Insider. Considering that some of the city’s best food trucks may be outside of most people's lunch hour comfort zones, we were inspired to make a list of mobile trucks worth a trek. Culled from the amazing trucks we tried at The Village Voice’s 3rd Annual Choice Streets food truck event and the crowd favorites at Roaming Hunger, these are New York City's top food trucks to test out this summer. kotog/FlickrWhat It Is: Three food trucks (in NYC — there are others around the country) that serve the best ice cream sandwiches with adventurous cookie and ice cream flavors. What To Get: Ice cream and cookie selections may vary daily, but customer favorites include the s'more cookie and the salted caramel ice cream. You can also go "halfsies" by getting two different cookies or two different scoops of ice cream flavors. Where To Find It: Trucks frequent the Upper West Side, Midtown, and FiDi during the week. Find the current locations on the Coolhaus Twitter and check the website to see future locations. wonggawei/FlickrWhat It Is: This truck sells all-natural frozen slushies with three bases (ginger, citrus juice, or green and black tea) as well as fresh mixers including chopped mint, fruit purée, and more. What To Get: An Arnold Palmer that’s 1/2 tea, 1/2 citrus slush, and a white peach mix-in. Where To Find It: The truck can be found at Smorgasburg in Williamsburg and the Brooklyn Flea on the weekends. It also roams around Brooklyn during the rest of the week. For an exact location, follow Kelvin Natural Slush Co. on Twitter. jpellgen/FlickrWhat It Is: An army of food trucks that sell waffles with both savory (think pulled pork and chili con carne) and sweet toppings (syrup, chocolate fudge, and dulce de leche), plus ice cream, milkshakes, and coffee. What To Get: “De Throwdown Waffle” with speculoos sauce (it tastes a bit like gingerbread) and whipped cream. Where To Find It: The trucks roam all over Manhattan, including in Central Park, Murray Hill, Union Sq, and the Financial District. You can visit the trucks’ website and Twitter for more details. h-bomb/FlickrWhat It Is: A mix of Korean and Mexican fare, expect to see kimchi and chosun in burrito- and taco-form. This truck also prides itself on having eco-friendly and organic options for vegetarians. What To Get: The Chosun Bowl with bulgogi and bacon kimchi fried rice. Top it with the Korilla sauce (a tangy mayo). Where To Find It: All over Manhattan — follow the Korilla BBQ Twitter or visit the website to learn the truck’s exact location. Singing With Light/FlickrWhat It Is: An Australian/New Zealand-inspired pie truck serving savory meat pies, sweets, and flat whites (a type of coffee with steamed milk — similar to a cappuccino). What To Get: The mince and cheese pie, as well as a flat white coffee. Where To Find It: The truck can be found typically in Park Slope or DUMBO. Follow the DUB Pies Twitter for more details. gsz/FlickrWhat It Is: The mobile food truck of Luke’s Lobster locations, this truck serves up fresh shrimp, lobster, and crab rolls. What To Get: The classic lobster roll served on a buttered and toasted split-top bun. Where To Find It: This truck typically frequents NYC’s Midtown and Flatiron neighborhoods. Check the Luke’s Lobster Truck Twitter for more details, or visit the Nauti Mobile website. Moo Shu Grill/TwitterWhat It Is: This truck serves up moo shu rolls and rice bowls with meat options like five-spice pork, tofu, Peking duck, and pork belly, plus fresh or pickled vegetables for a burst of flavor. What To Get: Try the combo of three moo shu rolls with peking duck, five-spice pork, and pork belly for your meat options. Where To Find It: In DUMBO on Mondays and in Midtown the rest of the week. See exact locations on the Moo Shu Grill Twitter or website. wallyg/FlickrWhat It Is: Serves schnitzel (hand-pounded and lightly breaded cutlets of fried meat), including pork, chicken, fish, and other varieties. The truck also serves sides like potato salad, chickpea salad, and french fries. What To Get: The traditional pork schnitzel with the cucumber salad. Also sample the truck’s condiments, like pesto mayo and Sriracha mayo. Where To Find It: In Midtown or the Financial District. Visit the truck’s Twitter or website for more location details and schedule. kthread/FlickrWhat It Is: A dessert truck that serves freshly-baked cookies, brownies, and specialty sweets like “dessert nachos” and junior pies. Be sure to ask for samples. What To Get: Customer favorites include the rice krispy treat, chocolate brownie, and classic chocolate chip cookie. Where To Find It: The truck frequents Midtown and Park Slope. Check The Treats Truck Twitter for more details. FREE AppDownload
This post can also be read at OfNumbers » The Bitcoin network, and the networks of most of its descendants, are powered by a labor force, called miners. They are provided a wage, a seigniorage subsidy, called a block reward. They get paid roughly every 8-10 minutes for providing security and processing transactions. They do this through “proof-of-work hashing" that involves math work until a special number is found, broadcasting that solution to the network (the other laborers) and, once a block is found, repeating the cycle once again. Is there an economic flaw in this trade off?  For instance, on most cryptocurrency chains, the asset value of the chain has to be proportional to the proof-of-work, otherwise this could lead to an economic incentive to attack the chain.  Compounding this issue are new financial instruments, such as metacoins, colored coins and smart contracts, that can be exchanged on the same chains and unquestionably increase the enterprise value of the chain, yet which do not proportionally incentivize security beyond the existing seigniorage subsidy.  Economically rational laborers will not spend more than the value of a bitcoin to extract the rents of that bitcoin. Because mining rewards were fixed in Bitcoin's "genesis block" in 2009 (providing a fixed income on a scheduled time table), and market participants are able to determine the percentage of the overall hashrate at a given time that their mining equipment represents, only relatively simple calculations are required to gauge the potential profitability of their mining activities.  In practice, laborers on the Bitcoin network must account for the capital costs of their hashing equipment, rent for the land, administrative overhead, taxes and increasingly important, the energy costs which can be very specific to their locality, depending on the equipment’s geographic location.  All of these costs are tallied against an inelastic wage which can only be attained if the hashing equipment they control is able to outcompete other such miners – it is a zero-sum game.  And it can be scaled. The Hashrate Wars This subsequent escalation, dubbed a “hashrate war” (the competitive fight for ever increasing hashing equipment) created a technological S-curve that looks similar to the chart below:  HashingIt.com The vertical axis in the chart above is logarithmic and illustrates the hashing rate (showing that it will slow down once ASICs hit fabrication node limitations).  The horizontal axis projects two years into the future (see also Bespoke Silicon). Ignoring all of the various issues related to public goods challenges and game theory (such as “selfish mining”), this system has served the bootstrapping phase with relative ease.  If it continues to expand at its current rate, the hardware side could potentially become commoditized in the next 3-4 years whereupon a miner’s competitive advantage will solely lay in energy arbitrage.  In fact, Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous creator of the protocol foresaw this noting in the original FAQ that “When Bitcoins start having real exchange value, the competition for coin creation will drive the price of electricity needed for generating a coin close to the value of the coin.” Thus the relationship between enterprise value and hashing power has been known for some time. A challenge however, presents itself when this seigniorage subsidy is halved, a feature baked into most cryptocurrencies.  With Bitcoin, every 4 years (or every 210,000 blocks), the subsidy is reduced by 50%.  This is equivalent to the miners – the labor force – being told they would receive a 50% pay cut.  While this issue typically remains hidden and muted when token values appreciate and rise, in the long run continual halvings discentivize laborers from providing security and utility to the network.  There have been several “cryptocurrencies” whose labor force fled after their profitability period was over – most notably with Auroracoin – and as a consequence the network was left insecure and vulnerable to double-spending attacks (called a 51% attack). One such popular token that is currently facing this dilemma is Dogecoin, which is losing 20-30% of its security force every 2 months.  While there are potential solutions Dogecoin developers could adopt, incorporate or migrate to, because Dogecoin is still relatively young it has the flexibility of moving towards a different security mechanism.  This issue has the potential to become systemic – and thus more difficult to address – in other digital currency ecosystems. BitInfoCharts Are there any other areas of asymmetric, unbalanced security? Colored coins, metacoins, smart contracts and user-created assets are buzzwords trumpeted by many cryptocurrency enthusiasts this past year.  I even wrote a short book about these groundbreaking possibilities.  Considerable publicity has been dedicated to new functionality which promises to expand the extensibility of cryptoprotocols to go beyond tracking ledger entries for just one specific blockchain-managed asset (a coin) and allows users to instead “colored” tokens to represent cars, houses, commodities, stocks, bonds and other financial instruments and wares.  For example, there are several colored coin projects currently in beta that allow users to take a fraction of a bitcoin, such as 0.001 BTC and “color” it “blue” (or any other arbitrary color) which represents say, a specific make and model of an automobile like a 2010 Camry LE.  The user can then transfer that asset, the title of the Camry, along a cryptoledger (such as the Bitcoin network) to other individuals.  Instead of having to transfer tens, hundreds or thousands of bitcoins in exchange for a good or service, users can instead exchange and manage entire asset classes in a trustless, relatively decentralized framework. However, in this model the labor force providing security has no incentive to consume more capital or create additional hashrate just because the market value of colored coins is in excess of the uncolored value.The value of miners’ new coins will be solely based on uncolored exchange value. Just because social conventions on the edges of the network add value perceptions to the network, based on the current code, miners do not automatically receive any additional value for providing that security.  So we should ask: Does this raise the risk of a double-spend, the very thing Bitcoin was designed to prevent? Perhaps, because more hashrate is required for a proof-of-work blockchain with additional color value transactions on the chain.  Yet, there is no automatic mechanism to do reward this additional labor leading a (remote) possibility of having to remove the built-in scripting language used for creating and customizing transactions (called Script). The gap between mining value and enterprise value For instance, assuming this colored coin technology works and is adopted by 1,000 people the following scenario could take place.  The total market value of a block reward (currently 25 bitcoins) is roughly $12,500 (or $500 per bitcoin), thus ceteris paribus the labor force is only spending $12,500 every 10 minutes to secure the blockchain (in practice it is a lot more, there are several exceptions).  One such exception is the expectation of token value appreciation – that is to say that if Bob the miner believes that a bitcoin's value is $1000, but the price is currently $500, Bob is still willing to expend up to $1000 for mining each bitcoin, discounted by his internal calculation for the probability that bitcoin will rise to that price.  However, if colored coins are adopted and used via the built-in scripting methods, there is potential for a seemingly unlimited amount of assets to be traded on the Bitcoin network.  If these several thousand colored coin users add additional value, this creates an incentive for attackers to attack the network through colored coin-based double-spending attacks. For example, where each of these 10,000 users places the title of a 2010 Camry each valued at $10,000 that would theoretically add $100 million in value that the network is transferring, but for which miners are not being proportionally rewarded or paid to secure those assets.  As a consequence, over time as tens of thousands of assets – and functionality – are added to the network, the gap between mining reward value and enterprise value widens which creates a vulnerability, an economic incentive for criminals to use hashrate to attack the network.  A rogue attacker could sell an asset and build a competing tree (consensus in Bitcoin is based on whatever is the longest tree of blocks).  After a successful 51% attack, the rogue attacker could then broadcast a fake chain built without the corresponding asset, having switched it out thus effectively double-spending.  And if the total value that the network is transacting is at least twice as much as bitcoin value is, then there is a financial incentive for rogue participants to attack the network.  The impact of a successful attack involves a lot of speculation and will likely fill continue to provide researchers many more volumes of conjecture and modeling. Money for nothing This scenario raises the question: what then is the potential divergence in value between bitcoin the currency and bitcoin the network (which can transfer and protect other data)?  This issue only presents itself now as, previously, only bitcoins – and no other apps, assets or instruments – existed on the network.  This gives rise to a coordination problem because miners would have to also keep track of the color, keep track of the exchanges the color is being traded on, and keep track of the settlement price (if there is such a thing) so that they could adequately gauge market clearing prices and readjust the coinbase reward every 10 minutes.  Again, even if this coordination problem is solved the seigniorage reward does not increase – the current fixed income does not reflect the actual value being transacted on the network.  So colored coins on a fully decentralized network could end up on an undersecured network of their own making with the only solution: recode the block rewards based on the value of the color and this presents a number of technical and social engineering challenges.  In some ways this issue is related to the hypothetical economic disconnection between blacklisted and whitelisted tokens (due to Coin Validation) – a blacklisted token would be sold for less than what a whitelisted token would sell for.   A follow-up question that the community will likely debate is: Why wouldn’t the value of a bitcoin increase as items of value are transferred on the blockchain via colored coins or another protocol, such that the miner's block rewards would adequately compensate the miners?  According to Preston Byrne, a securitization attorney in London the answer to this is “that the value of bitcoin used in a colored coin transaction does not need to bear any relationship to the value of the associated asset – the network is being used to transmit information, and that information represents rights, and is the rights – not the token – which are valuable.”  If the price of bitcoin does not adequately incentivize the miners, then there will be a difference between value of a bitcoin and the network and then some entity will have to step in to compensate for that difference.  Whether collective action is sufficient to provide this compensation is currently unknown but there are coordination problems inherent in this model that would make this difficult. In contrast, the Ripple protocol, sidechains and perhaps even a proof-of-stake system could probably alleviate at least this specific concern.  These alternative consensus mechanisms have one advantage to hash-based proof of work systems like Bitcoin, at least for the transfer of non-crypto value (i.e., colored coins).  For instance, Ripple’s distributed consensus mechanism allows users to exchange assets via gateways without needing to proportionally incentivize the security labor force. This is not necessarily an endorsement of this particular platform, rather it serves as examples of how it is immune to that particular attack vector. Alternative approaches to network security I reached out to several experts for their views on this issue. According to Robert Sams, founder of Krtyptonomic and Cryptonomics: One of the arguments against the double-spend and 51% attacks is that it needs to incorporate the effect a successful attack would have on the exchange rate. As coloured coins represent claims to assets whose value will often have no connection to the exchange rate, it potentially strengthens the attack vector of focusing a double spend on some large-value colour. But then, I've always thought the whole double-spend thing could be reduced significantly if both legs of the exchange were represented on a single tx (buyer's bitcoin and seller's coloured coin). The other issue concerns what colour really represents. The idea is that colour acts like a bearer asset, whoever possesses it owns it, just like bitcoin. But this raises the whole blacklisted coin question that you refer to in the paper. Is the issuer of colour (say, a company floating its equity on the blockchain) going to pay dividends to the holder of a coloured coin widely believed to have been acquired through a double-spend?  With services like Coin Validation, you ruin fungibility of coins that way, so all coins need to be treated the same (easy to accomplish if, say, the zerocoin protocol were incorporated). But colour? The expectations are different here, I believe. On a practical level, I just don't see how pseudo-anonymous colour would ever represent anything more than fringe assets. A registry of real identities mapping to the public keys would need to be kept by someone. This is certainly the case if you ever wanted these assets to be recognised by current law. But in a purely binary world where this is not the case, I would expect that colour issuers would "de-colour" coins it believed were acquired through double-spend, or maybe single bitcoin-vs-colour tx would make that whole attack vector irrelevant anyway. In which case, we're back to the question of what happens when the colour value of the blockchain greatly exceeds that of the bitcoin monetary base? Who knows, really depends on the details of the colour infrastructure. Could someone sell short the crypto equity market and launch a 51% attack? I guess, but then the attacker is left with a bunch of bitcoin whose value is... The more interesting question for me is this: what happens to colour "ownership" when the network comes under 51% control? Without a registry mapping real identities to public keys, a psudo-anonymous network of coloured assets on a network controlled by one guy is just junk, no longer represents anything (unless the 51% hasher is benevolent of course). Nobody can make a claim on the colour issuer's assets. So perhaps this is the real attack vector: a bunch of issuers get together (say, they're issuers of coloured coin bonds) to launch a 51% attack to extinguish their debts. If the value of that colour is much greater than cost of hashing 51% of the network, that attack vector seems to work. In other words, while these new financial instruments could technically be exchanged in a trustless manner, the current protocol cannot automatically incentivize their protection or account for their enterprise value, the equivalent of using a mall security guard to protect Fort Knox.  While miners may be able to protect against amateurish shoplifters or even unorganized cat burglars, once organized criminals calculate and realize that one “color” asset is worth the economic effort of attacking the vault they may try to do so.   And because the blockchain is public and color assets could be known to the world-at-large, taking the Fort Knox analogy further, this would be like a mall cop standing in front of the contents of Fort Knox piled up on an open field (or behind a see-through glass vault).  It is an attempt to guard the Crown jewels not in a fortress with armed guards, tanks and turrets, but with Paul Blart. On this point, Jonathan Levin, co-founder of Coinometrics explained that: We don’t know how much proof of work is enough for the existing system and building financially valuable layers on top do not contribute any economic incentives to secure the network further. These incentives are fixed in terms of Bitcoin - which may lead to an interesting result where people who are dependent on coloured coin implementations hoard bitcoins to attempt to and increase the price of Bitcoin and thus provide incentives to miners.  It should also be noted that the engineers and those promoting extensibility such as colored coins do not see the technology as being limited in this way.  If all colored coins can represent is 'fringe assets' then the level of interest in them would be minimal.  Time will tell whether this is the case.  Yet if Bob could decolor assets, in this scenario, an issuer of a colored coin has (inadvertently) granted itself the ability to delegitimize the bearer assets as easily as it created them.  And arguably, decoloring does not offer Bob any added insurance that the coin has been fully redeemed, it is just an extra transaction at the end of the round trip to the issuer.  That is an implicit negative for investors and users.  This raises some concerns in the future, if a party had the ability to invalidate Bitcoin accounts based on their own criteria that the miners might gain an influence over the colored coins and may bias various aspects of the economy incentivized through some kind of backchannel payment.  For instance, BitUndo is a new “double spending as a service” project that is trying to do just that, provide a way for users to send transactions to a mining pool in an attempt to reverse transactions something that has created a flurry of reactions in the community.  In the end, colored coins ends up being expensive through imposed TX fees, and thus becomes less attractive to issuers and users.  According to Alex Mizrahi, lead developer of Chromawallet a colored coin project: It is true that currently block subsidy has a significant impact on network's security, but it is not meant to work this way in the long run.  We'll go through 5 subsidy halvings in next 20 years, at that point block subsidy will be around 0.78 BTC. Reward miners get from fees is already on that scale (e.g. 0.134 BTC here) even though blocks aren't full yet. So transaction fees are going to play bigger role than subsidy. And value of those fees is linked to usefulness of transactions (i.e. value of those transactions) rather than to exchange rate. Colored coins increase incentive to attack, but they also increase usefulness of transactions, thus it isn't clear whether they will have negative or positive impact on network security. A couple other comments: "Script" is not required for colored coins, they work with very plain bitcoin transactions too.  The incentive structure for bitcoin mining sucks from security perspective anyway, so I hope we'll eventually upgrade to a better protocol (e.g. including proof-of-stake) regardless of colored coin woes.  And merged-mined sidechains will have even worse problems unless they are 'hardened' in some way. I also contacted Jack Wang, co-founder of Bitfoo, a hosted wallet that was the first to implement proof-of-reserves.  In his view: The security of the network depends on the aggregate hashing power.  In one method of implementation, If Colored Coins could pay just one pool, say Eligius, extra to prioritize their transactions, but Eligius had only, say 25% of the network power, then the rest of the network could collectively decide to exclude the blocks that Eligius mined.  This makes some sense to me since Eligius itself couldn't secure the network, yet is the only pool extracting the extra value out of Colored Coins.  Colored Coins would need to distribute the extra rents to at least 50% of the network, and unless this lies within one pool then this is a danger to the Bitcoin network, but if it is 2 or more, this requires coordination and introduces potential holdout problems. A more natural way to implement this would be that colored coins users would pay higher transaction fees on their own so that any and all miners that included those transactions in their blocks would get more fees. But unless those fees are mandated by colored coins, what is the incentive for individual colored coins users to pay extra? Towards a more functional future While this is a speculative issue, what is knowable is that the economics behind it are math-based and built into these protocols.  What is also known is that some proposed solutions should be easier to implement than others.  For instance, Bitcoin developers could fork the code and create a proof-of-stake ledger proposed by Stephen Reed.  Alternatively, because this new extensibility could create fungibility issues, a different – and admittedly impractical – solution might be for mining pools to utilize a trusted Oracle data feed to colored coin exchanges and adjust mining rewards accordingly.  Perhaps removing scripts entirely and relying on merge-mined sidechains, instead, could alleviate this potential pain point as well.  What is definitely known is that market participants have every incentive to keep miners mining.  If fees are floated users will likely pay higher transaction fees if they do not want miners to go elsewhere.  While speculative, colored coins users could become the biggest payer of transaction fees, though in practice, most users do not like paying any fee.  Over the past several months this is an issue that Mastercoin and Counterparty developers have promoted: pay the miners higher fees for access to these new platforms because miners expect the value of these special transactions to go beyond the excess of bitcoin transactions.  Miners could potentially auction block priority to these transactions over regular bitcoin transactions.  One pool, Eligius, operated by Luke-Jr is already filtering out specific bitcoin transaction today.  In conclusion, the interaction between second-generation blockchain technology and first-generation incentive mechanisms will continue to be thought-provoking.  It is certainly an issue to keep one’s eye on in the coming years. Note: I would like to thank Preston Byrne and Taariq Lewis for their comments; and Joshua Zeidner for bringing this issue to my attention and for his extensive feedback. This article originally appeared at Of Numbers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Ultimate Factories/National Geographic Television And FilmInfoblox shares are tankingInfoblox announced that its president and CEO, Robert Thomas, is stepping down. Thomas, who joined the company as its CEO in 2004, will remain with Infoblox until a successor is named.  Management also gave a profit and revenue outlook for the upcoming quarter that came in well below expectations.  Infoblox is an IP address management company that provides network support to enterprise customers and service providers.  In after hours trade, shares of Infoblox are down 30%.  Excluding its after hours losses, Infoblox shares were down more than 35% year-to-date. The stock fell more than 25% in February after the company cut its outlook for the quarter it just completed.  FREE AppDownload
Microsoft and Salesforce announced today that they are teaming up to bring Salesforce's CRM apps and platform to Microsoft's cloud, called Azure.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed.  Microsoft announced a similar deal with Oracle last year and with SAP just a few weeks ago. According to a statement, the companies plan to deliver the following solutions: Salesforce1 for Windows and Windows Phone 8.1. Will enable customers to access Salesforce and run their business from their Windows devices. A preview is planned to be available in fall 2014 with general availability in 2015. Salesforce for Office 365. New interoperability between Salesforce and Office 365 will give customers access to the content they need to collaborate, sell, service and market from virtually anywhere.  "We are excited to partner with salesforce.com and help customers thrive in a mobile and cloud-first world," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said in a statement. "Working together we'll deliver new solutions that connect the customer insights of Salesforce to the cloud productivity of Office 365, the cloud platform of Azure and the mobility of Windows, so our customers can do more." Salesforce's stock was up around 5% in after-hours trading, after the deal was announced. Microsoft's stock barely moved. FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's CEOs and CFOs are out preparing investors for what's amounting to be a very ugly quarter for trading revenues. We've already heard from JPMorgan and Citigroup. On Wednesday, Goldman Sachs' Gary Cohn addressed the same problem at the Sanford C. Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference. "As we consider headwinds, volumes in a number of fixed income markets have been under significant pressure in 2014: FX volumes are down 45% versus 2013, mortgage-backed securities volumes are down over 20%, and corporate bond volumes are down almost 15%," he said. "Naturally, we’ve been hearing a number of questions about the driver of these declines, including: macro factors, like fiscal or monetary policy, regulation, or the low-growth global economy," he continued. "We believe all play a role, but in our day-to-day business, the most significant factors are economic in nature." Cohn also addressed the fact that market volatility has been extremely low. Here's Cohn: ""You can see the impact clearly in the data: the VIX is running almost 40% below its 10-year average; currency volatility is also roughly 40% below its 10-year average – in fact, the euro, in the last 2 months, has experienced its narrowest monthly trading range since its inception 15 years ago; interest rate volatility is running more than 35% below its 10-year average, with the US 10-year trading in a narrower band over the past 3 months than any time period over the past 35 years." In a nutshell, Cohn explained that low volatility "discourages hedging and delays opportunistic investing." And if clients aren't trading, then Wall Street brokers and dealers can't collect fees. Goldman SachsVolumes from Federal Reserve, NYSE/Nasdaq, Arca, CME, and Bloomberg. Federal Reserve average weekly volumes for 2Q14 as of May 7, 2014 vs. full 2Q13 average. All other volumes are average daily for 2Q14 as of May 16, 2014, vs. full 2Q13 average. FX and Interest Rates indicate contract volume FREE AppDownload
Commercial space travel is now a reality. That's only true if you're one of the lucky few that can afford it.  A seat on Richard Branson's commercial space travel venture Virgin Galactic will cost you $250,000. When will regular, working-class people without that kind of spare change lying around be able to afford to fly into space?Produced by Graham Flanagan.
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets were higher despite a disappointing revision to first quarter U.S. GDP that showed the economy shrank by 1% during the quarter. The S&amp;P 500 made an all-time closing high for the third time in four trading days, and also took out its prior intraday record high. First, the scoreboard: Top stories of the day: FREE AppDownload
Australian tourists are relatively rich, Chinese tourists are relatively young, and Japanese tourists really like packaged tours. These are just some of the trends we observed in the latest data on visitors to the United States from the Office of Travel and Tourism Industries. Overall, 66.7 million visitors from around the world spent $165.6 billion in the U.S. in 2012. We focused on the nine countries with the most visitors, not counting Mexico due to inconsistent data. Australians In 2012, 1.12 million Australians visited the U.S., spending a total of $5.4 billion. For 71% of visitors, the main purpose of their trip was vacation.  The average age of visitors was 42 for males and 41 for females. Australian visitors were the richest on this list, with a median household income of $104,707 — earning more than twice as much as the median Chinese visitor ($40,000). On average, visitors traveled in groups of 1.7 people and stayed in the U.S. for 20.3 nights. They also traveled more extensively in the U.S. than people from the other countries on this list, visiting an average of 2.1 states. Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesTwo Australian women consult a map during their visit to New York City.  Brazilians 1.79 million Brazilians visited the U.S. in 2012 and spent a total of $9.3 billion. For 69% of visitors, the main purpose of their trip was vacation. The average Brazilian male visitor was 40 years old, while the average female was 38. The median household income of Brazilian visitors was $66,510. On average, they traveled in groups of 1.8 people, stayed in the U.S. for 15 nights, and visited 1.4 states. Just 22% of Brazilian visitors in 2012 were traveling to the U.S. for the first time, the lowest percentage after Germany (20%) and the United Kingdom (14%). Brendan McDermid/ReutersThese Brazilian tourists are excited to meet a wax replica of President Obama at Madame Tussauds in New York. Canadians 22.7 million Canadians visits the U.S. in 2012 and spent $25.5 billion, representing the largest visitor group. 64% of visitors came for leisure-related purposes, followed by 15% who visited friends or relatives and 11% who came for business. Canadians traveled in groups of 2.1 people on average, the largest group size among the countries on this list. However, their average stay length was relatively short, at 8.3 nights. Various data was not available for Canadians, as well as Mexicans, due to the large number of visitors from those places who arrive by road. Data we have listed, however, includes both ground and air arrivals. Steve Marcus/ReutersCanadian tourists, from left, Meghan Schroeder, Jennifer Garcia, Macartney Greenfield, and Jeff Stewart party at Caesars Palace hotel-casino in Las Vegas. Chinese 1.47 million people from China visited the U.S. in 2012, spending $8.8 billion. Unlike visitors from other countries, most Chinese visitors came to the U.S. for a main purpose that wasn't vacation, such as business (19%), education (15%), conventions (14%), and seeing friends and relatives (20%).  Chinese visitors were typically younger than those from other countries, with an average age of 35 for males and 32 for females. Their median household income was the lowest on this list, at $40,000. On average, they traveled in groups of 1.8 people, visited 1.8 states, and stayed in the U.S. for 41.6 nights, much longer than tourists from other countries on this list. 46% of Chinese visitors in 2012 were traveling to the U.S. for the first time, the greatest percentage among countries on this list. Only 70% of Chinese visitors stayed overnight in a hotel or motel at some point during their trip, the lowest percentage among these countries. Conversely, visitors from China's neighbor Japan were the most likely to stay overnight in a hotel or motel at least once, with that being the case for 94% of visitors. China is also notable because 60% of adults who visited were male. That's the greatest disparity on this list, but only slightly higher than the percentage of adult male visitors from Germany and South Korea (both 59%).  AP ImagesChinese businessmen visit the old Goldman Sachs building in New York City's financial district. French 1.46 million people from France visited the U.S. in 2012, spending $5.3 billion. For 59%, the main purpose of their trip was vacation. The average age of male visitors was 40; for females it was 38. Their median household income was $65,787, significantly lower than visitors from the neighboring United Kingdom ($94,185). On average, French visitors traveled in groups of 1.6 people, stayed in the U.S. for 16 nights, and visited 1.6 states. Lucy Nicholson/ReutersFrench tourists feel the hot temperatures at Badwater Salt Flats in California's Death Valley National Park.Germans 1.88 million Germans visited the U.S in 2012, spending $6.9 billion. A relatively small majority (53%) visited for the main purpose of vacation, whereas 18% visited mainly to see friends and relatives, and 16% visited for business. The average German male visitor was 42 years old, while the average female was 38. Their median household income was $86,398. On average, they stayed in the U.S. for 18.3 nights and visited 1.7 states. They traveled in groups of only 1.5 people on average, the smallest group size among these countries.  AP ImagesGerman tourists and Facebook fans snap a photo outside of Facebook headquarters in Menlo Park, California. Japanese 3.7 million people from Japan visited the U.S. in 2012, spending $16.5 billion. 72% of them visited for the main purpose of vacation.  The average age of a Japanese male visitor was 44, while the average age for females was 36. Visitors earned a relatively high median household income of $95,475. On average, they traveled in relatively large groups of two people but visited only 1.1 states, making them the least extensively traveled visitors. Visitors from Japan stayed in the U.S. for an average of only 7.4 nights, the shortest length of stay among the countries on this list. An unusually high number of them purchased a prepaid package for certain items or services on their trip, which may include guided tours, transportation, accommodation, attractions, and more — 51% of Japanese visitors compared to 9% to 28% for other nationalities on this list. Adrees Latif/ReutersA female Japanese tourist stops in the middle of a Times Square snowstorm to take a selfie. South Koreans 1.25 million South Koreans visited the U.S. in 2012, spending $4.2 billion. For just 49%, the main purpose of their trip was vacation. A relatively large proportion visited for other main reasons, such as visiting friends/relatives (15%), business (12%), education (11%), and conventions (10%).  The average male visitor was 37, while the average female was 34 — the youngest visitors on this list with the exception of China. The median household income was relatively low at $53,177. On average, South Korean visitors traveled in groups of 1.7 people, stayed in the U.S. for 19.3 nights, and visited 1.4 states. 43% of South Koreans in 2012 were traveling to the U.S. for the first time, second only to China (46%). Larry Downing/ReutersSouth Korean tourists, from left, Heemok Ann, Eunyi Ji, and Mijung Jung visit Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. during the 2013 government shutdown. United Kingdom 3.76 million people from the United Kingdom visited the U.S. in 2012, spending $12.6 billion. 63% visited for the main purpose of vacation. The average age of a U.K. visitor was 44 years old, and they earned a relatively high median household income of $94,185. On average, they traveled in a group of 1.7 people, stayed in the U.S. for 14.2 nights, and visited 1.4 states. Visitors from the United Kingdom were the most likely to have made a previous trip to the U.S. Only 14% of visitors in 2012 were traveling to the U.S. for the first time. Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesTourists from London Neil Rowbottom and Karin Giannone enjoy the Florida sunshine during breakfast on Ocean Drive in Miami Beach. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierFrance's Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin (L), Finance Minister Thierry Breton (2nd L), Education Minister Gilles de Robien (2nd R) and Thomas Piketty, director of the Paris School of Economics (PSE), attend the inauguration of the school in Paris, February 22, 2007. We don't quite know enough about wealth inequality to say much definitive about it now.  But we do know a lot about income inequality.  And that is definitely getting worse.  French economist Thomas Piketty and the FT's Chris Giles, along with other commentators, appear to have come to that broad consensus regarding the state of inequality in the West. In an update to the appendix of his "Capital In The 21st Century" posted today, Piketty concedes Giles' point that the data on wealth shares is inadequate to draw very many conclusions.   "Our ability to measure the most recent trends in wealth inequality is limited," Piketty says, and continues, "There are many other important forces that could in principle drive wealth inequality in other directions." While his book covers much more ground than what's gone on in the 21st century, his argument that inequality in one form or another is worsening right now is the most relevant part of the book. So this apparent concession about wealth is important.  But his more important retort is this: While available data sources on wealth may be limited, those that cover income inequality are not. And the trend there is much clearer: It is getting worse.  Let's talk about the difference between wealth and income. Most commentators who've been involved in this discussion define wealth as the rate of return on assets, while income comprises returns on labor in addition to capital.  In his review of Piketty (published prior to Giles' work), former Bank of England chief Mervyn King says Piketty failed to account for families who have pensions, own houses, or enjoy access to government-run programs, like a sovereign wealth fund, that provide broader access to wealth than what Piketty seems to imply.  Average returns on labor, meanwhile, have now totally diverged.  "Technological change and global competition have raised the demand for special talent and lowered it for unskilled labour," King writes. "The rewards for success have risen and wages towards the bottom of the income distribution have been squeezed."  "Is this growing inequality of income showing up in a correspondingly more unequal distribution of wealth?" he asks. "It is far too soon to tell."  For Peter Lindert, the emeritus economist at UC Davis whose data was cited by both Piketty and Giles, too much emphasis has been placed on the state of wealth holdings at the expense clearly rising income inequality.  "The FT's flap over the wealth data is a mere side-show," Lindert told BI in an email. "Much more important than the details of the wealth data are the striking movements in the inequality of overall income, much of which were movements within labor incomes and the non-elite, not closely related to wealth inequality." That was also more or less the conclusion Larry Summers came to in his review of Piketty: the data on wealth are inadequate to draw very many sweeping conclusions.   "Piketty, being a meticulous scholar, recognizes that ... the gains in income of the top 1% substantially represent labor rather than capital income, so they are really a separate issue from processes of wealth accumulation." Giles never really disputes that income inequality is getting worse, and in a rebuttal published Wednesday to the econ-blogosphere's initial set of rebuttals to his original post directs readers to study what folks like Summers and King have said about income inequality.  "There is no doubt that the data the FT has questioned relate to just six charts in Prof Piketty’s book, not his theory, nor his numbers on income distribution," he wrote. "Many others have commented on those. Piketty's concessions about the unreliability of wealth data extend to one of the more contentious apparently glaring shortfalls Giles highlighted: whether British wealth inequality is getting worse. While Piketty argued it was, Giles went back and found such a conclusion was not supported by the data available. Here was the chart: Chris Giles/FT To this, Piketty now responds, "although I think my estimate is more reliable and rests on better methodological choices, I also believe that this large gap reflects major uncertainties and limitations in our collective ability to measure recent evolution of wealth inequality in developed countries, particularly in Britain. ... I believe this is a major challenge for our statistical and democratic institutions." For Summers, it's not clear why income inequality is clearly rising without an obvious increase in wealth inequality, though technology's role in eliminating forms of wage labor has likely played an outsized role. There are two bottom lines in all this. The first is that you'll have to really commit to vanishing into the weeds of the available datasets if you want to even begin discussing what's going on with wealth. But the main thing we've learned from "Piketty-gate" is that everyone actually agrees that there is income inequality. This should give everyone pause. FREE AppDownload
There are many narratives being constructed as journalist, analysts and investors seek to explain this unexpected phenomenon.   While there are many interesting hypotheses, there is a dearth of evidence.  For example, talk of central bank purchases or lengthening maturities is possible, but the data is simply not available to verify or falsify such claims.  The latest TIC data is more March, and foreign officials were net sellers of both bills and bonds.   Other hypothesis, like speculators, were caught wrong-footed, and the rally in the US Treasury market is a function of their short-covering, is simply contradicted by the facts.  Look at the recent Commitment of Traders report for speculative positioning in the futures market.  In the week that ended May 20, the gross short speculative position in the US 10-year Treasury futures contract rose by 26.1k contracts to 529.4k contracts (each one with a notional value of $100k).  As of late February, the gross short position stood at 346k contracts.  Their current holdings are the most since late 2004/early 2005.  Rather than reduce short positions, the bears have sold into the rally.  For their part, the bulls see more life in the rally.  They added 10.4k contracts to lift their gross long position to 436k contracts.  This is the most since last May.  Trend followers and momentum traders have been rewarded as yields have continued to fall.   There may be something with duration extensions.  Due to the US Treasury auctions and the quarterly refunding, uncommon for the new supply of long-dated note and bonds to prompt industry indices (benchmarks) to lengthen duration.  Money managers who track such indices also lengthen duration.   Reading the entrails of recent auctions, some see evidence for this.   There has been some talk of investors switching from European bonds to Treasuries recently.  It is difficult to verify it, but the decline of the euro is consistent with this.  Consider that the bigger rally in German bunds over Treasuries.  This had seen the US premium over Germany widen to 120 bp, which is the upper end that is has offered since 1990.  It has tested this level several times since mid-April and most recently on May 19.   Bring in an international dimension is important.  There is a strong possibility of that the ECB will take unorthodox action next week.  In anticipation of this, some investors bought European bonds, which, in turn, may make US Treasuries more attractive.  In addition, the Bank of England has tried to convince investors that its rates can also be kept lower for longer.  Many in the market expect the BOJ ultimately to have to provide more stimulus if it is going to achieve the 2% inflation target.   Another dimension is the regulatory environment.  Banks are being forced to raise capital ratios.  Many banks are increasing their sovereign bond holdings.  As the month of May draws to a close, the Federal Reserve is still buying more long terms securities than it was when QE3+ was first announced in September 2012.  This is taking place in the context of a sharp fall in the US budget deficit.    This speaks to the relative shortage of Treasuries, but also of other core bonds, like German bunds.  Given portfolio optimization strategies and the desire to have core European bonds in global portfolios, there are not a sufficient amount of German bunds.  This forces some large pools of capital, including central banks, to by French bonds as reasonable facsimiles (with the understanding that France, despite it economic and political challenges, remains at the core).    Back in the mid-noughts, Fed Chairman Greenspan identified a conundrum:  Why are US bond yields falling even though the Federal Reserve was raising short-term rates?  There  were various answers provided, but ultimately none proved very satisfying.  Bernanke, as a Fed governor, suggested, that it was due to surplus savings from Asia and the oil exporters, who did not have the capacity to absorb their own savings.  We now know that European investors were also large buyers of US long-term assets.   The doom-and-gloom camp warned that QE was going to spark an inflation crisis.  It has not.  Many of the same people argued that the Fed was the only buyer of Treasuries.  No one else would buy them.  This too has proved wide of the mark.    Evidence for most explanations seems to be sorely lacking, and there are likely to be more than one cause.  Many have cited activity by central banks and sovereign wealth funds, which seem all too often be the go-to-explanation.  We would place emphasis on private sector participants and technical and regulatory issues in the context of the Fed and BOJ's ongoing significant purchases and anticipation of ECB action.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderHedge fund legend Leon CoopermanPreqin's latest report on the hedge fund industry is out, and one of the main takeaways: most of the money parked in hedge funds is controlled by a small number of firms. Preqin reports that the "$1 billion club," or hedge fund managers that have more than $1 billion in assets under management, is made up of just 505 of the 4,621 active fund managers.  These are five traits the largest funds have, and if you have dream of joining $1 billion club, this is a good place to start. FREE AppDownload
Douglas Elliman Real EstateWall Street banker Brian Kelly and his wife Robin Foley just purchased 10-room Upper East Side duplex for $8.495 million, according to CityRealty's blog 6sqft. The two-story apartment, at pre-war 830 Park Ave., still has original touches from the early 20th century mixed with modern finishes. The four-bedroom condo contains a grand staircase and tall ceilings. Each floor even has its own air conditioning system. 830 Park Avenue was built in 1912 by Art Nouveau architects George and Edward Blum and is located near the Whitney Museum and Carlyle Hotel. The previous owner was Robert F. Mancuso, the founder and chief executive of the Dellacorte Group, a NYC merchant bank.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Rich PedroncelliActivity in the U.S. housing market has slowed to a level that even Fed chair Janet Yellen has said she's concerned about the recovery. This comes even as mortgage rates have been declining, and lending standards have been easing. A lot of attention has been paid to the demand-side of the story. Specifically, there's concern that Americans don't want to buy homes, perhaps because they're not optimistic about the economy, or they're worried about the security of the jobs. But an increasing number of  economists are saying housing supply is the real problem, not homebuyer demand. "This entire housing recovery since 2008 has not been driven by more demand but by less supply," wrote Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok in a note to clients. So, let's take a look at the supply-side bottleneck: The number of vacant homes has tumbled back to the long-term trend seen before the housing boom. During the boom, the number of vacant homes was up 20% above the historical trend, but the correction in vacancies has been very sharp, writes Slok. On the bright side, the homeowner vacancy rate has "stabilized recently at levels slightly above historical averages," writes Slok. Nevertheless, this is a clear sign that supply has tightened. New single-family homes for sale remain near record-low levels. Again, this is largely a supply problem. Slok notes that during the housing market bust, "homebuilding activity fell to historically depressed levels." The recovery saw the supply available new homes tighten. "And this tightening should continue as housing completions remain well below historical averages and household formations," wrote Slok. The recent harsh winter slowed homebuilding activity, which means any relief to tight housing inventory levels by way of new constructions has been pushed down the road. "The lack of inventory is a key issue in this recovery cycle," according to Mark Fleming at CoreLogic. He pointed out that this supply story is only exacerbated by what he calls "housing obsolescence." There are about 2.3 million existing homes for sale as of April. But there are "even fewer homes for sale that do not suffer from housing obsolescence — properties that are no longer desirable because their characteristics do not match what buyers are looking for in a home," Fleming wrote.  This includes homes that are in locations which are no longer popular or in neighborhoods that lack the amenities people want. CoreLogic So what does all of this mean? "Housing supply has tightened meaningfully and is near pre-crisis and even pre-boom levels on a number of indicators," writes Slok. Another way of putting this is to say that the the distorted supply-demand dynamics of the boom and bust have now corrected to a normal level. "The healing on the supply side appears to be largely finished, in our view, and any improvements in demand will likely have to be matched by stronger homebuilding activity going forward," continued Slok. As mentioned when we began, lending conditions are favorable to buyers. Experts also point out that housing affordability is at historically high levels impacting the homeownership rate. For now though, we'll have our eyes peeled for more news on the supply side, good or bad. FREE AppDownload
You build a business on Wall Street, you make it successful, and then you realize you don't like the feel of the firm— so you rebuild your team, right? No. You leave. It sounds bizarre but that's what Ernest Scalamandre did after founding Pinnacle Asset, an asset management firm. He explains why he left to start all over again in an interview with Wall Street career site OneWire for its Open Door video series. "I was not happy about the culture I started and not happy about the work environment," said Scalamandre, "which certainly wasn’t productive from my perspective." And so, he left. Scalamandre wrote another business plan, and AC Investment Management, a commodity-based fund of funds, was born. He explains, "[The company] only came to be after a couple times of doing it wrong. No one ever told me which way to go in life, but only after I found out specifically what my skill sets were and what my skill sets weren’t, did I try to design AC Investment Management." Watch the whole interview below and subscribe to OneWire’s YouTube channel to receive new episodes as soon as they’re posted.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip EastLaurence Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BlackRockCable TV. Social media. Even newspapers. With all the information swirling around us, it’s easy to get obsessed with watching the market’s gyrations. And it’s tempting to think you can outperform everyone else if you just listen closely enough. The truth is, most of what’s out there is just noise. Daily ups and downs are a fact of the markets. But you’re not investing for one day. Most people are investing to realize goals that are years, if not decades, down the road. And getting too wrapped up in how the markets will react to what’s going on in Ukraine at the moment, or the latest news out of Washington, is going to distract you from your life goals—like saving for your kids’ college fund or planning for retirement. Does this mean you should set up your portfolio one day and never look at it again? Of course not. It means that your focus when investing should be on what you’re trying to achieve. If you’re saving for a down payment on a home, you might have a timeframe of just a few years and need one strategy. Saving for your child’s college costs is another timeframe—10 to 20 years. And retirement takes a whole other level of thinking. Young people today are looking at a timeline of more than half a century. Imagine your money is like an employee: you want it to work for you. Are you going to stand over your money’s shoulder, micromanaging and questioning every single thing—and ruining its productivity? Or are you going to put it on a solid path and give it the room to succeed? But you shouldn’t have to do this alone. Those of us in asset management need to take this conversation beyond the ticker tape. Yes, investors want sophisticated analysis and carefully managed funds—but what’s most important to people is getting the products (and the advice) that will take them to the finish line. So when you think about what to do with your money, don’t think about what’s on the news. Don’t think about what’s important to talking heads or the Twitterati. Think about what’s important to you, and what your goals are. And remember just how long it takes to achieve each of them. The opinions expressed are current as of May 2014, and are subject to change. Reliance upon information in this article is at the sole discretion of the reader. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Melia RobinsonJillian D'Onfro and Melia RobinsonIt's graduation time, and everyone is sharing advice for graduates. So we decided to ask our co-workers at Business Insider, "What do you wish someone had told you at graduation?" From where you should try to get a job, to what you should drink, to how you should spend your money, our colleagues had a lot to say. But it's all valuable and comes right from the brains of people who have already experienced it. Enjoy, and good luck! FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBonds are surging again. The 10-year Treasury note yield is tumbling. Moments ago, it touched a low of 2.4006%. There's very little consensus as to what's causing Treasuries to surge. Brean Capital's Peter Tchir circulated a 6-page research note earlier today addressing the various theories. After dispelling two reasons, Tchir identified five reasons that he believed had some validity: To that last point, we just learned that Q1 GDP growth was -1.0%, which was much worse than the -0.5% expected by economists. For the most part, economists are emphasizing that this is a backward looking indicator. Nevertheless, some folks can't help but think that growth even today might be lower than estimated. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThe latest rumors are that Apple will embrace the big phone trend, following its current 4-inch iPhone 5S with a 4.7-inch iPhone 6 in the fall, and with a 5.5-inch iPhone possibly on the way, too. Apple's smaller iPhone size used to be the industry standard as everyone rushed to copy the breakthrough product, and founder Steve Jobs was very particular about size. As Samsung and others had success with larger phones, however, Apple was increasingly on the defensive. In January 2013, CEO Tim Cook defended Apple's smaller phone on an earnings call, saying, "The iPhone 5 screen offers a new four-inch retina display. It also provides a larger screen without sacrificing one-handed use. We put a lot of thought into screen sizes and we think we picked the right one." Privately, Apple had concluded that "consumers want what we don't have," noting on an internal presentation that smartphone growth is all coming from phones that cost less than $300 or are larger than four inches. Vocal spectators like Business Insider's Henry Blodget have been asking for a larger iPhone for years. Likewise, Wall Street is drooling about the revenue that could be unlocked by a radical product redesign like a bigger screen — enough with the tweaks and fine-tunings that have characterized recent upgrades. So should we be excited that Apple is coming out with a bigger phone? It's true, big screens have advantages. Most importantly, they are better for watching movies, playing games, and reading comic books or magazines. Potentially, they are better for some complex apps, and arguably, they are better for typing with two hands. The thing is that smaller screens have advantages, too. Most importantly, they can be used with one hand, which is how I frequently use my iPhone 5S. I can't imagine doing the same with a larger phone, and my fiancée, who like most women has smaller hands, feels that way even more strongly. Also, smaller screens fit less obtrusively in my pocket. Meanwhile, small screens are just as good for primary functions like for texting, emailing, and most web surfing, not to mention making phone calls and listening to music. In fact, those small screen advantages are two of my favorite features about the iPhone, while I don't care much for the advantages of a large screen. I use my iPhone on the go. I don't watch movies or play a lot of games on it. When I do want to watch movies or play games, I prefer to do it on my iPad or TV. Indeed, that paradigm seems to be what Jobs had in mind when he designed a smaller smart phone and a larger tablet and a device for TV integration. Now I don't want to hold back the future. At this point, Apple should and will go ahead and make a larger phone. Apple often discontinues older models when new ones arrive, so there is a risk that the iPhone 4S will become extinct. But Apple also sells a lot of those phones in places like India, where it functions as a sort of discount model. I just hope they also keep selling the 4-inch model as something more than a reject line meant for kids and emerging markets. That's right, I want an option for an 4-inch iPhone 6 — or at least a 4-inch iPhone 6S in the next update — with all of the features and improvements going into the other phone except for the size change. And I wouldn't be surprised if a lot of people want the same. FREE AppDownload
AmazonJPMorgan just released its 15th annual summer reading list.  Every year, the firm compiles book suggestions from their advisors all over the world. From more than 500 entries, the bank narrows it down to just ten titles they think are timely and innovative. We've included the ten books in the slides that follow.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA broker reacts at BGC Partners at Canary Wharf financial district in London, August 5, 2011. There hasn't been good news on Wall Street from anyone at any bank since 2013, when the S&amp;P soared and the promises of a choppy market in 2014 seemed too far away to be believed. But the promises were kept. Only recently has the market started eeking out those once familiar all-time highs again after a whipsaw winter, and it's too late. Jamie Dimon says JPMorgan is going to help save Detroit, but who's going to save banks from falling trading revenues? Everyone is expecting a decline from this time last year, and that could mean the L-word — layoffs. Add to that the fact that the Feds are charging banks criminally now — Credit Suisse admitted guilt and agreed to pay a $2.6 billion fine last week. Regulators haven't done anything like this in a decade for fear that it would mean the end of days. It doesn't. Now Wall Street's bracing itself for more. So, since the consensus is that The Street is in a funk, we decided to try to find the bank in the deepest funk.  It was impossible. "That's like asking 'what's the bagel-iest bagel?'," said one banker at a bulge bracket firm. "They're all bagels." We'd say which firm, but who cares — it's a bagel (and he requested anonymity). The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association reported that bond trading volume has fallen 13.2% from Q1 2013. Volume hasn't been this light since 2002. That is why Citigroup CFO John Gerspach said that revenue from trading fixed income, currencies, commodities, and stocks could fall between 20% and 25% at a conference this week.  The biggest investment bank in the world, JPMorgan, said the same thing in a memo earlier this month. More than any other bank since the crisis, JPM has lost its shine. Once the darling of the Obama administration in 2008, too many lawsuits and one whale of a $6 billion trading loss have made the bank just as dirty as everyone else on The Street. Morale is low. Now, this story isn't just about a stock market slump — the S&amp;P has slowly marched up only 4% year-to-date — it's about regulation and the almighty search for yield. Both are at play here to the detriment of Wall Street banks. Right now, investors are finding yield in securitized products, especially riskier junk bonds. These products are less liquid than stocks and other asset classes. They're not traded on an open market like the NYSE. Traders have to go looking for this stuff when they want it, and the stuff is harder to unload when traders don't want it anymore. That in and of itself has its problems. On the other hand, from an investor's perspective, this risky debt has returned 145% since 2008, is up 45% this year, and yields an average of about 6%. That means it's the place to be. The thing is, some banks simply can't do it. Post-crisis regulation requires banks to hold more cash and less risk, but that makes it harder to hold the assets necessary to trade securities like collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and mortgage-backed securities (MBS). And if you can't hold them, you can't really trade them. That's how the business works in this illiquid market, and that's why RBS, for example, is getting rid of most of its MBS desk. It's also why no one is safe.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonanthan ErnstCall for nominations! Business Insider recently published its inaugural list of The Most Powerful Person At Every Age. Taking into consideration a person's sphere of influence, future power, and estimated net worth, we determined the movers and shakers of the world, ages 0 to 100. Now we're zeroing in on Wall Street. We'll leave the toddlers and tweens off this list, but we will include smart, innovative folks who are having an impact in the finance industry from the young to the old. For our Most Powerful People In Finance At (Almost) Every Age list, we will evaluate candidates based on the following criteria. Anyone come to mind? Send an email including the nominee's name, contact information, age, a brief description of what makes them powerful, and any relevant links to our Lists &amp; Rankings team: Melia Robinson (mrobinson@businessinsider.com) and Melissa Stanger (mstanger@businessinsider.com). We'll be accepting nominations through Friday, May 30. Thanks! FREE AppDownload
I have to totally disagree with Dean Baker’s recent piece claiming the “sharing economy” is bad for the economy. Specifically, he argues that Airbnb and Uber are bad for the economy. He cites the fact that Airbnb and Uber are less regulated businesses that can not only evade regulatory requirements, but can also evade taxes.  That’s probably true to some degree, but it’s not a sign of some flaw in our economy. The growth of these businesses is just a sign of demand for better services because many of the businesses that currently provide those services aren’t providing what people expect. And so what we’ve seen is growth in competition because the competitors are simply providing a superior product that delivers the consumer a better overall experience. Take the case of Uber for instance.  Uber offers transportation on demand via Sedans (for a higher rate) as well as UberX which is privately owned vehicles operated by part-time drivers (read, anyone licensed as an Uber driver using their own vehicle). Here in San Diego where the city is sprawling and rides are often 10+ miles this service is simply awesome. First, it’s less expensive than the cabs who essentially have a monopoly and gouge customers on any long ride.  Second, the Ubers are cleaner and always nicer than the cabs, even if you use an UberX (the sedans are obviously much nicer though you pay a higher rate).  And the drivers undergo a strict background check and in my experience are safer and nicer than most cabbies. They also tell me, universally, that they’re paid better than they would be working for the cab companies. And most importantly, the Uber technology makes getting a ride easy as a few clicks on your smart phone. All in all, Uber beats the pants off the cab companies. Competition came in, wrecked the cabbie monopoly and improved the outcome in almost every single way. For consumers the growth of this business is a huge win in just about every way. If you ask me, that’s not a flaw in the capitalist system. It’s precisely what we should be embracing. If the government is too incompetent or slow to evolve and adapt with the pace of changing industries, proper categorization of businesses and technological growth then that’s a problem with our government, not with businesses. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work in the Goldman Sachs booth on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York.The recent lack of volatility in markets has many investors scratching their heads.  Both Citigroup and JPMorgan have warned that revenue in their trading segments will plunge in the second quarter. And now Goldman Sachs has chimed in on the lack of volatility and activity in the markets.  In a presentation Wednesday at the Sanford C. Bernstein Strategic Decisions conference, Goldman Sachs president and COO Gary Cohn explained low volatility "discourages hedging and delays opportunistic investing." He gave some context on how this lack of market action stacks up historically.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury Yields are in their tightest trading range since 1978. Goldman Sachs Meanwhile, the CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, is subdued. "The VIX is running almost 40% below its 10-year average," said Cohn. Goldman Sachs  And the EUR/USD currency pair is in its tightest two-month trading range since the inception of the euro 15 years ago.  Goldman Sachs In his comments, Cohn said (emphasis ours): "Broadly speaking, the current operating environment is mixed, marked by both headwinds and tailwinds affecting different parts of our business. A notable tailwind has been the strength we’ve seen in M&amp;A activity recently, with volumes in the second quarter on pace to more than double versus last year. This increase has been largely driven by strategic and cross-border activity. We’ve also seen continued strength in equity and debt issuance. Conversely, as we consider headwinds, volumes in a number of fixed income markets have been under significant pressure in 2014: FX volumes are down 45% versus 2013, mortgage-backed securities volumes are down over 20%, and corporate bond volumes are down almost 15%… As we have also witnessed in recent times, the consequence of global quantitative easing and low interest rates is low volatility… The point is, macro factors are driving reduced market volatility, which in turn weighs on volumes, bid-offer spreads, risk appetite and the ability of our clients to generate alpha. We understand that reality, and of course, we are not just waiting for things to get better. We are staying close to our clients, we are maintaining our risk-return discipline, and we are aggressively managing our capital and expenses." And here's a look at trading volume through May. Goldman SachsVolumes from Federal Reserve, NYSE/Nasdaq, Arca, CME, and Bloomberg. Federal Reserve average weekly volumes for 2Q14 as of May 7, 2014 vs. full 2Q13 average. All other volumes are average daily for 2Q14 as of May 16, 2014, vs. full 2Q13 average. FX and Interest Rates indicate contract volume Read Cohn's complete comments here and view his entire presentation here.  (via Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
jasonstrauss/InstragramMarquee club co-owner Jason Strauss posing with the new bottle-service drone in the background.High rollers in Las Vegas can now have their bottle service delivered via drone. The new service started over Memorial Day Weekend at Marquee Dayclub at The Cosmopolitan. In club co-owner Jason Strauss’ Instagram video of the event, party-goers parted as the drone flew a champagne bottle suspended in a bucket down towards the Dayclub’s pool. After a woman in a bikini grabbed the bottle, the drone flew away and everyone continued to rage.  “We are always trying to improve or [sic] delivery systems here at #TaoGroup,” Strauss said on his Instagram video. The service is available with a $20,000 minimum that guests must spend at the venue, and advance notice of at least a day. The steep price also includes a photo of the delivery and an aerial picture of the group, “perfect for social media posting,” according to a rep. It’s not the only champagne drone delivery service. Recently, ABC News reported that The Mansion at Casa Madrona’s in Sausalito, Calif. recently debuted a $10,000-per-night suite that includes a champagne drone delivery service that brings guests up to three bottles at a time.  We have a feeling we’ll be seeing this in the Hamptons shortly. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Paul SakumaPending home sales climbed 0.4% month-over-month in April. This missed expectations for a 1% rise.  On the year, pending home sales were down 9.4% worse than expectations for an 8.7% fall. March's number was revised down to show a 7.5% YoY fall, compared to an initial read of a 7.4% fall. "Higher inventory levels are giving buyers more choices, and a slight decline in mortgage interest rates this spring is raising prospective home buyers’ confidence," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release. "An uptrend in closed sales is expected, although some months will encounter a modest setback." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: "We won't be extrapolating an April increase into a forecast of further sustained gains in sales," Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in a note ahead of the data release. "Housing market activity will not return anytime soon to its autumn level, still less its spring 2013 peaks, because the main driver of the drop in sales has been the plunge in affordability, not the weather." Pending home climbed for the second consecutive month after eight straight months of declines. Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator for existing home sales. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
CNBCHedge fund hot-shot David Einhorn offered former television host Regis Philbin a summer internship at Greenlight Capital last night on CNBC's "Fast Money." Einhorn made a surprise phone call into the show to congratulate Philbin on his Micron Technology call, which is one of Einhorn's big positions. Philbin was a fan of Micron before Einhorn began to mass his position last July.  "Well, I have an idea for you— You did such a good job finding Micron and it  doubled and I thought I thought it was good. And then I thought maybe I could take your advice for the summer, and I was wondering where trying to get some young blood in at Greenlight, some young minds and I was wondering if you want to come intern for the summer." "Exactly what I've got—Some young blood," Philbin replied, adding, "I'd love to join you, David. I'm not kidding you." Philbin, who is retired and not working, said that he would be in touch. (We hope this actually happens!) Einhorn said that he's expecting at least two winning stock picks from Philbin that are going to double.  Einhorn publicly revealed his stake in November the semiconductor producer at the inaugural Robin Hood Investors Conference. Shares of Micron have surged more than 43% since Einhorn made his investment public. Philbin is out of the Micron trade, but Einhorn says he continues to think that it's "very cheap."   Watch below:   FREE AppDownload
Initial jobless claims fell to 300,000. Expectations were for a reading of 318,000, down from a revised 327,000 last week. Continuing claims fell to 2,631,000 from 2,648,000 prior. That's the lowest reading since 2007. "For those worried about a recession," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth says in a note, referring to the nasty Q1 GDP reading that also just came out, "it's worth remembering that employment increased by nearly 300,000 in April and jobless claims dropped to 300,000 last week. Those numbers point to a recovery gathering some real momentum at last. We still expect second-quarter GDP growth to come in close to 3.5%." Here's what it's looked like recently: Econoday FREE AppDownload
ukhomeoffice / FlickrNEW YORK (Reuters) - Three Connecticut doctors billed Medicare for nearly 24,000 drug tests in 2012 - on just 145 patients. Despite the extraordinary number, Medicare administrators paid the doctors a total of $1.4 million, according to a Reuters analysis of government payments to health providers. The three physicians stand out in the Medicare data released last month because they conducted three to four times more drug tests per patient than any other provider in the country. In fact, they ordered so many individual tests, their patients averaged one every other day. A surge in prescription drug abuse among older Americans has been accompanied by a big increase in urine and blood tests nationwide. Part of an effort to detect that abuse, the tests generate millions of dollars for providers. Medicare, the government insurance system for the disabled and people 65 years and older, is footing the bill. Medicare administrators declined to comment on the doctors' bills or to say whether they were investigating. But experts in laboratory billing said the high frequency of tests was extremely unusual and underscored the need for Medicare to improve oversight of potentially lucrative drug tests to guard against billing for unnecessary procedures. "Those numbers are ridiculously high," said Dr Stuart Gitlow, acting president of the American Society of Addiction Medicine. "There is no medical indication I can think of that would require such frequency of testing. I can't come up with a scenario at all." Two of the doctors work together in New London, Connecticut. The third doctor works in Ellington, about 60 miles away. Two of the three, contacted by Reuters, denied any wrongdoing, with one saying he was simply following Medicare's billing rules as he understood them. The third declined to comment. Each of the doctors requested only the most expensive and comprehensive drug test, for as much as $94, rather than the simpler $19 one. This was done to improve the accuracy of the results, one said. Medicare paid medical providers $457 million in 2012 for 16 million tests to detect everything from prescription narcotics to cocaine and heroin, according to the Reuters analysis. "In some parts of the country every doctor and his cousin is hanging out a shingle to do (addiction) treatment. There’s a tailor-made opportunity for ordering a profusion of tests instead of one," said Bill Mahon, former executive director of the National Health Care Anti-Fraud Association. "It's like turning on a spigot of money," he said. Urine and blood tests are potential areas of fraud and abuse because guidelines for drug testing are vague, leaving the frequency of testing to the discretion of the provider. Unlike private insurance companies, which sometimes dispute charges and pay providers only when they have vetted a claim, Medicare almost always pays first and asks questions later. There is often a legitimate need for such drug tests, to determine whether an addict has relapsed or to ensure that patients prescribed painkillers are taking them rather than selling them. In 2011, the average number of older Americans misusing or dependent on prescription pain relievers grew to about 336,000, up from 132,000 a decade earlier, according to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Urine drug testing first showed up on the radar screen of Medicare investigators in 2011. Since then the Office of the Inspector General of Health and Human Services, which oversees Medicare, has settled three cases in which it charged providers whose billings for drug tests were deemed excessive. When Medicare administrators released the payment data for 880,000 healthcare providers last month, officials said they hoped outside experts would comb through it for possible waste, fraud, and abuse. Addiction psychiatrist Erum Shahab of Ellington conducted 8,518 drug tests for 43 Medicare patients in 2012, the Reuters analysis found. That's an average of 198 per patient and the most of any Medicare provider in 2012. Shahab declined to comment on her billing. Medicare reimbursed her billing number $207,046 for these tests, which detect multiple classes of drugs. Ninety-five percent of her Medicare revenue came from the tests. New London-based Dr Bassam Awwa, who also specializes in treating addiction, conducted 13,260 drug tests for 90 patients in 2012, or 147 per patient. That's about three per week for every patient. Medicare paid his billing number $983,894. Dr Ammar Traboulsi, who shares an office with Awwa, was paid for 2,142 drug tests on 12 patients in 2012, or an average 178 tests per patient. Medicare paid his billing number $159,107. Among the thousands of providers who charged Medicare for drug tests, the next highest number of tests per patient in 2012 was 50. Excluding the three Connecticut doctors, the median number per patient nationwide was 1.3. "We would never do that many drug screenings here, even in our intensive outpatient treatment center," said Dr Elizabeth Howell, the director of the Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship Training Program at the University of Utah Neuropsychiatric Institute, when Reuters read her the numbers for the three Connecticut doctors. "There's a big question mark in my mind about what they're doing," she said. It is not possible to tell from the Medicare data how many providers are fraudulently or wastefully billing for drug tests. For instance, some physicians may be ordering tests on the vast majority of their patients, even those with no history of abuse. Recent court cases, however, hint at the extent of the problem. In February, SelfRefind, a chain of addiction treatment centers in Kentucky, agreed to pay $15.75 million to settle allegations that they billed Medicare and Medicaid for drug tests that were medically unnecessary and many times more expensive than other suitable alternative tests, the Department of Justice said in a statement. Doctors Awwa and Traboulsi run a program in which patients addicted to opioids are given Suboxone, a drug made by Britain's Reckitt Benckiser as a safer substitute, much as heroin addicts are weaned off that drug through methadone. Awwa said the payment numbers for his practice were correct, but misleading. He conducts drug tests only once a week for patients in the Suboxone program, not the three times per week the Medicare data suggest. But he billed Medicare separately for each drug he tested. Rather than charging Medicare once to test a patient for ecstasy, ketamine and bath salts, for instance, Awwa charged the program three times. "This is the way we were told to bill," he said. "We are not doing them artificially to generate revenue." Traboulsi, in a separate interview, offered similar explanations. Medicare billing rules effective Jan. 1, 2011, however, prohibit providers from charging for each drug tested. "If you did one drug, if you did 50 drugs, it should have been times one," said Melissa Scott, a laboratory billing consultant. Awwa said he believed the guideline was effective as of 2013 and since then has charged Medicare for only one test per patient visit. Medicare has not responded to Reuters' requests for Awwa's 2013 and 2011 billing data. Medicare uses an automated procedure to halt payments to providers who bill multiple times for the same drug test, according to Rob DeConti, assistant Inspector General of Legal affairs at the Office of the Inspector General. But providers can skirt the automated denials by changing the way they submit their bills. Awwa said Medicare audited him and found nothing wrong with his laboratory billing practices. Medicare said it does not confirm or deny whether it has investigated any provider. (Reporting By M.B. Pell and Sharon Begley, editing by Michele Gershberg and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Businessweek put total babe Thomas Piketty on its cover this week — at least, that's what you can glean from the cover's Cosmo Girl design. True, Piketty is the it-boy of economics right now thanks to his book on inequality, Capital in the 21st Century. So much so that Dr. Doom, Nouriel Roubini is fading from memory and even unquestionable capitalist Carl Icahn has nice words to say about the work — but maybe (just maybe) calling Piketty Carl Marx's new crush is too far. Or maybe not. It seems that the controversy surrounding his book after the FT criticized some of its findings hasn't calmed what Bloomberg Businessweek calls, "Pikettymania." Check out the cover below: Piketty is the face of this week's tabloid-style cover for starting a heated economic debate: http://t.co/uQWKixH6UT pic.twitter.com/xCsRRrXXVs FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderTyson Foods has made a $50 per share bid for Hillshire Brands, topping the $45 per share bid made earlier this week by Pilgrim's Pride. Tyson's bid is valued at about $6.8 billion. Pilgrim's earlier offer was worth about $6.4 billion. Tyson and Pilgrim's are the country's two largest chicken producers. Tyson accounts for 21% of production and Pilgrim's Pride accounts for 19% of production based on ready-to-cook pounds, according to a presentation from Tyson's website. Pilgrim's produces and processes chicken for fast food chains like KFC, Burger King, Popeyes, and Chick-Fil-A. Tyson sells its meat products  to the food service industry and directly to consumers under its Tyson brand.  In a press release, Tyson said its proposal, "constitutes a significantly superior alternative to Hillshire's previously announced agreement to acquire Pinnacle Foods." Pilgrim's Pride's offer for Hillshire was contingent upon Hillshire terminating its merger agreement with Pinnacle.  In pre-market trading, Hillshire shares are up nearly 15%, Tyson is up 3%, while shares of Pilgrim's Pride and Pinnacle Foods are both down more than 1%.  Tyson's full release:  SPRINGDALE, Ark., May 29, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE:TSN), ("Tyson") today announced that it proposes to acquire The Hillshire Brands Company ("Hillshire") (NYSE:HSH) for $50.00 per share in cash. The Tyson proposal would provide Hillshire shareholders with an immediate and significant return on their investment in Hillshire and constitutes a significantly superior alternative to Hillshire's previously announced agreement to acquire Pinnacle Foods Inc. ("Pinnacle"). Tyson's proposed price represents a 35% premium to the unaffected closing price per share of the Company's common stock on May 9, 2014, the day prior to the announcement of Hillshire's proposed agreement to acquire Pinnacle. At a total value of $6.8 billion, the Tyson proposal represents a multiple of 13.4x Hillshire's trailing LTM adjusted EBITDA. The combination of Tyson and Hillshire would reposition Tyson as a clear leader in the retail sale of prepared foods, with a complementary portfolio of well-recognized brands and private label products, including Tyson®, Wright Brand®, Jimmy Dean, Ball Park, State Fair and Hillshire Farm. In particular, we believe that the strength of Hillshire's products in the breakfast category would allow Tyson to capture opportunities from shifting consumer trends in this attractive and fast-growing daypart where Tyson has little presence today.The transaction provides Tyson with the chance to realize significant synergies through the combination of the two companies' talented Sales and Marketing teams, significant Distribution and Supply Chain resources and alignment of Shared Service functions.Tyson will realize substantial benefits from full integration of the protein value chain, as stable and consistent demand for protein products will enable Tyson to best utilize its industry-leading position and resources to maximize shareholder value.Tyson expects that the proposed transaction would be accretive to EPS in the first full year after completion."We believe that there is a strong strategic, financial and operational rationale for the combination of Tyson and Hillshire," said Donnie Smith, Tyson Foods President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our proposal provides Hillshire shareholders with an immediate cash premium for their shares that we believe is both greater and more certain than what can be attained in the near term by the Company either on a standalone basis or in combination with any other food processing company." Smith continued, "Tyson's shareholders will benefit from the considerable new opportunities that come with this extraordinary strategic fit. We stand ready to work together with Hillshire's leadership to quickly reach an acceptable definitive merger agreement, and look forward to being able to welcome Hillshire's communities, employees and business partners to the Tyson family." There is no financing condition to the proposal, as Tyson has secured a fully committed bridge facility from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which Tyson expects will be joined by JP Morgan Securities LLC in the very near future. This proposal has the unanimous support of the Tyson Board of Directors and is subject to the termination of Hillshire's merger agreement with Pinnacle. Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan are acting as financial advisors to Tyson and Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell LLP is acting as its legal counsel. Following is the text of the letter that was sent today to Sean M. Connolly, Hillshire's President and Chief Executive Officer: May 29, 2014 Mr. Sean ConnollyPresident and Chief Executive OfficerThe Hillshire Brands Company400 South Jefferson StreetChicago, IL 60607 Dear Mr. Connolly: On behalf of Tyson Foods, Inc. ("Tyson"), I am pleased to formally propose to acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of The Hillshire Brands Company ("Hillshire" or the "Company") for $50.00 per share in cash. This proposal has the unanimous support of the Tyson Board of Directors. This price represents a 35% premium to the unaffected closing price per share of the Company's common stock on May 9, 2014, the day prior to the announcement of Hillshire's proposed agreement to acquire Pinnacle Foods Inc. ("Pinnacle"). At a total value of $6.8 billion, our proposal represents a multiple of 13.4x Hillshire's trailing LTM adjusted EBITDA. We believe that your shareholders would welcome the opportunity to realize an immediate and significant premium for their shares, and accordingly hope to work with you to reach mutual agreement as to a proposed transaction on the basis outlined in this letter. We have followed Hillshire and its predecessor companies with great interest over the years and have been impressed by the progress your team has made in improving core business fundamentals, managing costs, and increasing operating margins. Moreover, we have great respect for Hillshire's commitment to innovation, and to the strong brand presence the Company has built across all the categories in which it operates. There is no financing condition to our proposal, as we have secured a fully committed bridge facility from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which we expect will be joined by JP Morgan Securities LLC in the very near future. We expect to maintain our investment grade credit rating following the proposed transaction, and are prepared to issue equity as a financing mechanism if it is determined to be prudent. We believe that there is a strong strategic, financial and operational rationale for the proposed transaction. Accordingly, our proposed price reflects the considerable value we see in such a combination, providing your shareholders with a higher return on their Hillshire investment than we believe can be attained in the near term by the Company either on a standalone basis or in combination with any other food processing company. With respect to your agreement to acquire Pinnacle, we believe that our proposed transaction constitutes or is reasonably expected to lead to a Superior Proposal (as defined in the Pinnacle merger agreement). Accordingly, we believe that your board of directors can and should, consistent with its fiduciary duties and its obligations under Section 5.4 of the Pinnacle merger agreement, make a determination to that effect and authorize the Company to provide us with a draft of an Acceptable Confidentiality Agreement (as defined in the Pinnacle merger agreement) as soon as possible. Both Tyson and its lead financial and legal advisors (Morgan Stanley and Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell LLP, respectively) stand ready to engage in discussions regarding the proposed transaction without delay. Our interest is in the Company on its own, and not as combined with Pinnacle. Accordingly, the termination of the Pinnacle merger agreement would be a condition to our proposed transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, nothing in this letter constitutes or will be deemed to constitute a binding obligation of Tyson to proceed with, or consummate, the proposed transaction. Any potential transaction between Tyson and the Company will be subject to approval by our board of directors of the final terms and conditions of the transaction and the execution and delivery by Tyson of acceptable definitive agreements for the transaction. We would have preferred to make this proposal to you privately, but in light of current circumstances we believe that it is in the best interests of your and our shareholders to have current and accurate information about our proposal and the reasons we believe that it is a compelling opportunity for both of our companies. For this reason, we are making this letter public simultaneously with my sending it to you. We are very excited about this opportunity and hope to work with you toward the completion of a successful transaction. Should you have any questions regarding our proposal or wish to discuss it in greater detail, please contact me or our lead financial advisor, Morgan Stanley. As we consider the proposed transaction to be a time-sensitive matter, we would appreciate your timely response. Very truly yours, Donnie SmithPresident and Chief Executive Officer Tyson Foods, Inc. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesIlya Repin's "Barge Haulers On The Volga," 1870-1873The FT's Isabel Gorst reports Belarus will no longer allow farm laborers to leave their jobs if they want to move to the city. This is also known as serfdom. "Yesterday, a decree was put on my table concerning – we are speaking bluntly – serfdom,” Belarus leader Alexander Lukashenko told a meeting on Tuesday to discuss improvements to livestock farming, gazeta.ru reported. Lukashenko is seeking to curb urban migration, and is notoriously obsessed with farming, Gorst says. He has said he hopes the decree would “teach the peasants to work more efficiently,” and that regional governors who failed to ensure timely and efficient harvests in their regions would be dismissed. Read the full story at FT.com » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoThe BEA's second estimate of Q1 GDP is out, and it was uglier than expected. GDP growth was revised down to -1.0% from a previous estimate of +0.1%. "Ouch," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. This was worse than the -0.5% estimated by economists. The revised estimate, as expected, was largely due to an adjustment in inventories, which hacked 1.98 percentage points from the headline number. Here's the BEA: "The decrease in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected negative contributions from private inventory investment, exports, nonresidential fixed investment, state and local government spending, and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by a positive contribution from personal consumption expenditures. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased." This chart from Bloomberg Chief Economist Michael McDonough shows how the major components of GDP contributed to that -1.0% number. The change in inventories is represented by the fuscia-colored line. @M_McDonough "The pace of inventory-building has fallen by more than half since its Q3 peak, and is now below the rate needed to keep inventory-to-sales ratios steady," said Shepherdson. "That means the risk of a further significant inventory hit to Q2 growth is quite small." Real final sales, or GDP less change in private inventories, increased 0.6%. This was down from 2.7% in Q4. Personal consumption growth was revised up to 3.1% from 3.0%. "Don’t talk down the economy with consumer spending numbers this strong regardless of the 1% drop in GDP. Ever," said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. Most economists are looking forward to Q2 data. After all, Q1 ended in March. "[T]he first-quarter contraction was quite obviously due to the unusually severe winter," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "[T]he incoming monthly data already point to a marked turnaround in the second quarter. For those worried about a recession, it's worth remembering that employment increased by nearly 300,000 in April and jobless claims dropped to 300,000 last week. Those numbers point to a recovery gathering some real momentum at last. We still expect second-quarter GDP growth to come in close to 3.5%." Here's a table breaking down growth GDP component: BEA This second table accounts for the weights of each of these components and shows how each contributed to the headline growth number: BEA ***************************EARLIER (8:00 a.m. ET):"A Q1 decline in real GDP does not jibe with some key metrics of the economy," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. "Case in point, nonfarm payrolls expanded by +190k per month in Q1. At the same time, the ISM manufacturing survey averaged just under 53, and both retail sales (+1.0%) and manufacturing industrial production (+2.1%) eked out annualized gains in the quarter. In other words, there appears to have been a Q1 disconnect between some key measures of output and real GDP growth." The personal consumption component of the report is expected to be revised up to 3.1% from an earlier estimate of 3.0%. "Most of the adjustment down is expected to be in inventories, because the Commerce Department assumed way too much inventory accumulation in March," explained Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "Although this was only the second negative print of the expansion, we do not believe it was a harbinger of a slowdown or problems in the economy. Instead, we think the weakness reflected weather distortions that hampered activity." Most economists are communicating D'Antonio's sentiment. And most reiterate that Q1 GDP is old news since that quarter ended in March and we have two months of encouraging Q2 data. "The economy likely will rebound sharply in the second quarter, and the data show that this in fact is already happening," said D'Antonio. "So we are viewing the second pass at GDP as old news, even if the economy shrank in the quarter." "The broader rationale for stronger growth in 2014-2015 also remains intact," said Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. "The fiscal policy drag of 2013 has ended. The household sector debt/income ratio seems to have bottomed. And while we recently shaved our homebuilding numbers a bit, our forecast remains one of recovery." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/miggslivesSatellite TV group DISH will now allow customers to pay their bills in Bitcoin. DISH has a market cap of $27 billion, making it the largest firm to start accepting the cryptocurrency.  “We always want to deliver choice and convenience for our customers and that includes the method they use to pay their bills,” Bernie Han, DISH executive vice president and chief operating officer, said in a statement. “Bitcoin is becoming a preferred way for some people to transact and we want to accommodate those individuals.” Bitcoin prices have climbed about 9% in the past seven days and now stand at $563. Coinbase will serve as DISH's payment processor. “This is a large step forward in the growing momentum of customers paying companies in bitcoin for things we do every day, like watching premium TV,” Coinbase founder Fred Ehrsam said. FREE AppDownload
Hiring managers only spend 6 second on your resume before they decide on you — this is what they look at. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Wikimedia Commons"Nemesis"Inflation—one of bond investors’ chief enemies—may be making a resurgence. The rate of inflation remains low, but market awareness about a possible bottom is increasing. This week the Federal Reserve’s (Fed) preferred measure of inflation—core personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—is expected to increase to 1.4% for April 2014 after a 1.2% annualized rate in March. Inflation is an important risk to monitor in bond investing. Since most bond interest payments are fixed over the life of the bond, rising inflation can erode the value of those payments and lead to lower bond prices. The PCE will likely follow the recent increase in the widely followed core Consumer Price Index (CPI), which rose to a greater-than-expected 1.8% in April 2014 after an above-forecast increase in March. Core CPI has accelerated in recent months with the three-month change equating to a 2.3% annualized rate of inflation [Figure 1]. Prices at the producer level, often watched for signs of “pipeline” inflation pressures, have increased as well. Core finished goods prices as measured by the Producer Price Index (PPI) bottomed in late 2013 and have moved steadily higher since. LPL FinancialCore CPI has accelerated in recent months with the three-month change equating to a 2.3% annualized rate of inflation. Several factors point to prices firming up further (for more insights see the Weekly Market Commentary: The Big Bang Theory: Inflating the Stock Market, 4/21/14): Measures of inflation expectations in the bond market have also increased. The breakeven inflation rates implied by Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) are near one-year highs [Figure 2]. In April 2014, the five-year TIPS auction witnessed very strong demand, and demand was again robust at last week’s 10-year TIPS auction. Higher implied inflation rates indicate investors are requiring greater inflation protection. Since the beginning of May 2014, the yield differential between intermediate- and long- term Treasuries has increased, leading to a steeper yield curve, which often reflects greater, longer-term inflation risks. LPL Financial Still Modest To be sure, the increases in inflation expectations and in the broad price indexes, such as the CPI, are still modest by historical comparison. The 10- year TIPS yield suggests that CPI inflation will average 2.25% over a 10-year horizon—a low level. The three factors mentioned earlier that may continue to lift inflation will take time to influence prices. Economic growth and job gains will likely need to increase further and remain at higher levels to generate sustained price pressures. Wage pressures, a bigger driver of inflation, remain muted and limit the potential pace of price gains, but signs of wage pressures may be emerging. The most recent Employment Cost Index (ECI) released for the quarter ending March 31, 2014, diverges from the recent trend of small business that intend to increase worker compensation [Figure 3]. The next release of the ECI, in late July 2014, may reflect the stronger compensation plans. We expect this to translate to a gradual increase in the rate of inflation. LPL Financial Still, any increase in inflation is noteworthy due to the diminished protection offered by high-quality bonds. Subtracting the annualized rate of inflation from the 10-year Treasury yield reveals how high-quality bonds remain expensive. The greater the inflation-adjusted, or real, yield the more attractive bond valuations are and vice versa. The real yield has turned substantially lower in 2014, despite indications of an improvement in economic growth prospects in recent weeks [Figure 4]. Real yields still indicate an expensive bond market and one that is not properly compensating investors for inflation risks even if modest. LPL Financial We believe inflation is likely to increase only slowly, but current bond yields offer limited protection against rising inflation. Low real yields present an unattractive investment proposition for bond investors, and renewed weakness in the economy is needed to justify current real yields. Inflation is likely to creep toward the Fed’s 2% target over 2014 and into 2015, meaning the Fed is likely on track to raise rates in late 2015/early 2016. The Fed is projecting a median 1.0% and 2.25% fed funds target rate by year-end 2015 and 2016, respectively, but fed fund futures indicate a 0.6% and 1.6% rate for the same time periods—a significant disparity. Fading rate hike expectations indicate pricing could be as good as it gets for high-quality bonds. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueUnderclassmen listen from the back of the stadium as U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at a commencement ceremony at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, May 28, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Apple Buys Beats To Save Music. Apple's $3 billion purchase of Beats is official. What really drove the deal was not simply flagging iTunes sales, but flagging music sales across the board, BI's Nicholas Carlson says. Apple's Eddy Cue "said Apple bought Beats because 'music is dying. It hasn't been growing.' He said combining the two companies will help it grow again.Cue said that the number of new releases on iTunes this past year are the smallest the company has ever seen, and that the growth in the number of songs sold through iTunes has 'leveled off.' Rising Births, Record-Low Fertility. The number of U.S. births climbed a fraction — to 3,957,577, up 4,736 from 2010 — for the first YOY increase since 2007, the CDC said. But the fertility rate of 62.9 births per 1,000 women was a new all-time low. Microsoft-Salesforce.com Deal. Bloomberg said the two firms are close to an agreement that would allow Microsoft's cloud computing service to use Salesforce's customer management program. Costco Sales Climb. Costco sales grew 6% in Q1 despite the harsh winter, although earnings missed expectations due to costs.  Global Stocks Hit All-Time High. The MSCI All-Country World index hit an all-time high Wednesday on talk the ECB would lower rates. It has gained 1.6% percent since May 8, when the ECB met last. Australia Capex Outlook Looks Good. The Australian strengthened against the dollar, and Aussie stocks were higher, after  a new report shows planned spending for 2014/15 in non-mining investment would accelerate, and mining investment fell off less than expected, the FT said. "[Reserve Bank of Australia] officials consistently have communicated that this rotation in investment in the wake of the peak in the mining capex boom was on track," JP Morgan commented. "Now, they have decent evidence to support their contention, which had for a while sounded more hopeful than emphatic." States' Zero Emission Vehicles Plan. Eight states including California and New York will announce today plans to spur  sales of 3.3 million "zero emission vehicles" by 2025 through a combination of consumer incentives and regulatory action, the Wall Street Journal said. This is despite the fact that, as Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas observed yesterday, sales in electric vehicles have been massively disappointing.  GDP And Jobless Claims. At 8:30 a.m. we get both jobless, which analysts expect to come in at 317,000 vs 326,000 prior; and the final reading for Q1 GDP, which is expected to have dipped into negative territory at -0.5%. Pending Home Sales. At 10 a.m. we get pending home sales data. Consensus is for a 1% gain, down a bit from the 3.4% rate last month. Markets. U.S. futures are higher. Stocks in Asia and Europe were mostly lower. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVVirginie MaisonneuvePIMCO is famous for its massive bond fund business, which was built from the ground up largely by Bill Gross. However, the money management firm also operates an equities fund business led by Virginie Maisonneuve. Today, Maisonneuve offers her assessment of the stock market in the context of the "New Neutral," PIMCO's house view that we're living in a low-interest rate, low-growth global economy. From the report (emphasis ours): ...Overall, however, the low rate environment will be supportive for stocks provided inflation remains subdued, as companies can take advantage of historically cheap financing. While bank lending remains constrained, particularly in Europe, good companies – such as Apple recently – are good examples of how companies are using low rates to tap the market for liquidity. This access to financing is particularly helpful to companies in sectors or activities with attractive demand profiles relative to overall demand in an otherwise slow growth world. This outlook means that investors should look for alpha and stock- picking skills as opposed to equity beta in the years to come. Strong teams with strong processes and proven ability to exploit market inefficiencies are key... In other words, Maisonneuve thinks investors should try to beat the benchmarks by picking stocks rather than buying indexes. Also, current valuations are fair. Globally, they are not cheap, but neither are they expensive. And, in a world headed toward low real policy rates, equity risk premiums are exhibiting unusual characteristics relative to historical levels. I believe that in a relatively stable environment, equity markets exhibit attractive expected-returns-to- valuations ratios, especially when considered versus other sources of investment returns, such as cash. In emerging markets (EM), valuations are in fact inexpensive, but there are other issues in EM, including the difficulties in Russia and the steep slowdown in growth in China. Those pressures are mostly priced in, however, and underweight investors should consider adding to their positions. While emerging markets have been hurt by the prospects of tapering and policy normalization in the U.S., the “New Neutral” outlook may help reverse some of those fears. The extent to which EM countries can use interest rates to manage their economies and limit upward pressure on their currencies will likely be the key differentiator in secular EM performance. Volatility is another important consideration, and here, one must understand the relationship between a stable economic environment (low growth, low inflation, low rates) and equity markets volatility. While volatility as measured by the VIX index has come down sharply recently, we should expect bouts of volatility surges that coincide with unexpected pressures, political or otherwise, that might appear in a world with a delicate economic and geopolitical balance. In other words, be prepared for a bumpy ride. With all this in mind, Maisonneuve offers some vague investment themes: ...investors need to focus on the growth areas – regions, sectors and companies – that will benefit from solid fundamentals. Investors also should focus on super-secular trends that will be drivers of growth or change over the long-term horizon. Shifting demographics, climate change and a growing middle class in emerging economies will have profound effects on supply and demand dynamics, for example. Certain industrials in the U.S. and globally stand poised to benefit from shifting global dynamics, particularly with regard to new energy, capital expenditure, productivity enhancements, energy efficiency and electricity generation, all of which show positive long-term trends. We are also bullish on consumption. Given changing demographics and an emerging EM middle class, we expect to see gradual increases in demand. Product innovation and brand recognition are essential there. Generally speaking, she seems to favor growth stocks over value stocks. She also says she likes "companies that offer dividends likely to grow over time" and "strategies that can target alpha in emerging markets or globally by selecting good companies with solid growth potential and attractive competitive advantages should do well." Read the whole report at PIMCO.com. FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Fabienne FaurBilaal Ahmed, 34, founder and CEO of the networking platform Linktank, uses a standing desk for work in Washingon, DC, on May 7, 2014Three centuries after Thomas Jefferson found standing up a superior way to work, a growing number of Americans are mulling the dangers of sitting down on the job -- and opting to get on their feet. Backaches. Muscular degeneration. Heart disease. Diabetes. Colon cancer. Even premature death is on the list of the potential consequences of a sedentary working life, according to a raft of studies on the topic. "We're sitting ourselves to an early death," said Rob Danoff, a family physician in Pennsylvania and member of the American Osteopathic Association with a special interest in preventative medicine. "We are a 'potato' society," he told AFP in a telephone interview. "We sit most of the day, so we are work potatoes -- and then we go home and we are couch potatoes. That combination can be deadly." Adult Americans spend on average 7.7 hours a day engaged in "sedentary behavior," the National Institutes of Health has reported. And the American Osteopathic Association estimates that 70 percent of office workers spend more than five hours a day seated at their desks. The longer people are sitting, the more difficult it is for their blood to circulate, explained Danoff, who cautioned that going to the gym after work affords no compensation. According to a study in the Archives of Internal Medicine, the risk of premature death grows 15 percent for those who sit eight hours a day, and 40 percent for those who sit 11 hours a day, compared with those who sit just four hours. Last year, the American Medical Association formally recognized the "potential risks of prolonged sitting" as it urged employers and employees alike to seek out alternatives to sitting, such as standing working stations -- some even equipped with a treadmill -- or isometric balls instead of desk chairs. The message is starting to get around, with more Americans choosing standing desks -- like Jefferson, one of the US founding fathers and third president, prolific architect and well-known tinkerer, who favored standing when doing his tasks. "Standing desks have been popular probably for 20 years in Europe, but not in the United States," said Jeffrey Meltzer, president of Applied Ergonomics, an Illinois firm that specializes in workspaces. "In the States, they were seen as silly," said Meltzer, adding that he noticed a significant shift in 2013 when sales of standing desks leaped 50 percent. In trend-setting California, with its youthful and cutting-edge technology sector, standing desks have become increasingly commonplace. In Washington, Kathleen Hale, the 34-year-old co-founder of Rebel Desk, has found a market among lawyers, university professors and health professionals for standing desks with slow-paced treadmills attached. "People have been working for healthier working environments since it's the place where many of us are spending more time than we do with our families," Hale said. Bilaal Ahmed, 34, founder of the startup Linktank, has embraced the concept of an adjustable office, even if he is in excellent health. "It's more proactive," he said. "It's a desire to be healthy, to stay active even when I'm working. This is one of the best ways to do that." He added: "It's not only to be standing, but also to have the computer at a certain level, so your arms are perpendicular to the body." If he gets tired, Ahmed simply flops down into a nearby chair. Overall, he said he feels more alert, more aware and more productive. Hale recommends mixing up positions throughout the day. "Sometimes you stand. Sometimes you walk. And when you need to, you sit, to take a break," she said. "That's how we encourage people to think about sitting -- it's a time to take a break." Danoff said staying in motion is key. "We weren't made to sit all day," he said. "We were not made to stand all day. We were made to move. It's all about balance." He said it is "unrealistic" to install standing desks in most places, as doing so could result in going from one extreme to another. Just getting up for a moment every half-hour, going for a walk in the hallway, taking the stairs instead of the elevator and seeing a colleague instead of sending an email are all useful options. "There are a lot of things that people can do which they don't do," he said. "You don't need all this fancy equipment. There are common things to do." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
The imposition of martial law came as no surprise to us, especially given Thailand’s past record of the army’s intervention. We believe martial law could prove a temporary solution as it empowers the military to take control of the country’s security and safety and proactively prevent violence and clashes between the two opposing sides. In our view,  the Thai people will need to come together and decide on a coherent and compromised solution. We believe a resolution will eventually be reached given the resilient nature of the country. The military coup in Thailand seemed designed to move the country out of what had developed into a political deadlock. The Thai Army now has the power to appoint a government that will likely help reform the country similar to what happened during 2006.  Of course we need to monitor the situation, particularly in the case of the “red shirts,” whose leader has now been deposed. Thailand is in the throes of dramatic change and the recent announcement of a military coup is another indication of these changes. As we see it, the positive news is that with the introduction of military rule, the civil environment should be stabilized with no significant disruption of normal business operations. That said, it will take some time to reintroduce civil rule and this will likely require a revision of the country’s constitution acceptable to all parties, and another cycle of elections. Our investments in Thailand, as all of our investments, are made based on a long-term view. We believe the positive drivers of long-term growth for Thailand remain in place, including a very competitive business sector and Japanese investment, as well as the potential for growth from the increasing integration of Thailand’s regions and the neighboring markets of Myanmar (also known as Burma), Cambodia and Laos into the global economic system. The prognosis for Thailand is positive, in our view, given that direct foreign investors want stability in the country. The reality of the situation as we see it is that an elective government seems difficult to achieve today. We will have to continue to wait and see which government is installed next. During this period, we expect some ongoing short-term market volatility but we would not expect much disruption in existing company operations. From a long-range view, we think many companies will be able to survive and prosper in Thailand. We do believe cooler heads should prevail over time, and the more positive economic trends Thailand has seen before the coup could return, including rising per-capita incomes. Thailand has a large middle class and a growing consumer population, which we believe bodes well for the economy going forward. As investors, we have been focusing on consumer goods and services, including banks and property companies, as people move to the cities and require housing. We believe there will be continuing uncertainty in Thailand that could keep many investors at bay until there is more clarity and stability in the political environment. Tourism could likewise be affected if tensions continue to escalate. Nevertheless, we don’t believe existing company operations are likely to be greatly interrupted, and we would view declines in certain Thai stocks as an opportunity to look for selective bargains there. Many Thai corporations have historically managed to weather various bouts of political upheaval and even thrive in spite of them, proving the strength and resilience of the Thai people.  Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeA country music fan cools off in the wind on the second day of the Stagecoach country music festival in Indio, California April 26, 2014. Here's a quick preview of this morning's big economic reports via the Monday Scouting Report: FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
24/Fox screencap via Amazon PrimeThe final stretch is finally here. If you're anything like me, you might be a bit jittery, and entering a stage where you're saying "I don't care either way, I just want it to be over. Would be nice to pass, but I am really getting tired of looking at the happy people on the CFA book covers". This is normal, and a good place to be. It usually indicates that you've reached your 'saturation point', the point where you have done all you can. The only bit left is to tune your mind and body to the optimal configuration for exam day. Make sure you take the time to consider the following tips in this last week. #1. Take the week off work. Hopefully your company would have been nice enough to give you some days off - now would be the best time to use them. Even if your company hasn't been as generous, you should consider taking personal leave. Juggling the upcoming exam with work distractions just isn't doable for most situations, and you want to do this right or risk having to do it all over again next year. #2. Bash out some practice exams, but pay less and less attention to actual scores. You should plan to attempt at least 2 sets of practice exams in the 7 days preceding exam day. However, this is not the time to be marking yourself mercilessly and obsessing about your 'score' - you want to increase your confidence this week, not beat yourself up. You should be doing these questions for practice, like warm-up runs before a big race. If you've done all your practice exams, re-doing early ones work well too - it's still practice, you would have forgotten the specifics of most of them but they would be easier for you this time around, boosting confidence. Pepper your practice sessions with quick flicks to your study notes to clarify concepts where you're not clear. If you need some last-minute extra practice exams, you can check out our guide here. #3. Mindless memorization has its time and place. Here and now. The CFA Institute is going to bring out the pitchforks when I say this, but there will always be certain parts where you still don't seem to quite get, despite all your efforts. Gather these parts of the material and assess how can you reasonably tackle questions on these parts by mindless memorization. I find understanding derivations of formulae to be the best way to remember calculation methods but the last week is always where I would cut the crap and just memorize. #4. Resist the temptation to study longer and longer hours. Keeping awake with caffeine will come to haunt you on exam day. One of the most common regrets for candidates is artificially staying awake through the night with gallons of coffee, as the subsequent crash in the morning affected exam day too much for it to be worth it. #5. Start waking up on time. If you've been doing late hours and waking up late in the morning, this week is the time to reverse that pattern. If exam day is the first day you've woken up early in a long time, you're not going to be as sharp as you should be. Do trust me on this one - this makes a load of difference. #6. Take a day off to relax. This does not mean hardcore partying (although it did work out for one of our guest writers, read it Part 1 and Part 2 here), but instead take the time to de-stress as much as you can. If you can't bring yourself to take a whole day off, take half a day off - preferably the second part of the day, that way you won't be worrying about the topics you will be covering after you're done relaxing. #7. Stop worrying. No, your brain is not going to leak information. No, you're not going to forget everything by exam day. Worrying will translate to sleeping badly and all kinds of other anxiety-related issues, and frankly, you've done so much already (yes, you have), so now is the time to start relaxing and acing the exam. Now go out there and slay the beast! What are your last-week tips?I'd be very interested to hear what last-minute preparations worked well for you in the past. Share them with me in the comments below! This article originally appeared at 300 Hours.  Copyright 2014. Follow 300 Hours on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Chevrolet logo is pictured on the front of a Chevrolet Camaro for sale at a car dealership in Los Angeles, California(Reuters) - A suspended General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt; engineer who worked on the defective ignition switch at the heart of a massive recall told congressional investigators that he had forgotten ordering a change to the switch, when he testified in a deposition last year, the New York Times reported. GM engineer Ray DeGiorgio did not say anything to the congressional investigators to suggest that Chief Executive Mary Barra knew about the defective switch before she took the top job at the company this year, the Times said, quoting people familiar with the session. DeGiorgio, who was suspended by GM on April 10, designed the switch for the 2003 Saturn Ion and other models, including the Chevrolet Cobalt, which have been recalled. GM has linked 13 deaths to accidents related to the switch.  The defective switch was redesigned in 2006 without a change to the part number, which later confused investigators looking into crashes of the now-recalled cars. Congressional investigators produced an internal GM document showing DeGiorgio had signed off on the change in April 2006. In a deposition last year for a lawsuit related to a fatal 2010 crash in Georgia, DeGiorgio denied that he knew of the change. The New York Times reported that he told congressional investigators recently that at the time of the deposition, he had forgotten about the change, because it was part of a package of changes. General Motors was not available for comment outside regular business hours and did not respond to a request to make DeGiorgio available.   (Reporting by Aurindom Mukherjee and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby Yip Television journalists report inside a brokerage firm during morning trading in Hong Kong LONDON (Reuters) - Global shares flirted with an all-time peak on Thursday while the euro touched its weakest in more than two months on bets the European Central Bank would unveil new stimulus measures next week. ECB policymakers have opened the door to a rate cut, effectively charging banks to hold cash at the central bank overnight, and to a refinancing operation aimed at supporting businesses when its board meets on June 5. Expectations of monetary easing have caused the euro EUR= to fall 2.3 percent against the dollar since the last ECB policy meeting on May 8, leaving it trading at its lowest level since mid-February at around $1.3584. The MSCI All-Country World index .MIWD00000PUS has gained 1.6 percent over the same period, pushing it to an all-time high on Wednesday. The index was flat at 0751 GMT. "At least a rate cut is in the price (of the euro and stocks)," said Joost van Leenders, investment specialist for allocation and strategy at BNP-Paribas Investment Partners. "I think markets expect a bit more, something directed at bank lending, such as purchases of asset-backed securities, and I don't think that is fully discounted." Of 48 economists polled by Reuters this week 31 said the expected combination of a cut in the ECB's deposit rate below zero and new long-term cash for banks to lend on to small and medium-sized firms would help boost lending in the euro zone. European shares held firm near multi-year highs, with the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index .FTEU3 hovering close to a near six-year peak reached earlier this week. "The trend is up, the trend's your friend, but I wouldn't buy up at these levels," said Darren Courtney-Cook, head of trading at Central Markets Investment Management. Japan's Nikkei share average .N225 rose marginally, extending its gains into a sixth day as strong Asian equities supported sentiment, but trading was choppy as some investors started to book profits. .T On the bond market, expectations of imminent ECB easing dented demand for low-yielding assets, keeping German yields at the lowest levels in a year and on course to record a fifth consecutive month of declines. GVD/EUR Gold extended losses to a third straight session, hitting fresh 16-week lows on a stronger dollar and weak physical demand in top buyer China. GOL/ Brent futures edged up slightly, holding near $110 a barrel amid hopes of improved demand from top oil consumer the United States as a sharp drop in the country's gasoline stocks added to recent data pointing to a stronger economy. O/R Elsewhere, London copper CMCU3 hovered near three-month high on dwindling global supply but iron ore fell to its lowest level since September 2012 on a deepening glut.   (Additional reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
