T. Rowe PriceT. Rowe Price released its 2015 global market outlook. The outlook is fairly neutral: nothing terrible is expected, but T. Rowe Price advises "investors to moderate their expectations for investment returns in the years ahead, despite the markets’ impressive resilience during the past 12 months." The report also says to expect divergence in various markets globally. "Coming out of the global financial crisis, economic healing has taken place at different paces in various markets around the world," said Bill Stromberg, head of equity of T. Rowe Price. "Stock prices in the U.S. have soared while they have lagged in Europe, Japan, and some emerging markets. We expect more volatility in 2015 and investors will need to be selective. Fundamental equity research and individual stock selection will be more important than ever." Stromberg delivered his outlook with this 19-slide presentation. Thanks to T. Rowe Price for letting us feature this presentation. FREE AppDownload
The Apple Watch will blow past Wall Street's expectations, says a Morgan Stanley investor note published on Wednesday. The firm raised its price target on Apple stock from $115 to $126 on their revised estimates.  Morgan Stanley said most analysts are expecting Apple to sell between 10 million and 30 million watches in 2015, but they think 30 million units is a reasonable — and "arguably still conservative" — estimate. The analysts got this figure by looking at the total number of people who will own an iPhone 5 or later by the time the Watch launches next March, which is estimated to be 315 million, then estimating that 10% of those people will buy a Watch.  By way of comparison, 14% of people who owned a compatible iPhone bought an iPad within its first year, and 7% of recent iPod owners bought the iPhone in its first year.  These analysts are also pretty excited about wearables as a whole, looking at health sensors and mobile payments as the key ingredients that could drive sales to the billion unit mark.  "We forecast the wearable market to hit 530M units in 2020 in our base case and 1B units in 2020 in our bull case," said Morgan Stanley's Katy Huberty. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON/CHICAGO (Reuters) - U.S. farmers are about to reap a bumper harvest not just in corn and soybeans but also in new subsidies that could soar to $10 billion, blowing a hole in the government's promise that its new five-year farm bill would save taxpayers money. If payments for 2014, the first year the farm bill takes effect, do come in at that level - as some private economists have calculated - they would be more than 10 times the U.S. Department of Agriculture's working estimate and more than double the forecast by the Congressional Budget Office. Farmers will be in line for payouts if revenues fail to meet benchmarks tied to long-term price and production averages. Both the USDA's and the CBO's estimates were made before crop prices tumbled this year on oversupply from a huge harvest. The farm budget blowout for 2014 is unlikely to cause a furor in Washington, despite the clamor for cost-cutting among Republicans who now control Congress. The trillion-dollar farm bill took so long to enact because of controversy over some of its other major planks, including food stamps for low-income families, that lawmakers are loathe to re-open it. From Monday, farmers were able to start signing up for the compensation programs. Most participants will be the families who own and operate about 98 percent of all U.S. farms, large and small. "The (farm) bill actually did little to rein in costs," said Republican Representative Tom Petri of Wisconsin, in an emailed statement. "What we're seeing is a program that still costs far more than it should and fails to include reforms that actually save taxpayer dollars." The farm bill's new programs were meant to cost the taxpayer less by replacing a nearly two-decade-old scheme of direct cash payments to farmers, which were about $5 billion a year and were made regardless of need. But the payouts for 2014 now look likely to far exceed that amount. Because of ample supplies, corn prices have fallen well below the long-term average price used as a benchmark for one of the new programs. Ironically, this year's bumper harvest may not be large enough to compensate for those price falls and revenues for some farmers could be low enough to trigger payments. "Crop insurance has drifted away from that basic safety net concept and the farm bill has taken it even farther away," said analyst Craig Cox of The Environmental Working Group, a non-profit, non-partisan body that researches environmental health, food and agriculture.   "IT'S GOING TO BE EXPENSIVE" In August, the USDA forecast subsidies for the 2014 crop under the farm bill's Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) programs would be $762 million, using $4.20 per bushel for corn as an average market price for 2014. It put average annual payments over the lifetime of the bill at $5.7 billion. The CBO, forecasting in January before the farm bill became law, put the 2014 payment for both ARC and PLC at $3.8 billion and the average annual figure at about $2.3 billion. As forecasts are based on several variables, including price and the amount of crop produced, estimates can change. The long-term average used as the benchmark also alters in coming years as it always reflects prices in the previous five years. Corn futures on the Chicago market hit a five-year low of $3.18-1/4 per bushel in October and are now around $3.70 per bushel. The USDA estimated in its monthly report on Nov. 10 that the price would be between $3.20 and $3.80 per bushel for the crop year that runs from Sept. 1, 2014. Chris Hurt, professor of agricultural economics at Purdue University and a regular speaker at farm investment conferences, estimates that support payments to the average Indiana farm using the farm bill's formula and an average 2014 corn price of $3.40 bushel would be around $70 an acre under the ARC program. "It's going to be expensive," he said, adding that Indiana would be fairly typical across the country where about 85 million acres could be sown to corn. "That's $6 billion for corn for 2014 alone. Maybe $8 billion to $10 billion is likely in the first year when you consider other crops," he said. Patrick Westhoff, director of the Food and Agriculture Policy Institute, said he calculated payments could reach $8 billion for the 2014 crop for ARC and PLC. Congress set up the institute to prepare forecasts for the agriculture sector. The USDA said it was too early to know what the actual cost of the farm bill payments would be this year. USDA Chief Economist Joe Glauber conceded that ARC payments could be high this year and next. But, "if prices remain low, those ARC guarantees will be potentially getting much, much smaller over time," he told Reuters. Farmers have until March to sign up for the new programs and must choose only one. Payouts for the 2014 crop will come next October and the average price for the year will be set then. The program likely to be most popular is ARC, which calculates compensation based on a 5-year average of national prices and county yields, less the high and the low. The PLC program uses a reference price, currently at $3.70 per bushel for corn.   (Editing by Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
The Japanese yen just blasted through 118 against the US dollar. Earlier on Wednesday, the yen briefly traded north of 118, but in evening trade, it definitively made its move lower against the dollar. This is a seven-year low for the currency, which continues to tumble and has lost more than 30% of its value against the dollar since the start of 2012. Here's the chart of Wednesday's move. FinViz And the longer-term chart showing the yen's multi-year tumble.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJack Ma, Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group, speaks at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna BeachBy Danielle Robinson and John Balassi NEW YORK (IFR) - Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba will sell its first-ever bond on Thursday, a jumbo trade expected to be around $8 billion in size that comes just two months after the company's record IPO. It is looking to sell up to seven tranches, including five fixed-rate bonds ranging from three to 20-year maturities and two floating-rate notes with three and five-year maturities, which bankers and investors expect to be the most sought after of the year. "Alibaba will have no problem attracting the attention of every investor base around the world," said one bond syndicate manager. "They've done a good job of coming out with enough spread over what would be fair value to make sure they get the size done." Alibaba, highly rated for a Chinese corporate at A1/A+/A+, has been sounding out investors this week in Asia, Europe and the US and is believed to have a huge order book already in place before officially starting the marketing phase in Asia overnight. Two market sources said initial indications of interest were at US$10bn. Alibaba's high Single A ratings will help as the company pitches itself as a comparable to blue-chip names like Oracle, Amazon and Cisco, rather than its lower-rated Chinese internet peers Tencent Holdings and Baidu. Active bookrunners Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and JP Morgan are gauging investor interest at initial price thoughts of 80bp over Treasuries for the three-year fixed, 110bp over for the five-year, 135bp over for the seven-year, 150bp over for the 10-year and 175bp over for the 20-year. Oracle's 2.25% October 2019 bonds are trading at a G-spread of around 66bp, some 44bp inside the IPTs on Alibaba's five-year tranche. That gap will likely shrink as orders pour in during Asian hours, before Europe weighs in ahead of eventual pricing on Thursday afternoon in the US. Some investors are leaning towards Amazon as the best comparable. Although eBay is closer to Alibaba in terms of business type, eBay’s spreads have widened about 30bp since it announced its spin off of PayPal in September. Amazon's 2.5% November 2022 bonds were trading at a G-spread of 123bp on Wednesday, versus 135bp initial price thoughts on Alibaba’s seven-year tranche. Amazon also has an outstanding 1.2% November 2017 issue trading at around 57bp, compared with an 80bp whispered level on Alibaba’s three-year. Proceeds will repay an existing $8 billion syndicated term loan facility and for general corporate purpose. Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs are passive bookrunners.  (Reporting by John Balassi and Danielle Robinson; Writing by Natalie Harrison; Editing by Marc Carnegie) FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Ex-Schwab Broker Allegedly Stole $1 Million Worth Of Office Supplies (Investment News) Former Charles Schwab broker Jeffrey Brain Grove allegedly stole $1 million worth of office supplies using the firm's order system to purchase supplies and equipment. He sold the items to "different individuals," reports Mason Braswell. "Mr. Grove signed the letter agreeing to Finra's sanctions without admitting or denying the findings," according to Braswell. Grove spent his entire 17-year career at Schwab and "serviced approximately 250 accounts." A Schwab spokesperson said there was no evidence that clients were affected by his scheme. More Than Half Of Advisers Say They're Failing In Business Development (Think Advisor) Financial advisers are great at planning everyone's finances, but are struggling to build their businesses for the future. More than half of financial advisers believe that they're not doing a good enough job, according to a new study by the Financial Planning Association Research and Practice Institute. Thirty-three percent said that their plans were "neither effective nor ineffective," 19% said that they "were not very effective," and 4% said they were "not at all effective." Only 9% of respondents said their "business development process is 'very effective'," and only "25% of advisers [reported] that they exceeded their business growth goals in the past year," according to Emily Zulz. RCAP Executives Are Putting Their Money Where Their Mouth Is (Wealth Management) RCAP CEO Michael Weil has purchased $250,000 worth of stock in his company, and CFO Brian Jones and COO Brian Nyagaard purchased a combined $167,00, according to Ryan W. Neal.  Recently RCAP's sister company, ARCP (both owned by Schorsch), made accounting errors, which led RCAP's stock to tumble 38% prior to Tuesday. However, after the company's executives bought shares of their own stock, shares were up 6.32%. "Management's unwavering confidence in the long-term value of RCS Capital's platform, its people, its customers and the strong growth prospects of the business have never been in question," said Andrew Backman, the MD of investor relations at RCAP. Indonesia Is Looking Promising Because Of Demographics And Expected Reforms (Advisor Perspectives) Investors are seeing opportunity in Indonesia because of the current demographic landscape, and the expected reforms and anticorruption policies. Additionally, the Indonesia stock market has been performing "quite well" in 2014, following a strong performance in 2013.  "Given the performance of the market, it is indeed more expensive today than a year or two ago. However, we do not believe that Indonesia's market is overvalued yet, provided the macroeconomic environment remains stable," writes Tek Khoan Ong. Both the corporate banking and the retail banking industries are potential investment opportunities, according to Ong. Additionally, sectors related to consumer, resource, and infrastructure are also looking strong. FED: America's Youth Is Struggling The Most (Financial Advisor Magazine)  "Young adults in the United States have experienced higher rates of unemployment and lower rates of labor force participation than the general population for at least two decades," according the Federal Reserve. Although there's been significant job growth since the financial crisis, people ages 16 to 24 aren't always seeing it. In fact, the unemployment rate for those ages 16 to 24 is twice the national average, and the group's labor-force participation dropped to 55%, down from 66% in 2000. FREE AppDownload
The fitness tracking company Fitbit just launched its first video ad. The campaign coincides with the rollout of new products that includes a "fitness super watch" called the Surge. The advertisement was created by Argonaut, a boutique creative agency in San Francisco, and its music features Brett Anderson, the lead singer of The Donnas. The ads were directed by Daniel and Katina Mercadante, an acclaimed filmmaking team that has produced campaigns for brands like Apple, Facebook, and Volkswagen.  Video courtesy of Fitbit
REUTERS/Gary CameronA technician inspects United States one dollar bills during production at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington.Do you have a dollar bill in your wallet right now? Chances are, the answer is yes. But did you know how much work went into creating that bill? It's likely more than you ever expected. Hundreds of hours of labor go into making a dollar bill, from the special process used to create the paper it's printed on, to the printing, analyzing, cutting, packaging, and shipping to banks. Each bill must be perfect, according to the US Department of Treasury's standards, and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, which is tasked with creating all paper money, goes to great lengths to meet its specifications. Go behind the scenes at the BEP's Washington, DC facilities to see how dollars get made.
JP Morgan Asset ManagementWe added everything you see that's red.People are just bad at investing. Because of the way our brains work, we can't help but buy investments when prices are high for fear of missing out. And then we dump those investments only after prices have fallen for fear of losing even more money. Unfortunately, history shows we should be doing the exact opposite of that. This chart from JP Morgan Asset Management is a familiar one. It shows that over the past 20 full years, the average investors annualized returns have underperformed every major financial asset class. Average investors only barely outperform the inflation rate. For more on this, read this.   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/skinnylawyerCaesars Las Vegas.Caesars shares are going insane, gaining as much as 19% in after hours trade on Wednesday. Shares of the casino operator popped on Wednesday after a report from Bloomberg's Laura Keller, citing two people with knowledge of the plans, said that Caesars Entertainment has presented a plan to restructure the debt of its largest unit, Caesars Entertainment Operating Co., into a real estate investment trust. A real estate investment trust, typically called a REIT, is a corporate structure that only invests only in real estate and trades on a public exchange, like a stock, generating income through rent collection and paying out at least 90% of its taxable income in the form of dividends to shareholders. Keller's report said Caesars would announce this news on Wednesday, and the company has now filed with the SEC disclosing this plan. In its filing, Caesars said the proposal was made to a "non-extending bank creditor" holding debt in Caesars Entertainment Operating Co. to turn this unit into a REIT. The filing says this plan was first proposed on October 28, but has now expired and been superseded by subsequent plans. Keller's report said that Caesars elected to make the plan public after Silver Point Capital exited restructuring talks with Caesars, making them the second lender to walk away from talks in the last month.  Caesars proposal would've seen CEOC's senior bond holders recoup 100 cents on the dollar, while first lien bondholders would've gotten 93.8 cents on the dollar in a mix of cash, debt, and equity.  FREE AppDownload
The numbers came in ahead of expectations, but the stock was quickly off 4% on lighter than expected predictions for Q4 and next year's revenue. Non-GAAP earnings don't include stock-based compensation and certain other expenses.  Analysts were expecting non-GAAP earnings of $0.13 per share on $1.37 billion in revenue. Salesforce said it expects revenue of $6.45 to $6.55 billion next year. Analysts had been expecting $6.66 billion. The company is managing to cut its losses: This quarter, it lost only $39 million. Last quarter, it lost $61 million on $1.32 billion in revenue, and a year ago it lost $124 million on $1.08 billion. The recent quarter ended October 31, 2014, but Salesforce counts it as the third quarter of its 2015 fiscal year.  Salesforce is the prime example of a subscription-based software company, and some investors have been skeptical that it will be able to reduce sales and marketing expenses enough to deliver consistent profits.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao Stocks finished the lower but little changed after the minutes from the latest FOMC meeting did little to move the market. Gold, meanwhile, had a wild day, falling as much as $20 an ounce in just minutes before quickly erases those losses and falling again. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The biggest story on Wednesday was the Fed. The minutes from the October FOMC meeting were released at 2:00 pm ET, showing that the Fed is keeping an eye on the market's inflation expectations as well as what the Fed called a "somewhat weaker" outlook in Europe, China, and Japan. The minutes also showed considerable disagreement within the Fed over how it will communicate to the market its intentions to raise interest rates. In its last policy statement, the Fed kept the phrase "considerable time" in its statement, indicating how long it expects to elapse between the end of its QE program and its first interest rate hike. Previously, many had speculated the Fed would drop this phrase from its policy statement. 2. The big mover on Wednesday was gold, which quickly fell more than 1.5% in late morning trade before bouncing all the way back and settling down about $10/ounce near $1,185. The initial tumble in gold followed headlines that said a Swiss referendum to require the country to keep at least 20% of its reserves in the precious metal had fallen out of favor with voters. The referendum is set to be put to a vote on November 30. Switzerland currently keeps about 8% of its reserves in gold.  3. A big stock loser on Wednesday was Tesla, which fell nearly 4% after Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas cut his expectations for deliveries of the company's Model X SUV to 5,000 from 15,000 from 2015, citing manufacturing difficulties due to the vehicle's door style.  4. JetBlue announced plans to add checked bag fees and pack passengers into its planes more tightly, an announcement that was cheered by investors, as the stock gained more than 4% on Wednesday, but as Business Insider's Matt DeBord reports, is a move that takes the airline decidedly away from the things people love about JetBlue.  5. Staples shares were big winners on Wednesday, gaining more than 9% after the office supplies retailer reported earnings and sales that beat expectations and announced plans to close 170 stores in North America, more than 140 store closures the company had earlier announced.  6. On the economic data front, housing data in the form of housing starts and building permits came in mixed. The pace of housing starts fell 2.8% in October, worse than the 0.8% increase expected by economists, though building permits rose more than expected in October.  7. How low are long-term interest rates? This is only the second time since 1800 that long-term US Treasury yields have been this low, with the only other period of long-term rates being pegged near these levels coming in the decades after the Great Depression and through the end of World War II.  Don't Miss: The Fed Has No Idea How To Tell The Market It's Going To Raise Rates » FREE AppDownload
JP MorganA country's stock market and its economy are far from being the same thing (Read LPL Financial's write-up on the matter.) One big reason for the discrepancy is that many of the companies that make up a stock market engage in business overseas. This chart from JP Morgan highlights just how much of a country's stock market's revenues are generated locally. "Across major developed markets, the domestic share of revenues ranges from an estimated 75% in Japan to 28% in the UK," JP Morgan analysts note. "Generally, for DM equities investing in fast-growing developing economies, the effect is to boost revenues by as much as 75 bps; the reverse is true for emerging markets." Keep this in mind before you bet on a country by betting on its stock market. FREE AppDownload
					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Jim Laird				 Japan has a demographic problem, which has become an economic problem. The population is gradually getting older, people are having fewer children, and the ratio between prime age workers and retirees is shrinking. That means less consumption, more fixed incomes, and a greater need for government benefits. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has a steep uphill battle ahead of him when it comes to trying to grow GDP. Jim Laird at Laird Research has a great post on his site showing what Japan's demographic changes look like visually (in addition to a few other countries). Notice that we're nowhere near the worst of it: the young working population is estimated to continue shrinking long into the future. Contrast this with a growing country like Nigeria: 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Jim Laird				 The thing about these broad demographic trends is that they have a lot of momentum behind them, and are therefore basically unchangeable in the medium term without major changes in immigration policy. Even if prime age workers in Japan started having many more children, it would be at least 25 years before the economy saw that benefit.  FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve just released the minutes from its latest monetary policy meeting. The market didn't seem that interested, as stocks were little changed after the release. And while there were some interesting headlines about how the Fed sees the global economy and its own economic projections, the big takeaway is this: the Fed has no idea how to tell the market it is going to raise rates. Towards the end of the minutes, there is a big dense paragraph about the Fed's communications regarding interest rates over the "medium term." And in short, the Fed doesn't know how it wants to signal the future course of monetary policy.  "Most participants judged that it would be helpful to include new language in the Committee's forward guidance to clarify how the Committee's decision about when to begin the policy normalization process will depend on incoming information about the economy," the minutes say. Which is fine. Some FOMC members want the Fed to make changes to its language. But how it would to do that is unclear.  "Some participants preferred to eliminate language in the statement indicating that the current target range for the federal funds rate would likely be maintained for a 'considerable time' after the end of the asset purchase program." "Considerable time" is the much-debated phrase that some Wall Street economists expected to be cut back in the Fed's September statement. But now this phrase has remained in two successive policy announcements.  Notably, Wednesday's minutes indicated that some FOMC members wanted to eliminate "considerable time" because it doesn't make clear or imply that the Fed will be data-dependent when it raises rates.  In other words, when the labor market or inflation gauges are at a point that the Fed wants to hike rates, some members don't want the Fed to be beholden to some sort of unspoken covenant with the market that it would wait a "considerable time" before making a move.  And what's more, it's never been clear how long a "considerable time" really is, anyway. But other committee members aren't so sure. "However, other participants thought that the 'considerable time' phrase was useful in communicating the Committee's policy intentions or that additional wording could be used to emphasize the data-dependence of the Committee's decision process." Additionally, other FOMC members thought that removing "considerable time" would be seen as "signaling a significant shift in the stance of policy, potentially resulting in an unintended tightening of financial conditions."  So then it seems that the Fed is in a bit of a pickle.  Some members think they need new phrases, but others are worried about new phrases, particularly the exclusion of "considerable time" because it will alter the market's interpretation of the Fed's policy intentions. Additionally, others think "considerable time" needs to go precisely because of how the market is interpreting the Fed's policy intentions. If that seems like a bit of a mess, it's because it is.  You can read the full text of minutes here.  FREE AppDownload
The restaurant sector is becoming increasingly competitive.  Americans go out to dinner an average of 74 times a year, The Washington Post's Wonkblog reports, citing the consumer research firm NPD Group. That's the lowest reading in three decades.  And a number of fast-casual establishments are threatening traditional fast food and casual dining restaurants.  Morgan Stanley recently released a list of restaurants that will outperform the rest of the sector over the next five years.  The chains are primarily winning because they appeal to millennial consumers, who are entering their peak spending years.  Here are their top picks. The coffee chain has growth opportunities through its new tea chain, Teavana. The company has also started selling health and lifestyle products in grocery stores. Starbucks also has the opportunity to expand through its mobile payment app and loyalty program, according to the analysts.  "Starbucks remains a best-in-class secular growth story," the analysts write.  Flickr / Ed Yourdon The hugely successful fast-casual chain will continue to grow, according to Morgan Stanley.  Chipotle's catering business is taking off, and the company continues to invest in its Asian ShopHouse and Pizzeria Locale concepts.  The demographic shift toward younger consumers will also benefit Chipotle, which touts its no-frills marketing scheme and locally-sourced ingredients.  Chipotle on InstagramFresh food wins with modern customers. The company is suddenly the world's hottest pizza chain, thanks to a reinvented menu.  Domino's has also been aggressive in investing in mobile and online technology. Finally, a successful international expansion will continue to drive sales, the analysts write.   Domino's Panera Bread is currently in the process of changing its strategy.  Notable improvements include kiosks for ordering, in-store pick-up, and outsourcing catering orders to separate locations.  "Though the rollout of Panera 2.0 will likely disrupt earnings growth over the next 1-2 years, we believe the long-term benefits (better throughput, higher customer satisfaction, expanded catering capabilities) will be significant," the analysts write.  John Grees/Reuters Although it is already one of the fastest-growing restaurants in the sector, executives are planning a myriad of changes to get customers to come more often, stay at the restaurant longer, and spend more money.  This includes tablet ordering and payment, and more beer and wing sauce options.  The company also benefits from having an established millennial consumer base, according to Morgan Stanley.  Facebook FREE AppDownload
Here's something stockholders don't like: dilution. Dilution happens when the number of a company's shares outstanding increases. This is a problem because stocks are valued based on their earnings per share, which is calculated by taking the company's earnings and dividing them by the shares outstanding.  So if there are more shares outstanding the denominator that earnings are divided by increases, reducing a holder's earnings per share.  In a huge new report on long-term capital market returns, JPMorgan looks at dilution, but not just from an individual-stock perspective, but a broader index perspective, looking at changes in the ratio between an index's market cap and the level of that index. In the case of an index, the value of the companies in that index serve as the denominator with the index's price as the numerator. From 1975 to about 2000, European and the UK stock markets saw dilution that was significantly greater than what was seen in the US and Japan.  JPMorgan sees the rapid dilution in Europe, however, as a result of the rapid privatization of European economies during the 80s as more nationalized policies fell out of favor and the Soviet Union dissolved.  Japan, in contrast has seen dilution steadily decline since the nation's stock market bubble burst in the early 90s, and the lack of dilution since then is likely due to a lack of earnings, the firm writes. Meanwhile, US dilution has been almost nonexistent since 2000 as buyback and merger activity have abounded in the last few market cycles. Since the financial crisis, dilution has really only increased in Europe, but even then the rise has been slight, as increased buyback activity in the US has kept dilution under control and the European economy has dealt with the Eurozone crisis and a flagging recovery. JPMorgan FREE AppDownload
There's a whole new generation of children growing up in the digital world. The social-media giant Facebook hopes this is the next wave of users, but are they really interested in having a profile?  We asked little kids between ages 9 and 11 what they really thought of Facebook. Produced by Sam Rega and Caroline Moss Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
ReutersCitigroup managing director Shawn D. Miller was found dead with his throat slit in his Financial District apartment, the New York Post reports.  "We are deeply saddened by this news and our thoughts are with Shawn’s family at this time," Citi said in an emailed statement to Business Insider.  According to authorities, at 3:11 p.m. on Tuesday, a 42-year-old male was discovered unconscious in his bath tub with a laceration to his neck. He was pronounced dead on arrival.  The incident occurred in Miller's one-bedroom condo at 120 Greenwich Street. The building's doorman discovered the body. A weapon was not found, authorities said. LinkedInShawn MillerA medical examiner will determine the cause of death. An investigation is ongoing, according to authorities.  Miller was a managing director at for Citigroup's Environmental and Social Risk Management team, according to his Linkedin profile.  He has been with Citi since 2004, his profile shows. His work focused on sustainability in the financial services industry.  He graduated from Syracuse University.  FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockAustin will see the most job growth in 2015.We've found the 15 hottest US cities for 2015, all of which will be booming next year thanks to new jobs, growing industries, burgeoning art and food scenes, and affordable real estate. Rising prices in San Francisco will continue to push young hipsters out to Oakland. Queens will become the hot borough in New York City because of its affordable real estate and rich culinary scene. And Colorado's legalization of marijuana will bring a wave of tourism to Denver.  To compile this list we looked at job growth, population growth, affordability, livability, and the health and well-being of the residents. We also considered how innovative and "cool" the city is — an important factor in attracting the young, creative types who will make each city hot. FREE AppDownload
 While at Harvard Business School, a professor told investment bank CEO Peter J Solomon: ‘If you want to do something for society go to Wall Street, make a lot of money. And you’ll do more for society using that money that you make on Wall Street than you ever will in either politics or social welfare'." That, he tells OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, is part of how he got on the path to building his own shop, Peter J Solomon Company. It was the first private investment bank on Wall Street. Solomon also served as Deputy Mayor of New York during the Ed Koch administration, which surprised him more than those who had known him at Harvard. "I didn't know Ed Koch... I didn't particularly like him," said Solomon. And it wasn't an easy job. At the time, New York City was in a very dark place fiscally — there was an energy crisis and unemployment was high. It was only with a push from his boss at Lehman Brothers, Peter Peterson, that Solomon took the position. He ended up loving the experience, though, and it formed the way he thinks about government today. "The only time government is worthwhile is in crises. And the time that I'm critical of government, like the financial crisis, is when they can't function because the only reason they're there is for crises." Solomon pointed to Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson as an example. During the financial crisis Paulson said he didn't have the authority to take certain actions to save the economy. “In government, you don’t ask for permission, you ask for forgiveness,” Solomon finished. Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Fed just released the minutes from its latest FOMC meeting. One important takeaway is that the Fed discussed the need to keep an eye on declining inflation expectations. Following the minutes, the Dow, which had been negative for much of the day Wednesday, turned positive, rising 19 points in immediate reaction to the minutes. The S&amp;P 500 was down less than 1 point, and the Nasdaq down 14 points. The minutes showed that all but one FOMC member wanted to keep "considerable time" language in the Fed's monetary policy statement, while some wanted to eliminate this from the statement. Some members of the Committee were concerned that keeping "considerable time" would suggest that the Fed's decision on rate hikes wouldn't depend on incoming data.  This phrase describes the amount of time the Fed expects to elapse between the end of its QE program and the beginning of interest rate hikes.  The Fed concluded its QE program at the last FOMC meeting. The Fed also discussed the "somewhat weaker" outlook in Europe, China, Japan, and the stronger US dollar. A number of FOMC participants thought it would "soon be helpful" to clarify the Fed's approach to the pace of interest rate hikes, and a number of FOMC members thought enhancements to its Summary of Economic Projections would be "worth considering." The Fed also noted that the its communications in the last intermeeting period were "reportedly viewed as slightly more accommodative than anticipated." Here are the full minutes from the Fed: Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetIn a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the deputy manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as System open market operations conducted during the period since the Committee met on September 16-17, 2014. In addition, the deputy manager summarized the outcomes of recent test operations of the Term Deposit Facility, described the results from the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operational exercise, and reviewed the implications of recent foreign central bank policy actions for the international portion of the SOMA portfolio. The SOMA manager then discussed the Open Market Desk's plans for modestly expanding the list of counterparties eligible to participate in ON RRP operations based on substantially the same criteria established in the past for such counterparties. The manager also described ongoing staff work on improving data collections regarding bank funding markets and possibly using those data to provide more robust measures of bank funding rates. Finally, the manager reported on potential arrangements that would allow depository institutions to pledge funds held in a segregated account at the Federal Reserve as collateral in borrowing transactions with private creditors and would provide an additional supplementary tool during policy normalization; the manager noted possible next steps that the staff could potentially undertake to investigate the issues related to such arrangements. Next, the staff outlined two proposals that the Committee could consider for further testing of RRP operations. In the first proposal, the Desk would vary by modest amounts the interest rate on ON RRP operations according to a preannounced schedule. Varying the spread between the ON RRP rate and the interest on excess reserves rate could provide the Committee with information about the effect of that spread on money markets and the demand for ON RRP. In addition, changes in the ON RRP rate would provide further information about the effectiveness of an ON RRP facility in providing a floor for money market rates during policy normalization. In the second proposal, the Desk would conduct a series of preannounced term RRP operations that would extend across the end of the year. In their discussion of term RRP testing, participants noted that the testing could provide information about the potential effectiveness of another of the Committee's supplementary policy tools and would help address expected downward pressures on short-term rates at year-end. But it was also noted that by conducting the term RRPs, the Committee would be losing information on how market participants might adjust and make investment arrangements prior to year-end with only the $300 billion in ON RRP available. One participant commented that the downward pressure on rates at year-end might be more directly addressed by raising the overall size limit on the ON RRP exercise. However, it was emphasized that increasing the cap on ON RRP operations at year-end could raise the risks for financial markets that had led the FOMC to impose the cap; these concerns were seen as less pronounced with a temporary program of term RRP operations. It was also noted that the proposed term RRP operations were only a test and that the Committee had not yet decided the conditions under which such operations would be used in the future.4 Following the discussion of the testing of RRP operations, the Committee unanimously approved the following resolution on the ON RRP exercise: "The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) modifies the authorization concerning overnight reverse repurchase operations adopted at the September 17, 2014, FOMC meeting as follows: (i) The offering rate of the operations may vary from zero to ten basis points. This modification shall be effective beginning with the operation conducted on November 3, 2014, and conclude with the operation conducted on December 12, 2014." By unanimous vote, the Committee approved the following resolution on term RRP operations: "During the period of December 1, 2014, to December 30, 2014, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to conduct a series of term reverse repurchase operations involving U.S. Government securities. Such operations shall: (i) mature no later than January 5, 2015; (ii) be subject to an overall size limit of $300 billion outstanding at any one time; (iii) be subject to a maximum bid rate of ten basis points; (iv) be awarded to all submitters: (A) at the highest submitted rate if the sum of the bids received is less than or equal to the preannounced size of the operation, or (B) at the stopout rate, determined by evaluating bids in ascending order by submitted rate up to the point at which the total quantity of bids equals the preannounced size of the operation, with all bids below this rate awarded in full at the stopout rate and all bids at the stopout rate awarded on a pro rata basis, if the sum of the counterparty offers received is greater than the preannounced size of the operation. Such operations may be for forward settlement. The System Open Market Account manager will inform the FOMC in advance of the terms of the planned operations. The Chair must approve the terms of, timing of the announcement of, and timing of the operations. These operations shall be conducted in addition to the authorized overnight reverse repurchase agreements, which remain subject to a separate overall size limit of $300 billion per day." By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion of developments in financial markets and the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed for the October 28-29 meeting indicated that economic activity expanded at a moderate pace in the third quarter and that labor market conditions improved over the intermeeting period. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the FOMC's longer-run objective of 2 percent. Market-based measures of inflation compensation declined somewhat, while survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations remained stable. Total nonfarm payroll employment rose in September and the gains for July and August were revised up, leaving the average increase in the third quarter similar to that for the first half of the year. In September, the unemployment rate declined to 5.9 percent, and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons decreased a little. The labor force participation rate edged down, and the employment-to-population ratio remained essentially unchanged. Other indicators generally suggested a continued improvement in labor market conditions. Although the rate of gross private-sector hiring declined, the rate of job openings moved up, measures of firms' hiring plans increased, initial claims for unemployment insurance remained low, and some measures of household expectations for labor market conditions improved. Industrial production increased briskly in September after having been little changed, on net, over the first two months of the quarter, and the rate of capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector moved up. Readings on new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys were generally consistent with moderate near-term increases in factory output, but automakers' production schedules for the fourth quarter pointed to some slowing in the pace of motor vehicle assemblies. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) appeared to have increased at a modest pace in the third quarter. The components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimates of PCE were, in total, little changed in September following solid gains in July and August. In addition, sales of light motor vehicles fell back in September following a steep increase in August. Recent data on factors that tend to support household spending were mixed. Real disposable income continued to increase in August, and consumer sentiment as measured by the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers improved in September and early October. In contrast, household net worth likely decreased because of a decline in equity prices. Housing market conditions seemed to be improving only slowly. Starts and permits of single-family homes were little changed, on net, in recent months. New home sales were flat in September after moving up in August, and sales of existing single-family homes moved essentially sideways over the past several months. Real spending on business equipment and intellectual property products appeared to have risen at a moderate pace in the third quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were little changed, on net, in August and September after a solid increase in July. New orders for these capital goods declined in September but remained above the level of shipments, indicating that shipments may increase further in subsequent months. Other forward-looking indicators, such as national and regional surveys of business conditions, were generally consistent with moderate gains in business equipment spending in the near term. Nominal business spending for new nonresidential construction decreased in August, and vacancy rates for nonresidential buildings remained elevated. Meanwhile, inventories in most industries were about in line with sales; in the energy sector, inventories appeared somewhat lean despite substantial stockbuilding since earlier in the year. Total real government purchases appeared to have risen modestly in the third quarter. Federal government purchases likely increased, as nominal defense spending was higher in the third quarter than in the second quarter. In addition, real state and local government purchases probably rose somewhat, as the payrolls of these governments expanded and their nominal construction expenditures increased during the third quarter. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed slightly in August. Following large increases in July, both exports and imports grew only modestly, with gains concentrated in capital goods excluding automotive products. Total U.S. consumer price inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, was about 1-1/2 percent over the 12 months ending in August. Over the 12 months ending in September, both the consumer price index (CPI) and the CPI excluding food and energy prices rose about 1-3/4 percent. Consumer energy prices declined further in September, largely reflecting continued declines in retail gasoline prices, and survey data suggested gasoline prices fell further over the first few weeks of October. Consumer food prices rose solidly in recent months. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey declined in September and early October, while longer-term inflation expectations in the survey were little changed. Foreign economies appeared to have continued to expand at a moderate rate in the third quarter, although with considerable divergence across countries. In Japan, consumption staged a mild rebound after contracting in the previous quarter in response to a tax increase, while indicators for the euro area pointed to only continued sluggish growth. Third-quarter growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) remained healthy in the United Kingdom, and indicators for Canada also were positive. Among emerging market economies, GDP growth remained strong in the third quarter in China and Korea and indicators for Mexico were favorable as well. The Brazilian economy appeared to be stabilizing. Foreign inflation remained generally subdued and in some regions quite low, especially in the euro area, where headline inflation was well below 1 percent. Staff Review of the Financial SituationConcerns about the global economic outlook apparently helped to prompt a sharp pullback from risky assets in the United States, but prices of those assets subsequently reversed much of their declines by the end of the intermeeting period. In addition, a number of technical factors reportedly contributed to volatile interest rate moves in mid-October. Worries about a possible spread of Ebola also appeared to weigh on market sentiment somewhat at times. On net, yields on longer-term Treasury securities fell notably, U.S. equity prices edged down, corporate bond spreads widened modestly, and the dollar appreciated moderately against most other currencies. Federal Reserve communications were reportedly viewed as slightly more accommodative than anticipated, on balance. The expected path of the federal funds rate implied by market quotes shifted down notably, on net, over the period. Market-based measures suggested that the expected date of the first increase in the federal funds rate was pushed out from the third quarter of 2015 to late 2015. However, the results from the Desk's October Survey of Primary Dealers indicated that the dealers' projected path of the federal funds rate was little changed from the September survey, with dealers continuing to see the middle of next year as the most likely time of liftoff. The Treasury market experienced significant volatility on October 15, with 5- and 10-year Treasury yields dropping as much as 30 basis points in about an hour before retracing much of those moves by the end of the day. Amid very high trading volumes, Treasury market liquidity, as measured by bid-asked spreads, worsened significantly, and measures of the implied volatility of longer-term rates jumped on the day but subsequently fell back. While the release of the somewhat weaker-than-expected data for September U.S. retail sales was seen as the trigger for these sharp movements, market participants indicated that a number of technical factors related to investor positioning and trading strategies likely amplified the swing in interest rates. Over the intermeeting period as a whole, longer-term nominal Treasury yields declined about 30 basis points. Market-based measures of inflation compensation moved lower as well, extending the declines seen since the summer. The decline in inflation compensation reportedly reflected in part concerns about global growth and the risk of building disinflationary pressures, the lower-than-expected August CPI report, the decline in oil prices, and the appreciation of the U.S. dollar. Yields on agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) declined roughly in line with comparable Treasury yields, while spreads on both investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds widened modestly relative to Treasury securities. The S&amp;P 500 index decreased about 1 percent, on net, over the intermeeting period. Option-implied volatility for the S&amp;P 500 index over the next month increased moderately, on balance, ending the period below its long-run historical average, though during the mid-October volatility spike, it briefly touched high levels last seen in 2011. About half of the firms in the S&amp;P 500 index reported earnings for the third quarter, with the reports generally viewed as positive. Overall, third-quarter earnings estimates continued to imply modest growth in earnings per share compared with the previous quarter. Despite some volatility related to quarter-end, conditions in unsecured funding markets were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period. In secured funding markets, some money market rates fell in the days leading up to quarter-end, reportedly reflecting in part the announcement of the $300 billion overall size limit on the ON RRP exercise following the September FOMC meeting. After quarter-end, however, short-term rates generally moved back toward their preannouncement levels. Credit flows to nonfinancial business picked up in September and early October. Gross issuance of investment- and speculative-grade bonds rebounded from seasonal lows over the summer, notwithstanding the slowdown during the mid-October market volatility spike. Commercial and industrial loans on banks' books continued to expand at a robust pace in the third quarter, consistent with the strong demand from large and middle-market firms reported in the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS). In the leveraged loan market, institutional issuance slowed some in September, though investors' interest in the asset class remained strong. Financing conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) market continued to ease. According to the October SLOOS, banks eased CRE lending standards, on net, and reported stronger demand for such loans. Growth of CRE loans on the balance sheets of large banks slowed in the third quarter, while growth at small banks remained moderate. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities stayed robust in September. Over the intermeeting period, mortgage rates to qualified borrowers declined about 25 basis points. The decline in rates coincided with an appreciable increase in the volume of refinancing activity. Mortgage lending conditions were little changed on net. Conditions in most consumer credit markets remained accommodative during the third quarter. Auto loans continued to be widely available, and respondents to the October SLOOS indicated that demand for auto loans had strengthened further in the third quarter. In addition, demand for credit card loans increased, and a few large banks reported having eased lending policies on such loans. As in the United States, participants in foreign financial markets became more concerned, on balance, about prospects for global economic growth. On net over the period, equity indexes were down in most advanced and emerging market economies, and measures of implied volatility rose. Benchmark sovereign yields fell sharply, with German yields reaching record lows. Expected policy rate paths moved down in most advanced economies, and market-based measures of inflation compensation continued to decline. The Riksbank unexpectedly cut its main policy rate to zero in response to the low level of Swedish inflation. Spreads on peripheral European sovereign bonds increased, modestly for most countries but more substantially for Greek bonds, reflecting, in part, market concerns that Greece might exit its International Monetary Fund program prematurely. Spreads on emerging market bonds generally edged higher. In addition, the broad nominal dollar index ended the period moderately higher. The European Central Bank released the results of the 2014 comprehensive assessment, which included both an asset quality review and a forward-looking stress test. Under the stress test, which recognizes capital raising and balance sheet adjustments through September 2014, 13 banks were identified as needing to strengthen their capital positions and 8 will be required to raise net new capital. The results were broadly in line with expectations, and the market reaction to the release was limited. The staff's periodic report on potential risks to financial stability noted that recent developments in financial markets highlighted the potential for shocks to trigger increases in market volatility and declines in asset prices that could undermine financial stability. Nevertheless, the U.S. financial system appeared resilient to shocks of the magnitude seen recently due to the relatively strong capital and liquidity profiles of large domestic banking firms, subdued aggregate leverage in the nonfinancial sector, and relatively restrained use of short-term wholesale funding across the financial sector. However, the staff report also pointed to asset valuation pressures that were broadening, as well as a loosening of underwriting standards in the speculative corporate debt and CRE markets; it noted the need to closely monitor these developments going forward. Staff Economic OutlookThe information on economic activity received since the staff prepared its forecast for the September FOMC meeting was close to expectations, and therefore, the staff's projection for real GDP growth over the remainder of the year was little revised. However, in response to a further rise in the foreign exchange value of the dollar, a deterioration in global growth prospects, and a decline in equity prices, the staff revised down its projection for real GDP growth a little over the medium term. Even with the slower expansion of economic activity in this projection, real GDP was still expected to rise faster than potential output in 2015 and 2016, supported by accommodative monetary policy and a further easing of the restraint on spending from changes in fiscal policy; in 2017, real GDP growth was projected to step down toward the rate of potential output growth. As a result, resource slack was anticipated to decline steadily, albeit at a slightly slower rate than in the previous projection, and the unemployment rate was expected to gradually improve and to be at the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate in 2017. The staff's forecast for inflation this quarter and early next year was reduced in response to further declines in crude oil prices, but the forecast for inflation over the medium term was only a touch lower. Consumer price inflation was projected to be lower in the second half of this year than in the first half and to remain below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent over the next few years. With resource slack projected to diminish slowly and changes in commodity and import prices anticipated to be subdued, inflation was projected to rise gradually and to reach the Committee's objective in the longer run. The staff continued to view the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as similar to the average over the past 20 years. The risks to the forecast for real GDP growth and inflation were seen as tilted to the downside, reflecting recent financial developments and concerns about the foreign economic outlook, as well as the staff's assessment that neither monetary policy nor fiscal policy appeared well positioned to help the economy withstand adverse shocks. At the same time, the staff continued to view the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, most meeting participants viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity continued to expand at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions improved somewhat further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate; on balance, participants judged that the underutilization of labor resources was gradually diminishing. Participants generally expected that, over the medium term, real economic activity would increase at a pace sufficient to lead to a further gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels consistent with the Committee's objective of maximum employment. Inflation was continuing to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. Market-based measures of inflation compensation declined somewhat, while survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations remained stable. Participants anticipated that inflation would be held down over the near term by the decline in energy prices and other factors, but would move toward the Committee's 2 percent goal in coming years, although a few expressed concern that inflation might persist below the Committee's objective for quite some time. Most viewed the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced. However, a number of participants noted that economic growth over the medium term might be slower than they currently expected if the foreign economic or financial situation deteriorated significantly. Household spending advanced at a moderate pace over the intermeeting period, and reports from contacts in several parts of the country indicated that recent retail or auto sales had been robust. However, one participant pointed to mixed retail sales reports that likely reflected a continuation of restrained discretionary spending on the part of low- and middle-income households. Many participants judged that the recent significant decline in energy prices would provide a boost to consumer spending over the near term, with several of them noting that the drop in gasoline prices would benefit lower-income households in particular. Among the other favorable factors that were expected to support continued growth in consumer spending, participants cited solid gains in payroll employment, low interest rates, rising consumer confidence, and the decline in levels of household debt relative to income. The recovery in the housing sector remained slow despite low interest rates and some recent improvement in the availability of mortgage credit. Contacts in some parts of the country reported continued weakness in single-family construction, while in other regions activity reportedly was picking up gradually following a sluggish summer. A few participants pointed to continued strong growth in multifamily construction, although the limited pipeline of new projects in one District suggested that activity could slow in 2015. Reports from business contacts in many parts of the country pointed to an improvement in business conditions, with indexes of the manufacturing sector posting broad-based gains in recent months in a number of Districts. A couple of participants reported expectations of a robust holiday sales season based on accumulating inventories of consumer goods or an increase in e-commerce traffic and related transportation activity. Contacts in several regions reported ready availability of credit, strong loan growth, or a steady increase in commercial construction activity. While the fall in energy prices was generally regarded as a positive development for many businesses, it was noted that a sustained drop in prices would have effects on oil drilling and related investment activity. In the agricultural sector, the robust fall harvest had driven down crop prices; food processing and farm equipment businesses were slowing as a result of lower farm income and a drop in exports. In discussing economic developments abroad, participants pointed to a somewhat weaker economic outlook and increased downside risks in Europe, China, and Japan, as well as to the strengthening of the dollar over the period. It was observed that if foreign economic or financial conditions deteriorated further, U.S. economic growth over the medium term might be slower than currently expected. However, many participants saw the effects of recent developments on the domestic economy as likely to be quite limited. These participants suggested variously that the share of external trade in the U.S. economy is relatively small, that the effects of changes in the value of the dollar on net exports are modest, that shifts in the structure of U.S. trade and production over time may have reduced the effects on U.S. trade of developments like those seen of late, or that the slowdown in external demand would likely prove to be less severe than initially feared. Several participants judged that the decline in the prices of energy and other commodities as well as lower long-term interest rates would likely provide an offset to the higher dollar and weaker foreign growth, or that the domestic recovery remained on a firm footing. Indicators of labor market conditions continued to improve over the intermeeting period, with a further reduction in the unemployment rate, declines in longer-duration unemployment, strong growth in payroll employment, and a low level of initial claims for unemployment insurance. Business contacts reported employment gains in several parts of the country, with relatively few pointing to emerging wage pressures, although one participant indicated that larger wage gains had been accruing to some individuals who switched jobs. Labor market conditions indexes constructed from a broad set of indicators suggested that the underutilization of labor had continued to diminish, although a number of participants noted that underutilization of labor market resources remained. A couple of participants judged that the large number of individuals working part time for economic reasons and the continued drift down in the labor force participation rate suggested that the unemployment rate was understating the degree of labor market underutilization. Most participants anticipated that inflation was likely to edge lower in the near term, reflecting the decline in oil and other commodity prices and lower import prices. These participants continued to expect inflation to move back to the Committee's 2 percent target over the medium term as resource slack diminished in an environment of well-anchored inflation expectations, although a few of them thought the return to 2 percent might be quite gradual. Survey-based measures of inflation expectations remained well anchored, but market-based measures of inflation compensation over the next five years as well as over the five-year period beginning five years ahead had declined over the intermeeting period. Various explanations were offered for the decline in the market-based measures, and participants expressed different views about how to interpret these recent movements. The explanations included a decline in inflation risk premiums, possibly reflecting a lower perceived probability of higher inflation outcomes; and special factors, including liquidity risk premiums, that might be influencing the pricing of Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities and inflation derivatives. One participant noted that even if the declines reflected lower inflation risk premiums and not a reduction in expected inflation, policymakers might still want to take them into account because such a change could reflect increased concerns on the part of investors about adverse outcomes in which low inflation was accompanied by weak economic activity. A couple of participants noted that it was likely too early to draw conclusions regarding these developments, especially in light of the recent market volatility. However, many participants observed that the Committee should remain attentive to evidence of a possible downward shift in longer-term inflation expectations; some of them noted that if such an outcome occurred, it would be even more worrisome if growth faltered. In their discussion of financial market developments and financial stability issues, participants judged that the movements in the prices of stocks, bonds, commodities, and the U.S. dollar over the intermeeting period appeared to have been driven primarily by concerns about prospects for foreign economic growth. Many participants commented on the turbulence in financial markets that occurred in mid-October. Some participants pointed out that, despite the market volatility, financial conditions remained highly accommodative and that further pockets of turbulence were likely to arise as the start of policy normalization approached. That said, more work to better understand the recent market dynamics was seen as desirable. In addition, a couple of participants noted the potential usefulness of collecting additional data on wholesale funding markets in order to better understand how changes in interest rates could influence those markets. In their discussion of communications regarding the path of the federal funds rate over the medium term, meeting participants agreed that the timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate and the appropriate path of the policy rate thereafter would depend on incoming economic data and their implications for the outlook. Most participants judged that it would be helpful to include new language in the Committee's forward guidance to clarify how the Committee's decision about when to begin the policy normalization process will depend on incoming information about the economy. Some participants preferred to eliminate language in the statement indicating that the current target range for the federal funds rate would likely be maintained for a "considerable time" after the end of the asset purchase program. These participants were concerned that such a characterization could be misinterpreted as suggesting that the Committee's decisions would not depend on the incoming data. However, other participants thought that the "considerable time" phrase was useful in communicating the Committee's policy intentions or that additional wording could be used to emphasize the data-dependence of the Committee's decision process. A couple of them noted that the removal of the "considerable time" phrase might be seen as signaling a significant shift in the stance of policy, potentially resulting in an unintended tightening of financial conditions. A couple of others thought that the current forward guidance might be read as suggesting an earlier date of liftoff than was likely to prove appropriate, given the outlook for inflation and the downside risks to the economy associated with the effective lower bound on interest rates. With regard to the pace of interest rate increases after the start of policy normalization, a number of participants thought that it could soon be helpful to clarify the Committee's likely approach. It was noted that communication about post-liftoff policy would pose challenges given the inherent uncertainty of the economic and financial outlook and the Committee's desire to retain flexibility to adjust policy in response to the incoming data. Most participants supported retaining the language in the statement indicating that the Committee anticipates that economic conditions may warrant keeping the target range for the federal funds rate below longer-run normal levels even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels. However, a couple of participants thought that the language should be amended in light of the prescriptions suggested by many monetary policy rules and the risks associated with keeping interest rates below their longer-run values for an extended period of time. Committee Policy ActionIn their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members judged that information received since the FOMC met in September indicated that economic activity was expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions had improved somewhat further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate; on balance, a range of indicators suggested that underutilization of labor resources was gradually diminishing. Household spending was rising moderately and business fixed investment was advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Inflation had continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. Market-based measures of inflation compensation had declined somewhat, but survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations had remained stable. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity would expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. In their discussion of language for the post-meeting statement, a number of members judged that, while some underutilization in the labor market remained, it appeared to be gradually diminishing. In addition, members considered the advantages and disadvantages of adding language to the statement to acknowledge recent developments in financial markets. On the one hand, including a reference would show that the Committee was monitoring financial developments while also providing an opportunity to note that financial conditions remained highly supportive of growth. On the other hand, including a reference risked the possibility of suggesting greater concern on the part of the Committee than was actually the case, perhaps leading to the misimpression that monetary policy was likely to respond to increases in volatility. In the end, the Committee decided not to include such a reference. Finally, a couple of members suggested including language in the statement indicating that recent foreign economic developments had increased uncertainty or had boosted downside risks to the U.S. economic outlook, but participants generally judged that such wording would suggest greater pessimism about the economic outlook than they thought appropriate. In their discussion of the asset purchase program, members generally agreed that the condition articulated by the Committee when it began the program in September 2012 had been achieved--that is, there had been a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market--and that there was sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing progress toward maximum employment in a context of price stability. Accordingly, all members but one supported concluding the Committee's asset purchase program at the end of October and maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency MBS in agency MBS and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. By keeping the Committee's holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, this policy was expected to help maintain accommodative financial conditions. In addition, the Committee agreed to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and to reaffirm the indication in the statement that the Committee's decision about how long to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate would depend on its assessment of actual and expected progress toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. All but one member agreed that the Committee should reiterate the expectation that it likely would be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of the asset purchase program in October, especially if projected inflation continued to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored. The one member thought that the Committee should instead strengthen the forward guidance in order to underscore the Committee's commitment to its 2 percent inflation objective. The Committee agreed to include additional wording in the statement in order to emphasize that the Committee's decision on the timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate would be data dependent. In particular, the statement would say that, if incoming information indicated faster progress toward the Committee's employment and inflation objectives than the Committee now expects, then increases in the target range for the federal funds rate would likely occur sooner than currently anticipated. It would also note that, if progress proves slower than expected, then increases in the target range would likely occur later than currently anticipated. The Committee also agreed to reiterate its expectation that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. The Desk is directed to conclude the current program of purchases of longer-term Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities by the end of October. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The System Open Market Account manager and the secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September suggests that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions improved somewhat further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate. On balance, a range of labor market indicators suggests that underutilization of labor resources is gradually diminishing. Household spending is rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined somewhat; survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced. Although inflation in the near term will likely be held down by lower energy prices and other factors, the Committee judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat since early this year. The Committee judges that there has been a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market since the inception of its current asset purchase program. Moreover, the Committee continues to see sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing progress toward maximum employment in a context of price stability. Accordingly, the Committee decided to conclude its asset purchase program this month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. This policy, by keeping the Committee's holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative financial conditions. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain this target range, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee anticipates, based on its current assessment, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset purchase program this month, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. However, if incoming information indicates faster progress toward the Committee's employment and inflation objectives than the Committee now expects, then increases in the target range for the federal funds rate are likely to occur sooner than currently anticipated. Conversely, if progress proves slower than expected, then increases in the target range are likely to occur later than currently anticipated. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." Voting for this action: Janet L. Yellen, William C. Dudley, Lael Brainard, Stanley Fischer, Richard W. Fisher, Loretta J. Mester, Charles I. Plosser, Jerome H. Powell, and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against this action: Narayana Kocherlakota. Mr. Kocherlakota dissented because he believed that, in light of continued sluggishness in the inflation outlook and the recent slide in market-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations, the Committee should commit to maintaining the current target range for the federal funds rate at least until projected inflation one to two years ahead has returned to 2 percent and should continue the asset purchase program at its current pace. Mr. Kocherlakota noted that when the Committee first reduced its asset purchases in December 2013, it said in the post-meeting statement that it would be monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation was moving back toward its objective over the medium term; Mr. Kocherlakota indicated he saw no such evidence. Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy StrategyIn the discussion at the January 2014 FOMC meeting regarding the annual reaffirmation of the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, participants noted that, while they were generally satisfied with the statement, it would be appropriate to consider whether any changes might be warranted before the statement was reaffirmed in 2015. The Committee subsequently referred the matter to the subcommittee on communications, which identified possible issues for consideration by the full Committee. The subcommittee then asked the staff to prepare a memorandum to the Committee exploring those issues. At this meeting, a staff presentation discussed three issues related to the existing statement that might warrant elaboration or clarification: whether inflation persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective and inflation similarly persistently above that objective would be regarded as equally undesirable, whether additional information should be provided about the "balanced approach" that the Committee takes in promoting its two objectives under circumstances in which these objectives are judged not to be complementary, and how financial stability is linked to the Committee's mandated goals of maximum employment and price stability. Following the staff presentation, participants discussed a range of topics related to these three issues and to monetary policy communications more broadly. Participants generally thought that it was worthwhile to periodically consider possible changes to the statement, regardless of whether any were ultimately implemented. Most participants agreed that the existing consensus statement was working well as a communications tool and judged that the threshold for making changes to the document should be a high one. On the specific issues, there was widespread agreement that inflation moderately above the Committee's 2 percent goal and inflation the same amount below that level were equally costly--and many participants thought that that view was largely shared by the public. One participant suggested that the Committee should clarify the time horizon within which it seeks to achieve its inflation objective. Participants believed that the language referring to the Committee's balanced approach in promoting its objectives was appropriately broad and encompassed the views of participants. A number of participants noted that financial stability is a necessary condition for the achievement of the Committee's longer-run goals. A few of them offered suggestions for communicating more specifically how financial stability, and perhaps other asymmetric risks to the outlook, are taken into account in the setting of monetary policy. However, several other participants noted that reaching an agreement in the near term on clarifying the linkages between monetary policy and financial stability could prove challenging, in part because the issues involved are complex and need further study. Regarding broader communications issues, a number of participants suggested that the subcommittee could again investigate the feasibility and desirability of constructing a consensus forecast, building on the lessons of the experiments carried out in 2012, and several thought that further enhancements to the Summary of Economic Projections might also be worth considering. No decisions were made at this meeting, and participants generally agreed that it would be useful to discuss these issues further at upcoming meetings. FREE AppDownload
The name "Citibank" calls up a lot of bad memories in the financial world.  One that stands out is Chuck Prince, Citi's former head, telling the Financial Times in the summer of 2007 that the emerging financial crisis wasn't going to upset his bank's business.  "As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance," he said. "We're still dancing." Citi promptly faced $45 billion in writedowns and a long saga of bailouts, prompting a spin out of a holdings company with especially terrible assets.  Fast forward to today.  Though Citi is cutting jobs and pulling out of markets, the name still earns respect. We pay attention to its recommendations of stocks to pick and technologies that will change the world.  Landing a job there could change your life — since, like with Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, or Morgan Stanley, the ceiling for compensation is sky high.  According to the self-reported salaries and bonuses listed on Glassdoor, the job reviewing site, you can pull in over $750,000 if you make it up to executive director.  As is the case with other financial institutions, investment banking positions at Citi see their compensation numbers swell with bonuses. The base salary for an investment banking associate, for example, stands at an average of $116,984. It nearly doubles after bonuses, vaulting to $210,869.  Here's the combined compensation — annual salary and bonus — for 15 positions at Citi, according to Glassdoor:  FREE AppDownload
This week, a judge in New York awarded $10.8 million in damages to New York women who filed a lawsuit against the strip club they worked for, Rick's Cabaret in Midtown Manhattan, alleging that they were improperly classified as independent contractors when they were, in fact, employees.  As independent contractors, the dancers were not paid a salary but did receive "performance fees" for private dances. Rick's took a cut of any of the performance fees paid by credit card and allegedly imposed fines and penalties on the dancers for various reasons. The dancers accused Rick's of failing to pay minimum wage under the Fair Labor Standards Act. This is tangentially, but importantly, related to the lawsuit that was just filed by workers of Handy, the Silicon Valley cleaning startup. A wave of similar lawsuits have appeared in several different states, with eight in progress, according to the Independent Contractor Compliance legal blog.  Back in May, the home improvement store Lowe's settled a class-action suit in California for $6.5 million over its alleged misclassification of 4,000 employees as independent contractors. The legal momentum seems to be on the side of the plaintiffs in these cases. This is bad for Silicon Valley, which relies on the "1099 economy" (named after the tax form for independent contractors). Kevin Roose laid out the issue in a New York Magazine article back in September:  For start-ups trying to make it in a competitive tech industry, the benefit of opting for 1099 contractors over W-2 wage-earners is obvious. Doing so lowers your costs dramatically, since you only have to pay contract workers for the time they spend providing services, and not for their lunch breaks, commutes, and vacation time... In other words, the 1099 economy is almost perfectly calibrated to serve the needs of fast-moving start-ups — lower costs, less liability, the ability to grow and shrink the labor pool quickly ..."  In other words, many of Silicon Valley's most novel business models rely on being able to have cheap, nimble workforces by using contract workers. It's going to be a problem for these businesses if the courts start ruling that these models are illegal.  The government seems to be more focused on preventing misclassification in recent years. In 2011, then-Labor Secretary Hilda Solis helped strike an agreement between the Labor Department and the IRS to combat rampant misclassification of workers.  The Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report in 2009 trying to determine how widespread the problem was. At the time, about 7.6% of workers were classified as "independent contractors" by employers (a post by HBR based in a freelancers union report put the total number at about 21.1 million). A 2000 estimate from the Labor Department suggested that between 10% and 30% of employers misclassified employees.  Here's the breakdown of tax responsibilities on a worker and an employer based on classification, from the GAO report:  GAOObviously, it's cheaper and easier to employ independent contractors than full-time employees. But when does work cross the line into full employment?  As far as the courts are concerned, the issue is how much control the companies have over their workers.  In the New York case, Rick's argued "that it exercised minimal control over the dancers, and that, therefore, the dancers were more like independent contractors than they were like employees."  But the club had rules for the dancers, like no gum chewing and no using the public restrooms meant for guests; requirements about shift times and how long the dancers were committed to work; and fines that were allegedly imposed on dancers who broke the rules. The court found that those rules, which were imposed to meet the club's marketing and business ends, rather than to keep the dancers in compliance with employment law, made the dancers employees.  The court's reasoning that workers have to be classified as employees if they must follow rules for marketing and/or business ends is bad news for Silicon Valley. Think of that in the context of this allegation in the Handy lawsuit:  Gawker / ScribdThis is a different court in a different area of the country, but it's reasonable to assume that the legal thinking will be similar in this case. Things are not looking good for Silicon Valley in this regard. If the women suing Handy are successful, get ready for an avalanche of similar lawsuits from other workers in the freelance economy. Here's the full Handy lawsuit via Valleywag:  FREE AppDownload
During their most recent policy meeting, the board members of Mexico’s central bank made a passing reference to violence. Tucked away in the minutes of the discussion, at the end of a long paragraph about global growth and oil prices, the remark seemed like an afterthought in a 15-page document detailing the bank’s decision to keep its overnight rate unchanged. “The recent social developments in the country,” it read, “could deteriorate the level of confidence of domestic and foreign economic agents, having a negative effect on investment.” A mere 33 words in Spanish, but significant ones at that. The reference was to the case of 43 college students in Guerrero state who were allegedly detained by police in September on orders of a local mayor, turned over to a drug gang and killed, their bodies then incinerated beyond recognition. After the attorney general disclosed those gruesome details in a press conference earlier this month, protestors took to the streets, setting fire to part of the iconic National Palace in Mexico City and the state legislature in Guerrero. Newspaper opinion columns spouted scathing criticism of President Enrique Peña Nieto for failing to quell drug violence that has taken more than 70,000 lives since 2006. Mexican finance officials rarely address the impact that the government’s eight-year campaign against drug cartels might be having on investment, so the fact that the central bank mentioned the case at all suggests the case of the students is particularly worrying. The brutality of the crime is alarming, even by Mexican drug gang standards. And, as happens time and time again, it implicates public officials, highlighting the country’s persistent problem of political corruption. Continued protests suggest the case won’t just fade away like bad news in Mexico often does, and that may have a more lasting impact on growth, according to Alonso Cervera, Credit Suisse’s Chief Economist for Latin America. “The straw that broke the camel’s back is how these students were killed,” he says. “It’s worse than a horror movie.” So what, exactly, has the impact of violence been on Mexican growth and investment? A difficult number to pinpoint, to be sure, but the national statistics institute estimated in late 2012 that the cost of crime to the private sector was 1.5 percent of GDP in 2011. That includes factors such as the cost of stolen goods, extortion payments and security measures, as well as foregone investments due to fears of crime. The Sydney-based Institute for Economics and Peace, for its part, estimated earlier this year that the direct cost of containing violence in Mexico was 3.8 percent of GDP, roughly the same size as the country’s auto industry, although that figure is wider in scope, including factors such as the government’s budget for fighting violent crime. But the overall impact is surely even wider than that, if you include measures such as the damage done to local businesses. Hotel operators in the Guerrero beach resort city of Acapulco, for instance, had thousands of cancellations due to the protests. Precise estimates aside, it’s quite clear, says Cervera, that Mexico’s economy would be growing faster, company earnings would be higher and the peso would be stronger if the country were safer. Indeed, GDP growth has been a laggard in the Latin America region, averaging just 2.6 percent between 1994 and 2013. “The Bolsa has had a good run,” Cervera says. “But it probably would have been a better one if Mexico was a safer place.” Is there a point at which foreign investment pulls out completely? After all, the Guerrero incident certainly isn’t the first case of egregious violence in Mexico, and foreign companies continue to invest heavily in sectors such as manufacturing. What’s more, economic reforms in industries like telecommunications helped foreign direct investment more than double to a record $35.2 billion in 2013. One litmus test of whether the violence has reached critical levels will be the level of interest generated by new oil contracts that the government will offer to private companies as part of its landmark energy reform, especially since many of the country’s oil fields are located in dangerous parts of the country.  On the other hand, global energy companies are used to working in countries with deteriorating security conditions, so perhaps it will elucidate nothing at all.  What is certain is that Mexicans seem to be more publicly infuriated than before, directing more angst at the president than at the local authorities implicated in the Guerrero case. “That tells you the level of despair in the people,” says Cervera. That can’t be good for investor confidence. FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett made the first pennies of his estimated $71 billion fortune 78 years ago.  As a 6-year-old kid in Omaha, Nebraska, he bought packs of gum at his grandfather's grocery store, and spent the evenings going door to door selling them to neighbors.  Buffett wasn't intimidated; he was a hyper-intelligent, super-talkative kid who had an easy manner with grown-ups.  But he took a firm stance with selling. "I remember a woman named Virginia Macoubrie saying, 'I'll take one stick of Juicy Fruit,'" Buffett recalled to Alice Schroeder in her biography, "The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life." His reply to the woman? "We don't break up packs of gum." It was a matter of honor for the mogul-to-be.  "I've got my principles," he explained to Schroeder. "I still, to this day, remember Mrs. Macoubrie saying that she wanted one stick."  And the young Buffett wouldn't move an inch.  "No, they were sold only in five-stick packs," Buffett said. "They were a nickel, and she wanted to spend a penny with me."  Buffett's early business acumen would blossom as he grew.  Using a variety of hustles beyond selling gum — including horse tracks, pinball machines, and delivering the Washington Post — Buffett would make $53,000 by age 16. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe leaf on the Apple symbol is tinted green at the Apple flagship store on 5th Ave in New York(Reuters) - Creditors of GT Advanced Technologies complained in a bankruptcy court filing that the sapphire company may have gotten too little in its proposed settlement with Apple Inc over legal claims stemming from a deal to supply sapphire screens. GT Advanced's chief operating officer has said in court papers that the iPhone maker pulled a "bait and switch" to force the sapphire maker into a money-losing deal in 2013. GT Advanced shocked investors by filing for bankruptcy in October in a case that was initially shrouded in secrecy due to a confidentiality agreements with Apple. After the bankruptcy filing, Apple agreed to release GT Advanced from the deal and allow it to sell more than 2,000 sapphire furnaces located in Mesa, Arizona. The agreement needs approval by U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Henry Boroff, who has been hearing the Chapter 11 bankruptcy case in Springfield, Massachusetts. Holders of GT Advanced's notes, including Aristeia Capital and an affiliate of Wolverine Asset Management, said in court papers the "extraordinary allegations against Apple ... call into question the adequacy of the settlement agreement." The noteholders cited allegations that Apple breached its contract and acted unfairly as GT Advanced's lender. The noteholders also said Apple's claims on GT Advanced's equipment may be unsecured. This would put Apple among the last creditors to be paid, not the first as Apple's deal anticipates. Apple has denied GT Advanced's allegations. In court filings, Apple has called the accusations "scandalous and defamatory" and "intended to vilify Apple and portray Apple as a coercive bully." The noteholders said they want access to internal records and documents from Apple and GT Advanced to investigate if the settlement lets Apple off too cheaply. The noteholders asked Boroff to postpone the settlement hearing, currently scheduled for Nov. 25, to give them time to complete their investigation. For its part, GT Advanced said it is negotiating with potential buyers for its sapphire furnaces and said in court papers an extended delay in approving the Apple settlement could hurt its ability to reorganize and repay its creditors. Under last year's deal, GT Advanced outfitted a plant owned by Apple in Mesa with furnaces that it would use to make scratch-resistant sapphire exclusively for Apple. To fund the deal, Apple agreed to loan GT Advanced more than $500 million. The case is GT Advanced Technologies Inc, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Hampshire, No. 14-11916 (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
The way middle-class consumers are spending their money is hurting some retailers.  While lower gas prices mean Americans theoretically have more disposable income, they aren't choosing to spend it at retailers like Wal-Mart, Target, and Macy's, industry expert Robin Lewis writes on his blog.  Macy's CFO Karen Hoguet told analysts that consumers today have priorities other than clothing and housewares.  "Shoppers are spending more of their disposable dollars on categories we don’t sell, like cars, healthcare, electronics and home improvement," Hoguet said in a call with investors last week.  Lewis says that this could spell trouble for many retailers this holiday season. Macy's and Target have both reported disappointing sales recently.  He believes that although Wal-Mart recently reported a slight increase in sales, long-term trends aren't promising for business.  "Walmart is clawing back its customers whom they lost to the thousands of smaller neighborhood dollar stores during the recession when gas prices were high and low-income shoppers had a shorter ride to those local stores, thus saving fuel costs," Lewis writes. It's also possible that Americans have come to expect promotions on items like clothing, and would rather invest in other categories.  "With coupons, discounts, loyalty points and gifts-with-purchase more the rule than the exception today, consumers are spending less because they can," Lewis writes.  This chart from Morgan Stanley shows that Americans are spending less on apparel and footwear. Morgan Stanley  Consumers' newfound obsession with home improvement is helping business at Lowe's.  CEO Robert Niblock told Bloomberg that desire for Americans to invest in their homes is at the highest level since 2006.   FREE AppDownload
An airport the size of New York City's JFK collects 4 tons of prohibited items every year. The TSA put some of these items on display as a reminder to passengers to be cognizant of what they're packing in their carry-ons as the holiday travel season approaches. You can check what items are prohibited on the TSA's website. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Bloomberg TV screenshotJim Chanos, the founder of short-only hedge fund Kynikos Associates, went off on Tesla at the Sohn Conference in London.  According to a source at the conference, Chanos joked that couldn't believe the Zillow and Tesla "short" ideas that he missed. Earlier in the day, both Zillow and Tesla were pitched as long ideas by Marc Chatin of Parus Finance and Michael Messara of Caledonia Investments, respectively.  It is unclear whether or not Chanos is short Tesla or Zillow. His presentation was a short of thesis Sotheby's, a position he is public about. On Tesla, Chanos said the company is a testament to "our ability to trust 10 year forecasts from people who can't get 1 year forecasts right," according to the Twitter feed of Bloomberg Media' Dennis O'Brien. During Tesla's last earnings call, CEO Elon Musk admitted that the company would sell 33,000 cars in 2014, not 35,000. Consumer Reports later published a story citing a source inside Tesla that said "the company has about 2,300 remaining 2014 Model S cars, including showroom display cars," and that the company is selling those at a discount. Musk said that his sales issues were with manufacturing, not demand. "Demand is not our issue; production is our issue," Musk said. "We have more demand than we can address and levers we can pull to increase demand, and we're not doing it." Also, on Wednesday Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas slashed his 2015 delivery estimates of the Model X from 15,000 to 5,000. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamed Nureldin AbdallahGold has come all the way back. In early trade Wednesday, the price of gold fell more than 1.5% in about 15 minutes, from about $1,195 an ounce to about $1,175, but the precious metal has erased all of those losses. The move lower was related to headlines crossing Bloomberg that said a new poll from Swiss TV (SRF) showed that 47% of voters were seen rejecting a measure that would require Switzerland to hold 20% of its $547 billion in assets in gold. The poll showed 38% of voters were in favor of the measure, with 15% undecided.  A majority is needed for the measure to pass, with a vote scheduled for Nov. 30.  Switzerland currently has about 8% of its assets in gold. This latest poll follows a late October poll from SRF that showed 44% were in support of the measure, 39% of voters were against and 17% were undecided. Gold had regained about $50/ounce through November after the precious metal had a nasty breakdown at the end of October, cracking $1,200 for the first time in years.  The negative news out of Switzerland saw the gold market again disappointed on Wednesday. But now it seems the bulls have retaken control. For now.  Here's the chart. FinViz Here's the long-term chart of gold, which remains near multi-year lows since the precious metal topped out in 2011.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
screenshot/"American Psycho"Look like him, don't act like him.A man's got to show up looking sharp and professional, whether it's for work or a date.  And to do that, you need to have all the grooming essentials for shaving, hair, and skincare. As you and your skin age, you're not going to get by using the same drugstore products you did when you were younger. Your hair and skin need more care now, so it's time to upgrade your morning routine. Insider Picks rounded up the essentials for great grooming that'll keep you looking your best. Instead of buying hundreds of disposable razors that will irritate and cut your skin, invest in one good razor (manual or electric). It'll save your skin some serious abuse. Here are some razors and products that will help prevent burns, cuts, and bleeding. Braun Series 7-790cc Pulsonic Men's Shaving SystemAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $269.99 $170.99 AmazonBraun Series 7-790cc Pulsonic Men's Shaving System Panasonic ES-LA63-S Arc4 Electric Shaver Wet/Dry with Multi-Flex Pivoting Head for MenAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $299.99 $139.95 Old Spice Men's ShaverAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $69.99 $59.99 Philips Norelco BG2040/34 Bodygroom 7100Amazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $69.99 $69.95 The Art of Shaving Set (Comes with Shave brush) Amazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $80.00 $79.95  Amazon If you're feeling adventurous, go for a safety razor. They look cool, and because they're heavier you can use a soft touch.  It won't clog as much as a multi-blade razor, and cuts the hair in a single pass, which prevents ingrown hairs. Just be careful. Merkur Long Handled Safety RazorAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $37.00 $29.99 Edwin Jagger Chrome Plated Safety RazorAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $44.39 $34.48 AmazonThe Art of Shaving Pre-Shave Oil Pre-shave oil helps soften facial hair and also moisturizes and protects skin from burning and cuts. If you have sensitive skin, a coarse beard, or are prone to ingrown hairs, definitely grab some.  The Art of Shaving Pre-Shave OilAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $31.63 $20.80 Proraso Anti-Irritation Pre-Shaving CreamAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $13.00 $11.41 Jack Black Beard Lube ConditioningAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $11.00 Kyoku for Men Electric Pre-Shave OptimizerAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $15.00 $7.51 Unless you're planning on just dragging a dry razor right across your face, you're going to need some shaving cream. We recommend getting a nice, creamy one with a built-in moisturizer to help soften and smooth your skin. Plus, it will keep your skin from getting too dry and flaking off, especially in the winter when the air is more dry. AmazonHenry Cavendish Shaving CreamHenry Cavendish Shaving CreamAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $25.95 $19.47 Malin + Goetz Vitamin E Shaving CreamAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $22.00 Lucky Tiger Mollè Brushless Shave CreamAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $14.25 And shaving cream for brushes: Jack Black Beard Lube Conditioning ShaveAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $17.00 Jack Black Supreme Cream Triple Cushion Shave LatherAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $23.00 Baxter of California After Shave Balm To help prevent post-shave irritation and cut infections, you'll need some aftershave. These can be applied directly after shaving, or whenever your skin is feeling irritated. These options are all lightweight and moisturizing. Baxter of California After Shave BalmAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $18.00 Neutrogena Men Razor Defense Post Shave LotionAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $27.96 $23.50 Nivea for Men Sensitive Post Shave BalmAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $35.19 $20.36 AmazonPaula's Choice Clear Extra Strength Acne Treatment Unfortunately, moving past puberty doesn't guarantee a spot-free face. Here are some great acne-fighters that are strong enough to zap blemishes, but are gentle enough to not dry out and destroy your skin. Good acne treatment is always worth the investment. Paula's Choice Clear Extra Strength Acne TreatmentAmazon Rating: 5 StarsPrice: $18.00 MD Skincare Correct &amp; Perfect Spot TreatmentAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $32.84 MenScience Androceuticals Acne Spot RepairAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $23.00 AmazonKiehl's Facial Fuel Energzing Face Wash Gel Cleanser You'll want remove all the dirt and oil that piles in your skin after a long day or gym workout. These cleansers will keep your skin and face clean without them drying out too much.  These are also great to keep in your gym bag or at your desk just in case. Kiehl's Facial Fuel Energizing Face Wash Gel CleanserAmazon Rating: 5 StarsPrice: $30.00 Jack Black Pure Clean Daily Facial CleanserAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $33.00 Kyoku for Men Daily Facial CleanserAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $14.25 AmazonJack Black Double-Duty Face Moisturizer SPF 20 Winter's low temperatures and freezing winds will destroy your skin. Invest in a great moisturizer to keep your skin from cracking, flaking, and peeling off. These are all great options that aren't too oily or heavy, so you won't look shiny or feel like you're "wearing make up." Jack Black Double-Duty Face Moisturizer SPF 20Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $27.00 Neutrogena Men Age Fighter Face MoisturizerAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $27.00 MenScience Androceuticals Advanced Face LotionAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $39.00 Kyoku for Men Facial MoisturizerAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $49.00 $13.00 AmazonPura d'or Premium Organic Anti-Hair Loss Shampoo It's a sad truth that about 70% of guys are going to deal with some hair loss or thinning as they age. One way to fight that early is to use the right shampoo. These will help keep your scalp and hair follicles healthy, and also reduce the amount of hair you shed.  Pura d'or Premium Organic Anti-Hair Loss ShampooAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $39.00 $33.79 Ultrax Labs Hair Surge Caffeine Hair Loss Hair Growth Stimulating ShampooAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $59.99 $43.99 Phytoworx Organic Hair Loss ShampooAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $79.99 $59.99 If you're looking for something a bit stronger than just preventative care, you should look into some hair growth shampoo. AmazonGreen Touch Beauty Hair Growth ShampooDS Laboratories Revita Hair Growth Stimulating ShampooAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $36.50 $21.40 Green Touch Beauty Hair Growth ShampooAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $52.50 $33.50 PRI Hair Growth ShampoooAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $34.95 $16.95 AmazonDS Laboratories Revita Hair Growth Stimulating Shampoo This product is ideal for guys with straight or wavy hair. Iit'll give you a medium hold and works well for those who prefer the messy look. Wax holds hair in place without looking rock-solid or making your head sticky. It also doesn't add shine to your hair and washes out easily. Blind Barber, Crew, and Uppercut are all favorites.   Blind Barber 60 Proof Hair WaxAmazon Rating: 5 StarsPrice: $18.00 American Crew Classic Fiber (2 Pack)Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $33.92 $25.16 Uppercut Matt ClayAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: AmazonUppercut Deluxe Pomade Pomade is basically the same thing as hair wax except it holds your hair a little more and adds shine. Which one you use just depends on your preference. Uppercut Deluxe PomadeAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $18.00 American Crew PomadeAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $31.92 $24.91 Blind Barber 90 Proof Hair PomadeAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $18.00 AmazonBlind Barber 60 Proof Hair Wax Styling creme, on the other hand, works well for guys with curly hair. It doesn't have any hold and gives your locks a light shine.  It will keep your hair moisturized and healthy-looking.   Bumble and Bumble by Bumble and Bumble Styling CremeAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $26.00 $24.99 Malin + Goetz Sage Styling CreamAmazon Rating: 4.5 StarsPrice: $37.82 Moroccanoil Hydrating Styling CreamAmazon Rating: 4 StarsPrice: $40.99 Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders buy more on sunny days, according to a new study out by a group of finance professors. The authors summed up their paper, "Weather-Induced Mood, Institutional Investors, and Stock Returns," in the Harvard Law School's corporate governance blog: Using the survey data, we find that sunnier days are associated with optimistic responses related to stock mispricing. That is, investor optimism increases the likelihood of perceived underpricing in both individual stocks and the Dow Jones Industrial Average ... We show that sunnier days are associated with increased buying propensities of institutional investors.  The paper notes that "prior research also supports the idea that mood can have an intertemporal effect on decision making." Also, previous studies have found that cloud cover over the New York Stock Exchange has a correlation with negative stock market index returns.  So, if you can predict the weather, you may have an advantage in the market. The full paper is available here. (via Matt Levine) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe exterior of the U.S. Department of Justice headquarters building in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Department of Justice collected a record $24.7 billion in penalties from fraud and other cases in fiscal year 2014, the agency said on Wednesday, as fines against banks for financial misconduct soared.  Collections from civil and criminal actions, including money collected on behalf of other agencies, was $8 billion in 2013, and $13 billion in 2012. Collections in 2014 were boosted by multi-billion dollar payouts from JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co  and Citigroup Inc   to resolve claims they misled investors about the quality of mortgage bonds in the run up to the financial crisis, and include $11 billion in payments made to federal agencies or states. Payouts in fiscal year 2014, which ended Sept. 30, also include hundreds of millions of dollars in fines levied on UBS AG  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . "It shows the fruits of the Justice Department’s tireless work in enforcing federal laws ... and in holding financial institutions accountable for their roles in causing the 2008 financial crisis,” Attorney General Eric Holder said in announcing the total collections.     (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload

ReutersDATE IMPORTED:March 11, 2010Lance Corpral Alan Leiper (L) and Private Kris Green push a wooden cask of Mortlach 70-year-old single malt whisky at Edinburgh castle in Scotland March 11, 2010.Nothing says "Happy Holidays" like the warm embrace of brown liquor. And we mean whiskey. Chances are you know someone who loves the stuff as much as we do, but you may not know what kind of gift to get the whiskey lover in your life. Here are some strong suggestions. With the help of Robert Haynes-Peterson, Business Insider has put together a list of the best whiskeys to drink this holiday season, and other great gifts for any whiskey-lover.  Drinks, books, stocking stuffers — it's all in there. The only thing you need to do is pour. Enjoy. FREE AppDownload
Artesian BarLondon's Artesian serves a killer cocktail.Some bars sling well drinks and draft beers for the masses. Others elevate cocktail-making to a fine art. We've now put together the ultimate list of top spots around the world. Drinks International recently released its annual list of the World's 50 Best Bars, which are voted on by a multinational academy of 334 bar buffs. Pubs, taverns, speakeasies, lounges — these guys have visited them all. From Sydney to Singapore (and don't forget Seattle), the list hits four continents and 14 cities. We're taking a closer look at the top 25; see the full list here. FREE AppDownload
Learn how to tie ascot, once-around, and loop knots. This is the most useful information you'll learn this winter. So pay attention and stay warm. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Special thanks to Devan Joseph and Antonio Centeno. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Wikimedia CommonsTesla Model X.Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas thinks Tesla will deliver only a third of the Model X's he expected next year, and the stock is down almost 4%. "We have adopted our Model X forecasts not only for a 3Q launch (which we expect to be late 3Q), but also for a slow ramp once deliveries begin," Jonas' note said. "Our forecasts apply what we believe to be reasonable execution risk on this important model to ensure uncompromising quality of initial units. We recently raised a question about whether a seemingly mundane attribute of the car, the falcon doors, could prove to be a technical challenge at scale." In other words — as Elon Musk said after the company's earnings last month — it's really hard to manufacture something.  "Demand is not our issue; production is our issue," Musk said. "We have more demand than we can address and levers we can pull to increase demand, and we're not doing it." Jonas is slashing delivery estimates t0 5,000 from 15,000. His price target, however, remains unchanged at $320. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Japan needs to open up its beer market to European exports if Tokyo and Brussels are to agree one of the world's biggest free trade deals next year, according to an EU document prepared for the next round of talks in December. Japan and the European Union are seeking to strike a deal at the end of 2015 but EU countries including France and Germany question Tokyo's willingness to change often little-known rules and product specifications that Europe says serve as trade barriers. At an eighth round of talks on Dec. 8, EU negotiators will tell their Japanese counterparts that more rules governing the import of alcoholic beverages need to change, and EU negotiators will seek to change Japan's definition of what constitutes beer. "For beer, the impact on trade is rather significant," said the EU document obtained by Reuters. "Many of the European beers cannot be marketed as beers in Japan because of insufficient -- according to the Japanese legislation -- malt content or because they have some ingredients such as coriander," it said. Coriander seeds are used in Belgian and German wheat beers to add a citrus flavor. Japan's beer market is the world's third largest in terms of profit generation but is dominated by domestic producers Kirin &lt;2503.T&gt;, Asahi &lt;2502.T&gt;, Sapporo &lt;2501.T&gt; and Suntory [SUNTH.UL]. Europeans have a negligible presence, with joint ventures allowing local production of premium beers such as Heineken &lt;hein.as&gt;. European industry believes Japan has special regulations on everything from beer to music and imported cars. Overall, an EU-Japan trade agreement could lift the economic output of both sides by almost 1 percent, according to the European Commission, the EU executive. Japan is the EU's seventh-largest export market. A Japan-EU deal would also fit into an emerging patchwork of sophisticated accords between the world's richest countries following the failure of global free-trade talks. The EU document on Japan is the trade bloc's second list of so-called non-tariff barriers and follows progress on tackling the issue this year. EU trade negotiators had been told to pull the plug on talks, which began in April 2013, if Japan did not show sufficient progress on non-tariff barriers. In May, Brussels said it was broadly satisfied with Japan's progress, allowing negotiations to continue.   (Additional reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
I was intrigued by this article on Yahoo Finance by Tony Robbins who cites his interview with Ray Dalio in his upcoming book.  I ordered the book despite the fact that the blurbs in the back struck me as outlandish.  For instance, the back cover says: “Learn how you can apply a never-before-revealed investment strategy from the world’s largest hedge fund manager that has made money even when the markets crashed”. And: “Invest like the wealthy where you participate in market gains but are guaranteed to never lose when the market drops”. Yes, my eyes are rolling.  But let’s explore this in more detail before we just shrug it off. First, the “never-before-revealed” strategy is Ray Dalio’s All Weather strategy.  It’s most certainly been revealed and widely distributed to those who actually track this stuff so “never” revealed is obviously just catchy terminology. In fact, there are now several funds that claim to do some version of this approach.  But look at what Robbins actually recommends in the article based on Dalio’s thinking – it’s a 55% bonds, 30% stocks, 15% commodities portfolio.  So let’s assess this a bit. First, this is not the actual All Weather portfolio.  Dalio has been known to use dozens and more non-correlating assets.  In fact, Dalio is on record saying that the key to the approach is finding 15 or more sources of non-correlated returns: “If you have 15 or more good, uncorrelated return streams — the math of that is such that if you go from 1 to 2 uncorrelated return streams. That you will reduce your risk by about 80% at about 15. And there’s a certain math to it; there’s a certain structure to it.” The Yahoo Finance portfolio has 3, maybe 4 drivers.  This portfolio is just cookie cutter stocks, bonds and commodities.  There’s really nothing fancy going on here at all. Second, the All Weather portfolio utilizes leverage to achieve risk parity.  Therefore, it’s obvious that the Yahoo Finance portfolio is not using the same degree of strategic diversification that Dalio implements in the All Weather portfolio. Bloomberg TVRay DalioThird, this portfolio is just a bond heavy portfolio.  Robbins mentions how “astonished” he was by the “back-tested” results of the portfolio.  Well, of course a bond heavy portfolio will perform well during the greatest bond bull market of the last 100 years.  And as I often mention, this is one of the dangers of back-testing.  The idea that that future will necessarily look like the past is ludicrously misleading.  And yes, bonds will not come close to generating the types of returns in the coming 30 years that they have in the past 30 years.  You just need an ounce of common sense to know that. I hate to rain on the parade here (not like it matters since the book is selling so well), but this is not a newly revealed approach and it most certainly will not “guarantee” that you make money in the future.  In fact, if I had a gun to my head I’d bet the ranch that this bond heavy portfolio with a commodity tilt generates sub-optimal returns going forward.  We know that because the math on the low bond yields and the negative real returns of commodities makes it a high probability bet. So please be careful reading this – I know the allure of a market guru can be strong.  But this portfolio is not a true representation of Ray Dalio’s All Weather portfolio so don’t go running into this idea thinking that you’ve found some “guarantee” of high returns.  That said, I look forward to reading Tony’s book.  I am sure there are tons of valuable insights in the book. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThe U.S. Federal Reserve building in Washington.The market is open and stocks are falling. In early trade on Wednesday, the Dow was down 53 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 9 points, and the Nasdaq was down 34 points. The decline in stocks on Wednesday comes after both the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 made new all-time highs on Tuesday, and comes ahead of the release of the minutes from the Federal Reserve's most recent FOMC meeting. The minutes are set for release at 2:00 pm ET, and are expected to provide the market with insight into the FOMC's thinking at its last monetary policy meeting, where the Committee made the decision to end its quantitative easing program. The economic calendar is light on Wednesday, with just housing data coming out in the form of housing starts and building permits. The report was mixed, with housing starts slowing more than expected, and building permits rising more than expected.  In stock news, Tesla is among the notable losers, falling about 4% in early trade after a research report form Morgan Stanley said the electric carmaker will sell 10,000 fewer Model X SUVs in 2015 than the firm previously expected.  Staples shares were up more than 8% after the company announced third quarter results that saw adjusted profit beat expectations by a penny, and sales come in at about $6 billion, more than the $5.93 billion expected by analysts. On a year-over-year basis, however, sales fell 2.5%, as sales in North America fell about 6%, though online sales through Staples.com rose 9% over the prior year.  FREE AppDownload
Daniel GoodmanA quick note of thanks to you, our readers, for making Business Insider the No. 1 business publication in the United States. When we launched Business Insider 7 years ago, we never dreamed that we would eventually be read by so many of you. In those days, "we" was three of us writing from the elevator loading dock of another startup. Every once in a while, the elevator door would open, and we would all squish over to the side while the FreshDirect folks delivered snacks and sodas to the other startup. About a thousand of you dropped by to read our stories on the first day, which seemed like a lot. Over the next week, however, your numbers dwindled, and we feared for our future. But those of you who did come were vocal and encouraging, so we kept at it. And soon your numbers began to grow again. Seven years later, Comscore tells us that 35 million of you visited us in the U.S. alone last month.  We also have 7 international editions of Business Insider now — in Australia, India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, China, and the UK — and another 5 million of you read those each month. Two weeks ago, we launched Business Insider UK — from a loading-dock-like office in London's "Silicon Roundabout" — and you have welcomed us warmly there, as well. Comscore says, in fact, that your attention has now made us the No. 1 business publication in the country. Given the strength, quality, and longevity of your many alternatives — the Wall Street Journal, the Financial Times, Bloomberg.com, et al — we're deeply honored by that. Thank you for the time and attention you share with us. And thank you for sharing so many of our stories with your colleagues and friends.  There are 200 of us now, and we can afford our own snacks and groceries, but we still have the same goal we did back in the loading dock days. Make Business Insider better for you every day. -- Henry Blodget, Co-Founder, Editor, and CEO Comscore FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockThis post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group.  For most adults, taking care of your parents as they get older is an inevitable part of life. But nearly half of Americans in their 40s and 50s are now forced to juggle supporting their aging parents and their adult children. People in this situation are now known as the "sandwich generation." According to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey, 21% of adults in their 40s and 50s provided some form of financial support to a parent age 65 or older, while a sluggish economy has forced nearly half of those adults to provide some form of financial support to a child 18 or older. This added financial strain can wreak havoc on those trying to save for their retirement. While it may be tempting to dip into your savings or empty out your 401(k) to help support your family, it's important to maintain your own financial security. Here are a few things to keep in mind for those who want to balance their financial needs with those of their aging parents and financially dependent children.  In the case of an emergency, airlines always advise passengers to put on their oxygen masks before assisting others. Well, the same can be said for your personal finances. It's best to secure your financial situation prior to supporting other generations, or else you may risk jeopardizing your entire financial future. It's not fair, nor is it wise, to go into debt supporting your parents or adult children if you haven't even figured out your own retirement plans. Before you're in a situation in which you're fully supporting your parents, you should sit down and create a plan for them. Review any life insurance plans they may have as well as legal documents like power of attorney, healthcare proxy, and living wills. Also, be sure to discuss their plans for what do to if they fall ill, and most importantly, how much you can contribute without spreading yourself thin.  Healthcare costs for aging parents, like in-home health assistance and stays in a nursing home, can add up quickly. If your parents haven't already planned for long-term care, it's a good idea to get started by researching insurance options.  Caring for an aging or ailing parent puts not just a financial strain on your life, but also an emotional one. If you have siblings, you shouldn't be the only one taking on the challenge. Have a candid conversation with your family about how to share the costs and time of supporting your parents.  Shutterstock Dealing with an unemployed or underemployed adult son or daughter? While it's natural to want to nurture and protect your kids, at this age it's important to talk with them about how much you are willing and capable of supporting them. Don't spread yourself thin if you can't afford it. If they plan on moving back in (or never moved out), let them know they're responsible for contributing — whether that's paying rent or the electrical bill, doing housework, or picking up groceries. Any little bit helps.  Got a college kid living at home with you? There's a tax break for that. Parents can claim children up to the age of 24 as long as the child has lived with them for more than half the year and the parents have provided at least 50% of their financial support. Dependents — including your parents — can save you up to $3,700 on your taxes. If you pay, again, more than half of your parents' living expenses, you can file them as dependents, even if they don't live with you.  If you find yourself the sole financial provider for both your parents and adult children, then you need to plan for what they would do if something unexpected happened to you. It's a good idea to review and even increase your life insurance during this time to ensure your loved ones are covered, no matter the circumstances.  Learn more about life planning on the Lincoln Financial Group's website.  Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
As of the close of business on Tuesday, long-term US Treasury bonds were yielding 2.83%.  The long-term Treasury composite rate is a combination of bonds that aren't due or callable within 10 years. This rate is historically low. And if you mentioned that yields were "historically low" to most folks on Wall Street, they would most likely say that they know that. But here's some context. This chart, via Credit Suisse, shows the long-term composite rate on US Treasury bonds dating back to 1800.  Only one other time — for about two decades following the Great Depression and through the post-World War II era — has the rate on long-term debt been so low. Credit Suisse Over at Bloomberg on Wednesday, Matt Boesler has a great piece breaking down the problem these long-term rates pose for the Federal Reserve. Last month, the Federal Reserve ended its quantitative-easing program, setting the stage for the Fed to begin tightening monetary conditions, though the market doesn't expect the Fed to raise rates for another 10 months.  But as Boesler notes, banks finance long-term loans with short-term debt, and so if long-term rates remain low but short-term rates rise as the Fed begins raising rates, the yield curve could become inverted, a condition that typically occurs ahead of a recession. Boesler also writes that the problem of perpetually low long-term rates plagued the Fed in the run-up to the financial crisis, when Alan Greenspan was chairman. And shades of 2004-2006 are not the kinds of comparisons that investors are going to want to hear, especially as the stock market has more than tripled in just over five years, a run that has had many asking whether the market has gone too far, too fast.  Time will tell.    FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Carlo AllegriThis year has been the biggest for mergers and acquisitions since the start of the financial crisis, and Goldman Sachs is sitting right at the top, leading more deals than anyone else, The Wall Street Journal reported. Monday's two big M&amp;A announcements -- Actavis PLC's purchase of Allergan Inc for $66 billion and Halliburton's takeover of Baker Hughes Inc. for $34.6 billion -- brings this year's global deal total to a whopping $3.1 trillion, according to the Journal. Goldman alone has made $1.7 billion from the deals. They're now comfortably ahead of arch-rivals Morgan Stanley, the Journal said. Your move, James Gorman. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff. SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Petróleo Brasileiro SA could slash the value of its assets by as much as 21 billion reais ($8.1 billion) and cut dividends as a result of an ongoing investigation into alleged graft and money-laundering at Brazil's state-controlled oil producer, analysts at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co said in a client note. Analyst Bruno Montanari put the price target for U.S.-traded shares of Petrobras &lt;pbr.n&gt;, as the company is known, under review and was reassessing earnings estimates as a consequence of the scandal. The note was obtained by Reuters on Wednesday. An internal investigation, which Chief Executive Maria das Graças Foster kicked off as federal prosecutors found evidence of a criminal scheme operating within the company for years, should lead to asset writedowns ranging from 5 billion reais to 21 billion reais, Morgan Stanley said. The dividend cut could impact the company's common shares &lt;petr3.sa&gt;, Montanari said. The report underscores the headwinds facing Petrobras, which once was the crown jewel of Brazil's economy, but in recent years has become a symbol of the country's fall from grace. Preferred shares of Petrobras &lt;petr4.sa&gt; rose for the first day in five on Wednesday. Petrobras delayed the release of third-quarter earnings last week following accusations that the company systematically overpaid for assets and work by contractors. The excess funds were then funneled to political parties including President Dilma Rousseff's ruling Workers' Party, prosecutors said. If federal and company probes extend for longer than expected and further evidence of wrongdoing is presented, Petrobras could also face restricted access to funding that could force the company to ramp up debt or look for an equity issuance, the note added. "We believe that while investigations are ongoing, the company might face difficulties - and higher costs - in its traditional early-year debt issuance," the note said. "In addition, if there is a material delay in the release of annual audited financials, the company would be at risk of outstanding bonds acceleration." In that case, a solution could be a share offering that "could be very dilutive," Montanari noted. Investors in Petrobras are increasingly concerned that the world's most-indebted major oil company may technically slip into default on about $12 billion worth of global bonds if it fails to report unaudited earnings by year-end. ($1 = 2.5821 Brazilian reais) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDaniel and Robin Akerman into their new house after buying in short sale in Pensacola, FloridaLONDON (Reuters) - Michael Messara, senior portfolio manager of hedge fund Caledonia, said U.S. property portal Zillow &lt;z.o&gt; is the firm's biggest ever bet and he expects it to reach an enterprise value of $50 billion. That would be reached by monitising its audience share, which is 18 times greater than its share of advertising revenue, Messara told the Sohn Conference in London, produced by Bloomberg, and would imply a price of $770 a share. Messara said Zillow would be the same as the market leaders in other countries and follow a similar valuation path, boosted by its strong and defensible position, focus on mobile technology and "best in class" management.   (Reporting by Simon Jessop and Nishant Kumar; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA U.S. Postal Service employee carries a sign during a demonstration with colleagues in San Francisco(Reuters) - Staples Inc &lt;spls.o&gt; reported higher-than-expected quarterly sales and profit as demand recovered for core office supplies such as paper and ink products after six quarters of decline. Shares of the largest U.S. office supplies retailer rose about 4 percent in premarket trading. Staples also raised its free cash flow forecast for the year to "more than $800 million" from "more than $600 million." The company said it would shut 170 stores in North America this year, higher than the 140 stores it had planned earlier. The retailer said it had achieved annual cost savings of more than $200 million, of the $500 million it aimed to save under a two-year program. Same-store sales fell 4 percent in the third quarter ended Nov. 1, in line with the average analyst estimate, according to research firm Consensus Metrix. Staples, which has been focusing on growing its online business, said sales at Staples.com rose 9 percent. Net income rose to $216.8 million, or 34 cents per share, from $135.2 million or 21 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, the company earned 37 cents per share. Revenue, however, fell 2.5 percent to $5.96 billion. Analysts on average had expected a profit of 36 cents per share and revenue of $5.93 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Staples warned that its sales would fall in the holiday quarter too. The company also forecast current-quarter profit of 27-32 cents per share, largely below the average analyst estimate of 31 cents. Staples shares closed at $12.76 on Tuesday on the Nasdaq. Up to Tuesday's close, the stock had fallen nearly 18 percent this year.   (Reporting by Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan, BEA, Federal Reserve, S&amp;P Credit was seizing, business stopped producing, people were losing jobs, and the Dow was dropping by 700 points a day. But six years later, not only has the darkness passed, but the economy has actually flourished. In a new research note, JPMorgan Research analysts chart six economic indicators from before the financial crisis to today — and things are looking good. Five out of the six indicators (corporate profits, stock prices, household net worth, GDP, and business investment) have not only reached their pre-crisis highs, but they have actually surpassed them. "Since the bottom of the economic cycle in June 2009, the US economy has expanded by 20.7% with new highs in economic output and corporate profit margins," according to the report. "US equities since the beginning of economic expansion have risen 19.3% annualized, while earnings have risen 61.2%," and credit fixed income "has risen 13.8% annualized over the same time frame, bringing yields down to new low and spread versus Treasuries back to around their tightest ever levels." And on top of all that, M&amp;A activity is back to 2007 peaks, and capital expenditures have grown by 58% over the past five years. The only indicator that has yet to fully rebound is employment (as measured by the employment-to-population ratio). We still haven't reached the January 2007 high.   FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesHousing starts unexpectedly dropped in October but the number of building permits accelerated. The latest report on housing starts from the Census showed that the pace of housing starts fell 2.8% in October to an annualized pace of 1.009 million. Expectations were for the report to show the pace of starts accelerated slightly in October, to an annualized pace of 1.025 million up from 1.017 million in September.  Month-on-month, the rate was expected to jump 0.8%. September's rate was also revised up to 1.038 million, and Wednesday's number was a 7.8% increase over the pace of starts in the same month a year ago.  Building permits, meanwhile, beat expectations, as permits jumped 4.8% in October to an annualized pace of 1.08 million.  Building permits were expected to rise at a 0.9% month-on-month in October, up to an annualized pace of 1.04 million, up from 1.02 million a year ago.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said that all in all, the trends are flat, consistent with trend in new home sales, and that this report will provide no boost to GDP growth.  FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesHousing starts unexpectedly dropped in October but the number of building permits accelerated. The latest report on housing starts from the Census showed that the pace of housing starts fell 2.8% in October to an annualized pace of 1.009 million. Expectations were for the report to show the pace of starts accelerated slightly in October, to an annualized pace of 1.025 million up from 1.017 million in September.  Month-on-month, the rate was expected to jump 0.8%. September's rate was also revised up to 1.038 million, and Wednesday's number was a 7.8% increase over the pace of starts in the same month a year ago.  Building permits, meanwhile, beat expectations, as permits jumped 4.8% in October to an annualized pace of 1.08 million.  Building permits were expected to rise at a 0.9% month-on-month in October, up to an annualized pace of 1.04 million, up from 1.02 million a year ago.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said that all in all, the trends are flat, consistent with trend in new home sales, and that this report will provide no boost to GDP growth.  FREE AppDownload
Twitter(Reuters) - Target Corp &lt;tgt.n&gt;, the fourth-largest U.S. retailer, reported better-than-expected quarterly sales, helped by a 1.2 percent rise in same-store sales in the United States. Target shares rose 3.4 percent to $69.78 premarket. "We’re pleased with our third quarter financial results, which were driven by better-than-expected performance in our U.S. Segment,” said CEO Brian Cornell. “We’re encouraged by the improving trend we’ve seen in our U.S. business throughout the year, and our fourth quarter plans are designed to sustain this momentum. In Canada, we’ve made improvements to our operations, pricing and assortment in time for the holiday season, and we’re eager to measure how our guests respond." Last week Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;wmt.n&gt;, the largest U.S. retailer, reported its first rise in U.S. same-store sales in seven quarters, helped by the drop in gasoline prices. Target now expects adjusted earnings of $3.15-$3.25 per share for the year ending January, compared with its previous forecast of $3.10-$3.30 per share. The company has had to resort to price cuts to attract cash-strapped consumers and win back customers unsettled by a huge holiday-season data breach last year. Target's net income rose to $352 million, or 55 cents per share in the third quarter ended Nov. 1, from $341 million, or 54 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, the company earned 54 cents per share. Total sales rose 2.7 percent to $17.73 billion. Analysts on average were expecting revenue of $17.56 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Last year's breach resulted in the theft of at least 40 million payment card numbers and 70 million other pieces of customer data. The company said on Wednesday it had incurred net breach-related expenses of $158 million so far, including $12 million in the third quarter. Up to Tuesday's close, Target shares had risen 6.7 percent this year.   (Reporting by Nathan Layne and Sruthi Ramakrishnan; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS GraphicsMap showing the proposed route of TransCanada's Keystone pipelinesJonesTrading's Dave Lutz summarizes what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!  US Futures are mixed, with S&amp;P unchanged but Russell giving back 25bp of yesterday’s “Good Harbor” driven outperformance.   European markets are starting on good footing, led by a 40bp pop in the DAX as Banks and Industrials are in rally mode, offsetting sharp weakness in some materials shares.    Over in Asia, the Nikkei retreated small despite $/Y thru 117 as the Bank of Japan warned on low persistent inflation, while Shanghai fell again as flows from HKconnect wane off.   While EM Asia is rallying again (Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore all 50bp better), Aussie ended in the red, as Miners were under sharp pressure on the biggest fall in iron ore prices in almost six months – Ore falling to a fresh 5Y lows on concerns of China Growth  There is some selling of Treasuries and Bunds this AM as Russian headlines settle and the street gears for heavy corporate issuance and possibly “hawkish” FOMC Minutes.  While the Yen is on 7Y lows against the $, the GBP has a nice bid on BoE Minutes.   Overall, the DXY is up small, causing a headwind for commodities, but most are in the green.  Gold continues to rally, getting upside $1200/oz for a time this AM, while industrially sensitive Copper is adding 50bp.  Some Iraqi violence had an early bid under Brent, While WTI is struggling to stay green as (expected) heavy Oil Inventories and Thursday’s expiry weigh.    Scheduled catalysts include Housing Starts and Permits at 8:30, DOE data for Crude at 10:30, and the FOMC Minutes at 2pm.  FHFA Director Mel Watt to testify before the Senate Banking Committee, and throughout the day we will get headlines from the Sohn London Symposium  With Keystone Supporters Falling One Vote Short in 59-41 Tally, watch names like TRP, ENB, SU, CNRL, IMO, CVE and CNQ / Headwinds for REITS, as yields jumping and Paramount Prices Biggest U.S. REIT IPO (PGRE) / Uralkali continues to have problems, seeing the rally in POT and MOS again early / watch for continued weakness in WTI into tomorrow’s expiry, as DOE data may show heavy buildups of inventories / Watch for the continued shift in Miners, with Ore levered RIO, BHP and FMG sold – while Gold Miners continue to squeeze higher (NUGT in 42% in 3 days) FREE AppDownload
FRED In the long term, this is largely a story about demographics, and Japan is fighting an uphill battle.  One-fourth of Japan's population is older than 65, and that number isn't going down anytime soon. That means a shrinking percentage of the population is working. Meanwhile, a growing percentage of the population is receiving benefits, living on a fixed income, and being supported by that shrinking population of workers. No amount of loose monetary or fiscal policy will bring more working-age people into the economy overnight. With the bulge of Baby Boomers on the brink of retirement, some fear the US faces the same threat. However, the chart above shows just how big the difference is between the countries.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew CullenA depot used to store pipes for Transcanada Corp's planned Keystone XL oil pipeline is seen in Gascoyne, North Dakota, on Friday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. The US Senate Rejected The Keystone Oil Pipeline. The Senate voted 59-41, putting the bill one vote shy of the 60 it needed to reach the White House.  Nothing Is Over. "I look forward to the new Republican majority taking up and passing the Keystone jobs bill early in the new year," incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said. The Takata Airbag Recall Issue Just Got Much Worse. The US government announced Tuesday that it was calling for a nationwide recall of millions of cars due to potentially faulty airbags produced by auto parts giant Takata corporation. As many as 16.8 million cars around the world are reportedly affected by the recall. Markets Are Mixed. US futures are essentially flat, with S&amp;P futures down 1.6 points and Nasdaq futures up 0.5 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.1%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.3%. Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.3%. Get Ready For FOMC Minutes. At 2 p.m. ET, the Federal Reserve will publish the minutes of its October FOMC meeting in which it ended its stimulative bond-buying program. Fed-watchers will be paying close attention to any language regarding jobs and inflation. From Credit Suisse: "The markets likely will be more interested in the discussion concerning the FOMC’s decision to drop its reference to the 'significant' underutilization of labor resources, which had been introduced just three months earlier. Additionally, the minutes may shed light on the Committee's surprisingly balanced characterization of inflation, which could have been considerably more dovish, given the notable decline in key measures of inflation expectations in advance of the October meeting." Keep An Eye On Housing Starts. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get data on US housing starts and building permits. Economists estimate starts climbed 0.8% in October to a pace of 1.025 million units. Permits are estimated to have climbed by 0.9% to 1.040 million. "We expect a decent increase in multifamily building as suggested by the gain in building permits," Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists said. " We look for little change in single family, however. Homebuilder sentiment generally remains positive, as suggested by the NAHB survey. Moreover, weather conditions were generally favorable in October, which should support homebuilding." The Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchange Link Has Slowed To A Trickle. Purchases of mainland Chinese stocks have dropped to just one-tenth of what they were Monday, leading some analysts to call the link-up a "ghost train," according to Bloomberg.  Hong Kong Protesters Tried To Break Into The Parliament Building. Hong Kong police clashed with pro-democracy demonstrators Wednesday after a small group attempted to break into the city's legislature. BNP Paribas Might Face An Insider-Trading Probe. According to sources who spoke to the Financial Times, French prosecutors have started a preliminary prosecution against the bank. World Bank Expects The Cost Of Ebola To Be Limited. "The World Bank now expects the impact of the Ebola epidemic on Sub-Saharan Africa's economy to be around $3-$4 billion, well below a previously outlined worst-case scenario of $32 billion, the bank's chief economist for the continent said on Wednesday," Reuters' Joe Brock reported. FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman recounts the economic predictions he's gotten wrong and what he has learned in the process. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph.  Follow BI Video: On YouTube 
Mark Zerof/USA Today/ReutersA woman wears a hat at the 2014 Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs. The richest Americans hold more of the nation’s wealth than they have in almost a century. What do they spend it on? As you might expect, personal jets, giant yachts, works of art, and luxury penthouses. And also on politics. In fact, their political spending has been growing faster than their spending on anything else. It’s been growing even faster than their wealth.   According to new research by Emmanuel Saez of the University of California at Berkeley and Gabriel Zucman of the London School of Economics, the richest one-hundredth of one percent of Americans now hold over 11 percent of the nation’s total wealth. That’s a higher share than the top .01 percent held in 1929, before the Great Crash. We’re talking about 16,000 people, each worth at least $110 million. One way to get your mind around this is to compare their wealth to that of the average family. In 1978, the typical wealth holder in the top .01 percent was 220 times richer than the average American. By 2012, he or she was 1,120 times richer. It’s hard to spend this kind of money. The uber rich are lining up for the new Aerion AS2 private jet, priced at $100 million, that seats eleven and includes a deluxe dining room and shower facilities, and will be able to cross the Atlantic in just four hours. And for duplexes high in the air. The one atop Manhattan’s newest “needle” tower, the 90-story One57, just went for $90 million. Why should we care? Because this explosion of wealth at the top has been accompanied by an erosion of the wealth of the middle class and the poor. In the mid-1980s, the bottom 90 percent of Americans together held 36 percent of the nation’s wealth. Now, they hold less than 23 percent. Despite larger pensions and homes, the debts of the bottom 90 percent – mortgage, consumer credit, and student loan – have grown even faster. Some might think the bottom 90 percent should pull in their belts and stop living beyond their means. After all, capitalism is a tough sport. If those at the top are winning big while the bottom 90 percent is losing, too bad. That’s the way the game is played. But the top .01 percent have also been investing their money in politics. And these investments have been changing the game. In the 2012 election cycle (the last for which we have good data) donations from the top .01 accounted for over 40 percent of all campaign contributions, according to a study by Professors Adam Bonica, Nolan McCarty, Keith Poole, and Howard Rosenthal. This is a huge increase from 1980, when the top .01 accounted for ten percent of total campaign contributions. In 2012, as you may recall, two largest donors were Sheldon and Miriam Adelson, who gave $56.8 million and $46.6 million, respectively. But the Adelsons were only the tip of an iceberg of contributions from the uber wealthy. Of the other members of the Forbes list of 400 richest Americans, fully 388 made political contributions. They accounted for forty of the 155 contributions of $1 million or more. Of the 4,493 board members and CEOs of Fortune 500 corporations, more than four out of five contributed (many of the non-contributors were foreign nationals who were prohibited from giving). All this money has flowed to Democrats as well as Republicans. In fact, Democrats have increasingly relied on it. In the 2012 election cycle, the top .01 percent’s donations to Democrats were more than four times larger than all labor union donations to Democrats put together. The richest .01 percent haven’t been donating out of the goodness of their hearts. They’ve donated out of goodness to their wallets. Their political investments have paid off in the form of lower taxes on themselves and their businesses, subsidies for their corporations, government bailouts, federal prosecutions that end in settlements where companies don’t affirm or deny the facts and where executives don’t go to jail, watered-down regulations, and non-enforcement of antitrust laws. Since the top .01 began investing big time in politics, corporate profits and the stock market have risen to record levels. That’s enlarged the wealth of the richest .01 percent by an average of 7.8 percent a year since the mid-1980s. But the bottom 90 percent don’t own many shares of stock. They rely on wages, which have been trending downward. And for some reason, politicians don’t seem particularly intent on reversing this trend. If you want to know what’s happened to the American economy, follow the money. That will lead you to the richest .01 percent. And if you want to know what’s happened to our democracy, follow the richest .01 percent. They’ll lead you to the politicians who have been selling our democracy.   FREE AppDownload
 Wage inflation remains abnormally low although the labor market has clearly tightened. The short-term unemployment rate fell to 3.9% during October, the lowest reading since November 2007. Back then, wage inflation was 3.3%. Today, it is only 2.0%. Fed Chair Janet Yellen has said that she believes that wage inflation is too low. She would prefer to see it rise to 3%-4% before starting to normalize the federal funds rate. I monitor wages in various key industries and am hard-pressed to see any signs of mounting inflationary pressures. During October, here were the y/y increases for the ones we monitor from highest to lowest: leisure &amp; hospitality (3.6%), information services (3.3), mining &amp; logging (2.9), construction (2.6), professional &amp; business services (2.4), retail trade (2.3), financial activities (2.0), manufacturing (1.9), utilities (1.7), transportation &amp; warehousing (1.2), education &amp; health services (1.1), and wholesale trade (1.1). Today's Morning Briefing: The New Abnormal. (1) Tower of London. (2) From London to Zurich. (3) Is the normal business cycle dead? (4) Volcker was never in the put business. (5) Greenspan and Bernanke Puts. (6) The consequences of minimizing pain. (7) Abnormalities in this cycle. (8) Waiting for Godot and wage inflation. (9) New forces keeping a lid on price inflation. (10) Secular stagnation over there depressing bond yields over here. (11) Producers misjudged Chinese demand. (12) Profit margins still aren’t reverting. (13) Tour of London. (More for subscribers.)  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningUS Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on campaign finance reform.Incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is promising that the new Republican majority will quickly resurrect the Keystone XL pipeline legislation killed by Democrats, potentially setting up an early 2015 veto confrontation with President Barack Obama. "I look forward to the new Republican majority taking up and passing the Keystone jobs bill early in the new year," the Kentucky Republican said Tuesday, shortly after the bill fell one vote short of the 60 votes needed to advance. He was joined by incoming Senate Energy Committee Chairwoman Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), who said the fight wasn't over. The vote was a blow to Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-Louisiana), who had forced the issue onto the Senate agenda and who faces difficult odds in a Dec. 6 runoff election against Republican Rep. Bill Cassidy. "I'm going to fight for the people of my state until the day that I leave, and I hope that will not be soon," she said. Even if Landrieu wins her re-election, Republicans are likely to have enough votes to assure the bill's passage in January, when they will have at least 53 seats — 54 if Cassidy wins the Louisiana runoff. "If you look at new Congress, you can count four more (GOP seats) right away, and there may be others," Sen. John Hoeven of North Dakota, the lead sponsor of the bill, said after the 59-41 vote Tuesday. "You can see we're well over 60." Hoeven acknowledged that Republicans would need 67 votes to override a veto but said one possibility was to include Keystone in a larger energy package that may not prompt a veto threat. The vote was one of the last acts of this Senate controlled by the Democrats. It is expected to complete its work by mid-December. Cassidy, Landrieu's Republican opponent, said Louisiana families needed "better jobs, better wages, and better benefits" and that the pipeline would provide them. Democratic divisions were on vivid display in a bill that pitted environmentalists against energy advocates. ReutersMap showing the proposed route of TransCanada's Keystone pipelines. While Obama opposes the measure, likely 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton has repeatedly refused to take a position. Most recently, her spokesman did not respond to two requests over the weekend to do so. The project would move oil from Canada into the United States and eventually to the Texas Gulf Coast. Supporters say it would create jobs and ease American dependence on Middle East oil. A government environmental impact statement also predicts that a pipeline would result in less damage to the climate than moving the same oil by rail. Critics argue that the drilling itself is environmentally harmful and that much of the Canadian crude would be exported with little or no impact on America's drive for energy stability. At the White House, press secretary Josh Earnest said the measure was something "the president doesn't support because the president believes that this is something that should be determined through the State Department and the regular process that is in place to evaluate projects like this." After the vote, five people were handcuffed and led off by Capitol police outside the Senate chamber after breaking into loud yowls. One was wearing what appeared to be Native American beads and feathers in his hair. ___ Follow Dina Cappiello on Twitter www.twitter.com/dinacappiello Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
The Office for National Statistics just released the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings, a handy guide on the UK's wage situation. In short, it's not too pretty. In fact, weekly median earnings are now back to 2001 levels in real terms (after the effect on inflation is accounted for).  Here's the damage: Office for National Statistics, Business Insider Wage growth since the financial crisis has averaged 1.4% each year, while inflation has been well above the Bank of England's 2% target for the majority of that period. In short, the amount most people earn has been growing much more slowly than prices. In the 2013-14 year, it barely grew at all even in nominal terms, up just 0.1%.  Some of this weakness has been compensated for by the government's tax threshold increases. The level of income needed to pay the 20% basic rate of income tax has steadily risen since 2010, from just under £6,500 in 2010 to £10,000 in the current tax year. There are also two sides to this story: very low nominal wage growth is one of the reasons that the UK's unemployment didn't rise as high as some people thought it would, and why it has plummeted so much in the last couple of years. It's also a reflection of the UK's absolutely abysmal productivity situation, especially among the least productive sectors: Goldman Sachs, EU Klems, Bank of England FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA price sign at a Dollar General store in Arvada.Dollar General Corp. may need to divest more than 4,000 stores to win approval from the US Federal Trade Commission for its acquisition of Family Dollar Stores Inc., the New York Post reported, citing two sources close to the situation. Dollar General has agreed to sell up to 1,500 stores as part of its $9.1 billion offer. It approached Family Dollar shareholders with its offer directly in September after twice being spurned by its smaller rival. The New York Post reported on Wednesday that Dollar General could be forced either to raise its bid again or to divest more than double the number of stores previously pledged. Family Dollar said in September it had been notified by certain state attorneys general that Dollar General's bid would be investigated over competitive concerns. Neither the FTC nor Dollar General could be reached for comment outside regular US business hours. (Editing by Robin Paxton) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA depot used to store pipes for Transcanada Corp's planned Keystone XL oil pipeline is seen in Gascoyne North Dakota WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama might be open to using the Keystone pipeline as leverage with Republicans if they cooperate on other aspects of his long-stalled domestic agenda, such as investing in infrastructure, closing tax loopholes or reducing carbon emissions. After years of fighting over TransCanada's &lt;trp.to&gt; crude oil pipeline from Canada, a Keystone deal is not entirely out of the question, sources inside the administration and others close to the White House told Reuters on Tuesday. With the Senate's narrow defeat of a Keystone bill on Tuesday, Obama avoided the awkward position of possibly vetoing a bill supported by members of his own Democratic party. But the issue will come up again soon after the new year when Republicans, who already control the House of Representatives, take charge of the Senate as well. Any deal would have to yield concrete gains for Obama on his agenda. Obama also likely would insist on making an executive decision on the $8 billion pipeline from Canada, rather than letting Congress approve the permit, sources said. "Whatever the president decides, I expect it will be driven by the bottom line on carbon pollution, not by symbolism," one former administration official told Reuters. Obama wants to make headway on slowing climate change during his last two years in office, but he has made it clear that new rules to curb carbon emissions from power plants and a global agreement on climate change are far more meaningful in the big picture than the fate of the pipeline. Sources close to the White House say Obama believes that both pipeline opponents and proponents have exaggerated the significance of their claims about the pipeline, turning it into a political symbol. But Republicans have vowed to take another run at forcing approval early in 2015. Assuming support from at least a handful of Democrats, Republicans likely would have enough votes to pass it but not enough to override a veto. Republicans could try to attach the measure to a government funding measure to make Obama's veto decision more difficult. A compromise would give Republicans a win on Keystone, a politically popular issue. But the White House would need to extract a win, too. Timing could be a hurdle to any potential deal. Obama has said he will wait for the Supreme Court of Nebraska to rule on a pipeline challenge from landowners in that state, a decision expected sometime between Friday and January. If the court sides with the landowners, the Keystone route would need to be approved by the state's Public Service Commission - a process that could take most of 2015. Obama has said he will approve the project if it does not hike carbon emissions, a standard cheered by green groups. "Ultimately, we believe that the Keystone pipeline would significantly exacerbate climate pollution, and therefore would flunk his test for approval," said Dan Weiss, senior vice president for campaigns at the League of Conservation Voters. But a State Department review found that blocking the pipeline would not stop Canada from developing its oil sands. Canada and the oil industry took that as a sign Obama could ultimately approve the pipeline.   (Additional reporting by Valerie Volcovici, Timothy Gardner and Amanda Becker; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA first aid kit made by Johnson & Johnson for sale on a store shelf in WestminsterNEW YORK (Reuters) - Nearly a decade after losing a bidding war for device maker Guidant to Boston Scientific Corp, Johnson &amp; Johnson finally has a chance for payback at a multibillion-dollar trial set to begin on Thursday. A federal court judge in New York will hear the case without a jury and decide whether Guidant, through its successor Boston Scientific, should be held liable for breaching a contract with J&amp;J. J&amp;J seeks in excess of $5 billion in damages and interest from Boston Scientific, a potentially massive judgment against a company that as of Tuesday had a market capitalization of $17.8 billion. The two-part trial before U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan is expected to go into December as lawyers revisit the details, and the aftermath, of the nine-year-old Guidant battle. Underscoring the stakes, Boston Scientific has brought in well-known litigator David Boies. Johnson &amp; Johnson will answer with a high-profile lawyer of its own, Sean Coffey, perhaps best known for winning a $6 billion judgment against big banks in the wake of WorldCom's collapse. The companies declined to comment ahead of the trial. Jefferies Group analyst Raj Denhoy said in a note that the case "represents a major near-term risk" for Boston Scientific. J&amp;J and Guidant, which made cardiovascular devices, struck a deal to combine in 2004 and later agreed to a $21.5 billion price. To satisfy antitrust concerns, J&amp;J said it would sell a portion of Guidant's business to Abbott Laboratories. The deal included a "no-solicitation" clause that prohibited Guidant from seeking better offers, though it was permitted to consider unsolicited bids. Before the merger closed, Boston Scientific made a $25 billion offer and also said it would sell assets to Abbott. J&amp;J became convinced that Guidant had provided due diligence to Abbott as it worked on the Boston Scientific offer, in violation of its agreement. Without that move, J&amp;J says, Abbott would not have signed on, leaving Boston Scientific unable to win what became a bidding war. Boston Scientific eventually bought Guidant for $27 billion, while J&amp;J received a $705 million termination fee. J&amp;J sued Guidant and Abbott in 2006, claiming breach of contract. Abbott has since been dismissed as a defendant. Boston Scientific plans to argue that Guidant did not knowingly violate the agreement, according to court papers. It has also questioned whether J&amp;J can prove it lost money. J&amp;J's stock has soared since, while Boston Scientific's has fallen, in part over problems with the Guidant deal. In pretrial filings, Boston Scientific cited a Fortune magazine article that called it the "biggest M&amp;A blunder since AOL/Time Warner." J&amp;J will counter that its deal would have succeeded, given its superior resources. It will also point to documents that it says show Guidant knew at the time that its actions were in breach of the agreement.   (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by David Ingram and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
