Google ImagesThe weekend is over, and Asian tech stocks are getting hammered. Panasonic is down 3%. Hitachi is off 2.2%, Sony, 1.4%, Kyocera and NEC, 1.9% lower each, Marketwatch observes. This follows the rout among U.S. tech stocks at the end of last week.  The Nikkei opened down 1.2%. U.S. futures are also lower. Check out our full market preview here. » FREE AppDownload
Stories about the basket case Venezuelan economy are rampant. There have been stories about toilet paper shortages and shocking images of long lines for food at the grocery store. So what's wrong? Kamal Romero has been tweeting out some charts from the World Economic Forum Executive Opinion Survey, basically asking business leaders how they perceived governance in various countries. Two charts that stand out: How Venezuela is perceived in terms of property rights and use of government funds. In both categories, Venezuela is literally dead last. World Economic Forum World Economic Forum So, there you go. When the perception of your government and property rights are the worst in the world, there's basically no hope for a strong economy. FREE AppDownload
David AndolfattoLast week, St. Louis Fed economist David Andolfatto released a presentation on Bitcoin, becoming one of the most prominent central bank officials to study the cryptocurrency. We caught up with Andolfatto to ask him about why he put this deck together, where he thinks Bitcoin is going, and whether he personally has anything invested in it. Business Insider: What was the genesis for this presentation? David Andolfatto: Its genesis was a blog post I'd started, addressing arguments that gold bugs frequently put forth, that gold is superior money. Of course, Bitcoin was in the news — I read about the algorithm that fixes the supply of bitcoins at least at some limit. It struck me that despite their tremendous disparity in physical properties, they share the quality that they have a relatively fixed supply — which is why gold and bitcoin make lousy money. I blogged some more on Bitcoin, and I brought to bear conventional theories of money and whether or not, just because it was virtual currency, whether it was good or bad. Then Marcela Williams (the St. Louis Fed's [assistant vice president of strategic communications] for the Bank) came and asked whether I'd be interested in presenting a talk on Bitcoin. BI: How have your opinions on Bitcoin evolved since that first post? DA: Early on, I thought, 'This was kind of silly,' and I kind of questioned the role of the miners, these miners who are mining bitcoin. And it led to the analogy of people mining for gold. I recall reading a blog post by Paul Krugman, who criticized Bitcoin. He was saying exactly what I was thinking: that this intensive effort to mine for gold ...We don't need more physical commodities. All that has to happen is the price level has to adjust. Economic theory says that kind of mining is inefficient. I shared in that opinion, but I continued to read about it, and it struck me that that analogy was incorrect — that in fact what these miners were, was mislabeled. They were performing a communal service, a record-keeping service which is critical to any money system. Mining was a red herring, it's just one way to reward record keepers for their service, and that protocol could function even with constant supply. BI: What were the main things you wanted readers to come away with from your presentation? DA: I was trying to describe how things function today. When you think about Bitcoin as a potential rival to the U.S. dollar, it might have some trouble competing, because despite the fact that a computer algorithm governs its supply, like nature determines the supply of gold, that benefit of a theoretically stabilized price level is not necessarily something you want when there’s demand volatility. So takeaway No. 1 is that Bitcoin suffers from the same defect as gold — the standard volatility was very much like gold. One thing that people have not thought too much, in this new world of competing cryptocurrencies, is that we’ve got a lot of experience in history of multiple competing currencies, and there's a nominal exchange-rate problem. Economic theory says there's nothing fundamental to pin down the exchange rate between two intrinsically useless objects. If history is any guide, we're going to see multiple currencies circulating with extreme exchange-rate volatility. So I asked, How do we think things are going to work out? Do we think merchants are going to accept several different virtual currencies? The relative prices remain stable? Really? What makes you think that? History shows these things are going to fluctuate like crazy. So what does this mean? I just don't see bitcoin replacing the U.S. dollar. The traditional way of controlling for [exchange rate] risk is to impose fixed exchange rates. The $5 bill trades at a 5:1 ratio to the $1 because we say so. But that goes counter to the whole spirit of these cryptocurrencies. The U.S. dollar has already passed the market test. Some responded to me by saying, 'Yeah because, it's a monopoly.' But there are several competing currencies out there in the world. The U.S. dollar is still the go-to currency, but there's nothing domestically that prevents us from getting paid in pesos — Americans do have an opportunity to get paid in any currency they want. But because the Fed has been manging the supply of dollars — which hasn't always been perfect — these bugs have been patched, which the Bitcoin protocol is still working through. Inflation (of the dollar) has been low and stable for the past 30 years; most people are happy. BI: You said Bitcoin could pose a threat to central banks. What did you mean? DA: I do think its existence as a threat is very good: It will discipline the Fed and other central banks to continue to run responsible policies — if they don’t, people could switch to something else. The idea of currency competition: Many countries impose currency controls. In Albania, you would suffer severe consequences if you were caught with U.S. dollars in your pocket. The purpose of currency controls is to stimulate demand for domestic currency, because the central bank and the central government want to exploit the people by inflating excessively, so the threat of currency competition — if a central bank, a government, knew people could stop using domestic currency and flock to an alternative, that would force the government to behave more responsibly. In the past, because of paper notes, a ban on foreign currencies was much easier. But now everybody's got a cellphone, a PC — how do you enforce those currency controls? There's no central authority — people are just trading these things using their telephones, so a government would have to take draconian measures to prevent that from happening. So that’s not gonna happen in the U.S., but to the extent there are other technologies looming out there, that threat might discipline central banks. Business Insider: How is Bitcoin viewed within the Fed community? DA: We support each other in our research, but much of the Fed is concerned with the size of our balance sheet — our efforts are more focused on that. But I haven’t had any pushback. There are some people within the system keeping an eye out — Francois Velde in Chicago also had a note on it.  BI: What about Bitcoin's underlying technology? DA: I made a distinction between Bitcon and Ripple. Bitcoin lives on its idea as a currency provider, but there are other protocols that employ the same cryptology that cryptocurrencies employ to concentrate on the payment side. Bitcoin does two things: It creates and manages a money supply, and works as a payment processor. Ripple is currency agnostic: It's currently happy to let the U.S. Fed manage the U.S. dollar — with Ripple you'll be able to send money across the globe with Federal Reserve-backed money. I'm not entirely sure what units [mobile banking service] M-Pesa uses, but these people are quite sophisticated, so what’s to stop them from downloading Ripple or Bitcoin, and start using them? They seem very receptive to this kind of thing. Especially in Africa and the undeveloped world — that’s where you see excessive inflation. I don't see the same demand in the U.S., despite the criticisms of the Fed and the U.S. dollar. Business Insider: Do you own any bitcoin? Should people be buying it? DA: No. It’s highly speculative — I don't think the average person wants to get in there. If you want to put $10 in to experiment ... but I would not want to put in my life savings. It's usually volatile. You could get lucky, but you'd have to be careful. Let’s see how it evolves. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA BlackRock building is seen in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - BlackRock Inc &lt;BLK.N&gt;, the world's largest money manager, is reorganizing its senior management, shifting at least 10 senior executives into new or different roles, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters on Sunday. Both Larry Fink, chief executive and chairman of BlackRock, which has more than $4 trillion in assets under management, and Rob Kapito, president, will stay in their roles. Charlie Hallac, who while not a founding member of BlackRock but was the company's first employee in 1988, will become co-president, the memo said. BlackRock is scheduled to report its first quarter financial results on April 17. The company said it does not have any further comment beyond what is included in the memo. Hallac, who is battling colon cancer, is currently chief operating officer. He was one of the original architects of BlackRock's Aladdin trading platform and will be forming a new group to focus on broadening and integrating that technology more into the company's retail segment. New York-based BlackRock's client businesses, investment groups and product management will continue to report to Hallac and Kapito. Rob Goldstein, a 20-year BlackRock veteran and current global head of the asset management firm's institutional client business, will fill the role of COO, as of June 1. Mark McCombe was named global head of the institutional client unit, based in New York. He is currently chairman of BlackRock Asia Pacific, a role he will keep until the end of the year. McCombe will also become chairman of BlackRock Alternative Investors. ONGOING REORGANIZATION BlackRock said in the memo the shuffle fits into its strategy of the past five years of challenging its executives by putting them in roles that broaden their horizons and maximize their impact with the firm and its clients. "Periodically moving leaders to new roles as part of this process was a key rationale for the re-organization of the firm in 2012 and is a key driver of the management changes we are announcing today," the memo said. In 2012, the company expanded its senior leadership team and reorganized its investment and client-facing businesses in an effort to spur organic growth. In that move, BlackRock replaced its portfolio management group with five new investment groups. Other moves announced on Sunday include the promotion of Rich Kushel to chief product officer. Kushel is currently head of strategic product management. He will also continue to oversee the BlackRock Investment Institute and the company's corporate governance and responsible investment team. Ryan Stork, global head of the Aladdin business within BlackRock Solutions, will become head of BlackRock Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong, beginning next year. Ken Wilson moves to the role of chairman of Alpha Strategies at BlackRock, after serving as chairman of BlackRock Alternative Investors since its creation. BlackRock said Salim Ramji, a Senior Partner at McKinsey &amp; Company, will join the firm later this month as global head of corporate strategy. Patrick Olson, who is global head of strategy and planning, will become COO of Europe the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and join the EMEA executive committee. BlackRock said it was not making any changes to portfolio managers or client relationship managers. (Reporting by John McCrank; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
One of the big questions in markets is to what extent the "momentum stocks" will keep getting crushed. Lately, erstwhile high flyers like Facebook and Twitter have been getting sold off hard and some fizz gets let out of the bottle. As Davie Scutt notes, the performance in just the last week was ugly: LinkedIn -13% Twitter -8.8% Facebook -5.4%. And here's the chart for the whole year for these three. David Scutt This is the big story to watch as the market reopens. Will the selling abate? Or is this the start of a broader bout of risk aversion that will threaten overall markets, which remain very close to all-time highs. FREE AppDownload
The Motley Fool It's no secret that retirement planning can seem like a dizzying process. At the same time, however, what it really boils down to is incredibly simple: Spend less than you earn, and invest the difference. Wash, rinse, and repeat. Two weeks ago, Motley Fool contributor Brian Stoffel offered up a very simple and practical way for just about anyone to retire in under 20 years. The article garnered a lot of positive attention from readers, but many were confused by a chart offered up at the end of the article. In the following video, watch as Brian explains how by simply saving 5% or 10% more of your salary every year, you could be shaving years off your wait to retirement.  Recent tax increases have affected nearly every American taxpayer. But with the right planning, you can take steps to take control of your taxes and potentially even lower your tax bill. In our brand-new special report "The IRS Is Daring You to Make This Investment Now!," you'll learn about the simple strategy to take advantage of a little-known IRS rule. Don't miss out on advice that could help you cut taxes for decades to come. Click here to learn more. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Good morning, and welcome to the start of another week. Here’s what you need to know: Australia and Japan remain locked in negotiations over a free trade agreement. The key sticking point is Japanese tariffs on Australian beef imports, which Japan is offering to cut to around 20% from over 38%, while Australia is offering to drop a 5% tariff on Japanese cars in return. If the deadlock breaks there could be an announcement as early as today. Tony Abbott and Shinzo Abe had a private dinner in Tokyo last night. The astonishing rise of mining billionaire Clive Palmer’s influence in Australian politics continues. The businessman’s Palmer United Party looks set to control a critical bloc of four votes in the new Senate following the re-run of the West Australian Senate election over the weekend, with both Labor and the Coalition seeing big falls in their primary vote. This puts the government’s agenda at the mercy of Palmer who can control the passage of legislation in the Upper House, including the carbon tax, which he has tied to the maintenance of payments to orphans of war veterans. Labor will be agonising in the weeks to come over the collapse of its primary vote below 22%; outgoing Senator Mark Bishop says voters are either not listening or don’t like the message. Market indicators from Japan will be watched closely in the coming months for signs of slowing activity after an increase in the country’s sales tax from 5% to 8% last week, which Shinzo Abe agreed to in order to try deal with the country’s burgeoning debt – now twice the size of the country’s economy. The main concern is that consumers will dramatically reduce spending as they did in 1997 following a similar measure. The WSJ reports a cabinet minister saying Abe will be reviewing economic data even more closely than before. The headline number in the US jobs report on Friday came in at 192,000 positions added for March, just shy of the market expectation of 200,000, but confounding a lot of bullish predictions from Wall St. The US markets finished the week in heavy selling following the jobs print, and futures point to sharply lower opens for the ASX and Nikkei today. The Australian dollar rallied above US93c briefly on the US dollar’s weakness and was trading around US92.90c this morning. More here. This week sees the critical leading indicators for Australia of the NAB business survey on Tuesday and Westpac consumer sentiment on Wednesday, followed by Australian employment on Thursday. ANZ’s job ads survey is out this morning and Wednesday night sees the release of the US FOMC minutes for the March meeting. Amid all the fuss created by Michael Lewis’s new book Flash Boys, the Australian commercial regulator ASIC is threatening to introduce some kind of speed brake on computer-driven high frequency trading to preserve the trust of retail players in the stock market, according to a report in The Australian Financial Review.  A Twitter employee just live-tweeted the birth of her daughter.  There are now more than 90 people dead in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, and over the weekend a mob attacked a treatment centre in Guinea, where the first cases were recorded. Businesspeople are leaving the area, with deaths recorded in Guinea and Liberia but Mali now seeing suspected cases as well. The new season of Game of Thrones start tonight – the first showing in Australia is at 3.30pm AEST on Showtime, with repeats through the evening. Even if you’re not a fan of the show you’ll be hearing the conversations and the guessing games about what happens next over the coming months. Here’s a quick refresher on where we’re up to in the saga. Australian billionaire James Packer is looking at further expansion of his gaming company Crown in Asia, reportedly lining up for a $5 billion casino development in Japan. Big sports talking points from the weekend: Greater Western Sydney monstered Melbourne in the AFL, while in the Super Rugby the Folau-less Waratahs managed a win in South Africa against the Stormers and the Western Force beat the Reds with a last-minute try in Brisbane. Bonus item: Here’s a stunning rendition of the Game of Thrones theme by the New York Philharmonic orchestra to get you in the mood.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHupao ("Dreaming of the Tiger") Spring in Hangzhou, ChinaThe slow recovery in the U.S. job market continues. On Friday, we learned U.S. companies added 192,000 nonfarm payrolls in March, which was a bit below Wall Street's forecast for 200,000. February's number, however, was revised up to 197,000 from a prior estimate of 175,000. It's worth adding that  total nonfarm private payrolls stands at 116,067,000, which is an all-time high. The economic calendar is much lighter this week. But there are two conversations that are likely to remain heated. The first concerns the internal dynamics of the job market. Who are and aren't in the labor force? Just last week, we realized we should consider the impact of ex-cons in the workforce. The second concerns the internal dynamics of the stock market. Specifically, while the S&amp;P 500 remains near all-time highs, high-beta momentum stocks have been getting slammed in what has been dubbed an "internal correction." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary The S&amp;P 500 is just 1.6% from its all-time high of 1,897. But that belies the turmoil going on within the market. The "internal correction" out of high-beta, momentum stocks into low-beta value stocks has caused the Nasdaq to tumble 5.5% in the past month. Facebook is among the names that are down more than 20%. "All I'll say is that you'd think investors would've learned from the tech bubble and housing bubble, but I guess they were just dying to touch the hot stove once again," said Rich Bernstein in a recent email to Business Insider. "Now they're getting burned." Because valuations still remain high in these momentum stocks, experts see this correction continuing. However, the market strategists seem to agree that this is good news as it brings more balance to stock market valuations. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Though it may not feel like it quite yet, it's officially spring — that means it's time to talk about men's spring fashions. The majority of men's New York Fashion Week collections were preppy and athletic, with lots of printed pants, jackets, and suits. Check out the top seven trends to watch out for this season. Getty Images (Left: Malan Breton; Center: Billy Reid; Right: Ovaida &amp; Sons) How To Wear Them: Sparingly. Double-breasted blazers are hard to pull off, and if the cut is too baggy, they can look like a bad '80s vintage find. "It should be tailored short in the body and fitted well around the waist, so I would only recommend it for those well-versed about style and fit," The Buying Director at online menswear retailer MR PORTER Toby Bateman previously advised us. Getty Images (Left: David Hart; Center: Todd Snyder; Right: Mark McNairy) How To Wear Them: Expect to see lots of different printed jackets this year, from plaid to floral. Even camo will make a resurgence. Pair a patterned jacket with solid-colored shorts or pants. If you're style savvy, throw a contrasting print in the mix with a button-down shirt. Getty Images (Left: Michael Bastien; Center: Ernest Alexander; Right: David Hart) How To Wear Them: Printed pants have been really popular in women's fashion for the last few years, and now they're inching into the men's market. Use the same rules as printed jackets and keep things minimal. Also make sure your pants are well-tailored so they don't end up looking like you wore PJs to the office. Getty Images (Left: Son Jung Wan; Center: Billy Reid; Right: Diesel Black Gold) How To Wear Them: All-white suit combos were popular at a wide range of Mercedes Benz Fashion Week shows, including the edgy Diesel Black Gold, the eccentric Billy Reid, and the preppy Black Sheep by Brooks Brothers collections. The trick with wearing all white is to make sure textures contrast to keep it from becoming tacky: a white cotton shirt looks good with a linen suit, a white t-shirt balances out a silk jacket, etc. Getty Images (Left: Nautica; Center: DKNY; Right: Michael Bastien) How To Wear Them: Choose a pair of pants that fit you well, put on some awesome sneakers or boat shoes, and just go for it. Of course, this style works better with casual pants like chinos and jeans than with suit attire, so keep that in mind. Getty Images (Left: GENERAL IDEA; Center: David Hart; Right: Nautica) How To Wear Them: Whether horizontal, vertical or diagonal, color-blocked patterns are a casual and preppy look for this spring. Treat these like your new classic black t-shirt and wear them with all your favorite pants and shorts. Getty Images (Clockwise from top: Tim Coppens; J. Crew; Shades of Grey by Micah Cohen; Ovaida &amp; Sons; AllSaints; Calvin Klein) How To Wear Them: By far the biggest trend from New York Fashion Week was men's bomber jackets. Whether they're leather, color-blocked, wool, or athletic, these jackets go with everything. When you go shopping for one, make sure the sleeves don't hang past your upper wrist, and that the coat has a slim silhouette to keep it from looking too much like a bulky Letterman jacket. FREE AppDownload
Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisSt. Louis Fed Vice President David Andolfatto has outed himself as the central bank official most bullish on Bitcoin. In a new presentation, Andolfatto calls Bitcoin "a stroke of genius" and says the digital currency's technology is causing existing financial institutions will have to "adapt or die."  And he says central banks — including the Fed itself — should welcome the challenge Bitcoin has posed. Hence the image above. Besides his enthusiasm, his presentation provides a really clean, simple snapshot of what Bitcoin is for anyone who may still be fuzzy on what it is. Check it out. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/seanmcgrath In the history of capitalism, this is the hardest time ever to invest. People are going broke, losing their jobs, and fear more than greed rules the news and tries to rule thoughts. In short: people are scared. And I do think the uncertainty is going to rise quickly so I wanted to put this note together. In 2001 and 2002 I lost all my money through bad investing. The same thing happened to me on a couple of occasions after that. So why should anyone listen to me about investing? You shouldn't. You shouldn't listen to anyone at all about investing. This is your hard-earned money. Don't blow it by listening to an idiot like me. Here's my experience (and perhaps I've learned the hard way about what NOT to do and a little bit about what TO do.): I've run a hedge fund that was successful. I ran a fund of hedge funds, which means I've probably analyzed the track records and strategies of about 1000 different hedge funds. I've been a venture capitalist and a successful angel investor (I was a HORRIBLE venture capitalist though - but I put that under the category of "does not work well with others"). I can't raise money anymore. Nor do I want to play that game. I don't BS about my losses and everyone else does. So I'm not in that business anymore. It's too much work to run a fund anyway. In the past 15 years I've tried every investing strategy out there. I honestly can't think of a strategy I haven't experimented with. I've also wrote software to trade the markets automatically and I did very well with that. And I've written several books on my experiences investing, with topics ranging from automatic investing to Warren Buffett, to hedge funds, to long-term investing (my worse-selling book, "The Forever Portfolio", which has sold 399 copies since it came out in December 2008, including one copy for the entire last quarter). Incidentally, why publish a book called "The Forever Portfolio" during the worst financial crisis in history. I begged my publisher (Penguin) to postpone but they couldn't. "It's in the schedule" was their magic incantation. Publishers largely suck. The good news is: they will never make back the advance. That said, all of the picks in that book have done excellently since then but the one thing I am proud of is that I made a crossword puzzle for the book. I don't know of any other investing book with a crossword puzzle in it. So, Ok! Let's get started. Don't follow any of my advice. This is advice that I do and follow and it works for me. Only if you are also willing to take all of your money, rip it into tiny pieces, make cupcakes with one piece of money inside each cupcake and then eat all of the cupcakes. Then you will get sick, and eat all of your money, but it will taste thrilling along the way. Which is what daytrading is. No. I personally know of two. Maybe three. And they work 24 hours a day at it and have been doing it for a decade or more. So unless you want to put in that amount of time and be willing to lose a lot first then you shouldn't do it. One more thing: when you daytrade and lose money it's not like a job. When you go into a job you NEVER lose money. If you show up for two weeks, you get paid. Even if you have been warned repeatedly about sexual harassment you still get paid. You might get fired but they won't take your money. The stock market TAKES your money on bad days. Sometimes it takes a lot of your money. We're not used to the brutality of that and it can destroy a person psychologically, which makes one (me) trade even worse. Three types of people: 1) People who hold stocks FOREVER. Think: Warren Buffett (has never sold a share of Berkshire Hathaway since 1967) or Bill Gates (he sells shares but for 20 years basically held onto his MSFT stock). 2) People who hold stocks for a millionth of a second (see Michael Lewis's book "Flash Boys" which I highly recommend.) This is borderline illegal and I don't recommend it. 3) People who cheat. I've seen it for 20 years. I've seen every scam. I can write a history of scams in the past 20 years. Without describing them, here's the history: Reg S, Calendar trading, Mutual fund timing, Death spirals, Front running, Pump and Dump, manipulating illiquid stocks, Ponzi schemes, and inside information. Inside information has always existed and always will exist. One time I wanted to raise money for one of my funds. I went to visit my neighbor's boss. The boss had been returning a solid 12% per year for 20 years. Everyone wanted to know how he did it. "Get some info while you are there," a friend of mine in the business said when he heard I was visiting my neighbor's boss. The boss said to me, "I'm sorry, James. We like you and if you want to work here, then that would be great. But we have no idea what you would be doing with the money. And here at Bernard Madoff Securities, reputation is everything". So I didn't raise money from Bernie Madoff although he wanted me to work there. Later, the same friend who wanted me to get "info" and "figure out how he does it" said to me: "we knew all along he was a crook." Which is another thing common in Wall Street. Everybody knows everything in retrospect and nobody ever admits they were wrong. Show me a Wall Street pundit who says "I was wrong" and I'll show you...I don't know...something graphic and horrible and impossible [fill in blank]. I told you about: #1. Pick some stocks and hold them forever. Warren Buffett has some advice on this (and I know because I wrote THE book about him. A friend of mine who knows him told me my book was the only book that Buffett thought was accurate about him). He says, "if you think a company will be around 20 years from now then it is probably a good buy right now." I would add to that, based on what Warren does. It seems to me he has five criteria: a. A company will be around 20 years from now.b. At some point, company's management has demonstrated in some way that they are honest, good people. If you can get to know management even better.c. The company's stock has crashed for some reason (think American Express in early 60s, which he loaded up on. Or Washington Post in the early 70s. Or Coca-Cola in the early 80s).d. The company's name is a strong brand: American Express, Coke, Disney, etc.e. Demographics play a strong role. With Coke, Buffett knew that everyone in the world would be drinking sugared water before long. Who can resist? He also started buying furniture companies right before the housing boom. He knew that as the population in the US grows, people will need chairs to sit on. Note that Buffett is not what some people call a "Value investor". But I won't get into that discussion here. One time I accidentally got an email that was intended for a famous well-known investor. It was from his broker and contained his portfolio. I can't say how this accident happened but it did. Of course, I opened the email. This is a man who writes about lots of stocks. His entire portfolio was in municipal bonds. I don't know whether or not municipal bonds are good investments. But I would look into stocks that are called "closed-end funds" that invest only in municipal bonds. They usually pay good dividends, usually trade for less than their cash or assets in the bank, and are fairly stable (it's very hard for a municipality to not pay back its debts for various reasons, some of them constitutional). But do a lot of research into the towns. I'll tell you one story. I had an idea for a fund in 2008 when oil was crashing at the end of the year. Stocks / funds that invested in municipal bonds in Texas were getting destroyed. Somehow, because oil was going down, everyone naturally assumed that Texas was going to simply disappear. I researched every municipal bond out there and found a good set of Texan cities that were being sold off with everyone else even though they had nothing to do with oil. I pitched it to a huge investor who had told me he wanted to back me on any idea I could come up with. He loved the idea. He loved it so much he told me, "You're too late. We already have about $500 million in this strategy and we bought the very stocks you are recommending." They went up over 100% in the next six months while the world was still in financial collapse. So he made a lot of money. As for me, I didn't put a dime into my own strategy and made nothing. No, because you'll never know anything about a company and you won't get the kind of deals that Warren Buffett gets. So use this guideline: - no more than 3% of your portfolio in any one stock. But if the stock grows past 3% you can keep it. To quote Warren Buffett again: "If you have Lebron James on your team, you don't trade him away." - no more than 30% of your portfolio in stocks (unless some of the stocks grow, in which case you just keep letting them grow). Bubbles don't mean anything. We had an internet bubble in the 90s. Then a housing bubble. Bubbles bubbles bubbles. And if you just held through all of that, your stock portfolio would have been at an all time high last Friday. So ignore cycles and bubbles and ups and downs. And NEVER EVER read the news. The news has no idea about the financial world and what makes it tick. Any investing off the news is like taking out your eyes because you trust a blind person to drive you to work. Probably not. But if you want a checklist, make sure these four boxes can be checked: a. The CEO has started and sold a business before.b. The business is a sector with a strong demographic headwind behind it. (or is that a tailwind?)c. The company has revenues and/or profits.d. You are getting a really good deal. (This is subjective but you can look at similar companies and what they were valued at.) I can say this: every time I have invested with this approach it's worked miracles. And every time I have not invested in this approach it's been a DISASTER. Like, a CLUSTERF*(*K Claudia doesn't let me invest in a private company unless all four items on my checklist apply. Which is important because I tend to believe in everything people tell me. So I'm happy to invest in a time portal black hole machine. I think bitcoin has about a 1 in 100 chance of being a survivor. So I have 1% of my portfolio in bitcoin. No, they have zero correlation with inflation. The best hedge against inflation is the US stock market since about 60% of revenues of the S&amp;P 500 comes from foreign countries. The only currency in the history of mankind that had actual intrinsic value was when people traded barley in the markets of the ancient city of Ur. Since then, we've developed currencies that we had to have faith in their value. Every currency has faith and hope backing it. When people began to lose faith in US currency (in the Civil War), the words "In God We Trust" were put on the dollar bill to trick people into having faith in it. But if you're going to pick a metal, wait until the gold/silver ratio gets higher than it's historical average and buy silver. How come? Because silver is both a precious metal (like gold) and an industrial metal (also like gold, but much much cheaper). So there actually is some intrinsic value in silver. I bought some silver bars back in 2005. But then lost them when I moved. That's why nobody should listen to me about investing. No. Mutual funds, and the bank representatives that push them, consistently lie about the fees they are charging. I know this from experience. One time I accompanied a friend of mine who had made some money (she was a model and had a good run for awhile) and was looking to invest it. She asked me to go with her to see her bank representative who had some "ideas". Because she was beautiful, I went with her to the bank. I didn't talk at all during the meeting but jotted down every time the bank guy lied. He lied five times. Afterwards I explained each of the lies to her. What happened? She put all her money with the guy. "He's practically family". I can't argue with a good salesman. But he lied about the mutual funds' performance that he was pitching, the fees they were charging, the commissions he was charging, and a few more I can't remember now. I wrote an article about it in the Financial Times back then. Fact: Mutual funds don't outperform the general market so better to invest in the general market without paying the extra layer of fees. Use the criteria I describe above, pick 20 companies and invest. a. The internet. Yes, it's still growing. b. Baby boomers retiring. They need special facilities to live in. They need better cancer diagnostics and treatments. c. Energy. The more people we have, the more energy we will consume. Go for energy sources that are profitable and don't need government subsidies. Whenever you depend on the government, you could get in trouble. d. Temp staffing. Every company is firing people and replacing them with temp staffers. e. Batteries. If you can figure out how to invest in Lithium, then go for it. and a dozen others. Feel free to list more in the comments. Everyone will disagree with me on this but the answer is an emphatic "NO!" It has all the qualities of a horrible investment: a. Constant extra layers of fees and taxes that never go away (maintenance, property taxes, etc that all rise with inflation). b. Usually housing is too-large a percentage of someone's portfolio. Even just the down-payment ends up being the largest expense of someone's life. c. Usually massive debt is involved. If you can avoid, "a", "b", and "c" and don't mind the opportunity cost in the time required to maintain your house then go for it. Else, rent, and use the money you saved for other investments that will be less stressful and pay off more. Fact: Housing has returned 0.2% per year in the past 100 years. Why are you in such a rush to put all of your money to work? Relax! Don't do it! There's a saying "cash is king" for a reason. I will even say "cash is queen" because on the chessboard the king is just a figurehead and the queen is the most valueable piece. Cash is a beautiful thing to have. You can pay for all of your basic needs with it. You can sleep at night knowing there is cash in the bank. I love a stress-free life. When I look back at the past 15 years, the times when I've been most stressed is when I've been heavily invested and the times when I've been least stressed is when I had cash in the bank. With cash in the bank you can also invest in yourself. P) WHAT DOES THAT MEAN, "INVEST IN MYSELF?" a. it costs almost nothing to start a business. Find something people want and start posting information about it on a blog and then upsell your services on the blog. Or write 1000 small books about different topics and publish them on Amazon. You can do this on the side while you learn and have a full time job and then when you are ready, you can jump to your other passive streams of income. Note: It takes a lot of work to find "passive" income but when it happens, it's worth it. These are some ideas. There are many others. b. Invest in experiences rather than possessions. Figure out interesting and unique experiences you can have or places you can go to (but they don't always have to be places). Experiences pay much higher dividends than an extra TV or a nicer car. c. Books. Reading is the best return on investment. You have to live your entire life in order to know one life. But with reading you can know 1000s of people's lives for almost no cost. What a great return! No. Just try to make more money. That is easier than saving money. I find that whenever I try to save money I end up spending more. I don't know why that is. I'm a horrible spender, which is probably why I've gone broke so many times. Better to just make more with many streams of income so you don't have to worry about going broke. And then saving will come naturally as you make more money. Don't forget that a salary will never make you money. After taxes and the daily grind, and your exhaustion and the feelings of "I hate my job", and then inflation and then new expenses (kids), you will never be able to save. Avoiding Starbucks every day won't make you a millionaire, that's a fact. I say it glibly, "try to make more money". I know it's not that easy. But in the long run, if you have a constant focus on alternative ways to make more money, then you will. Forget about it. Money is just a side effect of health. I talk a lot about the daily practice I started doing when I was at my lowest point. I know now after years of doing it that it has worked. I've done very well with it, and I started doing it when I was dead broke, lonely, angry, depressed, and suicidal. I didn't start it from a position of privilege. And you don't have to buy my book. I'm not selling anything. Here's the whole thing: stay physically healthy in whatever way you know how (sleep well, eat well, exercise). Be around good people who love you and respect you and who you love and respect, and be grateful every day. Think of new things each day (or all day) to be grateful for. "Gratitude" is another word for "Abundance" because the things you are most grateful for, become abundant in your life. And finally, write down 10-20 bad ideas a day. Or good ideas. It doesn't matter. After exercising my idea muscle for six months, I felt like an idea machine. It was like a super power that just wouldn't stop. More on this in another post. Money and abundance in your life is a natural side effect of the above. I know this for myself but now since writing about it for almost four years I can tell you from the letters I get that it works for others. I don't know. I used to write about money stuff because I wanted investors, or I wanted to sell books, or get speaking engagements. Now I want none of that. But I get worried that in a world of increasing economic uncertainty that more and more people are getting "stuck" and are scared about what is happening. Too many people I know are nervous and depressed. There's nothing else to know about investing your money. If your bank tries to give you any advice just say, "thanks but I'm ok". If they want you to put your money in a savings account, even "so you can get the interest" I would politely decline. There's a reason they are asking you to do this and I have no idea what it is but it's not good for you. You won't get rich investing your money but you can do very well. And if you combine that with investing in yourself, you will get wealthy. But only if you remember that financial wealth is a side effect of real inner wealth. This is the most powerful investment you can do with your time and your life. You can always make money back when you've lost it. But one single split moment of stress and anxiety you will NEVER make back again. Investing in the future will never bring back the past. To be able to sit and not have a million stressful thoughts racing through your head. To be able to appreciate everything around you for the abundance it is. Most people think they need to say "thank you" to the world. But the world is constantly saying "thank you" to you for being alive, for creating new things, new energies, new experiences. Every day give the world at least one more reason to whisper "thank you" to you. If you can hear that whisper, everything else, every gift in life, becomes expected. You earned it. Just take it.   FREE AppDownload
CeCe ChengCeCe Cheng is director of First Round Capital's Dorm Room Fund.When you're a venture capitalist investing in startups, it takes about seven years to know if you're doing a good job or not. That's how long it generally takes for a startup to exit and for you to know if you made a great investment or put money into a major flop. There are a bunch of 20-somethings in New York who are helping source deals for their firms. They're taking board seats and being handed millions of dollars to find the best new companies around. A few 20-somethings have left traditional firms and raised tens of millions of dollars for their own funds. We rounded up a list of people who have already accomplished a lot in the New York startup scene. If they keep at it, they could become the next Ron Conways, Fred Wilsons, and Bill Gurleys.  FREE AppDownload
Darley Shen/ReutersLots of people have been talking about "The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies," a book by MIT professors Andrew McAfee and Erik Brynjolfsson about the implications of the ever-accelerating mechanization of the American labor force.  On Friday, the pair were in Manhattan for a talk sponsored by MIT's Sloan School Of Management to summarize their findings. We caught up with McAfee for a Q&amp;A. Business Insider: What is the story that people may have missed from your book? Andrew McAfee: People still want to, for good reasons, concentrate on the pessimistic side of what’s going on — the real pressure on jobs and wages, and the fact that people are hurting. It’s absolutely true, and that’s a big part of reason we wrote these two books. But the optimism that we’re trying to convey I don’t think has gotten out there enough — the fact that we’re creating a more bountiful, bigger world. We’re growing the pie. I don’t mean that therefore we should all be pollyanas and that there are no problems. But this is what’s actually going on. We think this technological progress is the best economic news on the planet, bar none. BI: What policies should be put in place to help the country make this transition? AM: In the immediate term we use this phase ‘Econ 101 Playbook’ over and over just to get across that we’re not following it very well right now — to get across that whether you’re a right leaning economist or left leaning, we’re not even doing those very well right now. So: good infrastructure. Who’s gonna argue with that? We have lousy infrastructure in this country. A good climate for entrepreneurship — we put way too many regulations and red tape in way of entrepreneurs. Do we need education reform? Hell yeah. Most economists are in favor of liberal immigration policies and government funding of basic research. This is just the Econ 101 playbook, we’re very far away from it right now. So our short-term recommendation is, let’s get the Econ 101 textbook off the shelf, and do what it says. It would stimulate economic growth and job growth and wage growth. We’re not saying it would solve all problems for all time going forward, but it’s the right thing to do tomorrow. BI: Will technological progress spell the end of rural America — or could it somehow revive it? AM: People move to cities because of greater economic opportunity — they don’t only go there because they want to escape farm life, they go there because that’s where the jobs and the opportunity are. I don’t know if that massive human trend toward urbanization is going to slow down or reverse because of technology — as I understand it, the trend is pretty steady, so I think that's going to continue. But one of the things we can do with technology is improve life for people kind of in the middle of nowhere, by doing things like deploying really good bandwidth with blimps or balloons, or these weird things that we’re seeing. That’s going to bring a lot of benefits to people out there in the hinterlands. BI: Will Malthus get his revenge if enough workers are displaced? AM: We’ve got, what is it, 200 years of experience with Malthusianism? It doesn’t work. I’m the opposite: I’m a cornucopia-ist: I believe that we have this amazing ability to generate more and more material to generate affluence and and abundance for more people around the world. Malthus has put some intriguing ideas out there, and history has proven him, I believe, dead flat wrong. We put a quote in the book instead from Julian Simon, who’s one of my favorite economic thinkers, that people solve people’s problems. We underestimate it, we lowball it over and over. Amen. FREE AppDownload
    The legal action of separation and dissolving your marriage is the least of your worries when it comes to the emotional and potential financial impact of the major life event of divorce. Divorce lawyer Ani Mason says 90% of divorces settle out of court. Mediation and collaborative law are two alternative paths that many couples are choosing over litigation. Not only do they address each issue – co-parenting, spousal support and the psychological effects – separately,  they are often more cost efficient. FREE AppDownload
Columbia UniversityThe Castello Plan, New Amsterdam, 1660. A few months ago I published a history of how private English entrepreneurs were America's first settlers. But their businesses basically failed, and it took wealthy religious separatists to get English America off the ground.  There was more to the story of America's entrepreneurial roots. A couple of hundred miles south of New England, the Dutch West India Company — the sister firm of the world's first publicly traded private firm, the Dutch East India Company — had founded the colony of New Netherland. The best, most recent history of the period, "The Island at the Center of the World" by Russell Shorto, was published in 2004. Here are 11 amazing things I learned. ************ Hudson had been fired from the English Muscovy Company for failing to find a Northwest Passage to Asia. It was a chance meeting with a representative of what would become the Dutch West India Company that changed his life. He was recruited to continue his search; this time he navigated his way down what he called (and what is still called by some) the North River.  Hudson would ultimately come to meet a grisly fate, as he refused to give up on his quest for a Northwest Passage. His freezing crew marooned him and his son in modern Hudson Bay. If you look at contemporary maps, you'll see the area was labeled New Belgium. That's, in part, because the earliest Dutch settlers, including the Dutch West India Company's third governor, Peter Minuit, were largely of Walloon extraction.  Google Images Minuit was the Dutch West India Company's third New Netherland governor. He purchased Manhattan from a local Lenape Indian tribe for the modern-day equivalent of about $700. Shorto says the Indians were not swindled but rather expected the Dutch to enter into a military and economic alliance with them. For several years, at least, that was largely true. It was at the corner of Pearl Street and Coenties Slip downtown. It was long ago torn down, but there's a historical marker there. Here's what it looked like: TheBoweryBoys  It was built by slaves in 1653 to keep out the English. Here's a pic: Columbia UniversityThe Castello Plan, New Amsterdam, 1660.   Eighty-thousand beaver pelts per year passed through Manhattan. "Traders in New Amsterdam, with their ties to the world's greatest trading power, were among the most sophisticated on earth," Shorto says.   New York's longest-serving governor had lost a leg to cannon shot fighting the Spanish near South America. He'd previously been in charge of Curacao when The Company promoted him to run New Netherland. He ultimately comes off as a sympathetic figure, though his citizens started a quasi-uprising against him. But he loved New Amsterdam and had to be haggled by his own citizens into surrendering to the English. Here's a famous painting of the act: Google Images"The Fall of New Amsterdam" by Jean Leon Gerome Ferris, 1931.   New Amsterdam was dealt a severe setback when governor William Kieft decided to take revenge for the murder of one of his citizens by massacring an entire Indian settlement in New Jersey. That basically put all the surrounding tribes on a permanent war footing with New Amsterdam's leaders.   Adriaen van der Donck was a lawyer by training and was called "The Jonkheer" by his fellow citizens as a sign of respect, and this is where we get the town Yonkers. Van der Donck sailed to Amsterdam to try to fight for New Amsterdam's freedom from the Dutch West India Company, and for his efforts was temporarily imprisoned by Dutch authorities. He was released but banned from serving office for life. Soon after moving back, he was massacred at his home on the site of the modern Van Cortlandt Park. Google ImagesAdriaen van der Donck Shorto makes the case that New Amsterdamers were the first to have a true sense of their American identity and that this fueled Van der Donck's mission. The British navy was in its ascendancy, and the Dutch had provoked its ire by massacring English colonists in far-off (modern) New Guinea. This helped lead to two wars. And England's ambassador to the Netherlands, George Downing, was probably the most important diplomat of all time, having negotiated the Dutch out of several key American colonies as well as launching the slave trade. The Dutch West India Company went belly up.    FREE AppDownload
AP Michigan Republican Rep. Dave Camp announced Monday he will not seek re-election this fall, paving the way for Rep. Paul Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice presidential nominee, to become perhaps the most powerful member of the House of Representatives. Ryan is the clear frontrunner to succeed Camp as chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, where he would be in charge of policies governing Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and more. "Paul Ryan has always been the guy in the room pushing to get something done when the naysayers say, 'It can't be done,'" GOP strategist Kevin Madden, who worked on the Romney campaign, told Business Insider. "He's always been a solution-oriented legislator looking to tackle the big things. So whether it's tax reform or entitlement reform, you can count on Paul Ryan having a plan and pushing against the lethargy of the status quo." Rick Wilson, another GOP strategist, added: "Ryan will be a more powerful figure in that he's media-friendly, and has a very large, very smart, very considered set of ideas on the reform of entitlements specifically, and the budget process more generally." Many Hill observers expected Camp to retire, as he hadn't filed for re-election while the late-April deadline to do so neared. Camp's final major act as chair of the Ways and Means Committee was the introduction of a tax-code overhaul that, in an election year, produced grumbles from both sides of the political aisle. In addition to the bipartisan opposition to Camp's proposal, the odds of tax reform legislation succeeding this year decreased dramatically when Democratic Sen. Max Baucus, who worked on the proposal with Camp, left his position as the chair of the Senate Finance Committee to become the U.S. ambassador to China. Ryan, who is currently the chair of the House Budget Committee, will unveil the House Republican budget on Tuesday. The budget is expected to test GOP unity leading up to the midterm elections, as it will likely contain many of the more politically unpopular entitlement cuts to achieve a balanced budget in 10 years. If he does indeed win the chairmanship, Ryan's strong name recognition would instantly bring star power to the issues he'd take on as Ways and Means chair and even some Democrats are apparently eager for the possibility. "I’m excited by the prospect on many levels," one House Democratic aide told Business Insider. "I think he raises the profile of the committee in a major way. And it will put him in a position of having to put his money where his mouth is on many of the proposals he has been championing." The 60-year-old Camp's retirement will end a 24-year career in Congress, the last of which he spent as chair of Ways and Means following the Republican takeover of the House in 2011. In a statement, Camp said he would spend his remaining time in Congress redoubling his "efforts to grow our economy and expand opportunity for every American by fixing our broken tax code, permanently solving physician payments for seniors, strengthening the social safety net, and finding new markets for U.S. goods and services."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIt's April Fools' Day and you can expect that some pranks and jokes might be pulled on Wall Street. But the pranks are nothing like they used to be. If you ever get the chance to speak to a veteran floor trader, you really should. They're likely full of incredible stories about the good (or bad) ole days on the floor.  They'll probably tell you about the amazing sense of camaraderie on the floor and the epic pranks they used to pull on each other.     "Every joke was invented down there," a retired NYSE specialist said.   "I always tell people that it was like being in a fraternity.  The biggest jokes that were played on new workers and even better when companies had their clients come to visit were the spurs, an arrow on their backs.  When the arrow (which was made of paper) was placed on their back everyone would do a tribal dance and chants.  The customers had no idea what was going on, it was comical," a former NYMEX clerk told us. However, the humor has subsided in recent years since some of the exchanges are publicly traded and have more eyes and television cameras on them. "Fortunately, or unfortunately, you don't see those pranks anymore," another veteran floor trader told Business Insider. Veteran traders both in New York and Chicago from the NYSE, CBOT, NYMEX and AMEX told us about some of the classic pranks and jokes they used to pull back in the day.  * If you have another trading floor prank, joke or story you would like to share, please send Julia an email at jlaroche@businessinsider.com.   FREE AppDownload
It is no secret that iPhone users love their iPhones so much so that Android users can't help it but roll their eyes at their Apple fanboy gushing. Find out what iPhone user say that drive Android users crazy.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Originally published in August 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
The Bureau of Labor Statistics has published a new report showing the top 10 most common professions in the U.S. The top three are all basically in the retail industry: salespeople, cashiers, and fast-food workers. BLS Of the top 10 jobs, nearly all are "low paying" work, with the exception of registered nurses. This chart compares how they all compare to the average. BLS Check out the full report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
    We visited the SIMS Municipal Recycling Facility in Sunset Park, Brooklyn to find out. FREE AppDownload
Argonne National Laboratory/FlickrMoney. There's no denying that it's a big part of our lives. It's the means to all of those important ends: security, opportunity, philanthropy, legacy, wish-fulfillment. And because of all that, it's easy to feel like you'll never know everything you need to in order to manage it smartly. You can certainly get into the weeds of financial planning and investing -- and, by all means, please do if that's something you enjoy. However, successfully building wealth over time need not be an all-consuming, overwhelming task. In fact, it does not require much more than simply following a set of basic guidelines -- the money "must knows" below -- being consistent about it, and keeping at it in good times and bad. 1. Pay yourself firstFinancial independence is impossible unless you learn to make your financial well-being a priority. Pretend that you are a bill that you're required to pay, just like your electricity bill, mortgage, or other necessity to keep life running. Even if you can only afford to pay yourself $20 a paycheck, do it. Down the road you'll be able to afford much more, and you'll gladly do so if paying yourself first is already a habit. 2. Invest your savings smartlyFirst things first, you need an emergency fund -- three to six months of living expenses -- and it needs to be in cash so that it's readily accessible should the unexpected (job loss, car trouble, health issues) occur. After that, here is how to prioritize where you put your investing dollars: 3. Build a portfolio you can stick to no matter what the market is doingSmart asset-allocation within your portfolio is what enables you to weather the stock market's ups and downs over the long haul. What percentage of your money should be in stocks and what percentage should be in bonds? One good rule of thumb is to subtract your age from 110 to come up with your stock allocation and then put the remainder in bonds. For someone who is 40, that means allocating 70% in stocks and 30% in bonds. That's a good place to start, but you should adjust accordingly depending on your individual tolerance for volatility. Any money that you need to use in the next five years does not belong in the stock market. It should be in CDs, money market funds, or just plain cash in the bank. Don't put that money at risk. If you are not interested in managing a portfolio of individual stocks, outsource this job. But don't overpay for the service. Choose a target date fund (which is based on the year you plan to retire). Allocation is adjusted accordingly as the years go by based on the appropriate mix of investments for the particular retirement date. Index funds are another option. The key is to avoid high-fee funds with loads. Remember, every dollar you pay in fees is a dollar that isn't compounding and adding to your returns. 4. Look for conflicts of interest before you hire any financial servicesBefore acting on any advice ask your financial professional these two questions: You should be comfortable with the answers to those questions, and all aspects of the transactions should be explained in clear terms. 5. Buy term insuranceIf you have a family -- especially small children -- buy enough insurance so that in the event of your demise and loss of income, your estate can pay off your debts and cover your children's expenses through their college years. In most cases, term insurance will best serve your needs. 6. Don't buy too much houseThe sprawling McMansion that your mortgage broker said was affordable can quickly turn into a McPrison when all of your money is locked up in it. There are lots of home affordability guidelines out there. Start with this one: Don't spend more than 300% of your gross household income. Another is to pay no more than 150 to 200 times the monthly rent of a comparable property. All of that said, don't buy a home unless you plan to spend at least seven years in that area. 7. Protect your loved ones from financial and emotional hardship during the worst of timesIn times of sickness, incapacity or death, three important documents will help your loved ones deal with financial and medical issues: a will, a durable power of attorney, and a living will. If you're an adult with substantial savings, you need to have a professional draft these three documents. These are really important, so we don't recommend using online forms. 8. Check your beneficiary designationsMake sure you have up-to-date beneficiaries listed on all of your accounts -- bank, retirement, insurance, and any assets that require you to provide a beneficiary. Too many estates go through complicated, drawn-out legal battles because of missing or out-of-date beneficiary information. Make a review of your beneficiaries standard practice after any major life event, including marriage, death, divorce, and parenthood. 9. Do the right thing with your old 401(k)If you switch jobs, avoid the temptation, taxes, and penalties associated with cashing in that account. Instead, roll it over into an IRA. Doing so will give you complete control of how to invest that money going forward. 10. Create a diversified portfolio that reflects your valuesAs you're building your portfolio, think about how much you want it to reflect what you believe in -- your values, interests, and overall thoughts about the world. Of course, not all admirable companies make great investments. On the practical side: No matter what stage of life you're in right now, what financial condition you're in, what mistakes you've made, or what opportunities you've missed, it's never too late to take control of your financial future. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotAre wearables all they’re cracked up to be? As convenient as a smartwatch is for providing alerts, or a fitness band for keeping us in the loop on how far we’ve walked, do we really want to wear these devices? Some are bulky, some have poor battery life, some make us itch — and eventually, most Americans just stop wearing the wearables they’ve purchased. At least, according to a new study published by Endeavour Partners. The study found that one in ten Americans over the age of 18 have purchased a wearable device. That’s a really low figure, and it shows the potential growth as companies create new products to tap into the market. But there’s a problem with people actively using them for the long term, Endeavour Partners concluded. In fact, the firm said that “more than half of U.S. consumers who have owned a modern activity tracker no longer use it.” That’s an incredible statistic. Why did consumers ditch their wearable? Was it irritating? Did it fail to live up to the hype? It sure sounds like it, in fact, the company also found that “a third of U.S. consumers who have owned one stopped using the device within six months of receiving it.” Endeavour Partners suggests that this is an area that needs to be a major focus for wearable OEMs in the future. “It’s not enough to sync with, link  to, or work alongside one of the current devices on the market, or to partner with one of  the many startups to design an even better device,” the report said. “Designing a strategy to ensure sustained engagement is the key to long-term success in this highly competitive space.” Endeavour lines up nine ways that companies can help create a wearable that people are going to want to continue to use: OEMs need to work on creating a message as to why consumers should use a wearable. Next, they should focus on design, an easy setup experience, fit and comfort, quality, the user experience, creating APIs to integrate into other products and services, creating a real utility, and developing a lifestyle compatibility that doesn’t require a user to remove the wearable frequently to shower or charge. There are other ways to keep users coming back to their wearable, the company says, like creating habits, reinforcing goals a user might want to achieve and more. So far, it sounds like Pebble has done a really good job in a lot of these areas, and I’m curious which products people are ditching the most. Do you own a smartwatch or fitness band and, if so, do you still wear it? I have a Fitbit Force that I enjoy, but I don’t wear it daily. FREE AppDownload
In his new book, Michael Lewis argues high-frequency trading by professionals has made it impossible for mom-and-pop investors to get a fair shake in the stock market. On CNBC this morning, Business Insider Editor-in-Chief Henry Blodget disputed that assertion. Blodget said there'd never been a level playing field in investing, and that in fact it's much less rigged now. "I think the big issue is we always try to talk about this level playing field," he said "'It should be just as easy for everybody at home.' It never will be. And the reason it never will be is that it's incredibly difficult. And folks with 20 years of experience, MBAs, huge research departments spending $50 million a year talking to executives, everything else ... They can do it. So the idea that you can do it at home just because it's safe and fair, that's the delusion that people have to get past." Full transcript below.  Henry Blodget: "I think the concept of the stock market being rigged is crazy. It is much less rigged now. If this is rigging, than it always used to be — where your broker was getting a big commission on the share, it's now a much smaller commission. It's just not a commission. Somebody's getting in the way and taking it. The big problem, Carl, is that people who are trading casually, once in a while, often have no appreciation for how difficult it is to compete against professional investors who have extraordinary resources, experience, information at their fingertips. Folks have to lose in the stock market for others to win. And you're effectively walking on the field and trying to compete with the New York Yankees. That is the problem and that is never talked about in this discussion. Carl Quintanilla: Are you saying this is a problem but it effects a limited pool of players and mom and pops should not worry? HB: This affects everybody. In fact a big hedge fund trading billions of dollars a year going to lose a lot more money than somebody trading a hundred shares here and there. But I think the big issue is we always try to talk about this level playing field 'Should be just as easy for everybody at home.' It never will be. And the reason it never will be is that it's incredibly difficult. And folks with 20 years of experience, MBA, huge research departments spending $50 million year talking to executives, everything else, they can't do it. So the idea that you can do it at home just because it's safe and fair, that's the delusion that people have to get past. CQ: Doesn't sound like you think the exchanges will have a change of heart or banks or regulators for that matter — that this is going to be with us forever. HB: I think we should look at this and merit's a good regulatory investigation is it harmful, the argument is it creates more liquidity, which can be helpful. It's the same thing that floor traders used to do, the specialists creating liquidity. There was an argument that was a positive force. We should look at that and evaluate it. But I don't think in a pure financial sense individuals are losing that much. FREE AppDownload
    Juicing is an expensive habit whether you buy your green juice at the store or make it at home. We compare the economics of these two options to determine the most cost-effective way to juice.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Fears that high-speed traders have been rigging the U.S. stock market went mainstream last week thanks to allegations in a book by financial author Michael Lewis, but there may be a more serious threat to investors: the increasing amount of trading that happens outside of exchanges. Some former regulators and academics say so much trading is now happening away from exchanges that publicly quoted prices for stocks on exchanges may no longer properly reflect where the market is. And this problem could cost investors far more money than any shenanigans related to high frequency trading. When the average investor, or even a big portfolio manager, tries to buy or sell shares now, the trade is often matched up with another order by a dealer in a so-called "dark pool," or another alternative to exchanges. Those whose trade never makes it to an exchange can benefit as the broker avoids paying an exchange trading fee, taking cost out of the process. Investors with large orders can also more easily disguise what they are doing, reducing the danger that others will hear what they are doing and take advantage of them. But the rise of "off-exchange trading" is terrible for the broader market because it reduces price transparency a lot, critics of the system say. The problem is these venues price their transactions off of the published prices on the exchanges - and if those prices lack integrity then "dark pool" pricing will itself be skewed. Around 40 percent of all U.S. stock trades, including almost all orders from "mom and pop" investors, now happen "off exchange," up from around 16 percent six years ago. This trend is "a real concern," John Ramsay, former head of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Trading and Markets division, said on the sidelines of a conference in February. "We have academic data now that suggests that, yes, in fact there is a point beyond which the level of dark trading for particular securities can really erode market quality." Given the $21.4 trillion worth of U.S. stocks that were traded in 2012, even a small mispricing can move the needle by tens of billions of dollars. Lewis' new book - "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt" - says that high speed traders bilk that kind of money from investors every year. He focuses on how high-frequency trading firms use ultra- fast telecom links, microwave towers and special access to exchanges to gain an edge over other traders. The U.S. Justice Department is investigating high-speed trading for possible insider trading, Attorney General Eric Holder told lawmakers on Friday. Other regulators and the FBI have also confirmed they are looking into potential wrongdoing by high-frequency stock traders. But whether or not high-speed trading is sinister, revenues for these firms have been declining for years: in 2013, they were about $1 billion, after peaking at around $5 billion in 2009, according to estimates by Rosenblatt Securities. If, as Lewis says, these traders are doing nothing more than ripping off the rest of the market, it's a shrinking problem. Meanwhile, as the revenue from high frequency trading has waned, trading outside of public exchanges has been on the rise, threatening to roll back decades of progress towards more transparent markets. A brokerage has several ways to fill customers' orders. It can match buy and sell orders from its own customers, known as "internalizing," or sell its orders to another broker that can do the same. Brokers also send trades to "dark pools," which are similar to exchanges, except the fees are lower and they are anonymous, with orders going unreported until after they have been executed. And finally, they can send trades to exchanges, where they will have to pay higher fees. "The exchanges have basically become the liquidity venue of last resort," said Manoj Narang, chief executive of HFT firm and technology vendor Tradeworx. Around 45 dark pools and as many as 200 internalizers compete with 13 public exchanges in the U.S. Top internalizers include units of KCG Holdings &lt;KCG.N&gt;, Citadel, UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt;, and Citigroup &lt;C.N&gt;. Dark pool operators include Credit Suisse &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; and Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;. All of the firms declined to comment, or did not respond to requests for comment for this story. With the incentive to use the public market eroding, many traders increasingly see exchanges, which are often described as "lit" markets because of the pricing transparency, as battlegrounds for high frequency traders, said Rhodri Pierce, of the CFA institute. The result is an increasingly splintered market. "So much of the U.S. equity order flow is in now in the dark, or siphoned off, that it never hits the lit exchanges, and there is just a lot less in the way of trading opportunities," said Mark Gorton, CEO of high frequency trading firm Tower Research Capital LLC. In an attempt to win back some of the retail orders, exchanges such as IntercontinentalExchange Group's &lt;ICE.N&gt; New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq OMX Group &lt;NDAQ.O&gt;, and BATS Global Markets, have allowed brokerages to place dark pool-style orders on their platforms, with the trade hidden until after it is executed. NYSE, Nasdaq, and BATS declined to comment. There is no doubt that trading costs on U.S. markets are low, and that retail investors get a better deal than they did two decades ago. But U.S. and global trading transaction costs have actually been rising for the past two years, according to a Credit Suisse report on February 20. That may suggest the benefits from off-exchange trading are no longer accruing to investors as much as they previously did. A major concern with off-exchange trading is that brokers who internalize trades and offer dark pools do not provide any data to the market before the trade is executed. On a stock exchange, when an order is sent in, the price of the stock is adjusted and everyone with a data feed sees it. Dark pools only report data after a trade has occurred. At that stage, information about the trade has little influence on the price. The pools were originally created for institutions to trade large blocks of stock without creating a large impact in the market. If an order of 1 million shares was tracked, people on the other side of the trade could quickly jack up prices and the original investor could easily pay more than expected. But much of the trading isn't like that now - the average size of orders in dark pools has shrunk to around 200 shares, similar to levels on public exchanges. "There are potential costs from this trend of having more and more trading being traded away from exchanges," said the CFA's Pierce. IEX, a new trading platform heralded in Lewis's "Flash Boys" as a fairer place to trade, aims to become an exchange once it gains more volume, but is currently a dark pool. Its average order size is around 750 shares. "If the shift becomes too egregious to off-exchange markets, then there are no lit exchanges to price against," said Brad Katsuyama, CEO of IEX. "I don't know if we are necessarily at the imbalance yet," he said. Pierce released a study on off-exchange trading in November that showed that once more than half of the trading volume in a particular security is done on dark venues, the ability to properly price that security becomes difficult. The price discovery process can begin to erode when off-exchange trading in a security surpasses as little as 10 percent, according to a study by Carole Comerton-Forde and Talis Putnins of the University of Melbourne. Regulators in Canada and Australia have taken steps to curb the growth of dark trading in recent years by requiring, for instance, that off-exchange trades be of a minimum size or have a significantly better price than can be found on an exchange. Authorities in Europe and Hong Kong are eying similar rules. "Observing some of the trends in U.S. markets and elsewhere and seeing that dark trading activity in Canada was slowly growing we felt that we wanted to put some very important principles in place," said Wendy Rudd, head of market regulation at the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. (Reporting by John McCrank; additional reporting by Sarah Lynch; Editing by Daniel Wilchins, Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Some jobs are disproportionately concentrated in certain states. Fashion designers flock to New York, Texas has an outsize share of petroleum engineers, and Floridians are much more likely to be motorboat operators than are other Americans. We made a map that shows the most over-represented job in each state, using the Bureau of Labor Statistics' recently released May 2013 "Occupational Employment Statistics." Each state has far more of these jobs per capita than the nation as a whole.  We'll discuss the methodology later. First check out the map: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics These are not the most common jobs in these states — that map would be very boring, since the most common job in 42 states is "retail salesperson," the most common job in the country. Instead, this map shows jobs that are disproportionately concentrated in each state. For example, in New York, there are about 7,180 fashion designers, out of a total of 8,635,400 employed people. So fashion designers account for about 8.3 out of every 10,000 jobs in New York. In the U.S. as a whole, there are about 17,370 fashion designers out of a total of 132,588,810 employed people. So about 1.3 of every 10,000 jobs in America are in fashion design. The Bureau of Labor Statistics calls the ratio of these two rates the location quotient for a job in a particular area. The location quotient of fashion designers in New York is 8.3 divided by 1.3, which equals about 6.4. That is, there are about 6.4 times as many fashion designers per 10,000 total employed people in New York as in the U.S. as a whole. The map shows the job in each state with the highest location quotient, among jobs with at least 1,000 people employed. These jobs exist in each state at much higher rates than in the country as a whole. 
JPM We recently posted the latest slide deck from JPMorgan Asset Management, which has a number of charts relating to both the market and the economy. It's a useful thing to flip through as Q2 gets under way. Two charts really stand out, as it pertains to the market. The above chart shows the S&amp;P going back to 1997, and if you look at this chart it's easy to get freaked out. The stock market seems to move in these decisive waves. Up sharply, down sharply, up sharply, etc. We seem due for a down wave. Actually, we seem due for a REALLY BIG down save, because the current trend is now deviating from the norm quite severely. Now here's the second chart. It's also of the S&amp;P 500. It just goes back a little further. JPM Here, the story looks totally different. Going back over a century the pattern seems to be: sideways, then huge up move. And we've repeated that a few times. Taken in this context, the market doesn't look "stretched" outside of some historical range. It looks like it's about to break out of a long period of no improvement and head for what could be an extremely long and big rally. Of course, neither of the above patterns could be the true useful guide. Maybe the stock market will be flat for another decade. Who knows. But it's clear that a change in perspective can dramatically change the story of the chart. FREE AppDownload
Not convinced that going to college makes a difference? This chart from JPMorgan should dispel any notion of that. The difference in terms of both unemployment and salary between college grads and those with less education is remarkable. JPM  
WSJ The above table comes from Bill McBride at Calculated risk, and it shows the changes to the populations of various age groups over the last six years. There's been a lot of talk about the declining Labor Force Participation Rate, and how much has to do with the weak economy and how much has to do with demographics. But you just can't ignore the chart above, which shows there's been a massive surge in the 55+ cohort, and a DECLINE in the prime working age cohort.  The key thing, as Bill notes, is that while it's true that the Labor Force Participation Rate for the 55+ cohort has gone up in recent years, overall it's relatively low, so the shift in people from prime to 55+ represents a drag on total workforce participation. This isn't the end of the story, by any means. But these are the basics: There's been a big change in U.S. demographics in just the last few years, and you can't begin to talk about the job market or anything else without seeing the above numbers. Meanwhile, here's a chart showing the percentage of the population that's older than 55 (red line) vs. the percentage of the population that's prime working age (green line). FRED   FREE AppDownload
The restaurants are fully booked, the shops are packed, the financial markets are booming. For Hong Kong things have, on the face of it, never been so good. “One country, two systems” has proved to be a good deal for the former British island colony that today has become a financial centre, not just to rival its old ruler but to eclipse it. Work in London as a middle-ranking investment banker and you can hope to earn about £286,000 a year in salary and bonuses. Do the same job in Hong Kong and you can earn an extra £30,000. Take into account the city state’s low personal tax rate and you are looking at a considerably more lucrative career. An attractive prospect as long as you are not too bothered by the dire air pollution. “It has shops to rival New York and offshore banking services to match Geneva,” says one Hong Kong-based investment banker who long ago left London for Asia. Last year, a record 54 million tourists, most of them from the Chinese mainland, thronged through the island’s increasingly jammed shopping malls, while millionaires and billionaires from the People’s Republic bought up luxury properties, feeding a real estate boom to match any seen in the West. The Chinese influx, while profitable, has not been to the taste of all the territory’s citizens, who blame “the locusts” for pushing up home prices and forcing them out of central districts. At the same time, Hong Kong has the continued to hold the dubious distinction of topping The Economist’s “crony-capitalism” index, with billionaires estimated to have squirrelled away fortunes equivalent to nearly 60pc of GDP, more than treble the level in second-placed Russia. The boom, therefore, is not one that has been universally applauded or universally shared, adding to the sense of an unbalanced economy. With every boom there is also the ever-present spectre of bust. Hong Kong knows a thing or two about this and its modern financial history has been marked by a series of spectacular bubbles followed by huge crashes. Duncan Innes-Ker, an Asia analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, has followed Hong Kong’s ups and downs for several years and says the present boom is the natural consequence of the West’s and particularly the American response to the crisis. “When you get low US interest rates you get a property bubble in Hong Kong. To my mind, this looks like the latest in a cycle of boom and busts,” says Innes-Ker. However, Asianomics, a Hong Kong-based research firm, thinks the current upcycle is masking the tell-tale signs of a sharp and possibly unprecedented correction. “Hong Kong is in the path of the typhoon developing on the mainland,” says Sharmila Whelan, an analyst at Asianomics. “A nasty downturn in China and a sudden sharp correction in the Hong Kong property market would severely buffet the territory’s economy. China’s problems have become insurmountable and the likelihood that 2014 will prove the year of reckoning is growing,” says Whelan. She and her colleagues last month published a comprehensive analysis of Hong Kong’s current position and concluded that a bust was already apparent and that its cause was the same as that of the boom: China. To see why, you have to look closely at the changes that have taken place in the financial relationship between Hong Kong and China since the crash of 2008. Before the crisis, China had never represented more than 10pc of the total external claims of Hong Kong-based financial institutions, but with the implosion of the West, the island’s exposure to the mainland has rocketed and, as of late last year, stood at 49pc of claims. Much of the rise has come from the rapid growth of the offshore subsidiaries of China’s largest state-controlled banks, which have increasingly used Hong Kong as a base for sourcing foreign currency funding to pump back into the domestic economy. This has been accelerated by the People’s Bank of China’s clampdown on renminbi lending, which has led Chinese banks and companies to borrow money cheaply offshore, mainly in dollars, to invest at home at higher rates of interest. Moody’s last month issued a “negative” outlook on the Hong Kong-based operations of three out of five of the larger banks, including those of China Construction Bank and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), over the rapid growth in their loan books. One of the most extreme examples is Wing Lung Bank, which is currently being taken over by Singapore-based Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, which has almost doubled its lending in the last four years as it ramped up its mainland loan book from 8pc of total loans to 40pc by the middle of 2013. This has helped feed the growth in China over the last five years of the largest and most rapid expansion in credit in history that has transformed the People’s Republic of China into the world’s second largest economy on the back of a construction and manufacturing boom without precedent. “This is a PRC town,” says one senior Hong Kong-based banker. “A decade ago if you heard someone speaking Mandarin you assumed they had accidentally walked over the border, today you can’t get a good job unless you speak it.” Andrew Scott, professor of economics at London Business School, says the danger to Hong Kong from its exposure to a Chinese crash is clear. “Hong Kong banks are definitely exposed to the mainland through significant lending and are very dependent on the People’s Republic of China central bank for liquidity in renminbi. “So a real estate crisis in the PRC would have a major impact on Hong Kong bank balance sheets and GDP. Of course, if a PRC crisis meant less Western money flowing into China that would also affect Hong Kong,” he says. The problems of Hong Kong may seem a long way from the UK, but with two major London-listed and regulated banks still big players in its financial system, HSBC and Standard Chartered, what is happening in the territory is of close interest to the British authorities. Last year’s Bank of England stress tests on HSBC and Standard Chartered focused predominately on the impact of a Chinese and Hong Kong financial crisis to the exclusion of almost all other risks. In the case of HSBC, the lender was told to model for a halving in Hong Kong property and stock market values, as well as a 50pc reduction in mainland property. Even HSBC’s house broker, Credit Suisse, appears alarmed at the storm clouds gathering over China and recently cut its recommendation on the bank’s shares from “buy” to “sell”, warning about the potential unwind of the dollar-renminbi “carry” trade. Although neither HSBC nor Standard Chartered are likely to have lent much directly to mainland Chinese businesses the issue is more a question of whether they have lent to financial institutions that have lent to businesses that could be hit hard in the event of a severe downturn. Victor Wang at Credit Suisse points out that it is almost impossible to distinguish “real” trade financing from “carry trade”, but estimates that the speculative trading could be worth at least $200bn (£120.5bn). Hong Kong’s financial supervisor is widely seen as one of the world’s best macro prudential regulators, but Innes-Ker questions whether even the super-savvy Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) can save the territory from the crisis that could be unleashed if China’s credit bubble were to burst in an uncontrollable fashion. “The biggest risk is that you’ve got a financial sector that is several times the size of the economy and you have to question whether the authority’s ability to step in is relatively constrained,” he says. Others are more sanguine about the risks. “The Chinese economy is so controlled they will be able to manage any issues. The idea that the authorities don’t see these problems is ridiculous. If something is happening it is because they tolerate it,” says one Hong-Kong based banker. Boom or bust, Hong Kong is in for a rollercoaster ride.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
