Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images and RedfinThis was a huge year for high-end real estate. The most expensive home ever sold in the US hit the record books in 2014, and several famous properties changed hands. From celebrity-owned estates in Los Angeles to sky-high mansions in Manhattan, here are the most expensive homes sold in the US in 2014.  *Thanks to our astute readers for pointing out a missing house. It's been added to the list. FREE AppDownload
Ilya Naymushin/Reuters/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderAn artwork depicting a portrait of Russian President Vladimir Putin based on a layer of U.S. dollars and Russian roubles.The risk of a financial crisis in Russia has risen because of a precipitous fall in the rouble in mid-December. Recession, falling living standards and rising economic uncertainty look set to be key sources of political instability over the near term. But despite differences between the economic and security elite, it seems unlikely that financial instability, at its current level, will be enough to produce a political revolution in Russia similar to the one that undid the Yanukovych government in Ukraine in February 2014. However, the desire to avoid such an outcome will continue to inform the actions of the Kremlin at home and abroad. And even if a full-blown financial crisis were to send the economy into a slump, bringing Vladimir Putin, the president, down with it, security hardliners look better placed to choose his successor than either the economic liberals or a vibrant popular protest movement that has yet to emerge. Russia finds itself in the middle of a multi-dimensional crisis. Even before the bust-up with the West over Ukraine, Russia's economy had been running into trouble, growing more slowly each year since 2011, owing to the government's failure to undertake structural reforms crucial for innovation and investment. In the second half of 2014 structural deficiencies have been exposed by a precipitous drop in global oil prices, Russia's main source of export revenue. The rouble followed the oil price down until mid-December, when the Russian currency plummeted owing to a loss of confidence in the exchange-rate policy of the Russian Central Bank (RCB). In turn, this has exacerbated the debt burden of foreign-currency loans taken out by Russian firms. But because Russia's military actions against Ukraine have led to the imposition of Western economic sanctions, Russia is cut off from Western capital markets. REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevRussian President Vladimir Putin speaks during his annual end-of-year news conference in Moscow, December 18, 2014. The rouble edged lower against the dollar on Thursday, with traders saying President Vladimir Putin had offered few concrete measures at his end-of-year news conference to pull Russia out of a crisis.  So far, however, Mr Putin remains popular. Before Russia's annexation of Crimea in March, his ratings touched a low point; afterwards, they soared. In early December opinion polls indicated 85% approval for Mr Putin's work as president, with more than 62% of Russians expressing trust in him. Among the next most trusted politicians, four are members of the government, and one, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, is a deputy in the State Duma (the lower house of parliament) who supports Mr Putin on most issues. Their ratings are in single digits, in line with a generally low level of trust in government overall. In addition, Mr Putin has spent years building a structure of power that minimises the opportunities, and raises the risks, of challenging his authority. Federal districts-large administrative divisions that comprise several provinces-are controlled by a presidential representative, each with their own dedicated administrative staff. Moreover, Mr Putin's administration also controls the key companies that generate export revenue, either because the state owns a majority stake in them or because their top managers are appointed on the basis of loyalty to Mr Putin. Some of these managers share a similar background to Mr Putin in the Soviet-era state security service. Now, both Western sanctions and the rouble crisis have increased the dependence of key firms on state support, pushing them closer to Mr Putin's administration. In control of central and regional bureaucracies and with his popularity rating still high, the chances of Mr Putin's rule being brought to an end by either mass anti-government protests or through a "palace coup" currently look slim. During his almost decade and a half as president (a post that he has held three times) and prime minister (a post that he has held twice), Mr Putin's political popularity has been underwritten by Russia's continued economic growth, as well as by the semblance of a return to order after the lawless 1990s. Real GDP per head doubled between 2000 and 2013. However, this was explained more by the overlap of Mr Putin's rule with a rise in global oil prices than by the success of the government's development policies. The Russian economy is made up of a combination of state-controlled enterprises, companies owned by politically connected businessmen and genuine privately-owned firms. This economic structure conditions the kinds of policies that are politically feasible. Rapid growth in oil and gas revenue discouraged reforms of the real sector. Government finances, supported by a current-account surplus, as well as growing gold and foreign-exchange reserves, remained healthy. Beneath the surface, however, it has become more difficult for agriculture and manufacturing to compete with imports made cheaper by the rising rouble, itself lifted by rising hard-currency earnings. At the same time, an economy dominated by companies run by the state or by politically linked oligarchs has not been an attractive destination for capital investment, outside of the high-risk, high-reward energy sector. But whereas Russia's current account has stayed in surplus, its capital account has recorded mostly deficits, sometimes large, throughout the past decade. On paper, lower oil prices might be just the incentive required to drive economic reform and diversification. Business Insider/Mike NudelmanA map of Russian gas lines.  However, this will have been made much harder by the deterrence of investors, perhaps for some time, owing to the apparently arbitrary and unpredictable behaviour of the Russian leadership, at home and abroad, over the past year. Perhaps aware of his own limitations, Mr Putin has delegated the administration of Russia's finances to experts with liberal economic credentials. In contrast, key businesses in the real sector are largely administered by officials with more statist views. Ahead of the latest jolt to the rouble, Russia's public finances looked solid-with debts low and reserves high. The fall in the rouble earlier in 2014 was in large part because of investor perception of the economy's underlying structural problems, long in gestation. This time, a misstep in the timing of monetary policy adjustment in relation to fast-changing external conditions greatly accelerated the pace of depreciation, exacerbating Russia's already worsening terms of trade (the cost of imports in terms of exports). As the contradictions in the economy unwind, for the general population a sharp boost to inflation will be felt in early 2015. In part, the overthrow of the Yanukovych government has given Mr Putin an opportunity to distract attention from the problems beginning to emerge from his neglect of the economy. Linked to this, the drop in the rouble and the approaching recession are officially explained as attempts by Western powers to force Russia to halt support for anti-government militias in the east of Ukraine.REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueRussian President Vladimir Putin talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel as they attend the International 70th D-Day Commemoration Ceremony in Ouistreham June 6, 2014. Mr Putin presents the current stand-off with the EU and the US as yet another step by the West designed to humiliate Russia and to cut it down to size on the international stage. To this end, Russians have been admonished to mobilise for the country's defence, and the expected fall in living standards is portrayed as a necessary sacrifice to protect Russia's independence. For now, people have been busy exchanging roubles for consumer durables, lest the rouble fall further. So far, there are few signs of discontent with the president's explanations of the causes of the economic crisis. Even if most of the spillover from the rouble crisis is averted-as we think it will be-in the coming year government efforts will be directed at minimising the effect of recession on the population. Mr Putin will also need to mediate between two different groups in his entourage-the liberal financial managers, and hardliners in the security apparatus and the real sector, who are broadly inclined to more nationalist and state-centred positions. Sergei Karpukhin/ReutersRussia's then Prime Minister Vladimir Putin speaks to then Economy Minister Elvira Nabiullina during the 22nd Plenary Session of the Foreign Investment Advisory Council in Moscow October 20, 2008.The more liberal technocratic group has the best chance of keeping the country's finances under control-and the reputation of Elvira Nabiullina, the governor of the RCB, may even be enhanced if the rise in the interest rates in mid-December stabilises the rouble for long enough to maintain reserves until the oil price picks up (which we expect to happen in the first half of 2015). On the one hand, Mr Putin will need Ms Nabiullina's kind of expertise during the downturn-which, at his annual press conference on December 18th, he said would last two years. On the other hand, he will need the hardliners to maintain control over law enforcement, the armed forces and security apparatus, which, among other things, will be needed to suppress the insurgent and terrorist activity in the Caucasus and keep the lid on any signs of a resurgence in the democratic opposition in Moscow. The hardliners would be more amenable to restoring Soviet-style controls over the economy and to imposing currency controls. But Mr Putin seems to realise that this would not be sustainable, and his economic experts are doing their best to keep the country's economic rules compatible with international financial markets. Therefore, while steering clear of currency controls if at all possible, he is likely to placate hardliners by expanding weapons procurement for the armed forces and continuing to foment low-level military action in the Donbas, thereby channelling the energies of Russian nationalists who otherwise might have forced him to make counterproductive economic policy choices. As long as a financial meltdown and economic slump are avoided, Mr Putin could succeed in this balancing act-preventing a build-up of economic grievances, as well as intra-elite rivalry, that might otherwise threaten his administration. If not, the most likely of the other possible outcomes could be a defeat of any popular protests and the economic elite by the hardliners, possibly also involving the replacement of Mr Putin. In politics, this would mean a still tighter crackdown than has been seen already in 2014, and the administration of more populist economic policies by centralised bureaucracy. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Davis StaedtlerIs your name holding you back from a life of riches? It sounds like something out of a terrible infomercial, but a recent paper* suggests that changing your name really could improve your labour-market chances. The authors focus on the economic impact of name Americanisation for migrants in the 1930s, with surprising results. Economists—most famously the Freakonomics duo, Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner—have long worried that having the “wrong” name could set you back in the labour market. A number of studies show that having an “ethnic-sounding” name tends to disadvantage job applicants (though others suggest that names matter little).  Waves of migrants to America did not need economists to tell them that their name could be a disadvantage. Many changed their names to fit in. Almost a third of naturalising immigrants abandoned their first names by 1930 and acquired popular American names such as William, John or Charles. What was the impact? The authors draw on a sample of 3,400 male migrants who naturalised in New York in 1930. A large fraction of the sample was born in Italy, Russia, Poland, the Czech Republic and other countries with similarly distinctive anthroponomy. Over half of Russian migrants Americanised their names; only 4% of Irish migrants did so. The authors came up with an index to show how American different names were: that allowed them to quantify a shift from a non-American to an American name. There were two steps to the naturalisation process. Migrants had to first file a declaration of intention. The second step involved filing a petition for admission to citizenship about five years following the initial declaration. The authors can therefore observe migrants’ characteristics at two different points in time. The economists do not have direct data for earnings. But the naturalisation papers record migrants' occupations. So the authors rely on another measure of earning potential that assigns scores to each occupation. A higher occupational score suggests a higher income. The authors find that changing from a purely foreign name to a very common American name is associated with a 14% hike in earnings.**  There is also the problem of reverse causality. It is quite possible that richer migrants were more inclined to Americanise their name. (They might, for example, live in a richer area with fewer migrants, which might incentivise them to change their name to fit in). So, to establish a causal link from name-changing to wage-boosting—and here’s my favourite part of the paper—the authors turn to Scrabble. They calculate the Scrabble score for the name of each arriving migrant (the score of all the letters in the name) and show that individuals who decided to Americanise had higher Scrabble points. That finding soothes worries about reverse causality: it suggests that it was not the wealthier people that changed their names, but those with unusual names. What sorts of people were most likely to Americanise their name? The most boring explanation is one concerning “imperfect information”: only some migrants realised the benefit of Americanisation. But the authors find little evidence for that. Instead, they show that migrants facing the greatest barriers to occupational mobility were most likely to Americanise and reaped the highest returns from doing so. People who came from more "exotic" countries, or who could not migrate to better jobs, benefited more from Americanisation than better-off migrants. These migrants had to jettison their individual identity for labour-market success. * Biavaschi, C., Giulietti, C., &amp; Siddique, Z. (2013). The Economic Payoff of Name Americanization (No. 7725). IZA Discussion Paper. ** A quibble with the result would be the r-squared of the regression, which is very low. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderFrom left: Bill Cosby, Amy Pascal, and Alex Rodriguez.The New Year represents a fresh start. And some of us may need it more than others. Here are 28 high-profile people (and teams) whose careers or reputations took a big hit in 2014. Many are likely to bounce back — while others may never recover.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vasily Maximov/Pool Putin at Moscow's Vnukovo airport in December 6, 2014.The risk of a financial crisis in Russia has risen because of a precipitous fall in the rouble in mid-December. Recession, falling living standards and rising economic uncertainty look set to be key sources of political instability over the near term. But despite differences between the economic and security elite, it seems unlikely that financial instability, at its current level, will be enough to produce a political revolution in Russia similar to the one that undid the Yanukovych government in Ukraine in February 2014. However, the desire to avoid such an outcome will continue to inform the actions of the Kremlin at home and abroad. And even if a full-blown financial crisis were to send the economy into a slump, bringing Vladimir Putin, the president, down with it, security hardliners look better placed to choose his successor than either the economic liberals or a vibrant popular protest movement that has yet to emerge. Russia finds itself in the middle of a multi-dimensional crisis. Even before the bust-up with the West over Ukraine, Russia's economy had been running into trouble, growing more slowly each year since 2011, owing to the government's failure to undertake structural reforms crucial for innovation and investment. In the second half of 2014 structural deficiencies have been exposed by a precipitous drop in global oil prices, Russia's main source of export revenue. The rouble followed the oil price down until mid-December, when the Russian currency plummeted owing to a loss of confidence in the exchange-rate policy of the Russian Central Bank (RCB). In turn, this has exacerbated the debt burden of foreign-currency loans taken out by Russian firms. But because Russia's military actions against Ukraine have led to the imposition of Western economic sanctions, Russia is cut off from Western capital markets. REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevRussian President Vladimir Putin speaks during his annual end-of-year news conference in Moscow, December 18, 2014. The rouble edged lower against the dollar on Thursday, with traders saying President Vladimir Putin had offered few concrete measures at his end-of-year news conference to pull Russia out of a crisis.  So far, however, Mr Putin remains popular. Before Russia's annexation of Crimea in March, his ratings touched a low point; afterwards, they soared. In early December opinion polls indicated 85% approval for Mr Putin's work as president, with more than 62% of Russians expressing trust in him. Among the next most trusted politicians, four are members of the government, and one, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, is a deputy in the State Duma (the lower house of parliament) who supports Mr Putin on most issues. Their ratings are in single digits, in line with a generally low level of trust in government overall. In addition, Mr Putin has spent years building a structure of power that minimises the opportunities, and raises the risks, of challenging his authority. Federal districts-large administrative divisions that comprise several provinces-are controlled by a presidential representative, each with their own dedicated administrative staff. Moreover, Mr Putin's administration also controls the key companies that generate export revenue, either because the state owns a majority stake in them or because their top managers are appointed on the basis of loyalty to Mr Putin. Some of these managers share a similar background to Mr Putin in the Soviet-era state security service. Now, both Western sanctions and the rouble crisis have increased the dependence of key firms on state support, pushing them closer to Mr Putin's administration. In control of central and regional bureaucracies and with his popularity rating still high, the chances of Mr Putin's rule being brought to an end by either mass anti-government protests or through a "palace coup" currently look slim. During his almost decade and a half as president (a post that he has held three times) and prime minister (a post that he has held twice), Mr Putin's political popularity has been underwritten by Russia's continued economic growth, as well as by the semblance of a return to order after the lawless 1990s. Real GDP per head doubled between 2000 and 2013. However, this was explained more by the overlap of Mr Putin's rule with a rise in global oil prices than by the success of the government's development policies. The Russian economy is made up of a combination of state-controlled enterprises, companies owned by politically connected businessmen and genuine privately-owned firms. This economic structure conditions the kinds of policies that are politically feasible. Rapid growth in oil and gas revenue discouraged reforms of the real sector. Government finances, supported by a current-account surplus, as well as growing gold and foreign-exchange reserves, remained healthy. Beneath the surface, however, it has become more difficult for agriculture and manufacturing to compete with imports made cheaper by the rising rouble, itself lifted by rising hard-currency earnings. At the same time, an economy dominated by companies run by the state or by politically linked oligarchs has not been an attractive destination for capital investment, outside of the high-risk, high-reward energy sector. But whereas Russia's current account has stayed in surplus, its capital account has recorded mostly deficits, sometimes large, throughout the past decade. On paper, lower oil prices might be just the incentive required to drive economic reform and diversification. However, this will have been made much harder by the deterrence of investors, perhaps for some time, owing to the apparently arbitrary and unpredictable behaviour of the Russian leadership, at home and abroad, over the past year. Perhaps aware of his own limitations, Mr Putin has delegated the administration of Russia's finances to experts with liberal economic credentials. In contrast, key businesses in the real sector are largely administered by officials with more statist views. Ahead of the latest jolt to the rouble, Russia's public finances looked solid-with debts low and reserves high. The fall in the rouble earlier in 2014 was in large part because of investor perception of the economy's underlying structural problems, long in gestation. This time, a misstep in the timing of monetary policy adjustment in relation to fast-changing external conditions greatly accelerated the pace of depreciation, exacerbating Russia's already worsening terms of trade (the cost of imports in terms of exports). As the contradictions in the economy unwind, for the general population a sharp boost to inflation will be felt in early 2015. In part, the overthrow of the Yanukovych government has given Mr Putin an opportunity to distract attention from the problems beginning to emerge from his neglect of the economy. Linked to this, the drop in the rouble and the approaching recession are officially explained as attempts by Western powers to force Russia to halt support for anti-government militias in the east of Ukraine. Mr Putin presents the current stand-off with the EU and the US as yet another step by the West designed to humiliate Russia and to cut it down to size on the international stage. To this end, Russians have been admonished to mobilise for the country's defence, and the expected fall in living standards is portrayed as a necessary sacrifice to protect Russia's independence. For now, people have been busy exchanging roubles for consumer durables, lest the rouble fall further. So far, there are few signs of discontent with the president's explanations of the causes of the economic crisis. Maxim Shipenkov/ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with his Kazakh counterpart Nursultan Nazarbayev at the Kremlin in Moscow, December 22, 2014. Even if most of the spillover from the rouble crisis is averted-as we think it will be-in the coming year government efforts will be directed at minimising the effect of recession on the population. Mr Putin will also need to mediate between two different groups in his entourage-the liberal financial managers, and hardliners in the security apparatus and the real sector, who are broadly inclined to more nationalist and state-centred positions. The more liberal technocratic group has the best chance of keeping the country's finances under control-and the reputation of Elvira Nabiullina, the governor of the RCB, may even be enhanced if the rise in the interest rates in mid-December stabilises the rouble for long enough to maintain reserves until the oil price picks up (which we expect to happen in the first half of 2015). On the one hand, Mr Putin will need Ms Nabiullina's kind of expertise during the downturn-which, at his annual press conference on December 18th, he said would last two years. On the other hand, he will need the hardliners to maintain control over law enforcement, the armed forces and security apparatus, which, among other things, will be needed to suppress the insurgent and terrorist activity in the Caucasus and keep the lid on any signs of a resurgence in the democratic opposition in Moscow. The hardliners would be more amenable to restoring Soviet-style controls over the economy and to imposing currency controls. But Mr Putin seems to realise that this would not be sustainable, and his economic experts are doing their best to keep the country's economic rules compatible with international financial markets. Therefore, while steering clear of currency controls if at all possible, he is likely to placate hardliners by expanding weapons procurement for the armed forces and continuing to foment low-level military action in the Donbas, thereby channelling the energies of Russian nationalists who otherwise might have forced him to make counterproductive economic policy choices. As long as a financial meltdown and economic slump are avoided, Mr Putin could succeed in this balancing act-preventing a build-up of economic grievances, as well as intra-elite rivalry, that might otherwise threaten his administration. If not, the most likely of the other possible outcomes could be a defeat of any popular protests and the economic elite by the hardliners, possibly also involving the replacement of Mr Putin. In politics, this would mean a still tighter crackdown than has been seen already in 2014, and the administration of more populist economic policies by centralised bureaucracy. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
America's population is growing, and should continue to grow for the next several decades. The US Census Bureau recently released updated projections of the makeup of the US population over the next few decades. Using those projections, Business Insider put together this animated population pyramid showing how the US will develop. The horizontal bars show how many men or women of a particular age are projected to be alive in a particular year: 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Business Insider/Andy Kiersz/Mike Nudelman, data from US Census Bureau				 (As a side note, the numbers to the left of the vertical axis; representing the number of women, are negative as a side effect of how we made the charts.) The US population is expected to keep growing through at least 2060, the last year of the projections. By that time, the Census Bureau predicts that the US will have around 417 million people, up from the about 319 million Americans today. The US is also going to continue aging, though to a less extreme extent than other developed countries. The median age in 2060 is projected to be about 43, as opposed to being about 37 in 2014. This still puts America in a better place than countries like Japan, whose median age is projected to be 56 by 2050. FREE AppDownload
There are dozens upon dozens of different styles of beer out there, from pale ales to stouts to bocks — and those are just a few. Being that there are so many styles, and so many exceptions to the rules, it's incredibly difficult (not to mention time-consuming) to get to know them all, but knowing your favorites will make drinking them a lot more enjoyable. We've created a taxonomy of most major beer styles to help you put your favorite cold ones into context. Start in the center and see where each style of beer falls. Skye Gould/Business Insider
Necole Bitchie via Google ImagesIf you drive a car like this, you're probably saving a lot of money on gas. As gasoline — a refined product of oil — becomes cheaper, consumers will have more money in their pockets, which they will then go out and spend on other goods and services. However, a research note from UBS indicates that the effect on the US economy might be a bit more limited than many expect — for a couple of reasons. The bulk of gasoline spending is done by families at the top of the income distribution. Almost a third of gasoline spending comes from the top 20%, with another quarter coming from the next quintile: UBS While the top 20% are the largest consumers of gasoline, those families spend a smaller share of their income on gasoline than families with less wealth. People at the top of the income distribution are also less likely than lower-income families to spend their gas savings on other items, instead tucking that money away into their savings.  According to the authors of the UBS note, "These families' overall expenditures generally are not tightly constrained by income and credit availability. In other words, part of the lower gasoline expenditures likely will be reflected in a higher than otherwise overall personal saving rate." The note points out a couple other reasons the drop in oil prices might introduce some drag on growth. Lower prices means that there will be less of a drive to build new wells and develop new fields in the US, leading to lower capital expenditures. Furthermore, in the wake of falling oil prices, the dollar has exploded, which could lead to people buying more imports, moderately tempering GDP. While the drop in oil prices should be an overall boon to the US economy, it's worth noting that there are other effects of that drop that could provide a small drag.       FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyBad news for tobacco companies: America's teens prefer marijuana. The latest research from a Morgan Stanley's tobacco analysts reveals two major trends in teen smoking habits. First, high schoolers are smoking less and less cigarettes. Only 10.3% have reportedly smoked a cigarette in the past 30 days, down from 27.4% in 2000. And second, the gap between marijuana and cigarette usage is widening. Until 2008, cigarettes were the preferred option, but now weed is clearly the go-to for those in high-school. So what does this mean for big tobacco? "In our view, any industry participation in the legalized marijuana industry is highly unlikely barring the passage of federal legislation legalizing its sale and usage, although we would expect the industry to closely monitor the market's development at the state level," writes Morgan Stanley's Matthew Grainger. But these companies may soon be asked to do more than just monitor the situation. Other analysts argue that big tobacco companies will have to start addressing questions about marijuana sooner than they think. "With this quickly changing view of marijuana across the US," wrote RBC Capital Markets' Nik Modi earlier in December, "we believe it is only a matter of time until investors start asking questions about how it will fit into the bigger picture." "And while every tobacco company management we have spoken to on this topic has been unwilling to discuss it, we believe full federal legalization of marijuana in the US would likely lead tobacco companies to reconsider this space," Modi added. So as Americans (especially young high schoolers) increasingly turn towards marijuana, big tobacco companies are really going to have to start thinking about the numbers soon. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveFor some, 2014 was a good year; for others, it was a great year. It was the year of the big-screen iPhone, the fight against Ebola, powerful political protests, and revolutionary breakthroughs in health and technology. We named the 24 most impressive people of the year starting with the overall winner, India's new prime minister, Narendra Modi. From finance and tech to politics and entertainment, these are the people who amazed us the most this year. FREE AppDownload
Mike Rowe, the host of "Dirty Jobs," talks about what drives plumbers, pig farmers and others in not-so-glamorous professions to be really good at their jobs.  WATCH MORE: The Full Interview With Mike Rowe Behind The Brand takes you behind the scenes at some of the coolest brands as well as talk with world-class thought leaders and entrepreneurs so you can get an inside look at how they do it. Follow Behind The Brand: On YouTube Follow host Bryan Elliott: On Twitter
The fun parts of winter, seeing family, the time off, is coming to a close. Now you realize you've put on an extra 5 pounds in the last few weeks, and it's such a pain dragging yourself to the gym in 20-degree weather. And it's even worse after your workout when you have to get back out into the cold, completely drenched in sweat, to make your way home. Let's forget all that. Instead, make your life easier and create a minimalist home gym right in your house. Insider Picks has put together the essentials that you'll need — without sacrificing the intensity of a regular gym. AmazonPerfect Fitness Ab Carver Pro Regular sit-ups and push-ups are fine, but if you want to turn your home into a mini gym, we recommend stacking up with some of these tools. The 'Ab Carver Pro' will work your abs and arms better than regular sit-ups because you'll have to work on balancing as well. Perfect Fitness Ab Carver Pro | Amazon You can amp up ab workouts by doing them on stability balls. And bonus points: it doubles as a chair that will help with your posture. 2000lbs Anti-Burst Exercise Stability Ball | Amazon Tone Fitness Stability Ball | Amazon Amazon2000lbs Anti Burst Exercise Stability BallStanding on a fitness cushion disc will help work your balance and stability. Make sure to stand on it with slightly bent knees. Waccess 13" Athletic Inflatable Balance Stability Fitness Cushion Disc | Amazon Similar to fitness cushion disc, but these are thick and not-inflatable. Just trying doing squats on them. (Be careful not to roll your ankle.) Black High Density Foam Rollers (36-inch) | Amazon Black High Density Foam Rollers (6 x 12 inch) | Amazon AmazonProSource Solid Cast Iron Kettle Bell Weights Kettle bells were trendy at first, but they've quickly become a workout staple. They're a must-have because they combine cardio and strength training. Just think, you won't have to die of boredom getting your cardio work out done on treadmill at the gym. ProSource Solid Cast Iron Kettle Bell Weights | Amazon Aside from Kettle Bells, it's good to have your average dumb bells on hand. If you're looking to tone, get a lighter weight and do more reps with them. If you're looking to build muscles, get a heavier weight and do less reps with them. Yes4All Rubber Coated Hex Dumbbells | Amazon SPRI Deluxe Rubber Dumbbells | Amazon Gold's Gym 40 Pound LB Vinyl Cement Dumbbell Weight Set | Amazon AmazonValeo Stretch Bands Stretching is important — especially because it prevents injuries. Get yourself some stretch bands to help stretch out the tighter parts. It's a good idea to have various levels of stretchiness (more stretchy for where you're less flexible, and vice versa). Valeo Stretch Bands | Amazon Aylio 3 Flat Stretch Bands | Amazon AmazonPerfect Fitness Weight Vest, 20-Pound If you think your basic push-ups, lunges and squats are easy — these things are for you. A fitness vest adds an extra however-many-you-want pounds to your core, which will add intensity to everything you do. We recommend going for the 20-pound if you've never used one before. Perfect Fitness Vest, 20-pounds | Amazon Perfect Fitness Weight Vest, 40-pounds | Amazon Similar to the vest, except — naturally — for the ankles. Wear them while doing lunges, leg lifts, or V-sit ups for extra resistance. All Pro Weight Adjustable Ankle Weights 10-lb pair | Amazon Gold's Gym Adjustable Ankle Weights | Amazon Fitness bands (also called resistance bands) are a great way to strengthen isolated muscle groups — which is something that can't be done with weight machines. Bonus: they're light and easy to take with you on business trips, so you can even work out with them in your hotel room. AmazonSPRI Xertube Resistance Band Exercise CordsSPRI Xertube Resistance Band Exercise Cords | Amazon Perfect Fitness Bands (Extreme) 50-Pounds | Amazon Weighted gloves aren't too heavy, so you could easily wear them during your entire work out to add a touch of resistance to any movement you do. They'll act sort of like mini-weights, and help tone your arms. Title Boxing Strong Hands Weighted Gloves | Amazon AmazonValeo Ropes Jumping rope is an extremely underrated exercise — it's not easy, and it's great for your heart. Plus, just like the resistance bands, jump ropes are extremely portable. Master of Muscle Jump Rope | Amazon Valeo Deluxe Speed Rope | Amazon AmazonHemingWeigh Extra Thick Foam Exercise Mat Many exercises are done on the floor — but no one wants to end a workout with bruises all over their elbows, knees and tailbone. Getting an exercise mat is a great way to protect your body. HemingWeigh Extra Thick Foam Exercise Mat | Amazon SPRI Exercise Mat | Amazon Yoga has officially gone mainstream, and if you want to keep up your practice at home, you're going to need your own mat. (Plus, if you go to a yoga studio as well, just bring your own mat instead of pre-used one. Gross.) Prosource Premium Yoga Mat | Amazon Sivan Health and Fitness NBR Yoga Mat | Amazon AmazonPerfect Fitness Scale Pro There's one sure-fire way to see how much (or how little) progress you've made. Invest in a scale — numbers don't lie. Perfect Fitness Scale | Amazon TG Mens Remedy Digital Scale | Amazon The cooling towel is a life saver. Not only does it keep you dry, but the cooling effect will keep you from overheating during workouts. Plus, it's made of evaporative material. Perfect cooling towel | Amazon Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's trade will grow 3.5 percent in 2014, implying the country will fall short of a current 7.5 percent official growth target, according to a report on the Ministry of Commerce's website that was subsequently revised to remove the numbers. The initial version of the report published on the website on Saturday, which quoted Minister of Commerce Gao Hucheng, was replaced with a new version that had identical wording but with all the numbers and percentages removed. The Commerce Ministry did not answer calls requesting comment on the reason for the change. China's trade figures have repeatedly fallen short of expectations in the second half of this year, providing more evidence that China's economy may be facing a sharper slowdown. Foreign direct investment will amount to $120 billion for the year, the earlier version of Ministry of Commerce report said, in line with official forecasts. The earlier version of the report also said outward non-financial investment from China could also come in around the same level. That would mark the first time outward flows have pulled even with inward investment flows in China, and would imply a major surge in outward investment in December given that the current accumulated level stands slightly below $90 billion. The earlier version of the report also predicted that retail sales growth would come in at 12 percent for 2014, in line with the current average growth rate. In a separate report, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences predicted that real estate prices in Chinese cities would continue to slide in 2015, with third- and fourth-tier cities hit hardest. But it said the market would have a soft landing as local governments take action to provide further policy support to the market.   (Reporting by Pete Sweeney and William Zhang. Editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
Iain Armitage recently sat down with Sting to talk with him about his role in the Broadway musical "The Last Ship." The six-year-old kindergartener began reviewing Broadway shows earlier this year on his YouTube channel. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Most human beings get about 75 years of existence. That's about 3,900 weeks. Or 27,000 days. Or 648,000 hours. We spend about a third of those hours sleeping, a number that hasn't changed much over the centuries. What has changed is what we do with the remaining time. As the following two charts show, over the past 150 years, thanks to the irrepressible inventiveness and ingenuity of the human animal, we have engineered a profound shift in what we do with our waking hours. There are 168 hours in a week. 56 go to sleeping, which leaves 112 for everything else. 150 years ago, we spent about 70 of those 112 waking hours working. Thanks to the remarkable productivity enhancements we have made over the past 150 years, the average workweek in most countries has dropped by about 30 hours: Max Roser, Our World In Data This remarkable drop in working hours has freed up a lot of extra time. So what do we humans do with all the extra hours our miraculous progress and productivity enhancements have allowed us to create for ourselves? We spend them watching television. According to recent figures, the average human spends about 4 hours a day, or 28 hours a week, watching television. Ofcom So if you want to summarize the net result of human progress over the past 150 years, you can think about it this way: We figured out how to save ourselves ~30 hours of work per week, and we use them to watch TV. SEE ALSO: This is one of the most remarkable survival stories you will ever read... FREE AppDownload
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinese industrial profits dropped 4.2 percent in November to 676.12 billion yuan ($108.85 billion), official data showed on Saturday, the biggest annual decline since August 2012 as the economy hit major unexpected headwinds in the second half. Despite last month's drop, profits for January-November were 5.3 percent higher than in the first 11 months of 2013, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) data. The NBS attributed November's profit drop to declining sales and a long-running slide in producer pricing power. "Increasing price falls shrank the space for profit," the agency said. It said the impact of prices for coal, oil and basic materials falling to their lowest levels in years "was extremely clear". As the NBS analysis suggested, the net slide in industrial profits was driven primarily by weakness in coal mining, and oil and gas industries, where November profits tumbled from a year earlier by 44.4 percent and 13.2 percent respectively. Oil, coking coal and nuclear fuel processing industries saw their profits slide by 34.2 percent, according to the data. On the upside, Chinese technology industries saw profits grow sharply last month. Telecommunications firms saw a 20.7 percent increase, electronics and machinery grew 15.1 percent and automobile manufacturers enjoyed a 16.7 percent gain. "This suggests that on the one hand, in the context of weak investment demand, stable consumption demand provided a certain degree of support; on the other hand, promoting industry restructuring is having a positive effect on efficiency," the NBS analysis said. However, the unbalanced nature of the performance highlights a quandary regulators face. They want to restructure the Chinese economy away from credit- and energy-intensive heavy industries toward lightweight technology products and services, yet they must also avoid causing a crisis in the financial system. If Beijing allows mass closures among its sagging erstwhile industrial champions in the name of economic transformation, it also risks forcing a wave of bad loans onto bank balance sheets. That would make banks even more reluctant to lend to the next-generation companies which authorities want them to support. Economists are debating whether the monetary easing steps taken in recent months - including late November's surprise interest rate cut - can prove effective in a context where many companies are seeking fresh capital primarily to roll over existing debt amid weak customer demand, while China's most successful firms remain reluctant to borrow.   (Reporting by Pete Sweeney; Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban spoke with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014 conference. He told us how he manages to handle fame. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
Photo courtesy of Sean CummiskeyIt's the holidays, and now that folks have some downtime they'll want to hit the slopes at ski resorts all around the world. We've tracked some of the top ski racers who are now working on Wall Street.  We've found folks who competed in the Olympics and others who were World Cup medalists. We found many skiers who were captains of their college teams.  We've also found some younger skiers who are heading to Wall Street when they're finished with school. These skiers have swapped running gates for putting together financial models and analyst reports. They can still hit the slopes on the weekends, though.  One of the skiers on our list happens to own a ski area, too.  If you know of other skiers who should be included, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. Please include a photo and a brief bio of ski highlights.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Unfortunately, playing the stock market is just not that easy. Investors have several strategies they can employ when buying stocks. But if you have a decent chunk of money just sitting around, you might be better off going all in and throwing everything into the stock market at once. An AllianceBernstein blog post from July explained this argument, and the group reiterated its point in a year-end review Wednesday. It compared historical returns from three investment strategies: putting a sum of money into the market all at once, dollar-cost averaging and splitting that money into equal monthly investments, and just holding cash. While dollar-cost averaging fared better on average than waiting on the sidelines, the clear winner is the front-loaded, lump-sum investment. AllianceBernstein's Seth Masters points out that immediate investing works better than dollar-cost averaging "because stock markets tend to rise over time, so investing immediately wins on average." Dollar-cost averaging means that you still have some of your money on the sidelines, so you can miss out on some big gains. The AllianceBernstein Blog We have discussed the advantages of the dollar-cost averaging strategy before. This involves investing a fixed amount of money each month, no matter what the stock market is doing. The basic idea is that even if the market takes a downturn, you'll be buying more assets at a lower price, so when things recover, as they generally do, you'll come out ahead. This strategy works especially well if the capital you're investing is coming in at regular intervals, as with contributions to a 401(k) automatically deducted from your paycheck. It is important to note that, whatever your particular saving strategy, you should not sell and pull out of the market at every swing and downturn. In an October note, Gluskin Sheff chief strategist David Rosenberg pointed out that staying the course was important: So, if you happen to come into a bit of extra money and you're thinking about where you want to put it, taking the plunge and jumping into the stock market might not be a bad idea.   FREE AppDownload
Coffee, Red Bull, whatever. We drink it for energy, but is that really what it gives us?
So, what are the oil market pros predicting for prices after the crash of 2014? Overall, they're expecting prices to go up. However, futures traders are positioned much more conservatively than what the professional oil price forecasters are predicting. "Forecasters and market participants disagree about the likelihood of a significant rebound in oil prices during the next 12 months," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin wrote. "Many clients share the view priced into the futures market that Brent will remain below $70 by year-end 2015. However, oil producers anticipate a rebound, echoing a Bloomberg survey of professional forecasters that expects Brent to rise by 35% to $82 at year-end 2015 (Exhibit 2)." Goldman's house view is that Brent eventually rallies to $85 a barrel. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs's chief economist Jan Hatzius has published answers to what he believes are the eight top questions for next year. Here's a list of the questions and our quick summaries of his thoughts: 1. Will the US economy continue to grow above trend? Yes. Domestic strength should offset weakness from other economies. 2. Will the dollar appreciation weigh on growth? Yes, but it's manageable in the short term because of lower oil prices. 3. Will the housing recovery accelerate? Yes, especially in the single-family sector. Household formation should improve as young adults move out of their parents' homes. 4. Will consumer spending growth accelerate? Yes, as real disposable income increases because of lower oil prices. 5. Will capital spending growth accelerate further? No. Business capital spending does not look depressed relative to the long-term fundamentals and the decline in oil prices is likely to take a toll on energy sector. 6. Will wage growth move into the 3%-4% range identified by Chair Yellen as “normal”? No. There's still slack in the labor market as measured by the U6 underemployment rate. 7. Will core inflation rise toward the Fed’s 2% target? No. The dollar is strong, wage growth is low, and depressed oil prices should have a negative impact. 8. Will the Fed hike rates by the June FOMC meeting? No, because inflation probably won't hit the 2% target. "Based on our below-consensus forecasts for wage and price inflation we expect the first funds rate hike to occur after June 2015; our base case is September," Hatzius said.  So in summary, the US economy will grow together with the dollar, faster than its global peers. But inflation below the Fed's target will push its rate hike back to at least September, and the impact of lower oil prices will continue to be felt throughout the economy. FREE AppDownload
David Rosenberg, Chief Economist &amp; Strategist at Gluskin Sheff, has identified a big risk looming out there in the global economy: The Chinese housing market. In the past, China's housing market was a key source of economic growth and jobs. But now that things are slowing down in the world's second largest economy, it could get ugly. Here's what Rosenberg wrote: A BLACK SWAN One looming "black swan" is the Chinese housing markets, which is providing to be a key source of pressure on the economy (notwithstanding last year's upward GDP revision which merely reflected a different accounting procedure) and creating financial strains along the way — all 70 mainland cities are now experiencing YoY home price declines of between 1 and 9%. Friday's NYT cited reports of major apartment complexes now are only between one-third and one-half unoccupied, and that many projects are halfway through construction and the cranes are now idled. This is a crucial overhang for a sector that directly accounts for 13% of the economy and indirectly (via the impact on ancillary sectors) that number is closer to 33%. Even with the builders cutting their housing start production by 34% in November from year-earlier levels, demand has weakened to such an extent (because affordability has become extremely stretched to the point that in the big cities an apartment costs 20 years' worth of wages for college grads), unsold inventory in the large cities ranges between 12 and 18 months of supply — that is huge and explain why average prices have fallen 7.4% since April alone. We all now how real estate deflations end ... not well. Anyone who remembers the boom and bust of the US housing market understands how bad things can get. Prices tumble, bad debts surge, and credit markets seize up. And if things really come to a head, you have yourself a global financial crisis. It's a bit of a faux pas to call it a "black swan" as "black swan" risks are by definition almost impossible to see coming. But when they come, it's bad, and that's the point Rosenberg seems to be emphasizing. FREE AppDownload
Tokyo (AFP) - The cabinet of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe approved a fresh stimulus package worth $29 billion Saturday in a bid to boost the economy, hit hard by a tax hike. The 3.5-trillion-yen package is designed to help the provincial economy, small businesses and the household sector, as well as to increase public spending to rebuild areas hit by natural disasters. "With speedy implementation of these measures, I think we can bolster consumption and lift the provincial economy and expand the positive growth cycle to all corners of the country," Abe told a meeting with ruling lawmakers shortly before the cabinet officially approved the package. The world's third largest economy is seeing a barrage of weak economic indicators after an April consumption tax rise slammed the brakes on growth. Since coming to power two years ago, Abe has offered a series of pro-business, big-spending policies in a bid to bring Japan out of deflation. His programmes were supported by the Bank of Japan's aggressive monetary easing. The efforts have driven down the yen and boosted earnings of major firms, particularly exporters. But critics have argued that the benefits were not felt by small businesses and consumers while real wages shrank. Of the 3.5 trillion yen in the fresh stimulus,  600 billion yen will go to programmes to boost the local economy, 1.2 trillion yen for steps to help consumers and small businesses, and 1.7 trillion yen to rebuild areas hit by natural disasters, such as the 2011 tsunami and massive landslides this year. The stimulus includes subsidies for small businesses that are facing soaring fuel costs as a result of the falling yen.   FREE AppDownload
With oil prices on a very bumpy ride over the last few weeks, countries like Russia and Nigeria that depend on oil exports are hurting. RBC Capital Markets just circulated a research note discussing how the recent drop in oil prices could affect various oil producing countries. Included in the note is this chart showing the crude oil market share for each oil exporting country. Saudi Arabia and Russia are by far the two biggest exporters in the world, together responsible for almost 30% of the crude export market. RBC FREE AppDownload
Wells FargoBy now, we've all heard that oil prices have plummeted over the last several months, which has made things tough for major energy-producing economies like Saudi Arabia and Texas. But it's great news for the average American consumer because lower oil prices means lower gas prices — and lower gas prices means a rise in disposable income.  This chart from Wells Fargo Securities shows just how much each income group in the US will save over a year because of lower gas prices. FREE AppDownload
 Billionaire hedge-fund manager David Tepper is concerned about the market in 2015. At a time when most of Wall Street is bullish on stocks next year, the founder of the $20 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management said the market may be overvalued, in a brief email to CNBC.  "Worldwide money [was] made too easy for where USA fundamentals were in both late 1998 and 2014," Tepper said.  He continued, noting what happened in 1999 is "not exactly the same" but said it was "similar," according to CNBC. Tech stock valuations soared in 1999 to form the tech bubble that burst in early 2000. What's also similar to the events of 1998 is the Russian currency crisis. Russia defaulted on its debt that year. "This year rhymes with 1998. Russia goes bad. Easing [is] coming from Europe. Sets up 1999 ... [oops] I mean 2015," he wrote. Markets continued to rally in trading Tuesday as the S&amp;P and Dow Jones soared to record highs, with the Dow climbing to a record 18,000. A revised report showed that US GDP grew by the most since 2003 in Q3, at 5.0% compared to last month's estimate of 3.9%. Head to CNBC.com for more.    FREE AppDownload
Reuters The firm sees the S&amp;P 500 at 2,250 by the middle of next year, with a slight dip in the second half to end at 2,200. It downgraded emerging markets because they've underperformed 62% of the time in a dollar rally, and the dollar is rallying.  Russia and Saudi Arabia will be the biggest losers to lower crude oil prices.  And the benefit of cheaper gas for US consumers could be cut short, because its forecast to be more expensive than it was before oil collapsed. Here's the entire tweetstorm: 2015 Outlook: "We stay overweight equities raising our mid 2015 target to 2,250 for the S&amp;P 500; modest fall in 2H" pic.twitter.com/wVPok788CK 2015 Regional Outlook: "Overweight Continental Europe &amp; Japan, Benchmark UK &amp; Underweight US and Emerging Markets" pic.twitter.com/CCCbJDUypy 2015 Outlook: "China is the biggest macro risk, in our view. Housing, credit and investment remains a triple bubble" pic.twitter.com/wx1mTwZZug 2015 Outlook: "Commodity bear market to continue to underperform the cycle in 2015" pic.twitter.com/h2SutIf2ar 2015 Outlook: "We forecast S&amp;P 500 EPS growth of 7.9% and 8.2% for 2015 and 2016; 1.5% below consensus" pic.twitter.com/vpZdYSzQiZ  2015 Outlook: "We forecast MSCI EMU EPS growth of 8.2% and 10.9% for 2015 and 2016; well below consensus" pic.twitter.com/Kw7pPcB9KW 2015 US Outlook: "The US underperformed global markets before and after the last 4 rate hikes in dollar terms" pic.twitter.com/H1aRltUkfl 2015 US Outlook: "The US has the lowest operational leverage of all major regions" pic.twitter.com/0wZkiI34yj  2015 US Outlook: "The US is expensive on both P/E and HOLT Price / Book relative" pic.twitter.com/CSwX47jipK 2015 Outlook: "Downgrading Emerging Markets to Underweight; underperforms 62% of the time the USD strengthens" pic.twitter.com/NdLkFPwZYf   2015 Emerging Market Outlook: Emerging market private sector debt is clearly above trend 2015 Europe Outlook: Euro area GDP growth would have to be 4% below global growth for Europe not to outperform pic.twitter.com/W0QflbptZx  2015 Europe Outlook: "Valuations are cheap on measures of normalized earnings (Shiller P/E)" pic.twitter.com/Mu5jNcu0QI 2015 Europe Outlook: "We take Germany back to Overweight; DAX is trading at a 15-year low on P/E vs. Cont. Europe" pic.twitter.com/sz0Hq6QnTk 2015 Europe Outlook: "Spain to Overweight; PMIs are very strong, house prices are rising &amp; exports are impressive" pic.twitter.com/oVoSJcXDGn 2015 Europe Outlook: "UK to Benchmark; main reason is that sterling should fall<U+2015>maybe as low as 1.45 USD/GBP" pic.twitter.com/XOkzILtgoq  2015 Japan Outlook: "Largest Overweight; best earnings revisions globally and margin upside with yen weakness" pic.twitter.com/XNoFSEs8k7  Oil: US non-discretionary spend as percent of disposable income has fallen to a 30-year low pic.twitter.com/imBuGAzF4v Oil: Falling gasoline prices tend to be positive for US consumer confidence; could rise to post crisis highs #Oil pic.twitter.com/JFePgAhRB1 Oil: Central banks to become more dovish<U+2015>lower commodity prices put downward pressure on inflation expectations pic.twitter.com/KGaU1HkLbZ Oil: Among developed markets, the #IMF model Japan as the biggest potential winner; Russia and Saudi Arabia losers pic.twitter.com/PSoNDsoLdr  Oil: A 20% fall in the oil price adds 0.5%-1.3% to the level of real Global GDP after 2 years #Oil #GDP pic.twitter.com/jsl4CSPqRl Oil: European countries have underperformed since the fall in oil price despite being big commodity importers pic.twitter.com/fZBZAxsjJz 2015 Australian Outlook: "We expect Aussie equities to rally to 6,000 on the ASX 200 by Dec 2015" #Australia pic.twitter.com/O9MCgYBs7s 2015 Philippines Outlook: "We have a trading range outlook for PSEi of 6,290-7,170 in 2015 and 6,550-8,300 in 2016" pic.twitter.com/L5lGeAghoo 2015 Taiwan Outlook: "We set our year-end 2015 TAIEX target at 10,000 (9% upside), using 1.8x P/B with ROE of 12.7%" pic.twitter.com/XpxYuxPvgI 2015 Korea Outlook: "We introduce KOSPI year-end target of 2,150, based on earnings growth of 10% YoY" #Korea pic.twitter.com/2qZkxB98ge 2015 Asia Pacific Outlook: "MXASJ year-end 2015 target set at 630; we see ROE inflection point in Non-Japan Asia" China Economics: Export growth slowed to 4.7% vs. 8.0% YoY in Nov; we expect the PBoC to continue to be accommodative pic.twitter.com/tliw4RHYOm China Economics: "We project RMB720 bn new bank lending target &amp; project RMB 1.2 tn in total social financing in Nov" pic.twitter.com/HVyxzAR1jC                             FREE AppDownload
