REUTERS/Benoit TessierThe S&amp;P 500 has gained 7% so far this year.  Despite what has been a 200% rally in the market since early 2009, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin believes the S&amp;P still has the ability to go from 1,960 today to 2,050 by the end of the year. From there, Kostin sees it going to 2,200 by the end of 2016. While further gains in the market are likely to be modest, some stocks are certainly going to outperform others. Kostin's new quarterly chartbook includes a list of 40 stocks offering the most upside relative to Goldman Sachs analysts' price targets. There are a significant number of oil and gas companies including Halliburton, Cabot and Alcoa inc. Also on this quarter's list of the stocks with the biggest upside are tech high-flyers like Amazon and salesforce.com.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA crow sits a Reliance logo installed on its mart in AhmedabadNEW YORK (Reuters) - India's Reliance Industries Ltd &lt;reli.ns&gt; is seeking a buyer for its stake in the Eagle Ford Basin oil and natural gas joint venture with Pioneer Natural Resources Co &lt;pxd.n&gt;, a sale that could raise up to $4.5 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. Pioneer, which has about 230,000 acres in the Eagle Ford Basin according to its website, sold a 45 percent interest in the property to Reliance for $1.2 billion in 2010. The Eagle Ford Basin asset is a three-way joint venture between Mumbai, India-based Reliance; Irving, Texas-based Pioneer, and a division of Mexico's Alpha SAB de CV &lt;alfaa.mx&gt;. Reliance has appointed Citigroup Inc &lt;c.n&gt; and Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;bac.n&gt; to help sell its 45 percent stake, the sources said, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. Representatives for Citi and Bank of America declined to comment, while Reliance could not be immediately reached for comment. The property for sale produces 115,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, with 60 percent of the production in liquid form rather than gas, one of the people said. There are 472 wells on the Eagle Ford property, according to a Reliance presentation from July. Pioneer owns 46 percent of the joint venture, with Alpha SAB's Newpeck LLC owning 9 percent. As part of its planned exit from the Eagle Ford joint venture, Reliance is also selling its investment in EFS Midstream LLC, an oil and gas gathering treatment and transportation network, the people said. The mid-stream joint venture was initially funded by Pioneer and Reliance in June 2010. EFS Midstream operates 11 central gathering plants in south Texas, according to the company's website. The sale process for the oil production assets and the oil and gas gathering assets is at an early stage, the people said. Pioneer is the operator of the wells in the joint venture, which could complicate the sale process, one of the people said. The company is an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company with operations in several U.S. regions.   (Reporting by Mike Stone in New York; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningBen BernankeWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said on Friday on that prior to the 2008 bailout of American International Group &lt;aig.n&gt;, he was concerned that the insurer "was on the brink of default" and not about punishing AIG.  Bernanke's comments came in a fifth day of testimony by former top government officials, who mean to convince a federal judge that their actions in rescuing the insurance company were legal. Bernanke, on the witness stand for a second day, said when the initial $85 billion loan package for AIG was approved, he focused on the idea that "our intervention would spare it the discipline of the market." Former AIG Chief Executive Hank Greenberg, who also was the company's largest shareholder before the bailout, sued the government in 2011. He argued that the loan, which came with an interest rate of more than 12 percent and a nearly 80 percent U.S. stake in AIG, resulted in an illegal taking of the company from shareholders. David Boies, Greenberg's lawyer, has sought during the trial to show that the terms of the Fed loan for AIG differed from packages extended to ailing U.S. banks and other institutions that received support during the crisis. On Friday, he asked Bernanke if the terms were meant to punish AIG's leaders and shareholders for any perceived mismanagement in the run-up to the financial crisis.  AIG ran into trouble during the crisis over insurance products it sold banks that were tied to mortgage loans that went bad en masse. Other government officials this week testified that the bailout terms were meant to be punitive. Bernanke indicated on Friday that he was not directly involved in crafting the bailout terms, which he said was spearheaded by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  He said Fed officials were worried that AIG did not have a clear plan to wean itself from government support and that concerns arose later about how the company was managed prior to the crisis. But that "didn't enter into my thinking about the loan," Bernanke said. The bailout ultimately rose to $182.3 billion, an amount AIG repaid in full by December 2012, yielding a $23 billion profit for the government. The lawsuit, which is being tried in the Court of Federal Claims in Washington, won class action status in May 2013.  The case is Starr International Co v. U.S., U.S. Court of Federal Claims, No. 11-00779   (Reporting by Emily Stephenson) FREE AppDownload
John Konstantaras/AP Images for Kmart(Reuters) - Retailer Sears Holdings Corp &lt;shld.o&gt; said the payment data system at its Kmart Holding Corp unit had been breached, and that certain debit and credit card numbers could have been compromised. Discount chain Kmart is investigating the breach. The investigation, which indicates the breach began in September, revealed that no personal information, debit card PIN numbers, email addresses and social security numbers were obtained by the hackers. There is also no evidence that kmart.com customers were impacted, Sears said on Friday.   (Reporting By Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
AP Images(Reuters) - Ice cream and fast-food restaurant chain Dairy Queen has confirmed a security breach that may have compromised the payment card information of customers at several hundred locations across 46 U.S. states. Computers at Dairy Queen locations, and one Orange Julius smoothie stores, were infected by the malicious software, Backoff, which has been targeting retailers since it first surfaced a year ago, International Dairy Queen said late on Thursday. The Edina, Minnesota-based company is a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc &lt;brka.n&gt;. "We are committed to working with and supporting our affected DQ and Orange Julius franchise owners to address this incident," John Gainor, chief executive of International Dairy Queen, said in a statement. The malware infected computers at 395 of its more than 4,500 U.S. locations, exposing the names, numbers and expiration dates of customer payment cards, the statement said. There is no indication that other personal information, including card PINs, social security numbers or email addresses were stolen, it said. International Dairy Queen said it is offering free identity repair services for one year to customers in the United States who made purchases at any of the effected restaurants. Stores in four states, Rhode Island, Vermont, Hawaii and Louisiana, did not appear to be impacted by the breach, the company said. The U.S. government has released reports on several types of malicious software that cyber criminals have used to steal payment cards in the wake of last year's breach on Target Corp, which resulted in the theft of some 40 million card numbers. Backoff, first identified in October 2013, is capable of scraping computer memory for track data and logging keystrokes, the U.S. Department Of Homeland Security warned retailers in July.   (Reporting by Laila Kearney in New York; Editing by Susan Heavey) FREE AppDownload
Yahoo FinanceHomebuilders have been getting crushed as the S&P 500 (GSPC) ticked higher.Jeffrey Gundlach is having a pretty great year. His extremely contrarian forecast that US interest rates would fall has been spot on. However, Gundlach also deserves some credit for his May 5 call: short the homebuilder stocks. Specifically, he recommended shorting the XHB, and exchange-traded fund (ETF) of publicly traded homebuilders. The XHB closed at $28.61 on Friday, down 9% from its May 5 close of $31.35. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 is actually up 1% during that same period. Gundlach cited the soft incoming housing market data. And even though the XHB was already off of its high, he was warned that the outlook for homeownership was bleak. "Renting is more appealing across all age groups, all parts of the U.S., city, suburb, small town and rural," he said. Gundlach wasn't available for comment on Friday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipRovio Entertainment Senior Vice-President Henri Holm wears an Angry Birds jacket during a news conference. THE New Yorker magazine ran a cartoon last year of three monkeys in a row: one with a microphone (labelled "hear all evil"), one with a television camera ("see all evil") and one with a laptop ("post all evil"). Today's bosses still need to worry about the unwise monkeys of the press. But as big a threat to their careers these days is the risk of being pecked by Twitter's swarm of angry birds. Thanks to the digital revolution, chief executives now live in glass houses. An ill-judged remark can be broadcast to the world in an instant. An unwise "reply all" can provide sensitive information to a competitor. An exasperated complaint in the midst of a crisis can seal your doom. Tony Hayward, who was boss of BP during the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, never recovered from his plea that "I want my life back". The digital revolution has dramatically shifted the balance of power from companies to their critics. Although big firms deploy armies of PR flacks, anyone with a smartphone and a social media account now has the same power to reach a global audience. Whistleblowers once had to photocopy documents and smuggle them out in their underpants. Now they can be shared with the world in a trice, by e-mail or instant messaging. Anti-corporate campaigners have taken to the digital world like ducks to water. NGOs are good at finding bad news about companies and telling the world about it on social media. Opportunists have also joined the ducks in the water: there is money to be made by "shorting" a stock (that is, betting that its price will go down) and then unleashing a value-destroying digital storm. By contrast, companies have failed to adapt. The biggest of businesses with the slickest of publicity operations, from McDonald's to JPMorgan Chase, British Gas to Qantas, have found that when they tried engaging with tweeters on their home turf, they were drowned in a sea of sarcasm. British Gas's attempt at an online discussion about its price rises was met with a barrage of tweets mentioning "death" and "greed". Presumably they will get better eventually. But in "Glass Jaw: A Manifesto for Defending Fragile Reputations in an Age of Instant Scandal", Eric Dezenhall, an American crisis-management consultant, points to two big reasons why companies are condemned to play catch-up. The first is the nature of the internet. It is a beast that feeds on scandal and particularly delights in the flesh of the powerful and privileged. The media world used to be policed by editors who demanded proof in the form of two sources. Now amateurs can post anything they want online (though they may eventually face prosecution) and editors are subject to the tyranny of the click: the more the stories they publish are clicked on by readers, the longer they are likely to survive in their jobs. Jonah Berger and Katherine Milkman of the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school conducted a systematic study of 7,000 articles published in the New York Times over three months. They discovered that "highly arousing" content--such as stories that evoke anger or anxiety--was more likely to make the "most e-mailed" list. Stories about evil CEOs make perfect click-bait. The second is the nature of companies. They are designed to stay in business rather than to be good at defending their bosses from scandal. No matter what PR resources they throw at killing a story, NGOs and prosecutors will always have more stamina. In America no sensible firm will risk gambling on a jury trial when a negative verdict could bar them from doing business with the government. (Eliot Spitzer, a former New York attorney-general, exploited this logic to extract billions from corporate giants such as Samsung, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan before being consumed by scandal himself.) No sensible company will go to the mat to protect an embattled boss when there are plenty of replacements waiting in the wings. Look at how BP let go of an earlier boss, John Browne, in 2007, and Hewlett-Packard said goodbye to Mark Hurd in 2010. Both were seen as competent managers of their firms, but they were cast adrift essentially because of fears about the dirty linen of their private lives being aired in public. Business leaders are waking up to the threat. A 2013 survey of 300 executives about the risks facing their companies by Deloitte, a consulting firm, put reputational ones at the top. "Reputations built up over decades can be challenged in an instant," said Jennifer Evans of ANZ bank, a participant. The stock market is more sensitive to reputational disasters than ever before. In the two weeks after the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound, in Alaska, Exxon's shares dropped 3.9% but quickly rebounded. In the two months after the Gulf of Mexico spill in 2010 BP's shares fell by half (and have still to recover fully). But business leaders are much less sure about what to do about it. Mr Dezenhall has lots of practical advice. He tells CEOs to restrict the view into their glass houses: to cover the cameras on their phones and computers with masking tape; avoid the "reply all" function on their e-mail; think twice before sending any strongly worded message. He dismisses the idea that corporate social responsibility (CSR) bestows on firms the PR equivalent of a stock of political capital: digital vigilantes will always assume businesses are guilty and can add the charge of hypocrisy to CSR-obsessed ones, as they did to BP after its spill. He warns against one-size-fits-all approaches to crises: the common prescription to come clean quickly and fully sometimes stokes the fire, he notes. Mr Dezenhall argues that the best defence in this age of instant global scandal is to be brilliant at your job. He notes that, a couple of years after the crisis that almost destroyed his career, Tiger Woods was chosen for a Nike advertising campaign with the slogan, "Winning takes care of everything". Unfortunately, for CEOs it may not: if you are an ace golfer mired in personal scandal you can redeem yourself on the greens. But a boss brought down by a baying social-media mob does not always get a second chance. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report PIMCO/GROSSNEW YORK (Reuters) - Pacific Investment Management Co., whose co-founder Bill Gross stunningly departed on Sept. 26, had assets under management of $1.876 trillion as of Sept. 30, according to its website late on Friday. That compares to total assets under management of $1.92 trillion as of Dec. 31, 2013, a 2.3 percent difference. Pimco also said total assets under management were $1.973 trillion as of June 30, 2014. Gross, one of the bond market's most renowned investors and the manager of the Pimco Total Return Fund, quit Pacific Investment Management Co for distant rival Janus. Since Gross's departure, Pimco has seen heavy outflows, with $23.5 billion leaving the flagship Pimco Total Return Fund in September alone.    (New York Newsroom; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
Friday's 115-point sell-off in the Dow Jones Industrial Average sent the 30-stock index into the red for the year. Closing at 16,544, the Dow is now below its Dec. 31, 2013 close of 16,576. Some market-watchers think this is just a brief blip in the 5-year old bull market. Others warn this could be the beginning of something much scarier. One thing's for sure: volatility is back in the markets. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerCreations from executive pastry chef Gonzalo Jimenez are seen at his chocolate workspace at the Grand Hyatt in New York.There's a big divergence going on in the global economy right now. Growth in the US is picking up as Europe, Japan, and the emerging markets slow. In its latest monthly Global Economic Outlook and Strategy report, Citi's Willem Buiter and his team downgrade the firm's expectation for global growth after "notable downgrades" to several emerging markets including Brazil, China, and Russia. "Our global growth forecasts continue to drift down, and we are cutting 0.1 percent off our 2015 forecast this month, and now look for global GDP growth of 2.8% this year and 3.3% for 2015 (at current exchange rates)," Buiter wrote. "This is the second consecutive monthly downgrade to our 2015 growth forecast, while in total we have cut our 2014 forecast by 0.5 percent (from 3.3% to 2.8%) since January." Buiter's 52-page note offers commentary on every major economy covered by Citi's army of economists. We highlight a few of the viewpoints for 36 major economies in the Americas, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Africa. We also include GDP growth forecasts through 2018. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Microchip CEO Steve Sanghi sounded the alarm on the semiconductor space, saying that another "industry correction" is coming to semiconductors. "We believe that another industry correction has begun and that this correction will be seen more broadly across the industry in the near future," Sanghi said. Shares of Microchip lost more than 11% on Friday, and a number of its peers including Micron, STMicroelectronics, and Freescale Semiconductors all lost more than 5% on Friday. 2. In a note to clients following Sanghi's comments, analysts at Citi explained just what an "industry" or "inventory" correction means for semiconductor companies. "In semiconductor speak, an inventory correction occurs whenever demand drops off for a moderate period of time and can occur during economic expansion or contraction," wrote Citi analysts David Phipps and Ashish Nair. "Inventory corrections typically last 2-3 quarters with a step-down in demand and reduced visibility. The economic impacts are lower sales and margins. Semiconductor company marginal revenue dollar has about a 50% translation into EBITDA." So, something to keep in mind as we head into earnings season. 3. Electric carmaker Tesla was another big loser on Friday, falling nearly 8% after announcing a new all-wheel drive model on Thursday night. Tesla shares fell a bit victim to the old adage of "sell the news," as Thursday's announcement was teased in a much-hyped tweet from CEO Elon Musk about two weeks ago.  4. Shares of GT Advanced fell more than 30% to $0.81 after reports indicated that the company said it has sought court approval to wind down its sapphire operations. GT Advanced, which filed for bankruptcy earlier this week, had signed a sapphire supply agreement with Apple last year. 5. JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon spoke publicly for the first time since announcing that he was diagnosed with throat cancer back in July. Dimon spoke on a panel at the Institute of International Finance in Washington, D.C. today, appearing with CEO peers Brian Moynihan, James Gorman, and Anshu Jain, from Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, and Deutsche Bank, respectively. Business Insider's Shane Ferro has the full recap here. 6. The Russian ruble fell again against the dollar, bringing the currency's losses to more than 17% since the end of June.  7. Alpha Pro Tech, which makes protective face masks and other protective gear, rose more than 40% on Friday as it became just the latest peripheral way that investors have trading around news regarding the Ebola breakout. Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits, has rallied hard over the last month, which drug companies like Tekmira and Chimerix remain active. 8. S&amp;P cut its outlook for France to negative from stable, citing concerns about the country's economy and the government's budgetary situation. France was last downgraded by S&amp;P in November 2013. Don't Miss: The Dow Is Now In The Red For 2014 »    FREE AppDownload
BlueprintBlueprint is a cocktail heaven in family-friendly Park Slope, Brooklyn.You can go to any old New York bar to down a stiff drink, but if you're the kind of person that really wants to enjoy and savor a thoughtful cocktail, you'll need to look a little harder. With help from Yelp reviewers, we put together a list of the best cocktail bars in New York City. The bartenders and mixologists at these establishments know how to whip up everything from classic cocktails to innovative creations that won't fail to impress. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon On Thursday night, Microchip CEO Steve Sanghi sounded the alarm on the semiconductor industry, saying that an "industry correction" has begun and will sweep across the sector in the coming quarters. Citi semiconductor analysts David Phipps and Ashish Nair explained in a brief paragraph in their latest note exactly what Sanghi is talking about. They write: "In semiconductor speak, an inventory correction occurs whenever demand drops off for a moderate period of time and can occur during economic expansion or contraction. Inventory corrections typically last 2-3 quarters with a step-down in demand and reduced visibility. The economic impacts are lower sales and margins. Semiconductor company marginal revenue dollar has about a 50% translation into EBITDA." In the same note Phipps and Nair cut their forecasts on Freescale and NXP Semiconductors (they don't cover Microchip). So, that's what going on in the world of semiconductors on Friday and what analysts expect will happen over the coming months. FREE AppDownload
Grand MarnierIf life is good, you will one day find yourself at a liquor tasting — scotch, bourbon, brandy — what have you. And when you're in that moment — the moment before you take a sip — you're going to want to look like you know what you're doing. So Business Insider recently asked an expert how it's done. Grand Marnier's master distiller, Patrick Reguenaud, recently held a tasting in New York City. There he explained that taking your first sip of liquor is actually three step process. First you use your eyes. "Look at the color and describe it," said Reguenaud. Color will tell you about how long and where — as in what kind of barrel — the liquor was aged. Then you use your nose. "Smell carefully and identify the aromas and flavors... find the right word for each flavors," he said. In other words, you want to be precise. Don't use general words like 'sweet.' Get specific, think: vanilla, toffee, chocolate — flavors you would actually taste. Lastly, taste the liquor."With your first impression, taste and confirm the description you gave after you used your nose," Reguenaud said. "Be descriptive. Then wait a few seconds to get a second impression of the taste and describe that. At the end you'll have a global description of the spirit like a conclusion. For example — you could say that it's a good product with a mellow taste, or an exceptional spirit with a very long after taste." Just be honest, and be literal. Tasting a spirit is a creative, sensory activity. Plus it's fun. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Women Have A Huge Disadvantage In Long-Term Care (Financial Planning) Women live an average of four years longer than men. For financial advisors, that means that women make more long-term health claims than men, and for longer durations, too. They hold 58% of long-term care policies, and make 67% of the claims. Because most states have gender-based pricing, single women pay 20-40% more than single men for long-term claims. A single, healthy 55 year old woman will pay an average of $1,125 for a policy providing $164,000 in current benefits. A single, healthy 55 year old man will only pay $925 for the same thing. Advisors need to take these numbers into account when putting together long-term financial plans for women. Look Outside The US As Q4 Rolls Around (BlackRock Blog) Right now the "economic and monetary environment overall remains supportive of equities," according to Koesterich. BlackRock analysts recommend looking at stocks and bonds outside of the US. "Increasing international exposure makes sense in general, but even more so these days when most stock market bargains are found overseas," writes Koesterich. While US stocks are expensive right now, non-US stocks are relatively cheap. Investors should keep an eye on "stock market bargains" in Japan, according to Koesterich. Additionally, he says that BlackRock still likes China. The Recent Sell-Off In Junk Bonds Isn't A Long-Term Trend (AllianceBernstein)  There's a debate going on right now whether the recent sell-offs were indicators of a major buying opportunity, or are an "ominous" sign of something terrible to come. AllianceBernstein analysts believe that the recent sell-off was a short-term trend. "As we see it, the decline in high-yield bonds was mostly due to technical influences: outflows from retail high-yield funds teamed up with record-setting issuance to soften markets. Add in a couple company-specific problems... and the high-yield market was down more than 2% in September. Of course, retail flows could continue to exit high yield, pressuring returns. But from our view, most of the selling has been by broker-dealer firms and hedge funds — not long-term investors," write Rudolph-Shabinsky and Distenfeld. They add that the on-going market turmoil "may be an investor's best friend" because it extends the credit cycle, which makes companies "more careful and thoughtful with their resources." High-Net-Worth Millennials Still Tend To Keep Their Parents' Advisors (Wealth Management.com) Around 49% of the off-spring of high-net-worth individual keep their parents' advisors, according to a new study by Morgan Stanley and Campden Research. An additional 20% say that it is "somewhat likely" that they will, and only 15% say that it is "not at all likely" that they will. Just two years ago, 62% of heirs said they were "somewhat or highly likely to fire their parents' advisor," and in 2009 a whopping 86% said the same thing. In other words, there is a trend in the post-financial crisis for rich millennials to increasingly rely on the same financial advisors as their parents. Investors Should Consider Oil-Services Stocks Even Though Oil Seriously Crashed (Morningstar) Oil prices have completely crashed in the last few weeks, but investors should still consider some oil-services stocks. "We think that leading oilfield-services companies have wide economic moats, based on their intellectual property. The increasing complexity and capital intensity of oil and gas drilling is creating significant opportunity for these companies over the next five or 10 years, regardless of where the cycle takes them in the near term," writes Coffina. He adds that specifically Morningstar's picks are Core Labs, Schlumberger, and National Oilwell Varco. The "driver of the moats for all three of these companies would be the intangible assets." Schlumberger does a lot of research and development, and National Oilwell Varco has "done over 200 acquisitions and has rebuilt how we think about oil rigs and hwo they work." FREE AppDownload
Jon Stewart shredded Hank Greenberg, the former head of AIG, Thursday night on "The Daily Show."  Greenberg, who ran AIG from 1962 until 2005, is suing the U.S. government over its takeover of the insurance giant during the 2008 financial crisis. Greenberg still owns a ton of AIG stock, and he thinks the bailout was unfair to shareholders who didn't have a choice in the matter. Stewart likened Greenberg's lawsuit to "I Only Got One Cookie v. My Sister Got Two Cookies." "Just to set the table for you here, the largest shareholder of AIG—wasn't running it at the time he was just the largest shareholder—a company that was hours away from bankruptcy is suing the entity that through sheer force of $184 billion saved it—or— let me put it this way, 'Yeah, you have me CPR, but would it kill you to take a breath mint?'" Stewart said. Stewart let Greenberg have it.  Watch the full segment below:  The Daily ShowGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Indecision Political Humor,The Daily Show on Facebook FREE AppDownload
On Friday a bunch of ugly data points came out of Argentina, compounding worries in a country that has seen its stock market fall 15% in the last five days. On Friday the city of Buenos Aires released its inflation data. The inflation rate inched up 2.2%, bringing it up to 40.3% for the year. The city's data is key because Buenos Aires publishes its own stats separate from the numbers the federal government publishes.  As a result, the city's numbers are widely seen as more accurate. Argentina's government has gotten in trouble from the IMF and other international bodies for publishing inaccurate numbers that show a lower inflation rate. The Mayor of Buenos Aires, Mauricio Macri, has been a harsh critic of the Kirchner regime for years and is a contender in the 2015 Presidential election. Since the country defaulted back in July, he's been gaining in national polls. The only country in Latin America that rivals Argentina in terms of a surging inflation is Venezuela. Because of this both countries, says Pantheon Economics senior analyst Andres Abadia, are already experiencing significant damage to their economies. "Many years of unorthodox economic policies have condemned these two countries to a grim decade, wrecked by uncontrolled inflation," Abadia wrote in a recent note. "The situation is not as bad as the 80’s or 90’s when the region’s average inflation rate hit a peak of 438%, but inflation has been high enough and unstable enough to cause real damage. Also on Friday the country's industrial union published data on industrial production. August industrial activity fell 4.9% from the same time last year. August exports fell 13% from the month before while imports fell 20%." Also on Friday the country's industrial union published data on industrial production. August industrial activity fell 4.9% from the same time last year. August exports fell 13% from the month before while imports fell 20%. This is all worrisome in a country that desperately needs to keep cash flowing through its economy. Capital flight is rampant, Central Bank dollar reserves are sitting at around $28 billion, and Citigroup estimates that GDP growth will contract 0.1% next year. All in all, Barclays predicts this could mean that the country will have $10 billion in its Central Bank by this time next year.  Barclays   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ray StubblebineDaniel KahnemanI've read 287 books in the past four years. Some were awful. Others were incredible. But I took notes on all of them. I've never known what to do with these notes. Then I got an idea: I'll dump some of the highlights into a weekly article. Thinking Fast and Slow is one of the best psychology books ever published. The life work of Nobel-prize winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman, it outlines, better than anything else, the ways in which humans fool themselves and err when thinking.  (Kahneman and I sat down for an hour-long interview last year. Watch it here, complete with transcript).  The book makes more thought-provoking points than I can count, but here are six passages that caught my attention:  1. The most important things in life are unpredictable:  The idea that large historical events are determined by luck is profoundly shocking, although it is demonstrably true. It is hard to think of the history of the twentieth century, including its large social movements, without bringing in the role of Hitler, Stalin, and Mao Zedong. But there was a moment in time, just before an egg was fertilized, when there was a fifty-fifty chance that the embryo that became Hitler could have been a female. Compounding the three events, there was a probability of one-eighth of a twentieth century without any of the three great villains and it is impossible to argue that history would have been roughly the same in their absence. The fertilization of these three eggs had momentous consequences, and it makes a joke of the idea that long-term developments are predictable. 2. We are gullible: A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact. But it was psychologists who discovered that you do not have to repeat the entire statement of a fact or idea to make it appear true. People who were repeatedly exposed to the phrase "the body temperature of a chicken" were more likely to accept as true the statement that "the body temperature of a chicken is 144 °" (or any other arbitrary number). The familiarity of one phrase in the statement sufficed to make the whole statement feel familiar, and therefore true. If you cannot remember the source of a statement, and have no way to relate it to other things you know, you have no option but to go with the sense of cognitive ease. 3. Our minds choose the familiar over the true:  People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory—and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness. In turn, what the media choose to report corresponds to their view of what is currently on the public's mind. It is no accident that authoritarian regimes exert substantial pressure on independent media. Because public interest is most easily aroused by dramatic events and by celebrities, media feeding frenzies are common. For several weeks after Michael Jackson's death, for example, it was virtually impossible to find a television channel reporting on another topic. In contrast, there is little coverage of critical but unexciting issues that provide less drama, such as declining educational standards or overinvestment of medical resources in the last year of life. (As I write this, I notice that my choice of "little-covered" examples was guided by availability. The topics I chose as examples are mentioned often; equally important issues that are less available did not come to my mind.) 4. Really smart people can fool themselves: The author pointed out that psychologists commonly chose samples so small that they exposed themselves to a 50% risk of failing to confirm their true hypotheses! No researcher in his right mind would accept such a risk. A plausible explanation was that psychologists' decisions about sample size reflected prevalent intuitive misconceptions of the extent of  sampling variation. The article shocked me, because it explained some troubles I had had in my own research. Like most research psychologists, I had routinely chosen samples that were too small and had often obtained results that made no sense. Now I knew why: the odd results were actually artifacts of my research method. My mistake was particularly embarrassing because I taught statistics and knew how to compute the sample size that would reduce the risk of failure to an acceptable level. But I had never chosen a sample size by computation. Like my colleagues, I had trusted tradition and my intuition in planning my experiments and had never thought seriously about the issue. 5. We are blind to our own blindness:  The most dramatic demonstration was offered by Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons in their book The Invisible Gorilla. They constructed a short film of two teams passing basketballs, one team wearing white shirts, the other wearing black. The viewers of the film are instructed to count the number of passes made by the white team, ignoring the black players. This task is difficult and completely absorbing. Halfway through the video, a woman wearing a gorilla suit appears, crosses the court, thumps her chest, and moves on. The gorilla is in view for 9 seconds. Many thousands of people have seen the video, and about half of them do not notice anything unusual. It is the counting task— and especially the instruction to ignore one of the teams— that causes the blindness. No one who watches the video without that task would miss the gorilla . Seeing and orienting are automatic functions of System 1, but they depend on the allocation of some attention to the relevant stimulus. The authors note that the most remarkable observation of their study is that people find its results very surprising. Indeed, the viewers who fail to see the gorilla are initially sure that it was not there— they cannot imagine missing such a striking event . The gorilla study illustrates two important facts about our minds: we can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness. 6. Studying our own faults is incredibly hard. This is probably the most important line in the book:  The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own. Go buy his book here. You won't regret it. FREE AppDownload
(AP Photo/Aijaz Rahi) In an announcement on Thursday night, Microchip president and CEO Steve Sanghi sounded the alarm for the semiconductor industry with the above quote, and on Friday shares of Microchip and the whole sector are getting crushed. In afternoon trade on Friday, Microchip shares were down 11%, while the SMH ETF that tracks the semiconductor sector was down about 5%.  Microchip, with a market cap of $8 billion, is a good-size company, but its warning is affecting companies as large Intel, which has a market cap of over $160 billion and was down as much as 4% on Friday. Other semiconductor and tech companies under pressure include Texas Instruments (-7%), Micron (-7%), Analog Devices (-5%), Freescale Semiconductors (-10%), and STMicroelectronics (-4%). The tech-heavy Nasdaq was also feeling the heat Friday, falling about 0.5% as the semiconductor warning, as well as the steep drop in Tesla shares, weighed on the index. Microchip said that in the second quarter it expects revenue to come in at about $546.2 million, below the $560 to $575.9 million the company had previously expected. Additionally, Thursday's guidance includes $16.9 million in sales from its recent ISSC acquisition, down from expectations for $18 million in July.  "Microchip often sees the turn of the industry ahead of others in the semiconductor industry," Sanghi said. "First, in contrast to many others in the industry, we report sales from distribution on a sell-through basis worldwide. We built a significant amount of inventory in the distribution channel in the September quarter. If like many others in the industry, we recognized sales on a sell-in basis to our distributors, our sales would been significantly higher for the September quarter." So basically Sanghi is saying that revenue is going to decline for its competitors, too, but that this might show up on a delay given how they do their accounting.  Sanghi also said that the revenue miss for the second quarter was led by China where the September quarter is "traditionally the strongest."  Sanghi said Microchip is reducing production levels and that during industry corrections, sequential growth — or growth in consecutive quarters — typically returns after two quarters and the company expects the same this time. Here's the ugly intraday chart of Microchip, which basically fell off a cliff at the open and hasn't recovered.  Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
If you think the US Fed and the European Central Bank are inflating a stock bubble with their extended period of zero interest rates — 0% interest makes money cheap to borrow and invest, and it propels money out of savings and bonds and into stocks — then you're going to love this next chart. Jay R. Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida, has been keeping track of all the IPOs since 1980. And his numbers show that this year we're already within a hair's breadth of the record set in 2000 when 80% of companies that filed an IPO were losing money. (For context, the Nasdaq needs to put on only about 9 more percentage points of growth to hit 5,000, the barrier we last saw in 2000 during the dot-com bubble.) In 2014, 72% of IPOs so far and 64% of IPOs in 2013 featured "negative earnings," his database shows. The "normal" level of IPOs without profits is 30% to 50%. Here's what that data looks like: Jay R. Ritter / Business Insider And 2014 isn't even over yet. There are a couple of HUGE caveats to the numbers, which suggest the market today is very different from 2000. That would imply that IPOs are more broad-based throughout the economy than they were in 2000. It would also imply that companies, banks, and investors are being more selective about making stock offerings. But still. Most companies going public today have no profits. And they're all hoping to enjoy the lift of a market that is again inching toward the 2000 peak. FYI. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Microchip CEO Steve Sanghi sounded the alarm on the semiconductor space, saying that another "industry correction" is coming to semiconductors. "We believe that another industry correction has begun and that this correction will be seen more broadly across the industry in the near future," Sanghi said. Shares of Microchip lost more than 11% on Friday, and a number of its peers including Micron, STMicroelectronics, and Freescale Semiconductors all lost more than 5% on Friday. 2. In a note to clients following Sanghi's comments, analysts at Citi explained just what an "industry" or "inventory" correction means for semiconductor companies. "In semiconductor speak, an inventory correction occurs whenever demand drops off for a moderate period of time and can occur during economic expansion or contraction," wrote Citi analysts David Phipps and Ashish Nair. "Inventory corrections typically last 2-3 quarters with a step-down in demand and reduced visibility. The economic impacts are lower sales and margins. Semiconductor company marginal revenue dollar has about a 50% translation into EBITDA." So, something to keep in mind as we head into earnings season. 3. Electric carmaker Tesla was another big loser on Friday, falling nearly 8% after announcing a new all-wheel drive model on Thursday night. Tesla shares fell a bit victim to the old adage of "sell the news," as Thursday's announcement was teased in a much-hyped tweet from CEO Elon Musk about two weeks ago.  4. Shares of GT Advanced fell more than 30% to $0.81 after reports indicated that the company said it has sought court approval to wind down its sapphire operations. GT Advanced, which filed for bankruptcy earlier this week, had signed a sapphire supply agreement with Apple last year. 5. JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon spoke publicly for the first time since announcing that he was diagnosed with throat cancer back in July. Dimon spoke on a panel at the Institute of International Finance in Washington, D.C. today, appearing with CEO peers Brian Moynihan, James Gorman, and Anshu Jain, from Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, and Deutsche Bank, respectively. Business Insider's Shane Ferro has the full recap here. 6. The Russian ruble fell again against the dollar, bringing the currency's losses to more than 17% since the end of June.  7. Alpha Pro Tech, which makes protective face masks and other protective gear, rose more than 40% on Friday as it became just the latest peripheral way that investors have trading around news regarding the Ebola breakout. Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits, has rallied hard over the last month, which drug companies like Tekmira and Chimerix remain active. 8. S&amp;P cut its outlook for France to negative from stable, citing concerns about the country's economy and the government's budgetary situation. France was last downgraded by S&amp;P in November 2013. Don't Miss: The Dow Is Now In The Red For 2014 »    FREE AppDownload
IIFJamie DimonJamie Dimon has returned! The JPMorgan CEO spoke on a panel today at the Institute of International Finance in Washington. It was his first public appearance since he announced he has throat cancer, back in July. Dimon was on the panel, titled the Future of Finance, with Tim Adams, the CEO of the IIF, James Gorman, the CEO of Morgan Stanley, Brian Moynihan, the CEO of Bank of America, and Anshu Jain, the Co-CEO of Deutsche Bank. The panelists covered a variety of topics related to the future of the industry, including regulatory concerns, the global economy, technological disruption, cyber security, and Wall Street's image issues.  On the economy, Dimon mentioned that he thinks "America's chugging along," although income inequality continues to be a problem. "Until we are doing better for everybody, you’re going to have some of this sour attitude [about the economy]," he said. Gorman said that he doesn't think a Fed rate increase is going to be bad for business — in fact, he thinks the opposite. A rate increase means the economy is growing, he said, and that's good for the banks. On technology, Dimon said banks need to be conscious of using new technology and big data to improve the business for both the bank (things like using big data for information about borrowers) and the customer (things like mobile payments and real-time money movement). On the later point, he stated he thought moving money in real time could be a reality within a few months.   This isn't just about young customers, either, said Moynihan. "Fifty-five year old people are doing what millennials were doing 24 months ago. That creek [between them] is shrinking and drying up quickly." Dimon is bearish on bitcoin. "Regulators aren't going to like it because they can't control it," he said, adding that widespread bitcoin adoption isn't "about the technology. It’s about governments."Toward the end of the conversation, Dimon was pushed on two issues that JPMorgan has run into problems with recently: cyber security and Wall Street culture. On the former he thinks, "this is a big deal, there are going to be a lot of battles," some of which the banks are going to lose. However, he said, "the money is safe." As for the Wall Street culture, the solution, said Dimon, is to "minimize the number of bad apples." As for the ones who slip through? Fire them. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Crumbs A store located on Broadway and 37th streets in Manhattan will be the first to reopen Tuesday, according to CNBC host Marcus Lemonis, one of the company's new owners. "Customers can expect a new, modern experience at the renovated facility," according to a news release. The shop has been repainted and will feature a new cooler for frozen desserts. The bakery is also adding gluten-free options to the menu and a few new cupcake flavors, including Sweet Pete’s Salted Caramel Chocolate Cupcake and a Key West Key Lime Pie Cupcake. Another 25 locations will reopen within the next 30 days in cities including Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Newark, Delaware, and Washington, D.C. Here's a list of some of the stores that will reopen, according to Crumbs' website, which is also relaunching next week: Crumbs Lemonis is the chairman and CEO of Camping World and Good Sam Enterprises and star of CNBC's "The Profit," in which he provides financing to struggling businesses to help them execute a turnaround. Crumbs' new owners also includes the Fischer family, which owns Dippin' Dots. Once the largest cupcake company in the world, Crumbs was founded in 2003 with a single bakery in Manhattan's Upper West Side and eventually expanded to 79 stores across the country. Shortly after going public in 2011, however, Crumbs began losing money. It remains to be seen whether the investment from Lemonis and Fisher Enterprises can revive the business.  FREE AppDownload
Via Sotheby's HomesThe entrance to Rachel "Bunny" Mellon's former townhouse.A gorgeous townhouse in the middle of New York's Upper East Side has just gone into contract for $41 million, according to the Observer.  Tony and Claire White, the sellers of the townhouse, wanted $46 million for the property, but the asking price eventually fell to $41 million.  Built in 1965, the 11,100-square-foot, 14-room townhouse was designed by Rachel 'Bunny' Mellon, the heiress to the Listerine fortune who was married to the banking legend Paul Mellon. She was a close friend of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and a notable horticulturist who redesigned the White House Rose Garden — needless to say, she had impeccable taste.  Her gorgeous UES townhouse with its own private garden, listed with Sotheby's International Realty, is a testament to that. 
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstBen BernankeWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Of all the key government players involved in saving the U.S. economy from collapse back in the autumn of 2008, Edward Quince has hardly earned a mention. But at the trial of former American International Group &lt;aig.n&gt; CEO Hank Greenberg, Quince's name emerged in an email sent during the height of the crisis. Edward Quince. Aka: Ben Bernanke, the former chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Lawyers during the trial identified Quince as Bernanke in the email. The Wall Street Journal, which earlier on Friday reported Bernanke's alias, said the Fed's general counsel testified that the former Fed chairman used the name during the financial crisis to make sure he did not receive extraneous emails. It is not clear what was meant by extraneous emails. A Fed representative confirmed that the name was used as a pseudonym by Bernanke for the email. Bernanke took the stand on Thursday to defend the U.S. government's bailout of AIG &lt;aig.n&gt;, describing how policymakers sought to avoid giving AIG shareholders a "windfall" through a rescue. The lawsuit, which is being tried in the Court of Federal Claims in Washington, won class action status in May 2013. The case is Starr International Co v. U.S., U.S. Court of Federal Claims, No. 11-00779. Bernanke's testimony is expected to continue on Friday, but whether he explains what lay behind the Quince identity remains to be seen.     (Reporting by Michael Flaherty and Aruna Viswanatha in Washington; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Because everyone's tastes and preferences for beers differ so significantly, it can be hard to objectively decide which ones are the cream of the crop. That's why we enlisted the help of the experts at RateBeer.com to come out with a list of the best beer from every state. Take a look at the map below to see if your favorite local beer made the list, or read the full feature more more information on the best brews. Skye Gould/Business Insider
Flickr/MSVGGT Advanced, the Apple sapphire supplier that on Monday filed for bankruptcy, has sought approval to wind down its sapphire operations, according to headlines crossing Bloomberg. The wind down will reportedly result in the loss of 890 jobs. And GT said the cash burn from its Apple benefit is "not sustainable" and that its sapphire operations, as a result, must be wound down. GT Advanced has requested that it file the details of this wind down under seal in bankruptcy court. Shares of GT Advanced, which lost over 90% on Monday and then were extremely volatile over the last couple days, including gaining more than 100% at one point on Tuesday, were down more than 25% to $0.95 per share on Friday.  Last Friday, the stock was at around $11. In a note to clients earlier this week, analysts at Raymond James said the company's equity is likely worthless, with analysts at UBS adding that the stock is worth probably worth at most $0.75.  On Thursday, The Wall Street Journal reported some additional details of GT's bankruptcy, which are tied to a breakdown of its relationship with Apple, with which it struck a $575 million sapphire development agreement last year.  Overall, however, what precipitated GT's bankruptcy filing still remains largely unclear. FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Ferrey/Getty Images On Thursday we saw the Dow give up more than 300 points, and markets around the world took the lead from the US overnight. In Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 1.9%, while Japan's Nikkei index lost more than 1%.  In Europe, stocks closed red across the board. The DAX in Germany saw the biggest losses, falling more than 2% as Europe's largest economy continues to teeter on the brink of recession. Stocks trading in Paris and London also lost more than 1.2% on Friday. The Euro Stoxx 50 lost 1.4%. In the US, stocks opened mixed, but have turned lower, with the Dow currently down about 23 points, the S&amp;P 500 down about 11 points, and the Nasdaq down about 55 points. The tech-heavy Nasdaq is currently being dragged down by Tesla, which is down more than 6% after last night unveiling a new all-wheel drive vehicle, and semiconductor stocks, which are currently down more than 5% as a group 5%.  Following Thursday's ugly day in the markets, on Friday traders are looking at a number of technical indicators, with UBS' Art Cashin noting that if the S&amp;P 500 breaks below 1,925, it could cascade toward 1,900 or 1,905. In late morning trade the S&amp;P 500 was at 1,918.   FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Dima ViunnykPortland, Minneapolis… Detroit?  The Motor City’s finances may be in shambles, but at least one industry seems to be growing: bicycles. Fortune reports that “over the past several years, at least seven bicycle makers have set up shop in the Detroit metro area, touting sleek, artisanal models.” Steven Bock, who also models clay sculptures of cars for Ford, also hand-builds bikes in Detroit. They cost $4000-6000 each. That said, Detroit’s bike industry is nascent. Fortune mentions that Detroit Bikes is the largest bike manufacturer in the city (it’s mass-producing bikes, rather than hand making them). Founder Zak Pashak hopes to produce 50,000 per year, but the factory, which began selling bikes about a year ago, has only produced 1000 bikes (at a rate of roughly 10 per day right now). But a story in Crains Detroit notes that current production is far below what Pashak predicted when he was getting the company off the ground. The plant had a goal of producing 10,000 in the first year — but so far it hasn’t come close. By comparison, Detroit’s auto industry puts out roughly 300,000 cars a year. If Detroit does become a hub for domestic bike manufacturing, it won’t be big enough to replace what cars once were to the city. But it would be huge for the bike industry. Currently, sales in the U.S. are dominated by imports: 99 percent of the 16.2 million bikes sold in 2013 were manufactured abroad, mostly in China and Taiwan, according to the National Bicycle Dealers Association. Pashak’s 50,000 bikes-per-year goal would roughly double the number of bikes produced domestically, making Detroit America’s bike builder. And that, in its own way, could be a big deal for Detroit. FREE AppDownload
ReutersA residential compound during a smoggy day in Wujiaqu, Xinjiang Uighur autonomous region, on Nov. 19, 2013.Trading in Agile Property Holdings, a $20 billion real estate development company in mainland China, has been suspended since Oct. 3, pending information about a share offering that was supposed to take place on Friday. On Thursday, the company announced that the $350 million share offering would not take place at all.  Rumors then started circulating that the company's billionaire chairman, Chen Zhuolin, had gone missing. He and his family are controlling shareholders in the company. On Friday he was found and placed under house arrest in Kunming province. He has not been charged with any crime. Agile was having major problems long before this month. Back in spring 2013, authorities dropped two indecent assault charges against Chen — a saga that shaved 21% from the stock until the case was closed. The company's stock price has plummeted 45% in the last year.  On Oct. 7th a report posted on the internet connected Chen to Zhou Yongkang — China's former security chief, and the highest level official taken down in President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption drive. Chen denied this connection. In a statement Friday, the family said that it would support future fundraising efforts with its own cash if necessary. However, the company has refused to comment on chatter that Chen has gone missing. What everyone's most worried about here is another big property company collapse, leaving piles and piles of debt and sucking liquidity out of an already fragile system. China's property sector is cooling along with the rest of the economy. And now more than ever before the government is showing signs that it's going to take aggressive action to support the sector in order to allow the economy to balance. So Agile may very well be on its own on this one. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Olive GardenThe activist hedge fund that published a 294-page manifesto against Olive Garden's menu and management last month just scored a huge victory.  Olive Garden parent company Darden Restaurants, which had initially defended itself against Starboard Value's attacks, has decided to elect all of the hedge fund's nominees to its board.  That means that Olive Garden could see some major changes in the coming months.   We've outlined some of the possible changes below, based on the main criticisms from Starboard's presentation. 1. Olive Garden could start serving more authentic Italian dishes and cutting back on its use of fryers.  In the presentation, Starboard criticized Olive Garden for serving dishes that are "astonishingly far from authentic Italian culture, such as burgers and fries, Spanish tapas, heavy cream sauces, more fried foods, stuffed cheeses, soggy pasta, and bland tomato sauce." "We believe many customers find [these dishes] extremely unappealing," Starboard wrote. Here are some examples of the menu changes that the firm found unacceptable. Starboard2. The food could start looking more like it does in advertisements. Starboard slammed Olive Garden's inconsistency concerning the presentation of certain menu items.  Here are some examples: StarboardStarboard described the Lasagna Fritta, or fried lasagna bites, as "barely edible." Starboard The "Crispy Parmesan Asparagus" looks particularly unappealing, the hedge fund said.  Starboard3. Customer service could start improving. Darden is spending tons of money remodeling its restaurants instead of improving customer service, Starboard said. The company is spending up to $600,000 per restaurant on renovations. "Why would Darden spend money to attract customers into the restaurant, only to disappoint them with more the same underwhelming food and poor service?" the firm questioned. In the graphs below, Starboard compared Olive Garden's Yelp and Facebook reviews to those of its competitors.  Starboard4. The menu could be simplified.  Starboard called Olive Garden's menu design "confused." As an example, Starboard wrote, "Olive Garden recently introduced a high-quality, healthy trout dish that is generally prepared well, but by loading half of the oversized plate with bland and mushy pasta, Darden has . . . contradicted the 'healthy' image of the dish." Starboard5. The company's logo could see another change.  Olive Garden was widely criticized for its recent logo change. Starboard said the alteration was costly and unnecessary, and it won't change customers' perception of the brand. The change is an example of how Olive Garden management is "out of touch with their core customer," Starboard wrote. It's expected to cost the company an estimated $42 million to update signage at all of its restaurants, according to Starboard estimates. "Signage is irrelevant at this moment and is another example of capital misallocation — again this is the same strategy that failed for Red Lobster," the firm wrote.  Starboard6. Olive Garden could change the recipe for its famous breadsticks. Starboard said the breadsticks have "lost their quality taste." "The lower quality refined flour breadsticks served today are filled with more air and have less flavor (similar to hot dog buns)," Starboard wrote. 7. The chain could start salting its pasta and mixing sauce into its dishes, instead of just ladling it in a heap on top of the noodles.  "Shockingly, Olive Garden no longer salts the water it uses to boil the pasta, merely to get a longer warranty on its pots," Starboard wrote. The hedge fund also claimed that the pasta is overcooked. 8. The chain could lower its prices. Starboard said Olive Garden is "alienating" customers by raising its prices to offset declining traffic. Starboard FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoThe red-hot Ebola trade has moved on to facemask industry. Alpha Pro Tech, a $100 million company that makes makes protective face masks and other protective products, is up over 25% today. Over the last three days, shares have gained more than 70%.  Earlier this summer, a number of drug companies saw their shares surge as the Ebola virus began to spread. Since then, we've seen shares of Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits, also surge as the first case of Ebola was confirmed in the US. Shares of Lakeland, which went bonkers on Thursday and gained more than 50%, were little changed in early trade on Friday. Here's the chart of early trading in Alpha Pro Tech on Friday. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
On Thursday night with much pomp and circumstance, Elon Musk announced Tesla's new line of cars  — the "Tesla D," which is actually an all-wheel-drive version of the Model S. We were there to witness the theatrics. Produced by Matt Johnston and Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Wikimedia CommonsNow that the fourth quarter is here, it’s worth taking a final look at how the rest of the year is likely to develop. With three months left to go, it still makes sense to review your portfolio to make sure you’re prepared for what’s likely in store for the remainder of the year. So, what exactly do I foresee for this final quarter of 2014? Certainly, the world is awash in geopolitical uncertainty and this is likely to continue. But good news on the U.S. economic front should help temper worsening geopolitical tensions and slowing growth in Europe. Of course, a strengthening U.S. economy may have a downside. If the Federal Reserve (Fed) increases interest rates too soon or by too much, markets could be rattled. Another trend to watch: diverging growth. Europe and Japan are still struggling, while the U.S. continues to evidence signs of strength. At the same time, stocks are on pace to finish the year with returns in the mid to upper single digits, and I still expect rates to rise, if only modestly, for the remainder of the year. Against this backdrop, my colleagues and I share five portfolio moves to consider in our latest quarterly update to our 2014 outlook piece, “The List: What to Know, What to Do – Fall Update.” Stick with stocks, but be choosy. While stocks are no longer cheap, they still look attractive versus the alternatives, namely bond and cash, and the economic and monetary environment overall remains supportive of equities. However, not every country or market segment is the same. So, as I’ve mentioned before, investors should focus on relative value—in other words, do your comparison shopping across markets and sectors. Selectivity is key. For more on where I see value today, check out my latest Investment Directions monthly market outlook piece as well as the fourth-quarter 2014 outlook from the BlackRock Investment Institute. Look outside U.S. borders. Increasing international exposure makes sense in general, but even more so these days when most stock market bargains are found overseas. U.S. stocks are no longer cheap, and that has stocks outside U.S. borders looking even more reasonable. Specifically, I see opportunities in Japan, which represents one of the few stock market bargains in the world today, and in select emerging markets, particularly in China and other Asian countries. Choose your bonds wisely. There are still very few bargains out there for people buying bonds, and some areas of the bond market are more vulnerable to rising rates than others. This means it’s especially important to do your homework and choose your bonds wisely. For instance, shorter maturity Treasuries, those with durations of two- to five-years, are likely to be more vulnerable to rising rates than their counterparts with longer durations. In addition, with most traditional areas of the bond market looking expensive investors should consider a flexible, go-anywhere approach. Finally, investors should give munis another look, if they haven’t already, as I explain below. Keep munis in mind. While no longer cheap per se after their extraordinary run in 2014, municipal bonds continue to look attractive versus both Treasuries and corporate bonds. For instance, yields for longer-maturity munis rival or exceed those of their taxable counterparts on a before-tax basis, and this only increases the after-tax value. Go beyond traditional stocks and bonds. Finally, it’s worth considering incorporating non-traditional, or alternative, strategies into your investing arsenal. With such investments, you can potentially enhance diversification and amplify your portfolio’s growth potential. For more about these moves, and what to expect for the remainder of 2014, be sure to check out the full piece, “The List: What to Know, What to Do – Fall Update.” FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingStarboard's Jeff SmithDarden, the parent company of Olive Garden, said that its shareholders have elected all of activist hedge fund Starboard Value's nominees to the restaurant group's board. This is a huge win for activist investor Jeff Smith's Starboard. Starboard has been going after Olive Garden, claiming that it's badly run on all kinds of fronts. "My fellow Board members and I share a common goal for Darden – to enhance value for all of Darden's stakeholders, including its shareholders, employees, and guests, by focusing on excellence throughout the organization, maintaining and strengthening the investment-grade rating and dividend, and emphasizing a restaurant- and operations-centric culture built around great people," Starboard's Smith said in a statement. Darden's stock was last trading up 1.6%. Smith's Starboard Value made headlines last month for its epic presentation calling for changes at Darden. One of the points made in that presentation was a change to Olive Garden's famous unlimited breadsticks and salad.  Here's today's press release: ORLANDO, Fla., Oct. 10, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Darden Restaurants, Inc. (DRI) today announced that, based on the preliminary vote count provided by its proxy solicitor following the Company's 2014 Annual Meeting, shareholders have elected all 12 Starboard-nominated directors to Darden's Board of Directors including: Betsy S. Atkins, Margaret Shan Atkins, Jean M. Birch, Bradley D. Blum, Peter A. Feld, James P. Fogarty, Cynthia T. Jamison, William H. Lenehan, Lionel L. Nowell, III, Jeffrey C. Smith, Charles M. Sonsteby, and Alan N. Stillman. Speaking on behalf of Darden's newly elected Board, Jeffrey C. Smith, Chief Executive Officer of Starboard, said, "Darden has an incredibly strong foundation that reflects its iconic and growing brands, 150,000 dedicated employees, and many loyal and passionate guests. Darden's future is bright. The new Board is prepared and excited to immediately begin working alongside Darden's management team to put Darden on track for long-term value creation for all shareholders. My fellow Board members and I share a common goal for Darden – to enhance value for all of Darden's stakeholders, including its shareholders, employees, and guests, by focusing on excellence throughout the organization, maintaining and strengthening the investment-grade rating and dividend, and emphasizing a restaurant- and operations-centric culture built around great people. The new Board wishes the departing directors well, and we thank them and their advisors for ensuring a smooth and seamless transition process that will allow us to immediately focus on the priorities at hand, including the selection of a transformational leader to be Darden's CEO."                          Mr. Smith concluded, "Darden has all the right ingredients to regain the strength and prominence it once enjoyed. The new Board is incredibly excited by the opportunity at hand. We look forward to continuing our hard work from inside the boardroom and working with management on a shared goal of excellence for Darden." Speaking on behalf of Darden's outgoing directors, Charles A. Ledsinger Jr., the former Independent Non-Executive Chairman of Darden's Board, said, "We are extremely grateful to Darden Restaurants' talented and dedicated management and employees who, day after day, serve our customers with distinction and are the backbone of what makes Darden the preeminent casual dining company. We give our best wishes to the incoming directors, welcome the reconstituted Board and look forward to seeing continued progress at Darden. On behalf of the outgoing Board, it has been our privilege to serve." Speaking on behalf of the Darden employees, Gene Lee, President and Chief Operating Officer of Darden said, "I am incredibly proud of our employees for their energy, passion and focus. Despite the recent distractions, our terrific employees remained focused on our priorities in the restaurants.  We fully understand that our guests need to receive great food and great service, and we continue to deliver. We are grateful that there is clear resolution at the Board level and very much look forward to working with our new Board to continue to drive improvements throughout the organization." Darden noted that the preliminary vote count following the Annual Meeting also indicates that shareholders voted FOR the approval, on an advisory basis, of the Company's executive compensation; FOR the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as Darden's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2015; FOR a management proposal to amend the Company's bylaws to provide for proxy access; and AGAINST two shareholder proposals as described in the Company's associated Proxy Statement.  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via CNBC"Insane!" After Elon Musk's big "D" reveal on Thursday night in Los Angeles, Tesla gave attendees rides in the new all-wheel-drive version of the Model S sedan. (The "D" stands for "dual motor" — one electric motor for each set of wheels.) It looks like it was a pretty remarkable experience — understandable as the high-performance version of the car, the P85D, can do 0-60 mph in 3.2 seconds.  Tom Tate took a ride and told CNBC that it was so "insane" that "I nearly wet myself." "Insane" is actually supposed to be a driving setting on what we can now call Tesla's supercar. Although Musk also referred to the $120,000 P85D's head-snapping speed as "bananas" and said it was like being launched from the deck of an aircraft carrier. Check it out:   FREE AppDownload
(AP Photo/Ted S. Warren, File)An ATM sits next to a rack of marijuana clone plants that are used to grow medical marijuana at The Joint, a medical marijuana dispensary in Seattle. TORONTO/ST. LOUIS (Reuters) - U.S. investors in Canada's medical marijuana industry are betting they won't fall under the scrutiny of U.S. law enforcement officers - but it's a risky bet. With marijuana still illegal on a federal level in the United States, American investors in Canadian medical marijuana can be seen as violating the Controlled Substances Act, according to some U.S experts. And the use of the banking system to transfer the proceeds of such investments could be seen as money laundering. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency has already been tracking investments made in state-sanctioned marijuana business in the United States. When asked by Reuters about the DEA's view of U.S. investments in Canadian marijuana, DEA spokesman Rusty Payne said the agency is "most interested in those types of activities." U.S. investors have been increasingly drawn to the raft of public listings by producers that has sprung up since Canada overhauled its laws this year, making it legal to buy marijuana from licensed producers with a doctor’s prescription. Canada's medical marijuana market, which is expected to grow more than tenfold, to C$1.3 billion, in a decade, has matured more rapidly than its peers. While U.S. investors have several European markets where medical marijuana is legal on their radar - Canada has been the biggest beneficiary of fund flows from U.S. investors. "We really like the Canada model, which is really unlike any other in the world,” said Christian Groh, a co-founder of Seattle-based private equity firm Privateer Holdings, one of the largest players in the medical marijuana sector. "What we're doing here does not violate local, state and federal law (in Canada)." Privateer created a Canadian subsidiary as its foothold in the market. Other investors, however, have jumped straight in from their U.S. bases. Timothy White, national risk specialist for Banker's Toolbox Inc, a firm that helps banks detect and report money laundering, said U.S. investors in Canadian marijuana firms could be violating drug trafficking and money laundering laws. "That is two violations of U.S. federal law. I don't see there is any way around that," White said. A former DEA official who asked not to be named said that "at best," the investments are "an extremely reckless thing to do." Investors could face money laundering charges and any return on investment "would have the taint of drug proceeds," the former official said. "If they sought legal advice on this, they were grossly underserved," the former official said. There have been no prosecutions by U.S. authorities of investors in Canada, according to legal experts who have been closely following the market. Payne, the DEA spokesman, said the U.S. agency has "limited investigatory resources" to pursue investors and is most interested in targeting those with deep pockets who pour large sums into the industry. Thomson ReutersSection Grower Morgan Blenk inspecting a marijuana plant clone before planting it at Tweed Marijuana Inc. It’s a risk many U.S. investors, eyeing healthy returns, are willing to take. They are counting on shifting attitudes toward marijuana in the United States, and they see scant chances of prosecution under the Obama administration. "There are so many companies investing in the Canadian side, and this (money-laundering risk) is just not something that is coming up as an issue," said one U.S. investor in the Canadian medical marijuana market who spoke on condition of anonymity. "You can invest in pharmaceutical companies (whose drugs are not approved) in the United States. This is just another medicine." Canadian producer OrganiGram Holdings Inc &lt;ogi.v&gt; has nearly doubled in value since listing on Aug. 25. Meanwhile, Bedrocan Cannabis Corp &lt;bed.v&gt; was the second-most actively traded stock on the TSX venture exchange on its market debut on the same day. Roughly 30 percent of OrganiGram’s shares are held by U.S. investors. Other producers also reported high levels of U.S. investment in their shares and capital raisings. Toronto-based PharmaCan Capital, one of the most active investors in the Canadian market and likely to go public itself, said it raised about 35 percent of its capital outside Canada. So far, only relatively small U.S. investors have been active in Canada's marijuana sector. Deep-pocketed institutional investors in the United States are yet to be swayed, partly because of the legal risks and because the investments available are generally too small to interest them. Then there is the stigma associated with the industry. Canadian and U.S. investors also have to grapple with the risk of betting in a nascent, unproven market that is still finding its way. Securities regulators on both sides of the border have warned investors to stay clear of speculators. "The larger institutions have a lot to lose and face a lot of scrutiny because of everything else they do,” said Brian Vicente, a partner at Vicente Sederberg in Denver. "They are not interested in taking that risk at this moment, and that opens up space and opportunities for smaller firms." Hopes that more U.S. states will follow the lead of Washington and Colorado and approve ballot initiatives that make marijuana legal for adult use have boosted the ranks of investors looking at early stage marijuana-related companies. Twenty-three U.S. states have legalized medical marijuana. "Some investors look at this and think, 'I'm getting in on the ground floor. I'm going to be part of the next Facebook of marijuana, and timing is everything. ... I can buy in low and eventually sell super-high when legalization hits,' " said Hilary Bricken, a lawyer at Seattle-based Harris Moure. "That day may never come." FREE AppDownload
Matthew Stockman/Getty ImagesAccording to Statistics Canada, the nation added a net 74,000 jobs in September. The consensus estimate was for job growth of 20,000. In August, employment fell by 11,000. The unemployment rate, which was expected to hold steady at 7 percent, fell to 6.8 percent, its lowest level since December 2008. Full-time employment soared by 69,300; the monthly increase was further padded with a 4,800 pick-up in part-time jobs. Employment amongst youths increased by 43,000, while core-age women (ages 25 to 54) saw net job growth of 16,000. The national statistics agency indicated that the aging population is already reshaping the labour market, attributing the annual increase of 100,000 jobs amongst those aged 55 and over to the greying of Canada. The previous two Labour Force Surveys had proven to be quite controversial; July’s had to be restated because of a processing error, while August’s showed the largest one-month increase in self-employment and drop-off in private sector employment on record. In September, this reversed: self-employment fell by 55,600, while private sector employment spiked by 123,600. As such, economists will likely consider August’s and September’s readings as a whole – the flat, sluggish pace of job creation remains intact. “Some reversal from the record drop in private sector employment seems reasonable,” wrote Bank of Montreal deputy chief economist Michael Gregory ahead of this release. Commodity price weakness has been the dominant theme for several months, but it certainly didn’t weigh on job creation in September. The natural resources sector added 27,700 jobs, which was outpaced only by growth in construction employment, a pick-up in health care and social assistance jobs, and a surge in McJobs. The largest decrease was seen in educational services, in which employment fell by 44,200, marking consecutive declines for this segment. Month-to-month readings for job growth are notoriously volatile; as such, it’s better to look at the trend to get a better gauge of how the labour market’s doing. The 12-month moving averageshows job growth is abysmal, and economists don’t expect it to show a marked improvement any time soon. “Though we’ve been calling for a catch-up in the labour market as the economy has heated up, we’re setting our sights a little lower,” wrote CIBC economist Nick Exarhos ahead of this release. “Stronger growth is clearly taking longer than anticipated to overcome some structural issues, including a skills gap.” This massive increase in employment brought the six- and twelve-month moving averages for net job growth up to 15,400 and 12,500, respectively: Business in Canada Nine readings into 2014, Canada has failed to record back-to-back months of job growth – but that could all change with the next print. The loonie, which was trading at 0.892 against the greenback heading into this print, rose above 0.895 in the minutes following this release. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ John Adkisson John Stumpf. He also CC'd 200,000 other Wells Fargo employees on the email to CEO John Stumpf. Talk about some chutzpah! Oates confirmed to The Oregonian that a copy of the letter posted on Reddit was authentic. In the letter, Oates brought up the issue of income inequality. He pointed out that Stumpf took home $19 million in compensation for 2013. He also made a request that the company raise every employee's salary by $10,000 to "show the rest of the United States, if not the world that, yes big corporations can have a heart other than philanthropic endeavors." "My proposal is take $3 billion dollars, just a small fraction of what Wells Fargo pulls in annually, and raise every employees annual salary by $10,000 dollars. This equates to an hourly raise about $4.71 per hour. Think, as well, of the positive publicity in a time of extreme consumer skepticism towards banks," Oates wrote. Oates told the Charlotte Observer that he had been with Wells Fargo for about seven years. He started out making $13 per hour. Now his hourly rate is $15, the report said.  Stumpf, 60, actually comes from humble beginnings, too. He grew up on a dairy farm in Minnesota. He didn't make good grades in high school and didn't have much money, so he ended up working as a bread maker after graduation. Eventually, he got into St. Cloud University and landed a job at First Bank in St. Paul as a repossession agent. He ultimately ended up getting his MBA from the University of Minnesota.  Here's the letter [via Reddit] Mr. Stumpf, With the increasing focus on income inequality in the United States. Wells Fargo has an opportunity to be at the forefront of helping to reduce this by setting the bar, leading by example, and showing the other large corporations that it is very possible to maintain a profitable company that not only looks out for its consumers and shareholders, but its employees as well. This year Wells Fargo in its second quarter alone had a net income of $5.7 billion, and total revenue of $21.1 billion. These are very impressive numbers, and is obvious evidence that Wells Fargo is one of, if not the most profitable company in the nation right now. So, why not take some of this and distribute it to the rest of the employees. Sure, the company provides while not great, some pretty good benefits, as well as discretionary profit sharing for those who partake in our 401k program. While the benefits are nice, the profit sharing through the 401k only goes to make the company itself and its shareholders more profitable, and not really boost the income of the thousands of us here every day making this company the prestigious power house that it is. Last year, you had pulled in over $19 million, more than most of the employees will see in our lifetimes. It is understood that your position carries a lot of weight and responsibility; however, with a base salary of $2.8 million and bonuses equating to $4 million, is alone one of the main arguments of income inequality. Where the vast majority, the undeniable profit drivers, with the exception of upper management positions barely make enough to live comfortably on their own, the distribution of income in this company is no better than that of the other big players in the corporate world. My estimate is that Wells Fargo has roughly around 300,000 employees. My proposal is take $3 billion dollars, just a small fraction of what Wells Fargo pulls in annually, and raise every employees annual salary by $10,000 dollars. This equates to an hourly raise about $4.71 per hour. Think, as well, of the positive publicity in a time of extreme consumer skepticism towards banks. By doing this, Wells Fargo will not only help to make its people, its family, more happy, productive, and financially stable, it will also show the rest of the United States, if not the world that, yes big corporations can have a heart other than philanthropic endeavors. P.S. – To all of my fellow team members who receive a copy of this email. Though Wells Fargo does not allow the formation of unions, this does not mean we cannot stand united. Each and every one of us plays an integral part in the success of this company. It is time that we ask, no, it is time that we demand to be rightfully compensated for the hard work that we accomplish, and for the great part we all have played in the success of this company. There are many of us out there who come to work every day and give it our all, yet, we struggle to make ends meet while our peers in upper management and company executives reap the majority of the rewards. One of our lowest scored TMCS questions is that our opinions matter. Well they do! This email has been sent to hundreds of thousands Wells Fargo employees, (as many as I could cc from the outlook global address book). And while the voice of one person in a world as large as ours may seem only like a whisper, the combined voices of each and all of us can move mountains! With the warmest of regards,   FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesTesla CEO Elon Musk at Thursday night's event. At an event in Los Angeles on Thursday night, Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced the new model, which has three settings: Normal, Sport, and Insane. Business Insider's Matthew DeBord has the full report from the event. In response, the market appears to be "selling the news," which followed a cryptic tweet from Musk on October that it was "about time to unveil the D and something else." Tesla shares were trading at about $245 on Friday morning, about $40 below where they were when Musk said the stock was overvalued back in early September.  FREE AppDownload
Thursday's 2% drop in the S&amp;P 500 put the index at 1,928, down 4.5% from its September 19 high of 2,019. This is one of the more notable pullbacks we've seen in what has been a very low-volatile rally in the stock market. In fact, the S&amp;P 500 hasn't closed below its 200-day moving average (DMA) since November 20, 2012. "All eyes will be on the 200 DMA for the SPX today," MKM Partners' Jonathan Krinsky writes. "That currently comes in at 1905, which is also the area of the August lows." UBS's Art Cashin just warned that if the S&amp;P broke though 1,925, we could tumble all the way to 1,900. "We continue to expect that the SPX Cash will test its 200 DMA before this correction is over," Krinsky writes. "At that point we can evaluate the structure to determine of a bigger pullback is at hand." Krinsky notes that the Equal Weight S&amp;P 500 actually closed below its 200-DMA for the first time since November 2012. (Unlike the S&amp;P 500, which weights each stock by market cap, the Equal Weight index gives each of the 500 companies equal weight in the index.) MKM Partners FREE AppDownload
The Russian ruble is down another 0.8% against the dollar Friday, following the almost continual decline since the summer. The Russian currency is down nearly 17% against the dollar since the end of June.  The collapse follows uncertainty about the Russia's plans in Ukraine, international sanctions, and the falling price of oil.  Bloomberg The Wall Street Journal notes that the Russian central bank is now intervening so heavily to prop up the currency that you can see the time its traders go home, because of the drop in the ruble's value. This is just the latest incarnation of the ruble’s seemingly endless slump. Fed haters, take note, this is what the real debasement of a currency looks like. The ruble is worth only a tenth of what it was against the dollar in 1995. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Google EarthBlackstone is getting rid of its advisory business.  The giant investment management firm announced today that it will spin off its financial and strategic advisory businesses, restructuring and reorganization advisory services, and its Park Hill fund placement businesses. The spun-off parts of the business will merge with the independent advisory firm PJT Partners, headed by Paul Taubman, in a transaction that's expected to close sometime in 2015. Taubman started PJT last year after a nearly 30-year career at Morgan Stanley. Blackstone shareholders will own roughly 65% of the new company and Taubman and his partners will get about 35%. Taubman will become the chairman and CEO of the new entity. The split appears to come out of worries over conflicts of interest between Blackstone's advisory and investing businesses. In a statement, Blackstone's CEO Stephen Schwarzman mentioned worries about Blackstone's size. "As the largest alternative asset manager in the world, and with our investing areas considerably broader and larger than even a few years ago, we have not been free to aggressively grow our advisory businesses further out of concern for potential conflicts," he said. The statement also noted that the transaction is meant to be tax-free for both Blackstone and its shareholders. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Art Cashin.Is this the end of the five-year-old bull market in stocks? Thursday's 2% plunge in the S&amp;P 500 puts the index 4.5% below its Sept. 19 all-time high of 2,019. The S&amp;P is currently at 1,928. Veteran trader Art Cashin warns that we should get worried if the S&amp;P breaks through 1,925. "We are heading toward a potential retest of the area around 1,925 on the S&amp;P," Cashin said to King World News. "We stopped in that approximate area last Thursday, and again before the most recent bounce yesterday. So if we get down there and we test it and fails, we run the risk of a kind of cascade effect (of selling) at that point." What does he mean by that "cascade effect"? "Very logically you would be looking at the area of 1,900 to 1,905 on the S&amp;P," he continued. "And if you break through there, you kind of compound things (to the downside) as you go." On the flip side, Cashin also notes that if the S&amp;P holds near 1,925, we could experience a "triple-bottom" after which markets would rally again. For now, futures are in the red. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Elise AmendolaThe American retailer is finding it hard to compete in Australia.Costco Wholesale has revealed to its US investors that weak sales growth in Australia is a result of new stores taking sales away from established outlets. Costco chief financial officer Richard Galanti said sales growth during the fourth quarter of last financial year was weaker in Australia than its overall global performance, Fairfax Media reported. “Internationally, within the plus-8 per cent local currency comp, Australia and Japan were the weakest, due in large part to cannibalization,” Galanti said. In May 2014 Costco opened a new store at North Lakes in Brisbane, while in November 2013 it opened stores at Ringwood in eastern Melbourne and Casula in western Sydney. Costco launched its first Australian store in Docklands, Melbourne during August 2009 and the supermarket retailer then opened a second store in July 2011 at Auburn and a third in Canberra during the same month. The cannibalization theory suggests the Ringwood store now competes with Docklands, while the Casula store may be luring shoppers from the Auburn store. Costco posted a 13 per cent increase in fourth quarter earnings, with same-store sales rising more than 8 per cent after currency movements and total sales up 9 per cent to $35 billion. Annual sales jumped 7 per cent to $110.2 billion, while full year profits increased 1 per cent year-on-year, reaching $2.06 billion. Read more here. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTube / 4-traders.comThomas Lee.Traders and investors around the world are still trying to make sense of Thursday's 335-point plunge in the Dow. It the bull market over? Are we in the midst of a 10% correction? Is this the beginning of the crash? Fundstrat Global Advisors' Tom Lee characterizes the recent weakness as "troubling." However, he's still optimistic that things will turn around. "Equity markets globally weakened further this week with the S&amp;P 500 down another 2% (bringing the decline from the 9/19 intraday peak of 2019 to 4.5%)," Lee wrote in a new 21-page note to clients. "While the list of ‘worries’ continues to mount (Euro-growth, QE ending, commodities, dollar surge, small-cap underperformance, etc.), the primary issue for investors appears to be global growth concerns (Euro-area/sanctions and implied US weakness due to small- caps and retail sales)." He identifies four reasons why things in the world are actually looking up: 1: "Dollar strength has raised US growth concerns (primarily due to exporters), but past surges are surprisingly associated with equity gains 64% of the time." 2: "3Q14 Earnings season is actually off to a good start, with 68% of companies beating on EPS (74% of Cyclicals)." 3: "US consumers will get as much as a $10 billion boost from the 3% decline in gasoline spend in the coming quarters." 4: "Valuations improved considerably (14.9x forward PE) and case for a beta chase still intact." Lee believes the latest selling is a blip in a bull market that could run for several years. While not his official call, he noted that the S&amp;P 500 could hit 2,700 before the bull market ended. FREE AppDownload
Bobby Yip/REUTERSThere have been reports of artillery fire exchanged between South and North Korea.Good morning! These are the major events making an impact on financial markets already Friday. German Stocks Are Getting Slammed. The DAX is down by more than 2% Friday and down more than 10% since Sept. 19. North And South Korea Fired Artillery At Each Other. The AP says the North fired at a South Korean propaganda balloon, and the South fired back.  UKIP Won Its First UK Member Of Parliament. The anti-EU party won a massive victory in a by-election and now has its first member of British parliament.  The EU’s Stress Test Results Will Be Published Oct. 26. The ECB revealed the date Friday morning. The announcement will be a major indicator of the health of Europe’s banks.  Markets Are Getting Slammed. In Europe, the UK’s FTSE 1000 is down 1.39%, France’s CAC 40 is down by 1.63%, and Germany’s DAX is down 2.15%. In Asia, the Hang Seng closed down 1.9% and the Nikkei closed down 1.15%. Import And Export Prices Are Coming. The US inflation data are both expected to be negative and are coming at 8:30 a.m. ET. Tesla’s New Project Has Been Revealed. The Tesla "D" that Elon Musk so provocatively tweeted about last week is an all-wheel-drive version of the Model S Sedan.  BMW’s Sales Boost Is Bucking The German Trend. BMW said sales of its core luxury-car brand rose 6.1% in September, powered by demand in Europe, Asia, and North America. Chinese Growth Is Likely To Fall To A 5-Year Low. China's economy most likely grew at its weakest pace in more than five years in the third quarter as a property downturn weighed on demand, a Reuters poll showed. A Huge Typhoon Could Make Landfall In Japan This Weekend. Japan is braced for this year’s strongest Pacific storm.   FREE AppDownload
WSJ via The Reformed BrokerWhy did the stock market plummet more than 330 points on Thursday? I could give you any one of several answers but they won’t actually help you. Because this is the wrong question. The right question is to ask why it went up an almost equivalent amount yesterday. And the answer to that is people are out of their f***ing minds. They’re nostalgic for the sentiment-driven, Fed-fueled, multiple expansion market of 2013 and they haven’t yet accepted the fact it was a once (maybe twice) in a lifetime thing. The conditions that were in place to set up what happened in 2013 were the following: 1. Everyone was underinvested in stocks, overly invested in cash, gold and bonds. 2. The Fed was furiously pumping dollars directly into the investment markets, fueling all manner of buybacks, IPOs and raised dividends. 3. Sentiment was absurdly pessimistic, with Wall Street, institutional investment managers and retail players negative on equities. 4. US companies were consistently smashing expectations and raising guidance for the future. 5. The rest of the world began reporting improving economic fundamentals. That was then. I documented the shit out of this phenomenon that entire year, until my fingers bled from blogging. This year, many of those factors are non-existent or on the wane. Consider: 1. Investors are no longer underinvested in stocks. According to the Federal Reserve’s Flow of Funds report, we’re back at all-time peaks (last seen in 2000, 2007) for household corporate equity (stocks, mutual funds, corporate bonds) participation. 2. The Fed is walking away. Later this month, the taper of stimulus will have been concluded. After shoveling a trillion dollars a year at the investment markets, they are retiring from the QE business and merely pledging a low Fed Funds rate in lieu of stimulus. Investor demand must now stand on its own and you better believe things are going to adjust. Buybacks are expected to slow markedly from their torrid pace. It already began in the most recent quarter. IPO volume (in transactions, not dollars) has already dropped. 3. Sentiment from week to week has been volatile but the big picture is that people are back in again. All you need to do is to look at the inflows to Vanguard’s passive stock index products and the record levels of 401(k) buying to know that. Never listen to a survey, watch what their hands are doing, not what their lips are saying. 4. US companies are not smashing anything. Their beats have become more modest. Their warnings have become more grave. There are many high profile blue chip companies that have already thrown in the towel on 2014, most notably Target and Ford. There’s plenty of good news on the earnings front (mostly in tech, select consumer discretionary), but there is less surprisingly good news overall. Expectations are everything. We’re already expecting a lot. 5. The rest of the world is not only not improving, it’s becoming a disaster. Europe is looking at a continent-wide triple-dip recession. An absolute absurdity, and yet here it is. Japan is going nowhere, China’s slow-mo unwind continues apace and the commodity collapse / dollar rally is killing off any hope of strength around the rest of the emerging world. And so with the five factors that had driven the rally since 2012 no longer in our favor, we consolidate and thrash around a bit awaiting the next set of catalysts. Maybe a great holiday shopping season thanks to plunging energy costs. Perhaps – at long last – a meaningful uptick in wages for our now tighter labor market. Maybe European QE resets the board game there and sparks les esprits animaux. All of these things are possible – they’re just not happening yet. And so volatility ticks up and the crowd second-guesses everything in their portfolios. Welcome to the next phase. The old phase has been over for awhile, I’m sorry that nobody rang a bell or hung a sign. This article originally appeared at The Reformed Broker.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsEbola containment measures such as screening at airports and quarantining close contacts of Ebola patients continue to roll out. Five major American airports, constituting 90% of the incoming foreign-sourced air traffic into the US, are now involved. More involvement is anticipated. The same will be true in most developed countries. Airline passengers and staff face additional impediments in their travels.  They will be less mobile, take more time, and carry an additional cost. That is what happens when methods of screening or quarantine occur. The process not only disrupts the transit of people and goods, it also saddles both developing and mature economies with economic costs as they respond to a natural phenomenon. With viruses, that response needs time. Governments need money to implement the barriers.  They either have it in reserve or they borrow it.  Any fiscal restraint is set aside if a virus threat is perceived to require spending. We have seen initial estimates that the global Ebola response will reduce gross world product (global GDP) growth rates between 0.2% and 0.4% percent.  In the directly affected countries, the drop in output will be much more and harsh. These types of numbers are guesstimates. As a practical matter, we do not yet know how much GDP growth rates will be diminished by Ebola response and quarantine. We do know that growth rates will be reduced. Economic consequences also result when fear and concern change behavior. If consumers and businesses retrench by reducing flights on airplanes, changing vacation plans, or altering business connections in a globally interdependent world, GDP growth rates will fall farther. We do not know how much, at what speed, or for how long. We have references with events and circumstances surrounding Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or Bird Flu (H5N1 and H1N1). What we do not know is whether the Ebola virus itself will mutate to become more readily transmissible. Currently, Ebola is transmitted by contact with the blood or other body fluids of an infected person or by contact with contaminated surfaces. It has not mutated to become “sneeze transmissible,” a term coined by Jay Simkin of Stratecon. Screening for fever can identify the potentially infected and contagious, and the virus is believed to be containable with quarantine methods and barriers such as specialized protective clothing. Viruses are constantly changing. The media energizes viewers to alter their behavior by showing death and pain as a result of viruses. We believe Ebola’s effects on the 2014-2015 economic and financial market landscape will include a slowing of growth, an additional layer of cost, and other impediments that remain to be seen. Ebola piles on the already growing list of geopolitical risks, stronger dollar adjustments and central bank policy changes.  Most recently, we learned the specific revelation that ECB Emperor Draghi has no clothes.  The eurozone has become a zero growth mess with zero interest rates and zero inflation.  Is a Japan-like stretch of 0 and 0 and 0 over time now the eurozone’s destiny? We are looking at panicky markets.   Entry levels are starting to reveal themselves.  We maintain a cash reserve but may be deploying it at any time. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Dec. 5, 2008. From Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, here's a quick look at what traders are talking about this big global sell-off: Good Morning! US Futures under sharp pressure (but off lows), with NDX off 90bp and Russell 75bp as Semi numbers come in weak, Growth concerns mount, and Ebola fears in UK hit overnight. The Damage in Energy complex continues — WTI is off 1.5% (was off 2.5% earlier), and Brent remains under the weight of heavy put positioning at $90. Resource stocks remain under sharp pressure in London and Aussie, as the Coal complex continues to reel from China’s surprise tariff announcement yesterday. The DAX is getting whacked for 2.2% in VERY heavy volume, as it takes out YTD lows — Consumer stocks are off nearly 3%. It wasn’t any prettier in Asia, as a Breakdown in Hong Kong talks saw the Hang Seng lose nearly 2%, and Shanghai finally retreats from an 8day winning streak. Aussie was hit for 2% as Miners were hit sharply — Only Taiwan closed green in Asia … We have 4 Fed speakers today, and they all represent the most “hawkish” opinions. After the EU close, we get ratings updates from S&amp;P on Finland, France, EFSF sovereign rating — Fitch on Portugal — possibly Moody's on Italy, Latvia and DBRS on Italy, Spain, the Netherlands. Sovereigns have a bid again today, with the US 10YY off 2bp to 2.29% into the 3day weekend (US Credit closed Monday), and German Bunds yielding 88bp. Continue to expect growth stocks to remain under pressure, as Euro Inflation Swaps are hitting fresh lows this AM. The $ is making gains against Euro and Yen, the latter breaching Y108 support again. The stronger dollar is a headwind for commodities, and most everything is solidly in the red. Industrial metals like Copper and Silver are off near 1%, while even safe haven gold is retreating. The focus remains on the Energy complex, which sees Brent testing the 2012 lows, while WTI’s 2012 lows remain down $10 from here. Only Natty is bid this morning — The AG complex is all solidly in the red into WASDE data later today. Today we get US Import prices at 8:30, Fed's Plosser (hawk) Speaks on Monetary Policy at 9, there is NO POMO at 11 — at 12 we get WASDE data for Agriculture, at 1 we get Baker Hughes Rig Count and Fed's George (hawk) Speaks on Economy, Fisher (hawk) speaks at 2:10, at 3 Fed's Lacker (hawk) Speaks on Financial Firm Bankruptcy at 3:30 gets us “Commitment of Traders” data   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Blair GableBank of England Governor Mark Carney The Bank of England released on Friday a record of private discussions with Scottish firms and emergency plans, drawn up to protect Britain's banking system in case Scotland had voted Yes in last month's independence referendum. We've pulled out the most important points: In short, the Bank was concerned about the effect of independence on financial stability across the United Kingdom. At the same time, it expected most of the problems to fall on the newly-independent Scottish government. But more shocking is the report's mention that "the Governor [Mark Carney] had advised the Chancellor of the substance and implications of the Committee’s discussion." If this briefing included details of the private discussions between the PRA and Scottish banks, it may rekindle questions over the alleged "leak" of news before the referendum that the Royal Bank of Scotland planned to re-domicile to England if Scotland voted Yes.  Last month, Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond called for a public inquiry after he accused the Treasury of leaking market sensitive information to the BBC in advance of informing the market.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr via gogri The market is plunging again. And we think this paragraph from BTIG strategist Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) really captures the spirit well of what's going on: Well, that was fun! After such a long period without 1% days, the S&amp;P has now had a bunch, including five of the last seven sessions. That, of course, is little consolation to clients looking for additional volatility, but we’ll say this again unequivocally: the tone contained in client conversations has shifted meaningfully. What was once an assumed march higher for stock prices is now a (nearly) assumed march lower. Sentiment has done a 180, and with just 26% of the S&amp;P and 17% of the Russell 2000 trading north of the 50 dma, it's hard to blame people. ... It seems like a good time to remind clients of how many thought “buying the dip” was a good strategy the last few quarters/years. That said, we leave the technicals to Katie Stockton, but the Russell’s chart looks terrible and many clients think upside catalysts look few and far between. Plus, as many have pointed out, the S&amp;P is “just” 4% off its highs, not a meaningful correction. Perhaps. But it’s always darkest before the dawn, and in the midst of the darkness, it’s worth remembering that dawn will again arrive. One month ago there were literally no bears left. Everyone had flipped bullish, and nobody could think of a good reason for stocks to go down. And now, people can't think of any "upside catalysts," and everyone thinks the markets are going lower. What's interesting is that there's no obvious change of stories. Sure China is slowing, and the European economy is belly flopping. But so? How is that news? It's not. It just becomes news and becomes significant after the market sells off. FREE AppDownload
German stocks are getting slammed Friday morning. The DAX is down by more than 2% today, and down more than 10% since Sept. 19. Th index is now at its lowest in a year, hovering around 8,800. "Despite closing up last night somehow after a whipsaw day, Europe’s powerhouse economy has given the impression of leading the selloff from the front," IG's Will Hedden said in a note. Boerse Frankfurt This follows an absolutely brutal week for German economic data. Factory orders, industrial production and exports all dropped at the fastest pace in five years. Suddenly, it looks like the country could slide back into recession. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorBritain's Chancellor George Osborne speaks on the second day of the Conservative Party Conference in Birmingham.British chancellor George Osborne has been warning the UK about the threat another eurozone recession poses to the UK. He told the BBC: "The eurozone risks slipping back into crisis. Britain cannot be immune to that. Indeed, it's already having an impact on our manufacturing and exports." There's no doubt that Osborne has an incentive to spin any UK slowdown this way, because it absolves him of any responsibility. His critics say that the UK could have weathered the eurozone crisis more effectively if his public spending cuts were less aggressive. But there's no doubt that another crisis in the eurozone would weigh heavily against the UK's economic growth. With terrible data coming out of Europe every week, some analysts are already predicting another recession by next quarter. The Bank of England showed how the UK's GDP performance seems to co-ordinate almost perfectly in recent years with shocks elsewhere (mainly the crisis in the euro area). It's pretty stark:  Bank of England This is actually worse for the UK than a lot of other countries. The Bank reckons only a fifth of this impact is down to trade, with a massive impact coming through the UK's incredibly exposed financial sector. The estimates reckon world shocks have slashed UK GDP by 11%, in comparison to the size the economy would have been if pre-crisis growth continued. Just 2% is down to trade, and 9% down to uncertainty and finance.  The UK is a hub of global financial activity, and London is effectively Europe's banker. When the German economy sneezes, don't be surprised if the UK catches a cold.  FREE AppDownload
Norges Bank, the central bank of Norway, recently held a contest to redesign the country's bank notes. (Norway uses the kroner — it's still outside the Euro area.) One of the finalists was this design featuring a traditional Norwegian motif on one side and a child's drawing of the same scene on the other: Norges Bank And here's the other side: Norges Bank In the end, however, the bank chose designs from two professional design agencies. One side of the notes features Norwegian scenes and motifs from a company called The Metric System, and they look fairly traditional. But the other side, designed by Snøhetta, is a cubist version of a Norwegian scene that is so pixelated it's impossible to tell what the original image was. Take a look. We've got the front followed by the modern art-style back of each note here: Norges Bank The 50: Norges Bank And on the back ... Norges Bank The 200: Norges Bank The back: Norges BankThe 500: Norges Bank The back: Norges Bank And the 1000: Norges Bank And the back: Norges Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri Malala Yousafzay. The Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to Kailash Satyarthi and Malala Yousafzai "for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education." Satyarthi, a human-rights activist from India, has been an active force in the movement against child labor for at least two decades. Satyarthi, 60, "has headed various forms of protests and demonstrations, all peaceful, focusing on the grave exploitation of children for financial gain," the Nobel committee said in a statement.  Yousafzai, a teenager from Pakistan, has been an advocate for women's right to education. She rose to prominence in October 2012 after the Taliban shot her in the head for criticizing its tactics. Yousafzai was favored to win the Nobel Peace Prize in 2013, but it went to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. "The Nobel Committee regards it as an important point for a Hindu and a Muslim, an Indian and a Pakistani, to join in a common struggle for education and against extremism," the group wrote in a statement.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dani Cardona DCF/SAGermany could drag down the rest of Europe. European markets are down early Friday morning. This follows a drop in German exports, adding to fears that Europe's biggest economy could be pulling the region back into a recession. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.63% Spain's IBEX is down 0.57% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.59% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.49% Germany's DAX is down 0.66%, leading the way again. Asian markets closed in the red. The Nikkei closed down 1.2% and the Hang Seng closed down 1.8%.  US futures are mixed, with Dow futures unchanged, S&amp;P futures up 1.2 points, and Nasdaq futures down 10 points.  In Europe, the UK’s August trade balance will be released at 4:30 a.m. ET. Industrial production in Italy and France also comes out on Friday. Economists are expecting no growth between July and August in France. Later on, at 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get prices for US imports and exports in September, with analysts expecting a drop for both. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Chinese national flag flutters in front of the headquarters of the People's Bank of China, China's central bank, in central BeijingBy Kevin Yao BEIJING (Reuters) - China's economy likely grew at its weakest pace in more than five years in the third quarter as a property downturn weighed on demand, a Reuters poll showed, raising the chances of more aggressive policy steps that may include cutting interest rates. The economy may have expanded 7.3 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier - the weakest reading since the first quarter of 2009, when growth hit 6.6 percent during the height of the global crisis, according to a poll of 20 economists. None of the economists believed Q3 growth will dip below 7 percent, although four penciled in 7.1 percent and one expected 7 percent. The economy expanded by 7.5 percent in the second quarter and 7.4 percent in the first. The government is due to release September data on trade, bank lending, investment and factory output in the coming weeks, leading up to third-quarter GDP on Oct. 21 "GDP growth is expected to slow to around 7.3 percent in the third quarter as property investment growth slides and manufacturing deflation worsens," Tang Jianwei, an economist at Bank of Communications, said in a note. Softer domestic demand, linked largely to the cooling property market, probably pulled down growth in China's imports, investment and retail sales to multi-month or multi-year lows in September, a related poll showed. Premier Li said on Wednesday that China will launch major investment projects in information networks, water conservancy and environmental protection this year, and pledged to policy adjustments made when needed. But Li also made clear the government will tolerate growth slightly lower than the targeted 7.5 percent this year and rely more on reforms to generate new growth drivers.  MORE POLICY STEPS EXPECTED The prospects of weaker growth may raise the chances of more aggressive policy steps such as cutting interest rates or reserve requirements across the board, but the government may not rush into action as the job market still appears to be holding up, analysts say. Steps unveiled since April included reserve requirement cuts for selected banks and faster investment in railways and public housing. But much of their broader impact may have been offset by the cooling property market and tighter credit as banks grow more cautious about lending as the economy cools. The central bank and banking regulator on Sept. 30 relaxed lending rules for home buyers, allowing banks to offer a maximum 30 percent discount to first time home buyers, a group which is being expanded to include those who already own one property but have paid off their existing mortgage. But the impact of the move remains uncertain amid reports of huge inventories of unsold homes and state media reports that most banks are reluctant to offer big discounts on mortgages for fear of hurting their earnings. "As we move into the fourth quarter, the base effect is expected to become slightly more favorable. This can support a path of modest expansion," Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC, said in a research report. "However, given the lingering downside risks to growth and clear signs of a negative output gap, we think more easing measures are needed in the near term." While, HSBC believed a rate cut remains an option toward the end of the year, others doubted the central bank will act soon. "The possibility of cutting interest rates and RRR within the year is not big, unless there is a ugly turn," said Zhang Yiping, an economist at China Merchants Securities in Shenzhen.  LOWER LIMIT It's hard to know where Beijing will draw the line in the sand for bolder policy action given the rapid expansion of the services sector, which creates more jobs than manufacturing. Still, the government may have to step up policy support if quarterly growth slip below 7 percent, government economists at top think tanks involved in policy discussions said. "There should be a lower limit. If (quarterly) growth slips below 7 percent, policy should be changed," said Zhang Yongjun, senior economist at China Centre for International Economic Exchanges, a well-connected think-tank in Beijing. Top leaders have ruled out any massive stimulus as China struggles to deal with piles of local government debt, the hangover from a 4 trillion yuan ($652 billion) spending package implemented in 2008-09 to help cushion the country from the global financial crisis. President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang are seeking to push reforms to put the world's second-largest economy on a more sustainable footing over the long term. The government is likely to cut its annual growth target to around 7 percent in 2015, government economists said.  (Additional reporting by Koh Gui Qing in Beijing and Shaloo Shrivastava in Banglore; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaMessages of support for pro-democracy demonstrations on a wall near the government headquarters in Hong Kong on Wednesday. Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Friday. 1. The World Health Organization says Ebola is now "entrenched" in the capitals of the worst-hit countries: Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.  2. Pro-democracy demonstrators have called for renewed rallies after the government canceled Friday's scheduled talks with student protest leaders on Thursday night. According to the South China Morning Post, "Chief Secretary Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor said the talks would not be held because the government felt they would not lead to a constructive outcome." 3. Elon Musk reveled the new Tesla "D": An all-wheel-drive version of the Model S Sedan with additional auto-pilot features, like the car being able to read speed-limit signs and change how fast the vehicle is moving.  4. While the US keeps pressing Turkey to take more action against Islamic State militants in the Syrian town of Kobani, the Obama administration is mulling over Turkey's demands for a buffer zone on the border with Syria. "The idea is emerging as a possible way to end the standoff between the United States and Turkey," The New York Times writes.  5. A blitz of bad data out of Germany, including a fall in German exports and a decline in industrial production, has fueled suggestions that the country could be slipping back into recession.  6. Kim Jong-un failed to make an early appearance at North Korea's big anniversary event on Friday, adding to rumors that he was suffering from a leg injury or another illness.  7. An American passenger was removed from a plane by a team wearing hazmat suits after reportedly joking that he had Ebola, adding "you're all screwed." 8. The Nobel Peace Prize will be announced at 5 a.m. ET (11 a.m. local time in Sweden). Pope Francis, Edward Snowden, and Malala Yousafzai are just some of the names that have been tossed out to take the award.  9. Billionaire investor Carl Ichan wrote an open letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook asking the company to boost its stock repurchase because he thought the stock was going to explode. Apple responded with this note.  10. An anti-EU party, the UK Independence Party (UKIP), won its first seat in Parliament in a landslide victory, with candidate Douglas Carswell taking 60% of the vote. "The party’s victory will be seen as an embarrassment for Prime Minister David Cameron, whose Conservative Party had held the seat with Carswell before his high-profile defection in August," Business Insider's Tomas Hirst said.  And finally ... Loukanikos, the stray dog who became famous for joining anti-austerity protestors in Greece a few years back, died on Thursday from health issues potentially related to exposure to tear gas. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)By David Randall NEW YORK (Reuters) - The hunt for dividend yield is pushing U.S. fund managers into an unproven new offshoot of the alternative energy industry. Yield companies - commonly called "yieldcos" - are spinoffs of alternative energy companies that own assets such as wind or solar farms and pay investors dividends out of the cash flow generated by long-term contracts to sell power to utility companies. Though many investors have never heard the term, yieldcos are popping up in the portfolios of some of the most widely-held mutual funds in the United States. After a broad push into the sector, more than 900 actively managed and passive funds now own at least one yieldco, according to Lipper data. Notable buyers include the $29.3 billion BlackRock Equity Dividend Fund and the $9.2 billion T. Rowe Price Small-Cap Stock fund. "We see these as a way to get a decent yield now and high likelihood into the yield growing substantially in the future," said Scott Moore, the lead portfolio manager of the $33.4 million Buffalo Dividend Focus Fund, the top-performing dividend fund so far this year, according to Morningstar data. He said he expects to add several yieldcos over the next year. Just a year ago, yieldcos were practically non-existent in U.S. portfolios. Since then, solar and other alternative energy companies have spun off almost a dozen of the companies as a way to raise cash and to create a buyer for their completed projects, effectively separating the manufacturing part of their businesses from the revenue generated from past projects. Yieldcos, for their part, often have a right of first refusal to purchase projects such as a solar farm from their parent company, and may also acquire completed assets from independent companies. NRG Yield, a spinoff from parent company NRG Energy, is widely seen as the first North American yieldco. Since it began trading on July 2013, approximately a dozen yieldcos have begun trading on U.S. exchanges, including Nextera Energy Partners, TerraForm Power and Abengoa Yield, with each offering dividend yields of approximately 4 percent or more. In most cases, the parent company retains an ownership stake of 70 percent or more in the spinoff. A dividend yield is a ratio that shows how much a company pays out in dividends relative to its share price, so that a company with a share price of $20 and a dividend of $1 has a dividend yield of 5 percent. Investors in yieldcos say that they are attracted by the prospect of growing dividend payments, while at the same time tapping into the expanding alternative energy sector without the risk of turbulent commodity prices. Yet over the last month, yieldcos have proven to be no less volatile than the stocks of their parent companies. The prospect of rising interest rates in the U.S. have sent the shares of several yieldcos reeling over the last month, not long after many of these same companies jumped twenty percent or more at their initial public offerings. TerraForm Power, a subsidiary of SunEdison that owns solar farms in the US, Canada, and Chile, has fallen 15 percent over the last month along with the shares of its parent company. Abengoa Yield, a spinoff of Spanish energy construction company Abengoa, has dropped 14 percent, compared with its parent company's 23 percent drop.  INVESTOR ATTRACTION Angie Storozynski, an analyst at Macquarie Research, said that recent price declines have more clients asking about the sector. "We’ve seen a lot of interest in yieldco stocks as of late given the sharp pullback in the names, which seems driven by their limited liquidity and some global growth worries," she said. Abengoa Yield, whose portfolio of assets includes a solar farm in the Mojave desert, wind farms in Uruguay and electric lines in Peru, now makes up his second-largest position, just behind Apple Inc. Based on conversations with Abengoa Yield, he expects the company to raise its annual dividend payout to $1.68 per share from its current $1.04 per share by 2016, which would increase its dividend yield to nearly 6 percent from its current 3.2 percent, based on its current share price. With Abengoa, "you have a very stable asset base and contracts with an average life of 26 years, plus inflation escalators," Moore said. "As long as Abengoa keeps completing projects that they can sell to the yieldco, which they have done for 70 years, we have no doubt that its asset base will grow."  GROWTH QUESTIONS Acquiring additional assets in order to raise their dividend payouts is a chief aim of yieldcos. Storozynski, the Macquarie Research analyst, initiated coverage of the sector on September 17, giving those yieldcos with a strong parent company and a proven development pipeline such as NextraEnergy Partners and NRG Yield an outperform rating. She gave Pattern Energy and other independent yieldcos a 'hold' rating, largely as a result of the fact that they may not have a right of first refusal to buy completed projects from a parent company such as SunEdison. "The role of a sponsor as a growth driver grows in importance as public yieldcos multiply, inflating the value of contracted renewable power projects. The yieldcos relying predominantly on third party acquisitions for growth should therefore rush to secure growth projects, even if they feel that current project valuations look bloated," she wrote in a Sept 17 note to clients. The competition among yieldcos to buy assets, thereby boosting prices, is giving some investors in the alternative energy sector pause. "For me the big worry about these assets is that they will have to reinvest incredibly well over time to justify their prices," said Edward Guinness, who runs the Guinness Atkinson Alternative Energy Fund and invests in several solar companies.  "I am skeptical as to whether in 20 years time these companies will be persevering and returning capital at the forecast rates."   (Reporting by David Randall; editing by Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk by the New York Stock Exchange in New York's financial districtBy Jessica Toonkel (Reuters) - In changes that have raised the potential investment risks in many 401(k) retirement accounts, several major fund companies are increasing the stock allocation of their target date funds, which are used by many of those with such plans. BlackRock Inc, Fidelity Investments and Pacific Investment Management Co - all firms that have seen returns in their target date funds lagging competitors - have made adjustments in the past year so that 401(k) plan participants, particularly those who are younger to middle age, are more invested in equities. In some cases employees who are in their 40s now find themselves in funds that are 94 percent allocated into stocks, up more than 10 percentage points. The changes have prompted concerns from consultants and analysts who worry that the fund managers are raising the risks too high for 401(k) investors as they seek higher returns, perhaps as a way to boost their own profiles against rivals. This anxiety could grow if the recent decline in the U.S. stock market – the S&amp;P 500 is down 4.5 percent since reaching an all-time high in mid-September and dropped more than 2 percent on Thursday – gains momentum. On the other hand, the increased bets on equities can be seen as a vote of confidence in the bull market, and are also a reflection of expectations of low returns from bonds in the next few years if interest rates climb. "The shared characteristic these funds have is they have not been doing so well since 2008,” said Janet Yang, a fund analyst at Morningstar. “The question is if the markets had gone down, would they have made these changes?" For their part, executives at these firms say the changes are based on optimistic long-term forecasts for equities, lowered expectations for bond market returns and a better understanding of how much investors, particularly younger ones, rely on these funds as their primary retirement savings vehicle. Target date funds contain a mix of assets, such as stocks and bonds and real estate, and automatically adjust that mix to be less risky as the target maturity date of the fund approaches. The idea is that retirement savers can choose a target date fund that lines up with their own expected retirement year and then not have to worry about managing their money. These funds have increasing significance for retirement savers, because employers can and do automatically invest workers' savings in target date funds, though the workers can opt out. Some 41 percent of plan participants invest in these funds, up from 20 percent five years ago, according to the SPARK Institute, a Washington DC-based lobbyist for the retirement plan industry.   Nevertheless, the recent tilt towards heavier equity holdings raises questions about whether workers are entrusting professional money managers who might end up buying equities at or near market highs – the S&amp;P is up 189 percent since March 2009. "Our concern is that this is happening after a pretty good run in the equity market," said Lori Lucas, defined contribution practice leader at Callan Associates, a San Francisco-based consultant to institutional investors. "If it's a reaction to the fact that some target date funds haven't been competitive then it is a concern." A more aggressive approach has worked for some funds in recent years. The target date fund families of BlackRock, Fidelity and Pimco have performed among the bottom half of their peers over the last three and five year periods, according to Morningstar. Meanwhile, more aggressive target date fund families, like those managed by The Vanguard Group, T. Rowe Price and Capital Research &amp; Management, ranked among the top half of their peers. As of June 30, BlackRock's three-year return for its 2050 fund was 10.6 percent, according to Morningstar, compared with 10.16 percent for Fidelity's similar fund and 7.14 percent for Pimco's comparable fund. Meanwhile Capital Research's 2050 fund returned 13.27 percent and Vanguard's fund returned 12.26 percent for the same period. Furthermore, with average expenses of 0.85 percent per year, these funds charge more than the 0.7 percent in fees levied by the typical actively managed balanced fund, according to Morningstar. The firms’ pitch is that investors are paying more for peace of mind and a set-it-and-forget it approach to managing their retirement money. Workers willing to make their own mix of indexed stock and bond funds could pay considerably less. The average expense ratio for an equity index fund is 0.13 percent and 0.12 percent for a bond index fund. "There is some kind of expectation that we are making these changes because of the equity markets or because of what competitors are doing and that is incorrect," said Chip Castille, head of BlackRock's U.S. retirement group. BlackRock decided to make its changes after a four-year research project cast new light on how younger workers look at their plans. Previously, BlackRock's funds were focused on making sure that investors had enough at retirement. But given that employees' wages tend to be flat or go up in value slowly, like a bond, BlackRock wanted to make sure that the target date funds were designed to provide greater returns during the course of employees' lifetimes, Castille said. That, along with the firm's positive 10-year forecast for equities, resulted in the changes, he said. With the BlackRock changes, which take effect next month, 401(k) participants with 25 years left until retirement will see their equity allocation jump to 94 percent from 78 percent. Investors at retirement age saw their equities allocation jump to 40 percent from 38 percent. Executives at the firms note that the increases in equities all fit within the age appropriate risk for the investors, and that those investors close to or at retirement are seeing a very small bump in their equities weightings. Also they note that they believe the changes will combat risks of not having enough money at retirement due to inflation and also address concerns that as people live longer they will need more in retirement. Fidelity made its changes in January after it revamped its capital markets forecasts, which it revisits annually, said Mathew Jensen, the firm's director of target date strategies. Specifically, Fidelity has lowered its forecasts for bond returns from 4 percent a year to 1 to 2 percent, not including inflation. That along, with internal research that showed that younger workers were not saving enough, led to the decision. "None of our work was saying 'hey the equity markets did well, we should be in equities,"  Jensen said. "It was about if we have a dollar today, how do we want to put it to work based on what our capital markets assumptions are telling us." Now an investor in Fidelity's 2020 fund has 62 percent invested in equities, compared with 55 percent previously, while an investor near or at retirement is 24 percent in equities, up from 20 percent. Pimco raised the equity allocation in its target date funds late last year by 5 percentage points for some funds and 7.5 percentage points for others. The equity allocation for those at retirement is now 20 percent, up from 15 percent, while those investors planning to retire in 2050 saw their equity allocation jump to 62.5 percent up from 55 percent. "The decision was supported by our view that the global macro environment had become more stable post the financial crisis," said John Miller, head of U.S. retirement at Pimco, in an e-mailed statement.   (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel, additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan in New York; editing by Linda Stern and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
