SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. (AP) — A gun thought to have been carried by Wyatt Earp during the famous O.K. Corral shootout in Tombstone has sold at auction for $225,000. A telephone bidder in New Mexico made the winning bid for the Colt .45 revolver Thursday night. The auction of numerous items related to Earp and his family in Scottsdale, Ariz., brought in more than $445,000, officials with J. Levine Auction &amp; Appraisal officials said. The auction house initially valued the Colt between $100,000 and $150,000. The items belonged to the estate of Glenn Boyer, an author of several books on Earp. Boyer died in February 2013. Some have questioned the items' authenticity while others say Boyer was a credible researcher. Josh Levine, who heads the auction house, said the Colt comes with several pages of documents testifying to its authenticity. The documents include a notarized, sworn affidavit signed by Boyer in 1994. There is also a letter from Colt that states the gun was made in the time period that Earp lived. A Chandler man spent $150,000 on a shotgun owned by Earp, a family archive and other items. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Remember last December, when Beyoncé caused a music industry firestorm by releasing her new album via her website and iTunes a full week before retailers like Amazon and Target could sell it? Well, unbeknownst to them, these three guys were part of the controversy. Their company, DigitalOcean, runs the cloud service that hosts Beyoncé's website. But they didn't know about her album plans until they saw the traffic go crazy on their cloud that day. "We had no idea," co-founder and CEO Ben Uretsky told Business Insider. "Her development team chose DigitalOcean because of our fast cloud servers." That Beyoncé's web developers had full confidence that this startup could safely handle the load when millions of people all jumped on the website the second the album launched says a lot about the startup. But it was just another milestone in a whirlwind that began two years ago, when brothers Ben and Moisey Uretsky met Mitch Wainer through Craigslist. "We met on Craigslist, but it wasn't the personals," laughs co-founder and CMO Wainer. "Ben and Moisey put out a job listing and I answered it." Wainer was bored with a dead-end job at a startup where he had no equity, and was surfing for new options. He had gotten an offer from another hot New York startup, ZocDoc, but made a "big bet" to go become a founder instead. The bet paid off. DigitalOcean landed a spot in the TechStars 2012 class in Boulder, Colo., and the team built a cloud service that quickly became astoundingly popular. In less than two years, mostly through word-of-mouth, DigitalOcean has become the ninth largest cloud infrastructure company in the world, according to a site that tracks such stats, Netcraft. IT professionals love it for something called "droplets," which is what the company calls its cloud computers. Droplets can be set up in 55 seconds, they use superfast solid-state disk (SSD) flash storage (that's what Beyoncé's team liked) and cost as little as $5/month. Today the company hosts about 1.5 million "droplets" and was adding more servers per month than Amazon's cloud, Netcraft says. It has 150,000 customers and recently opened a new Amsterdam data center, too. In March, DigitalOcean nabbed a big $35 million Series A at a $153 million valuation led by Andreessen Horowitz (it has raised $37.2 million total). And, unlike many Silicon Valley cloud startups, DigitalOcean didn't need the money. It's already profitable, Wainer says. They don't plan to use the investment to operate at a loss. "We'll grow as fast as possible as long as we're at break even," Wainer says. "The moment we start to go into the red, we would take a step back. We just love running profitable companies. That's a contrast with New York. We're real. We're down to earth. We don't run a fantasy revenue model." FREE AppDownload
Steps from the Barclays Center, Diamante's Brooklyn Cigar Lounge is an old school, late-night hot spot for Brooklyn Nets players run by the 'man with the golden voice' and the arena's announcer, David Diamante. He gave us some tips for channeling your inner Bogart while lighting up a stogie. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
(Reuters) - Mark Karpeles, the chief executive of Mt. Gox, said he would not come to the United States to answer questions about the Japanese bitcoin exchange's U.S. bankruptcy case, Mt. Gox lawyers told a federal judge on Monday. In the court filing, Mt. Gox lawyers cited a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which has closely monitored virtual currencies like bitcoin. "Mr. Karpeles is now in the process of obtaining counsel to represent him with respect to the FinCEN Subpoena. Until such time as counsel is retained and has an opportunity to 'get up to speed' and advise Mr. Karpeles, he is not willing to travel to the U.S.", the filing said. The subpoena requires Karpeles to appear and provide testimony in Washington, D.C., on Friday. The court papers also said a Japanese court had been informed of the issue and that a hearing was scheduled on Tuesday in Japan. Bitcoin is a digital currency that, unlike conventional money, is bought and sold on a peer-to-peer network independent of central control. Its value has soared in the last year, and the total worth of bit coins minted is now about $7 billion. Mt. Gox, once the world's biggest bitcoin exchange, filed for bankruptcy protection in Japan last month, saying it may have lost nearly half a billion dollars worth of the virtual coins due to hacking into its computer system. According to Monday's court filings, the subpoena did not specify topics for discussion. In the court filings, Karpelès' lawyers asked the court to delay the bankruptcy deposition to May 5, 2014 but said that Mt. Gox could not guarantee that Karpeles would attend that either. The case was in Re: Mt Gox Co Ltd in the U.S. bankruptcy court for the northern district of Texas, Dallas division, No. 14-31229-sgj15. (The story corrects headline and first paragraph to show the Karpeles is the chief executive of Mt. Gox, not the founder.) (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by; Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
These facts may astound you, but they are in fact real. Learn a little something about history, science and even some grammar. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Republican Iowa Congressman Steve King responded after an organization backed by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg launched an advertising blitz against him Friday. King issued a statement saying the commercials, which were paid for by Zuckerberg's pro-immigration reform group FWD.us, show the Facebook chairman and CEO wants to "reward people for breaking our laws" in order to bring in talent for his company. "I am under attack by billionaire Mark Zuckerberg because I am one of the few who will stand up and tell the truth about amnesty," King said in his statement. "He wants amnesty because it would benefit his multi-billion dollar corporation, but I’m fighting to preserve the Rule of Law. Why would we reward people for breaking our laws? Rewarding law breakers produces more law breakers." The FWD.us commercials focused on comments King, who is one of the more outspoken opponents of immigration reform, made earlier this month in an interview with Breitbart opposing a proposal to allow immigrants who serve in the military to qualify for legal status. "We're not going to take your oath into the military, but we're going to take your deposition and have a bus for you to Tijuana," King said. One ad featured King's comments juxtaposed with an immigrant discussing his desire to serve in the military.  The second ad was even more directly focused on King's opposition to the proposal. In his statement, King defended his position. "Our Nation’s military is full of dedicated men and women and to disrespect them by rewarding illegal aliens with citizenship is an insult," said King. "I ask that everyone who agrees that illegal immigrants should not be rewarded for having broken the law stand with me." Watch the FWD.us ads below.   FREE AppDownload
This article was written by Lynnette Khalfani-Cox, The Money Coach My husband, Earl, and I have a true partnership in every since of the word. Not only do we work together day-to-day in business – as co-owners of our financial education company, TheMoneyCoach.net LLC – we’re also tasked with the enormous privilege of raising three terrific children. Our kids are 16, 14 and 8 years old. Yep, we’ve got one in high school, one in middle school, and one in elementary school. That keeps us on our toes. As every parent knows, raising kids is a privilege and honor — and often a lot of fun too. But child rearing can also bring its stresses, particularly when couples don’t agree on how to handle their offspring. That’s why I’m thankful that my husband and I are on the same page when it comes to raising our kids, especially in the area of finances. During the course of our marriage, I don’t think we’ve ever had a single argument over fiscal issues regarding the kids. How do we do it? And more importantly, how are we helping our children to become money-conscious individuals? Here are four strategies we use in our household to raise money-smart kids. One of the most practical ways that we impart money savvy to our children is by constantly reinforcing the notion that money isn’t just for spending. Instead, we tell our kids that once you earn money, you have four choices for using it: you can save it, spend it, invest it, or donate it. That single message has worked wonders. Whereas some children (and some adults too!) feel like money is just burning a hole in their pockets and must be immediately spent, that’s not the case with our kids. When they get holiday money, gift funds, allowances and other cash, they mostly set their dollars aside into savings. Then they think about how to best use the money in the future. Our oldest daughter, the 16-year-old, is a total tightwad. She will tell you in a minute that she hates to spend her money. That’s why she has a very healthy savings account, which she says she’s building for college. (Spending our money, of course, is another matter; she has no problem with that!) Just this month, our 14-year-old son, Jakada, impressed me with two money decisions he made: At church, when the offering was collected, he tithed for the very first time. He did it on his own and without any urging or commentary from us. It was just a choice he made. When I turned to him with a questioning look on my face, after I saw him put something in the collection plate, he simply explained: “I brought 10% of the money I received this week as my tithes.” Yes, I was a super proud Mama. Jakada has also recently gotten into skateboarding with some of his school buddies. So naturally, he wanted his own skateboard. Instead of asking us to buy it, Jakada told my husband he wanted to use his own savings to purchase the skateboard. So after my husband ordered it online with his credit card, at a cost of $130, Jakada promptly went into his room, took $130 from his stash of money, and reimbursed my husband for the skateboard purchase. By the way, teens aren’t the only ones who need to know about making good choices with money. You can and should share the same lesson with younger kids too. I feel so strongly about this concept that I’ve co-authored The Millionaire Kids Club, a four-book series on money management for kids between the ages of 5 and 12. The Millionaire Kids Club series reinforces the idea of saving, spending, investing and donating. Two years ago, when our oldest daughter, Aziza, was 14 years old, she asked for a pair of Uggs for Christmas. I looked online, saw the prices of those boots and instantly thought: Totally ridiculous! There’s no way I’m buying those things! Still, I did give it some more thought. But in the end, I told my daughter “No.” My rationale was three-fold: First, I don’t even buy $200 boots for myself! So why would I buy such high-priced boots for a teen? What kind of example would I be setting if I splurged on something (yes, even for Christmas!) that I thought was completely excessive in price? Second, I knew that my daughter was a growing adolescent. I figured she’d get maybe one year’s worth of wear — at best — out of those shoes. That fact alone was a deal killer. Equally important, though, was that my husband and I had a holiday spending plan — otherwise known as a budget: Our budget was $250 per child. It didn’t make sense to me to use 80% of our allotted dollars for my daughter on a single item that I knew would have limited use and a very finite duration where she could wear them. So I said “no” — nicely but firmly. And here’s what happened next. At first, Aziza asked me again for the boots. She also told me that “all the girls in school” were wearing Uggs. (Parents: does that sound familiar?) My reply: “In our household, we don’t make money decisions based on what everyone else is doing. We make smart choices about money, based on our own spending priorities and our family’s budget.” Aziza’s response? She didn’t start begging for the boots. She didn’t cry. She didn’t resent me for it. She simply let the message sink in, she understood and she moved on. But I honestly believe that it was only because we’d laid the groundwork, hadn’t previously indulged her excessively with material things, and had set limits that she was able to accept the “no” answer and not act like it was the end of the world. For a few years, we’ve paid for the cell phones of our teenage children. This year, we told them that they must pay that cost, using their allowance or other money they receive. Ditto for my daughter’s bi-monthly trips to the hair salon. We’ve started letting her pay for these on occasion. In both instances, we want the kids to get the message that if they really want something, then it’s worth it for them to pay for it, not us shelling out the money on their behalf. By giving our children financial responsibility of paying for the things they want, my husband and I are trying to plant the seeds of financial independence. We also hope this approach reinforces important lessons about choices with money, and the need to prioritize one’s spending. When our children were very young, my husband and I traveled a lot. And I mean a lot. It wasn’t uncommon for us to take four trips of the country every year; sometimes with the kids, sometimes without. There were many vacations to Mexico, Caribbean cruises and even a memorable trip to Stockholm, Sweden. (Sans the kids on that latter one!) Over the past year-and-a-half, however, we’ve cut down tremendously on travel. And we’ve shared our rationale for doing so with the kids. We let them know that our money isn’t unlimited, that travel out of the country can be very expensive, and that we are shifting our priorities to more heavily fund their college accounts and be better prepared for each of their higher education costs. With our little one, 8-year-old Alexis, this about-face on travel has come as something of a shock. Over spring break, she basically told me: “Mommy, this doesn’t seem like a real spring break if we’re not going away on vacation.” I jokingly thought: Oh my Lord, have I created a travel monster?! Then my husband and I shared with Alexis, as we’d done with our two older kids, an important lesson about gratitude. We asked her how many kids in her class have been on 40-plus trips the way she has? Or how many children got to explore the Cayman Islands or even just go to California to Disneyland? Our point wasn’t to get her to think that she was better than the other kids; but to recognize that she’d already been blessed with many wonderful travel experiences for which she should be grateful. We pointed out what a blessing it was to have those good travel-related family memories and told her that she should always be grateful for such blessings. For the most part, she got it. But honestly, that still hasn’t stopped Alexis from asking where we’re going on vacation this summer. Hopefully, she’ll be just as grateful to be in Florida as she was to be in the Dominican Republic. If not, apparently it’s back to the drawing board to start working on some other money lessons: like the beauty of staycations! Lynnette Khalfani-Cox is a personal finance expert and co-founder of the free financial advice site, AskTheMoneyCoach.com. Follow Lynnette on Twitter @themoneycoachand Google Plus. This article originally appeared at MyBankTracker.  Copyright 2014. Follow MyBankTracker on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Everyone wants more time in a weekend. Taking a look at how these successful people use the time might give you a few ideas. Produced by Robert Libetti. Originally published in August 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Carlos Barria/ReutersSOME HISTORIANS BELIEVE that Marco Polo never went to China. But even if the 13th-century Venetian merchant did not lay eyes on the coastal city of Hangzhou himself, he certainly reflected the awe it inspired in other foreign traders when he described it as "beyond dispute the finest and the noblest in the world". And, "incredible as it may seem", he wrote, Hangzhou (which he called Kinsay) was but one of more than 1,200 "great and wealthy cities" in southern China. "Everything appertaining to this city is on so vast a scale…that it is not easy even to put it in writing." In Marco Polo’s day it was the ornate palaces, paved roads and meticulously planned layouts of Chinese cities that impressed visitors; in today’s mega-cities it is some of the world’s tallest skyscrapers and largest shopping malls, interlinked by the world’s longest bullet-train network. And if all goes according to the Communist Party’s plan, the coming two decades will evoke a few more gasps. By 2020 the high-speed rail network will expand by nearly two-thirds, with the addition of another 7,000km (4,300 miles). By then almost every city with a population of half a million or more will be connected to it. Tens of millions more migrants will have poured in from the countryside. Between now and 2030, says the World Bank, the average rise in the number of city-dwellers each year is likely to be around 13m, roughly the population of Tokyo. In 2030 China’s cities will be home to close to 1 billion people, or about 70% of the population, compared with 54% today. By some estimates the urban population will peak around 2040, still just shy of the 1 billion mark but close enough. As James McGregor, an American businessman, put it in his book, "One Billion Customers", published in 2005, the notion of a billion Chinese spenders has come to symbolize "the dream of staggering profits for those who get here first, the hype and hope that has mesmerized foreign merchants and traders for centuries". After taking over as party chief in 2012, Xi Jinping (now also president) launched his expected decade in power with a catchphrase: "The Chinese dream". It was a striking break from the party’s tradition of ideology-laden slogans. Now endlessly invoked in official speeches and the subject of numerous books and songs, the phrase is clearly intended to appeal to upwardly mobile urban residents striving for the comforts of their rich-world counterparts. The EconomistOnly 15 years ago such a middle class barely existed in China. In 2011, when the country reached 50% urbanization, it had become obvious that the party’s fate rested with the stability of cities and the contentedness of their middle-class residents. The largely rural country that Deng Xiaoping (himself of peasant stock) set out to "reform and open up" in the late 1970s had become overwhelmingly urban in its economic and political focus. Thanks mainly to a tide of migration, China’s urban population had grown by more than 500m since Deng launched his reforms: the equivalent of all the people in the United States plus three Britains. Li Keqiang, who took over as prime minister in 2013, sees further urbanization as critical to China’s economic success. He has called it a "gigantic engine" for growth. Mr Li and other officials are fond of quoting Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel prize-winning American economist, who said that technological innovation in America and urbanization in China would be "two keys" to mankind’s development in the 21st century. A new grand plan for China’s cities, overseen by the prime minister and published last month, admits to a number of problems, such as worsening pollution, urban sprawl and congestion as well as growing social tensions. It also points out that China’s urbanisation lags behind that of other countries at similar levels of development (typically around 60%), and that there remains "quite a lot of room" for further urban growth. Getting cities right will help China to keep growing fast for years to come. Getting them wrong would be disastrous, bringing worsening inequality (which the World Bank says has approached "Latin American levels", although Chinese officials insist it has recently been improving), the spread of slums, the acceleration of global climate change (cities consume three-quarters of China’s energy, which comes mainly from coal) and increasing social unrest. After more than a decade of spectacular growth in China, much of it in double digits, doubts are setting in both at home and abroad about the sustainability of the "Chinese model". Growth is slowing. Lavish spending by local governments has piled up huge debts. Increasing numbers of middle-class Chinese are looking for boltholes abroad for themselves, their families and their assets. Scandals involving senior officials have revealed corruption on a gargantuan scale. Censors generally succeed in preventing anti-party messages from spreading widely, but microbloggers with thousands of followers still boldly relay damning critiques. Mr Xi describes the country’s problems and his approach to solving them in colorful terms. Reforms, he says, have entered a "deep-water area". China must "venture along dangerous paths to break through barriers to reform". In tackling corruption it will need the resolve of a man who must "cut off his own snake-bitten hand to save his life". At a plenum of the Central Committee in November the party declared that market forces must play a "decisive role", the strongest support it has ever expressed for the market. This seems all the more stirring after years of vacillation under Mr Xi’s predecessor, Hu Jintao, who retreated from reform in the face of powerful resistance by vested interests, above all local governments, huge state-owned enterprises and, ironically, the new middle class, which would rather not share the fruits of growth with rural migrants. All the most important reforms that Mr Xi needs to tackle involve the movement to China’s cities. He must give farmers the same property rights as urban residents so they can sell their homes (which is currently all but impossible) and leave the land with cash in hand. He must sort out the mess of local-government finances, which depend heavily on grabbing land from farmers and selling it to developers. He must loosen the grip of state-owned enterprises on the commanding heights of the economy and make them hand over more of their profits to the government. He must move faster to clean up the urban environment, especially its noxious air, and prevent the growth of China’s cities from exacerbating climate change. And he must start giving urban residents a say in how their cities are run. This list is both daunting and urgent. The recent growth of China’s cities has created two new social forces whose concerns Mr Xi cannot afford to ignore. One is a vast migrant population (including the urban-born children of recent migrants from the countryside) that now makes up more than one-third of the urban total of 730m. It is far harder for a member of this group to gain official recognition as a city-dweller in his own country, with all the welfare benefits and access to public services that status confers, than to gain citizenship in America or Europe if he were to migrate there. The harsh treatment of China’s internal migrants is creating huge social divisions that could erupt in serious unrest. The other new force is the urban middle class, now thought to be roughly the same size as the migrant population, which numbers around 260m. It has been kept reasonably content by the rapid growth of the past few years, but that may not last. China’s middle classes, like those elsewhere, worry about property: how to protect it from the whims of urban planners and party officials, what is happening to prices, and what to do if the bubble bursts. Increasingly unaffordable house prices, or conversely a steep drop, might prompt different ends of the middle-class spectrum to protest. So too might the party’s many sins and blunders: a food-safety scandal, perhaps, linked to official corruption. Like his predecessors, Mr Xi is nipping signs of unrest in the bud. Dissidents who have done little more than briefly raise protest banners in tiny groups are being thrown into jail. But there are also some positive signs. He has taken charge of a new party organ, a small group of officials with a wide range of portfolios, who are working to improve policy co-ordination and overcome bureaucratic resistance to change. It even has a task force dedicated to building "democracy and the legal system", although that may not get very far. Mr Xi has also launched a fierce campaign against high-level corruption which, though unlikely to offer a lasting cure to the endemic problem of graft, could scare officials into compliance with his reform plans. As economic growth slows and the pool of surplus labour in the countryside shrinks, the speed of urbanisation will diminish. For the past few years about 9m people have been moving into cities every year. The number will fall to 7m in the second half of this decade and 5m in the 2020s, according to Jin Sanlin of the Development Research Centre, a government think-tank. By 2017, he writes, that supply of surplus labour in the countryside will have all but disappeared. Chinese officials note that the speed of urbanisation in China has been far faster than in Western countries during their industrial transformations. It took China only 30 years to climb from 20% urbanisation to today’s 54%. In Britain the equivalent journey took 100 years and in America 60. However, in more recent times population growth in urban China has been slower than in countries such as South Korea and Indonesia during their period of rapid economic development, mainly because of China’s discriminatory policies against migrants and its state monopoly on rural-land sales. By any measure, the country’s urbanisation has been impressive. Shanghai is about to finish a 121-story American designed skyscraper that will be the word’s second-tallest building (after Dubai’s Burj Khalifa). Whole new urban districts, underground railways, modern airports and intercity expressways have been built on a scale and at a pace most countries would be proud of. But China has failed to reap the full benefits of city growth. This is becoming a pressing problem in the face of diminishing returns from pouring ever more concrete. Click here to subscribe to The Economist    FREE AppDownload
Flickr/rebeccaselahFOR most of human history rich people had the most leisure. In "Downton Abbey", a drama about the British upper classes of the early 20th century, one aloof aristocrat has never heard of the term "weekend": for her, every day is filled with leisure.  On the flip side, the poor have typically slogged. Hans-Joachim Voth, an economic historian at the University of Zurich, shows that in 1800 the average English worker labored for 64 hours a week. "In the 19th century you could tell how poor somebody was by how long they worked," says Mr Voth. In today's advanced economies things are different. Overall working hours have fallen over the past century. But the rich have begun to work longer hours than the poor. In 1965 men with a college degree, who tend to be richer, had a bit more leisure time than men who had only completed high school. But by 2005 the college-educated had eight hours less of it a week than the high-school grads. Figures from the American Time Use Survey, released last year, show that Americans with a bachelor's degree or above work two hours more each day than those without a high-school diploma. Other research shows that the share of college-educated American men regularly working more than 50 hours a week rose from 24% in 1979 to 28% in 2006, but fell for high-school dropouts. The rich, it seems, are no longer the class of leisure. There are a number of explanations. One has to do with what economists call the "substitution effect". Higher wages make leisure more expensive: if people take time off they give up more money. Since the 1980s the salaries of those at the top have risen strongly, while those below the median have stagnated or fallen. Thus rising inequality encourages the rich to work more and the poor to work less. The "winner-takes-all" nature of modern economies may amplify the substitution effect. The scale of the global market means businesses that innovate tend to reap huge gains (think of YouTube, Apple and Goldman Sachs). The returns for beating your competitors can be enormous. Research from Peter Kuhn of the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Fernando Lozano of Pomona College shows that the same is true for highly skilled workers. Although they do not immediately get overtime pay for "extra" hours, the most successful workers, often the ones putting in the most hours, may reap gains from winner-takes-all markets. Whereas in the early 1980s a man working 55 hours a week earned 11% more than a man putting in 40 hours in the same type of occupation, that gap had increased to 25% by the turn of the millennium. Economists tend to assume that the substitution effect must at some stage be countered by an "income effect": as higher wages allow people to satisfy more of their material needs, they forgo extra work and instead choose more leisure. A billionaire who can afford his own island has little incentive to work that extra hour. But new social mores may have flipped the income effect on its head. The status of work and leisure in the rich world has changed since the days of "Downton Abbey". Back in 1899 Thorstein Veblen, an American economist who dabbled in sociology, offered his take on things. He argued that leisure was a "badge of honour". Rich people could get others to do the dirty, repetitive work--what Veblen called "industry". Yet Veblen's leisure class was not idle. Rather they engaged in "exploit": challenging and creative activities such as writing, philanthropy and debating. Veblen's theory needs updating, according to a recent paper from researchers at Oxford University*. Work in advanced economies has become more knowledge-intensive and intellectual. There are fewer really dull jobs, like lift-operating, and more glamorous ones, like fashion design. That means more people than ever can enjoy "exploit" at the office. Work has come to offer the sort of pleasures that rich people used to seek in their time off. On the flip side, leisure is no longer a sign of social power. Instead it symbolizes uselessness and unemployment. The evidence backs up the sociological theory. The occupations in which people are least happy are manual and service jobs requiring little skill. Job satisfaction tends to increase with the prestige of the occupation. Research by Arlie Russell Hochschild of the University of California, Berkeley, suggests that as work becomes more intellectually stimulating, people start to enjoy it more than home life. "I come to work to relax," one interviewee tells Ms Hochschild. And wealthy people often feel that lingering at home is a waste of time. A study in 2006 revealed that Americans with a household income of more than $100,000 indulged in 40% less "passive leisure" (such as watching TV) than those earning less than $20,000. What about less educated workers? Increasing leisure time probably reflects a deterioration in their employment prospects as low-skill and manual jobs have withered. Since the 1980s, high-school dropouts have fared badly in the labour market. In 1965 the unemployment rate of American high-school graduates was 2.9 percentage points higher than for those with a bachelor's degree or more. Today it is 8.4 points higher. "Less educated people are not necessarily buying their way into leisure," explains Erik Hurst of the University of Chicago. "Some of that time off work may be involuntary." There may also be change in the income effect for those on low wages. Information technology, by opening a vast world of high-quality and cheap home entertainment, means that low-earners do not need to work as long to enjoy a reasonably satisfying leisure. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Frederick M. Brown/Getty ImagesBryan SingerFor people who lived the through the dot-com collapse of the late 1990s, the name Marc Collins-Rector carries a special horror. Not only was he the architect of one of the most famous implosions of the time — the bankruptcy of Digital Entertainment Networks, an early provider of online video — but he is also a convicted child molester, according to federal records. In fact, after DEN went belly-up (with the loss of 300 jobs following a botched $75 million IPO), Collins-Rector fled the U.S. and briefly spent time in a Spanish prison before being convicted in federal court of sex crimes. He pleaded guilty and paid a fine. His name has resurfaced in the lawsuit filed against X-Men director Bryan Singer. The plaintiff, Michael Egan, claims he was 17 years old back in 1998 when he was introduced to Singer at Collins-Rector's mansion in California, according to The Wrap, where you can download a copy of the lawsuit. On the grounds of the mansion, Egan was raped and sexually harassed and threatened with a gun by Collins-Rector, the founder of DEN, if he didn't comply, the lawsuit alleges. An attorney for Singer told The Wrap that the lawsuit was “completely without merit”: “We are very confident that Bryan will be vindicated in this absurd and defamatory lawsuit ... It is obvious that this case was filed in an attempt to get publicity at the time when Bryan’s new movie is about to open in a few weeks." Collins-Rector is not named as a defendant in the suit, but his alleged actions are described within it — suggesting that the plaintiff is in part hoping to lean on Collins-Rector's notoriety to leverage the claim against Singer. A call to Collins-Rector's former attorney requesting comment revealed that the phone had been disconnected. Collins-Rector's last-known country of residence was the Dominican Republic, address unknown. The allegations in the suit refer to events that happened years ago, and Collins-Rector has long-since served the requirements of his conviction. Wikimedia, CCMarc Rector-Collins' jailhouse mugshot.But it is the lawsuit's description of the interior of Collins-Rector's mansion that will fascinate people who heard the rumors about DEN back in the day. It was a poorly kept secret at the time that Collins-Rector and his friends held parties at their "M&amp;C Estate" that would make Hugh Hefner blush. This old story from the L.A. Times contains much of the backdrop to the Singer lawsuit and Rector-Collins' alleged role within it: His two DEN co-founders were Chad Shackley, then 24, who had lived with Collins-Rector since dropping out of a Michigan high school, and Brock Pierce, then a 17-year-old actor best known for his leading roles in such Disney films as "The Mighty Ducks" and "First Kid." All three lived in a 12,616-square-foot mansion in Encino, drove a Ferrari and a Lamborghini, wore Armani suits, took spur-of-the-moment vacations to the tropics and threw parties that attracted a young, hip crowd that also defined DEN's target audience. ... Work began in 1998 on its first show, "Chad's World." Produced by the teenage Pierce, the show centered on a 15-year-old from Michigan who questions his sexual orientation and ultimately flees his town's intolerance to move in with a gay couple in a California mansion. For early financing, majority owner and chairman Collins-Rector turned to high-profile individuals he had come to know in Hollywood, including television actor Fred Savage. Former U.S. Rep. Michael Huffington said he invested $5 million. Huffington later complained that he was led to believe major companies were investing at the same time he was, and on the same terms--which wasn't true. He also said Collins-Rector traded on his name, describing Huffington as vice chairman although he held no such position. Collins-Rector initially made his fortune in the tech business as the founder of an early ISP, Concentric Networks. It was acquired by Nextlink Communications for $2.9 billion. Again, the Times picks up the story: The windfall enabled Collins-Rector and Shackley to pursue a lavish new lifestyle. They bought an enormous RV and traveled the country scouting living locations, settling briefly in Beverly Hills before paying $2.47 million in 1997 for a mansion in Encino. At one point, Collins-Rector was accused of meeting a 13-year-old boy online. He was sued in a lawsuit in New Jersey federal court, and the case was settled, the LA Times says. Later, federal prosecutors began looking into allegations that Collins-Rector had abused children. VNUNet reported at the time that Collins-Rector was found in Spain: [He was] arrested in June on an international warrant after being indicted in New Jersey on five counts of transporting a minor across state lines for the purpose of engaging in sexual acts. Brock Pierce has never been charged for a crime nor has a warrant ever been issued for him, his representative told Business Insider.* Today, Collins-Rector remains a registered sex offender but he is not in prison, according to U.S. Bureau of Prisons records. Fast Company did a nice, long story on Collins-Rector several years ago that is well worth a read. *Correction: Business Insider would like to make it clear that Pierce was not accused of the crimes charged against Collins-Rector. Read the lawsuit here: Bryan Singer Accused of Sexually Abusing Underage Boy Pt. 1 (TheWrap)  FREE AppDownload
If there's one thing you should get right when visiting a foreign country, it's the greeting. International travel resource Vayama has done the research to make sure we don't look like fools when we travel. Here are some traditional greeting customs from around the world. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
Carlos Barria/ReutersA man looks over the Pudong financial district of Shanghai.Screenwriter William Goldman once wrote that “nobody knows anything” in Hollywood. What the scribe behind “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid” and “All the President’s Men” meant was that nobody ever knows whether or not a movie will be a hit. According to folklore, Star Wars creator George Lucas was so sure it would be a flop that he avoided the premiere and went on holiday instead.  Long-suffering foreign investors may well ask themselves whether anyone really knows how to make money investing in China-related stocks.  The pace of China’s rise to global prominence has been unprecedented, but perhaps just as extraordinary for investors has been the way equity markets have usually disappointed, despite the breakneck speed of economic growth. While Shanghai-listed stocks have roughly doubled over the past 20 years, the S&amp;P500 – an index representing many companies already well past their most dynamic growth phase — has more than quadrupled over the same period. A key problem is that while the world’s most populous nation may have embarked upon an Industrial Revolution that is changing the planet, it has few companies that are truly world class. Most companies are adjusting from decades of state interference, poor corporate governance, with minority shareholders getting a raw deal, and many companies still pursuing political instead of commercial goals.   Prospects for investors may seem even grimmer given the country’s struggle to find a sustainable alternative to its “growth-at-all-costs” economic model, and an addiction to debt that invites comparisons with the U.S. before the sub-prime economic crisis.  At Aberdeen, we believe these are problems that should be expected when the world’s fourth-biggest country attempts to leap from Third World to First in less than 40 years. What is particular about China is that, as a one-party state, getting things done has never been an issue. There is a keen awareness of the problems at the highest levels and a genuine desire to tackle them, even if the solution poses huge social challenges. In our view, investors should continue to believe that Chinese consumption will keep growing for many years to come. There is great domestic demand for goods ranging from luxury handbags to travel, mobile phones, domestic appliances, and groceries bought in supermarkets. The trick has always been to capitalise on this demand while avoiding potential pitfalls. Alternatively, investors could consider Chinese companies that are listed in Hong Kong, the semi-autonomous former British colony which enforces more rigorous standards of corporate governance than in Mainland China itself. This is not the end of the road for the China story. Like Star Wars, expect more sequels to follow. Past performance is not an indication of future results. International investing entails special risk considerations, including currency fluctuations, lower liquidity, economic and political risks, and differences in accounting methods. Any opinion or estimate contained in this document is made on a general basis and is not to be relied on by the reader as advice. The above is for informational purposes only and should not be considered as an offer, or solicitation, to deal in any of the investments mentioned herein. Aberdeen Asset Management (AAM) does not warrant the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the information and materials contained in this document and expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in such information and materials. This article originally appeared at Aberdeen Asset Management.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
First, a few Asian equity markets were in fact open and most posted small gains.  The Shanghai Composite is an exception, slipping marginally (-0.05%), but the Shenzhen Composite rose (0.3%).  Recall, China reportedly will reduce the required reserves for some "qualified" rural banks and this is expected to help small and medium sized businesses, which are more represented in the Shenzhen Composite.  Second, China reported today that house prices in many cities are stabilizing.  In Beijing house prices were up 10% from a year ago, which is the slowest pace since last April.  House in Shenzhen are up 13%, the smallest increase since June 2013  This is consistent with the other recent data that showed some moderation in financial variables, like money supply growth and even aggregate financing (CNY5.6 trillion in Q1 14 vs CNY6.2 trillion in Q1 13).  The Chinese economy has been gradually slowing since 2011 and we expect it to stabilize at somewhat better level over the next couple of quarters.  That does not mean that the yuan has bottomed.  In fact, the yuan finished this week at its lowest closing level in nearly a month (March 21).  We think arguments about the yuan decline as an attempt to boost exports is misguided.  China's exports typically have only a modest about of yuan-denominated inputs.  Remember, imported parts and components are still mostly prices in dollars  Chinese workers assemble most and then export.  The value-added by Chinese workers is often estimated to between 12% and 20%.  This means that a small currency depreciation (~3%) is unlikely to change prices of Chinese exports. Third, few observers seem to be putting much stock into the agreement struck yesterday between the US, Russia, the EU and Ukraine aimed at deescalating the crisis  It called for the disarming of illegal groups and return of seized buildings.  Amnesty is to be granted protesters and a new constitutional process is to be established to ensure a broad dialogue.  The Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe is tasking with facilitating this.  Despite the skepticism, Russian shares jumped the most in three weeks, rising about 2.2%, and recouping almost all the week's decline today.  The rouble itself is up about 0.15% today, which due to the holiday that has shut most markets, is among the strongest currencies.  For the week, it is up about 0.25%. The agreement delays the next round of sanctions.  Many people seem to misunderstand the sanctions and seem to call a military response.  There has been a military response by Ukraine and NATO, which has moved troops to strengthen deterrence.  There is some questions about the US and Europe reducing defense spending and what some argue is a weak response to Russia's aggressiveness.  Yet we remain struck by the fact that even during the heart of the Cold War, the US and Europe did not militarily confront the Soviet Union over its actions in Europe, such as its invasion of Hungary and Czechoslovakia.  Nor was there a military confrontation when Russia went into Georgia, which it still occupies part, in 2008.  If there is a doctrine here, it is that the US will not sanction a confrontation with Russia over areas in Europe, which it does not have a defense treaty with or strategic interests.  Fourth, Italy's Prime Minister Renzi is pressing ahead with his effort fiscal efforts.  The cabinet is expected to approve the payroll tax cut today after parliament approved the multi-year budget plan.  There is much skepticism over Italy's projection that it will keep its deficit below 3%, while projecting slower growth than the Letta government.   Many are skeptical about the 6 bln euros in spending cuts and it is not clear whether this is on top of what the Letta government proposed.  Additional one-off measures may be necessary. These may include a cut in the prescription rebates for high income people and a steep tax (26% possible) on the banks' stake in the Bank of Italy, which pending approval by the ECB will be re-valued significantly higher.  While Renzi has indicated intentions to adhere to the EU budget agreement, he is pressing to delay by another year (until 2016) the structural balance objective.  The initial response does not look particularly favorable, but if France is given extra leeway, it is more difficult to reject Italy's request.  One take away from the recent developments is that peak austerity may be past. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNEW YORK (Reuters) - Earnings season shifts into high gear next week, and with nearly one-third of S&amp;P 500 names set to post results, investors hope the news provides a catalyst to buy stocks and leave the market's recent weakness in the dust. Several behemoths, including Apple, the largest U.S. company by market value, as well as Microsoft, McDonald's &lt;MCD.N&gt; and AT&amp;T &lt;T.N&gt;, are due to report earnings. They'll be accompanied by highfliers like Netflix and Facebook, giving the first real cross-section of the state of corporate America as temperatures rise across the country and investors hope to put the cold weather behind them. Strategists will also be looking for clues on how badly China's slowdown hits U.S. corporate results. The first batch of earnings came out as equities were working their way through a selloff led by trading-crowd favorites like Netflix and the biotech stocks. With the late-week recovery, the hope is that the recent volatility has ebbed. If poor results dominate next week's action, that could reignite the selling. "We are still off our highs, but we still remain in an uptrend so it would not surprise me to see sideways action," said Andre Bakhos, managing director at Janlyn Capital LLC in Bernardsville, New Jersey. "If we were to have a set of earnings releases that were well off expectations to the downside, that could create hesitation in the market." A few themes will dominate in the coming week: The outlook for China, the rotation to slower-growing stocks, and results from high-flying trading favorites. S&amp;P 500 companies' first-quarter earnings are projected to have increased 1.7 percent from a year ago, Thomson Reuters data showed. The forecast is down sharply from the start of the year, when profit growth was estimated at 6.5 percent, but has climbed from a low of 0.6 percent reached on Wednesday. That jump occurred despite notable disappointments from IBM Corp &lt;IBM.N&gt; and Google Inc &lt;GOOGL.O&gt;. Even with those two lackluster reports, equities still mostly rallied on Thursday. The benchmark S&amp;P index rose 2.7 percent for the holiday-shortened week, helping the index recapture nearly all of the declines suffered in the previous week. The U.S. stock market will be closed for Good Friday. THE CHINA CHALLENGE Investors eyeing the impact of China's troubles on corporate America's bottom line will have a few spots to pick from, including Apple &lt;AAPL.O&gt;, Qualcomm &lt;QCOM.O&gt; and Yum Brands &lt;YUM.N&gt;. There have been warning signs, with IBM saying this week that its disappointing quarterly revenue was due to worsening sales in the world's second-largest economy and other emerging markets. Earlier in the week, China reported growth came in at its slowest pace in 18 months. Qualcomm's &lt;QCOM.O&gt; revenue for its fiscal year ended September 29, 2013, showed China accounted for nearly half of the company's revenue. Options activity in Qualcomm has been defensive in nature, with investors paying more money to hedge against a fall than a rise in the stock's price. But strategists at Goldman Sachs see this as a buying opportunity, believing the options data shows investors are overly concerned about the quarter. Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt; also derives 13 percent of its sales from China, according to Thomson Reuters data. The company was once a favorite among momentum investors looking to capitalize on swift price gains, but the stock dropped sharply from all-time highs reached in late 2012. It has been mostly stuck in a range for the last year. StarMine expects Apple to exceed earnings estimates by 1 percent. Notably, Apple has not benefited from a rotation into older tech stocks like Microsoft has. Its shares are down 6.1 percent on the year. BIG MO? UH, NO Along with Facebook Inc &lt;FB.O&gt; and Netflix Inc &lt;NFLX.O&gt;, momentum names such as Gilead Sciences Inc &lt;GILD.O&gt;, Biogen Idec Inc &lt;BIIB.O&gt; and Illumina Inc &lt;ILMN.O&gt; are set to post results. Investors are gearing up for wild swings in those names next week. Trading in Facebook options expiring next Friday suggest investors expect about a 12 percent move in the stock's price by the end of next week. Weekly options are often used in advance of a major event like earnings. Similarly, Netflix options also suggest a 12 percent move. After a spectacular performance in 2013, the selloff in many of these stocks over the past few weeks has contributed to the market's volatility. Whether they affect the broader market may determine how well stocks trade next week. The Nasdaq biotech index &lt;.NBI&gt; is down nearly 19 percent from its closing high on February 25 while the Global X Social Media Index ETF &lt;SOCL.O&gt; is down 18 percent from its March 6 high. However, both have bounced off drops of more than 20 percent that had sent each into bear market territory. With the nervousness created by the declines in the momentum names, investors have rotated into more defensive names. "What happens at some point is (momentum names) become disassociated from the market at large. People see this happening, they become scared, and they start selling other companies as well," said Stephen Massocca, managing director at Wedbush Equity Management LLC in San Francisco. "It gets to a point where that stops happening and the rest of the market - outside of these crazy names - is not that overvalued." Some of those names, including Dow components Microsoft &lt;MSFT.O&gt;, DuPont &lt;DD.N&gt; and Travelers &lt;TRV.N&gt;, are among those identified by Credit Suisse quantitative analysts as potential "contrarian" picks as they're among the least loved by Wall Street analysts. All three are also considered undervalued by StarMine's measure of intrinsic value that looks at the long-term growth expectations for these names. Microsoft, for example, is the third-best performer in the Dow this year, having gained 7 percent for the year. (Wall St Week Ahead appears on Thursday because the market will be closed for Good Friday. Questions or comments on this column can be sent via email to: charles.mikolajczak(at)thomsonreuters.com) (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak; Additional reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
ReutersTaking a bite out of Oracle CEO Larry Ellison's $78.4 million compensation wouldn't help anyone much.Last weekend the New York Times published its annual list of executive compensation, with Oracle’s Larry Ellison topping the charts at $78.4 million (and Disney’s Bob Iger in a distant second, at $34.3 million). Pay packages have increased by an average of 9 percent since 2012, continuing a steady and spectacular rise even as average wages in the United States and throughout much of the developed world have stagnated. These figures are often presented as evidence in an ongoing debate that assumes a direct link between the accumulation of wealth at the top of the income pyramid and the stagnation of income for the vast middle and bottom. The Times article quotes the current leading critic of the inequities of global capitalism, Capital in the Twenty-First Century author Thomas Piketty: “The system is pretty much out of control in many ways.” That may be true. Business school professors who study the effect of excessive executive compensation are resoundingly convinced that too much comp hurts the overall performance of companies. Fifty years ago the ratio of average CEO comp to average salaries was 24-to-1; now it is 204-to-1. Many business scholars believe tying so much of CEO comp to stock and the performance of a company’s shares incentivizes CEOs to make quarterly earnings look good whether or not it benefits the company’s long-term health. But does the widening gap between the pay of those at the top of the wealth heap and the rest actually harm those who are struggling or sinking? The underlying assumption tends to be an unequivocal yes. It’s one of Piketty’s claims—in sync with his overall view that capital benefits capital while chronically undermining wages and labor. Studies by University of California scholar Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman have been used as Exhibit A in the case for the pernicious influence of wealth inequality. These studies have been the subject of dozens of articles in the past month alone and are part of the corpus of evidence that accumulation of wealth is harming the middle class. Nobel Prize winner and former World Bank Chief Economist Joseph Stiglitz has made similar arguments. But as New York Times economics writer Eduardo Porter noted recently, claiming that wealth inequality is unambiguously harmful is more about ideology than evidence. He cites the struggles of Harvard scholar Christopher Jencks, a leading chronicler of the middle class, to complete a planned book on income inequality. After years of research, Jencks was convinced that the only true statement about whether and how income inequality harms society is “It’s hard to tell.” Progressive economist Jared Bernstein has also found that we can’t prove the assumption that inequality leads to slower growth, given available evidence. It may be true, Bernstein wrote, but we do not have enough concrete proof. The work of Jencks and Bernstein complicates the neat narrative of robber barons and a new Gilded Age harming the middle class. Because those views lack black-and-white simplicity, however, they tend to receive less attention. Which is a shame, because they’re probably closer to the truth. The assumption of a causal link between excessive pay at the top and low growth and stagnant incomes fuels the drive to reframe the tax code toward greater redistribution. There is a strong moral case for that, especially insofar as massive gaps between the rich and the rest can be so insurmountable as to severely dent the idea of equality enshrined in the founding of the U.S. That said, even aggressive redistribution will not fundamentally solve what now ails us. First, this is not an American phenomenon. Capital everywhere—from the corporate CEO in the U.S. to industrial titans in India to party leaders in China—is reaping the greatest rewards of global economic growth. Altering CEO pay structures would do little to alter that trajectory. The top 100 CEOs in the survey took home a total of $1.5 billion. That’s rather nice for them, but redistributing, say, $1 billion of that would do almost nothing to help the 100 million people at the bottom of the economic pyramid in the U.S. Even if you included upper management and got to, let’s say, $100 billion, the extra income distributed across American society would barely improve living standards. Boards could mandate that, say, Larry Ellison of Oracle should be less wealthy so that Oracle employees could be more wealthy, but Oracle employees are already on the winning side of the global economic equation. They are not the ones who need help. Let’s say then that you created an inequality tax, as Robert Shiller of Yale has proposed. That could certainly generate some extra billions, which could then be redistributed. But even there, the super-rich would only become slightly less super-rich, while those whose incomes are stagnating or those tens of millions underemployed and caught in a web of structural unemployment would see marginal improvement at best. In short, measures to reduce inequality might be modestly helpful, but they wouldn’t solve much. No matter what redistributive measures we took, we’d still be faced with an economic system in dramatic flux based on the erosion of traditional wage industries in the developed world over the past decades. It is not inequality that has caused the middle class to lag and suffer. Inequality rather is a symptom of a system that reached the limit of what it could provide wage earners performing jobs tied to 20th-century manufacturing. Ballooning CEO pay is in turn a product of the globalization of capital, labor, and business (as Piketty highlights) without a commensurate evolution of some sort of global government and tax regime. Almost all of the companies that employ the top-paid CEOs are increasingly multinational and answer to no single government. That is a dramatic structural shift of the past two decades, driven by an emerging global middle class. The focus on compensation has the virtue of a neat explanation for a real challenge. CEOs are paid egregiously; many, many people barely earn enough. But no amount of tweaking executive compensation will generate a vibrant, innovative economy. No amount of redistribution will reinvigorate the American dream or preserve the European system. Only if such tweaking goes hand in hand with a new growth engine—or a rethinking of the necessity of relentless growth—could it be constructive. Obsessing over executive compensation does nothing to contribute toward the hard work of making a generational transition away from the industrial economy that was and toward the information economy that will be. FREE AppDownload
It's one of the most popular grocery stores on the planet, and also one of the most unique.
The Conversable Economist, aka Timothy Taylor, has a new post discussing how long it takes for the gains from new technologies to be fully realized. He asks: Has the U.S. economy already seen most of the economic growth that will result from the innovations in information and communication technology, including the web, the cloud, robotics, and so on? Or is the U.S. economy perhaps only a fraction of the way — perhaps even less than halfway — through its adaptation to the potential for productivity gains from these technologies, and thus has stronger prospects for future growth? Taylor says a new article from two University of Wisconsin economists concludes that it can take at least 30 years for a new technology to go from 10% to 90% of the potential market. As an example, he shows how long it took tractors to overtake horses and mules on U.S. farms between 1910 and 1960. Here's why it took so long: During much of this time, the quality of tractors was continually improving, and also during the earlier part of this time period (like the Great Depression) wages for farm workers were not rising by much. Thus, it made some sense for a number of farmers to avoid buying the early generations of tractors. Let someone else work out the kinks! But as the quality of tractors improved and wages of farmworkers rose, investing in a tractor began to look like a better and better deal. Timothy Taylor It took a similarly long time for electrification to kick in, despite its obvious benefits, he writes: For US households, it took time — really up into the 1920s — until they had both a source of electricity and also a supply of new household appliances like the vacuum cleaner, radio, washing machines, dishwasher, and all the changes of lifestyle that came with reliable indoor electric light. The lesson: "We may be only a moderate portion of the way through the social gains from the information and communications technology revolution," Taylor concludes. Read the full post here » FREE AppDownload
Two years ago, we wrote about how the Los Angeles police had begun looking for ways to crack down on personal drone use — especially the use of drones by real-estate agents. It seems that the realtors have won. Jim Klinge, aka Jim the Realtor, who does great blogging about the never-dull Southern California housing market at BubbleInfo.com, has been showing off his new Phantom drone with a Go-Pro in his latest videos. Here's what he said about why a drone is useful:  Photos in front of a view [sic] home where you can get a sense of how big the view is, could be one application. Videos of areas of general interest is another. I’ve already seen realtors use them and they photograph the roof of the house and use it for their lead photo. Not sure what that does – I know you have a roof. If I get good at it, there’s a chance of doing the interior of a house. Here are some stills taken by the drone:   Jim KlingeA lagoon outside a two-bedroom, two-bathroom house going for $1.5 million in Carlsbad.  Jim KlingeThis morning, he put up an aerial tour of the area surrounding a subdivision in Carlsbad, where homes are going for as much as $700,000. The thing is 770 feet in the air. Jim Klinge This explains why Google's decision to purchase a drone manufacturer makes a lot of sense, and why drones are going to make someone a billionaire. These things are going nowhere.  FREE AppDownload
There was once a time when buying a house was considered a guaranteed winner of an investment. But the inflating and subsequent burst of the housing bubble has left many skeptical of the long-term value of owning a home. Further, many households are less willing to take on such a large fixed liability. As a result, rentals have been hot. And while home prices and sales have rebounded recently, it continues to be much cheaper — on average — to make mortgage payments than rental payments in the U.S. "Nationally, the share of income that households must devote to rent has increased steadily and consistently since 2000, as the increase in rent has dramatically outpaced the growth in income over the same period," Zillow's Krishna Rao said. "Over the period from 2000 to 2014, median household income has increased by 25.4 percent, while rents have increased over 52.8 percent, more than twice as much. On the heels of our recent analysis showing the erosion of affordability of homes for purchase, this represents even more bad news for those looking for housing," Rao said. Check out this chart from Zillow for some historical context: Zillow.com FREE AppDownload
BLSQuits are generally voluntary separations initiated by employees. Quits are procyclical, rising with an improving economy and falling with a faltering economy.One of the surest signs of an improving economy and improving labor market is a rising quit rate. In theory, if times are tough, you're likely to hang on to the job you have.  But when times are good, you're more likely to take a risk and quit your job in exchange for the possibility of greener pastures. Perhaps you think you'll be able to make more money. For whatever reason, the quit rate in the U.S. labor market has been on the rise, which brings us to some timely career wisdom from an investing greybeard. In his latest newsletter, veteran stock market analyst Richard Russell shares the story of a time when his father left a good job for more money. It later turned out to be the biggest mistake of his life. Here's Russell via King World News: During the Great Depression, my father had a top job in a large and very high class real estate management company known as Bing &amp; Bing, that built and managed many luxury apartment buildings in Manhattan.  At one point the “Dishman Company” (name has been changed) offered my father a lot more money.  My father took the job with Dishman, which he said was the biggest mistake of his life.    He said that the Dishmans lied to him, and he was miserable there.  Meanwhile, when the president of Bing &amp; Bing returned from a trip, he asked my father why he had left. My father told him about the money, and the president of Bing &amp; Bing said, “I would have met that raise and more. Why didn't you talk to me before you quit?”  My father realized the great mistake he had made, and he cursed the day that he had ever left Bing &amp; Bing to go to the Dishman Company.    He spent a few years at Dishman during the Depression, and he later had a nervous breakdown, brought on by his frustration at the Dishman Company.  My father later told me, “If you've got a good job and you like it, never go someplace else for the money.  Furthermore, always talk to your boss before you leave.”  I never forgot my father's wise words.  No amount of money is worth a loss of peace of mind.  Peace of mind is priceless, and no amount of material things can replace it. The job market isn't too unlike the stock market. Opportunities for more returns typically come with much more risk to the downside. This is not to say we shouldn't take risks. Rather, the lesson is that we should understand and appreciate the potential downside. FREE AppDownload
Intelligent HeadsetWhat if your headphones were smart enough to know where you are, which direction you are facing and could play 3D sounds capable of giving you directions – without the need for a screen or glasses strapped to your face? The Intelligent Headset from Danish audio specialists GN can do just that using built-in sensors that relay information to a smartphone or tablet and allow the headset to know where and what you are facing at any time. “It took us under two years to develop the headphones, which are based on our sister company Jabra’s Bluetooth headphones, upgraded with a gyroscope, GPS and compass integrated into the top band,” said Lars Johansen, one of the developers of the Intelligent Headset. The headphones do not obviously look like a piece of wearable smart technology, unlike smartglasses like Google Glass. The only sign that they are more than Bluetooth headphones is a small lump in the headband that contains the extra sensors and electronics. “They connect via Bluetooth to a smartphone or tablet and allow us to use 3D positional audio to give the wearer real-time audio feedback on their actions or location – they’re like an audio version of Google Glass,” explained Johansen. Like Google Glass, the Intelligent Headset has a lot of potential for all sorts of innovative uses in audio and gaming, but also in navigation and support for blind people. While GN has opened up the Headset to developers, and is currently seeking “killer apps”, its in-house developers like Johansen have already come up with some very interesting applications. Johansen has developed an iPhone game called Zombie X, which uses 3D-spatial audio to simulate an immersive zombie attack in a 360-degree space around the wearer. Players have to pinpoint the direction of the attack using audio alone. As the player rotates, the direction of the audio source changes, and once the zombie is right in front of them hitting a button will fire a gun and take the beast down. Other applications being demonstrated included an audio tour of a museum, which explained to the wearer what they were looking at with the touch of a button. Some exhibits emitted sounds associated with their function, like the sounds of water pouring for a fountain or the puffs of steam for an engine, allowing the wearer to pinpoint the attraction’s location by the direction the sound source. GN’s 3D-audio technology also allows immersive music listening experiences. Wearers can walk through an orchestra, for instance, and hear the individual instruments pass them by. The headset could also recreate a concert, where it sounds like the user is standing in the middle of the crowd. Besides entertainment, GN sees applications for helping blind or partially sighted people with navigation, using directional audio cues to indicate which way they need to move or where a building is, like an audio version of satellite navigation. The headset is still in development, but pre-orders are available now costing $420 and shipping in July this year. • Google Glass – wearable tech, but would you actually wear it? This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Pat Kiernan is a legendary anchor who's been the face of New York City news since 1997. He gets up at 3 am every day and his workday doesn't end until 6 pm. How does he do it? We followed him around for a day to figure out just that. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
APLess than 24 hours after the U.S., European Union, Russia, and Ukraine agreed preliminary de-escalation deal in Geneva, Switzerland, it's already showing signs of falling apart. Pro-Russian separatists who have been occupying buildings in at least 10 eastern Ukrainian cities are refusing to leave those buildings on Friday, saying they won't do so until the interim government in Ukraine resigns. Denis Pushilin, a spokesman of the self-appointed Donetsk People's Republic, told reporters Friday the agreement is "reasonable" — as long as it also applies to the government in Kiev.  That's almost certainly not going to happen, and the U.S., E.U., and Ukraine certainly did not intend for it when agreeing to the deal Thursday. One of the key tenets in the de-escalation deal is the provision that "all illegally seized buildings must be returned to legitimate owners" — and there's a fundamental disagreement among the parties in Ukraine over what's illegal and who's legitimate. The White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. But during a press conference on Thursday, President Barack Obama said he was not optimistic about Russia holding up its end of the bargain, and he hinted that more sanctions could be on their way.  "My hope is that we actually do see follow-through over the next several days," Obama said. "But I don’t think given past performance that we can count on that, and we have to be prepared to potentially respond to what continue to be efforts of interference by the Russians in Eastern and Southern Ukraine."  The deal also calls for all illegal groups to disarm, all illegally occupied streets and squares to be vacated, and for amnesty to all protesters who have surrendered their weapons. But according to the AP, none of the government buildings have been vacated, and there are no reports of any of the pro-Russian separatists disarming. Russia, meanwhile, has claimed it does not have any troops in eastern Ukraine — meaning it will deny it has the ability to control whether they carry out the terms of the deal. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday asserted Russia's right to intervene militarily in eastern Ukraine to protect its Russian-speaking population. He also ratcheted up his rhetoric, repeatedly referring to southeast Ukraine as "Novorussia" and saying only "God knows" why Russia's parliament allowed the region to become part of Ukraine in the 1920s. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan BachmanActivists protest in front of the Hale Boggs Federal Building on the first day of the trial over the Deepwater Horizon oil rig spill in New Orleans, Louisiana February 25, 2013. (Reuters) - Four years after the Deepwater Horizon spill, oil is still washing up on the long sandy beaches of Grand Isle, Louisiana, and some islanders are fed up with hearing from BP that the crisis is over. Jules Melancon, the last remaining oyster fisherman on an island dotted with colorful houses on stilts, says he has not found a single oyster alive in his leases in the area since the leak and relies on an onshore oyster nursery to make a living. He and others in the southern U.S. state say compensation has been paid unevenly and lawyers have taken big cuts. The British oil major has paid out billions of dollars in compensation under a settlement experts say is unprecedented in its breadth. Some claimants are satisfied, but others are irate that BP is now challenging aspects of the settlement. Its portrayal of the aftermath of the well blowout and explosion of its drilling rig has also caused anger. "They got an advert on TV saying they fixed the Gulf but I've never been fixed," said Melancon, who was compensated by BP, but deems the sum inadequate. The oil company has spent over $26 billion on cleaning up, fines and compensation for the disaster, which killed 11 people on the rig and spilled millions of barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico for 87 days after the blast on April 20, 2010. That is more than a third of BP's total revenues for 2013, and the company has allowed for the bill to almost double, while fighting to overturn and delay payments of claims it says have no validity, made after it relinquished control over who got paid in a settlement with plaintiff lawyers in March 2012. The advertisement that most riled Dean Blanchard, who began what later became the biggest shrimp company in the United States in 1982, was the one first aired by BP on television in late 2011 that said "all beaches and waters are open". At that time almost 50 square miles of water in Louisiana were closed to fishing, according to the state's Department of Wildlife and Fisheries. Seven fishing areas are still closed, three where Blanchard says he would usually get his seafood. Asked about the discrepancy, BP, which made the cleanup advertisements to help the affected states bring visitors back, said there was no scientific basis for the water closures and that all studies had found that seafood was safe to consume. Perceived injustice, between those who got payouts and those who did not, has divided the small community on Grand Isle, 50 miles south of New Orleans. Within sight of a line of deep sea oil rigs, it was one of the worst-affected areas. Long streaks of oil marked the sand where a couple of tourists walked barefoot and small tarballs, which environmentalists say contain the most toxic form of oil, had collected on part of the beach when Reuters visited in October to report on the legacy of the spill. The Gulf Restoration Network, an environmental group which monitors spilt BP oil, says it is still appearing in Grand Isle. The group saw what it called "thousands of tarballs" there on April 9th and collected some of them for testing. A BP spokesman said only very small quantities of material from the Macondo well were washing up and they did not threaten human health. Under the settlement, claims for lost income or property damage have been easier for individuals and large businesses than small companies or start-ups without detailed accounts. "People are really upset here because a lot of people got a lot of money but many people didn't," said waitress Jeanette Smith at Starfish Restaurant, the only eatery in Grand Isle to have managed to stay open seven days a week since the spill. Melancon said his claim for economic damage was rejected as a lot of transactions were in cash. He was offered more than a million dollars for property damage but says he lost more than six times as much and has so far only received around $400,000 of the compensation money he was allocated. Some islanders, however, say compensation has been fair. Terry Pazane, 48, a shrimper on Grand Isle since he was 15, found out in late January that he will be compensated just over $300,000. "You got your paperwork together, they got you paid," he said. "If you can't prove nothing, you don't get nothing." The oil company said it could not comment on individual claimants but that the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans had found the settlement scheme was "fair, reasonable, and adequate to all". BP has maintained, both via the media and the courts, that the settlement has been too generous in some cases. Along with video images of its clean-up, BP regularly runs full-page advertisements in U.S. newspapers highlighting what it says are flaws in the handling of the settlement it had agreed to avoid having to fight costly individual lawsuits. In one, concerning a claim by a shrimp fisherman, BP said a lawyer within the settlement program, which is responsible for deciding the amount of payouts, took a cut. The office of claims administrator Patrick Juneau declined to comment. Businesses of all kinds in New Orleans said they suffered from the spill because visitors stayed away due to concerns over the city's signature Gulf seafood, even though the oil that flowed into the ocean near the mouth of the Mississippi did not reach New Orleans itself. The settlement does not compensate everyone. Just 20 out of over 3,000 claims for failed business have been paid so far, according to the settlement website. But BP has argued in the New Orleans court that claims administrator Juneau should prove losses were caused by the spill. The court threw out that argument, but the company has asked for its case to be heard again. Blaine LeCesne, a professor at Loyola University College of Law in New Orleans, said BP's actions were understandable but possibly counter-productive. The settlement it had agreed to was "more than fair ... virtually assuring that every individual or business affected by the spill may be compensated for their actual losses and beyond", LeCesne said. But he said BP was losing goodwill by retroactively challenging the settlement's validity because of its unanticipated cost. BP said its "efforts to assure the integrity of the claims process" had been misrepresented and that it continued to be committed to the Gulf while defending its interests "in the face of absurd awards made to claimants whose alleged losses have no apparent connection to the spill". BP has argued that it is not the claimants but rather the lawyers, who can charge big fees for negotiating claims, who are the biggest winners from the spill. In the aftermath of the spill, oysters have been among the biggest losers. They have fared worse than any other seafood, partly because their immobility made them unable to swim away from the oil and partly because they could not survive the fresh water diversions opened along the Mississippi to protectLouisiana's precious wetlands from oil seeping in. Owners of oyster leases can claim $2,000 per acre for property damage in the most affected areas, whether or not they have been using the leases. Al Sunseri, who, with his brother Sal, runs the oldest oyster company in the United States - P&amp;J Oysters, in New Orleans's French Quarter - said processors like them had been dealt a bad hand in comparison with the oyster farmers. The Sunseris reckon they are handling just 55-60 percent of the oysters they used to. Before the spill they employed 11 oyster shuckers to take off the shells, now they have just one, working part time. "BP ruined our business," said Al. "All the money they've spent on this marketing thing, and it's like, we don't even have anything to market." Blanchard says he is handling 15 percent of the local shrimp that he did before the spill. The shrimps, he says, either swam away from the oil or were killed or mutated by the spill and its aftermath. He is suing BP for $111 million. BP said all tests had shown that Gulf seafood was safe to consume and there had been no published studies demonstrating seafood abnormalities due to the Deepwater Horizon accident. But a study published on March 24, led by the U.S. government's National Oceanic and Atmospheric administration, found the spilt BP oil caused "serious defects" in the embryos of several species of fish, including tuna and amberjack. In response, BP said the concentration of oil used in the experiments for the study was "rarely seen in the Gulf during or after the Deepwater Horizon accident" and that the paper provided no evidence for a "population-level impact" on fish. In one of its latest advertisements, the oil major said the outcome of what it said was its fight to return the settlement to its intended purpose would affect future decisions by other companies in similar positions. "Will they accept responsibility and do the right thing? Or will the lesson be that it's better to deny, delay, and litigate - with victims potentially waiting decades for compensation?" (Editing by Philippa Fletcher) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersXBox One is seen on display at the Wal-Mart Supercenter in the Porter Ranch section of Los AngelesSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp has sold over 5 million Xbox One video game consoles to retailers since its launch in November, the company said on Thursday. In January, the U.S. software company said Xbox One sales had crossed three million as of the end of 2013. The console went on sale on November 22 in 13 countries, including the United States, United Kingdom and Australia, a week before rival Sony Corp's PlayStation 4 was released. Sony said on Wednesday it sold over 7 million PlayStation 4 units as of April 6 and is struggling to keep up with consumer demand. (Reporting by Malathi Nayak. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFrom Michelle Meyer at Merrill Lynch: Will April showers bring May flowers?  We have all been waiting for the weather to unleash stronger economic activity, particularly for the housing market. However, the housing data so far have been less than encouraging. We think it will be challenging to realize average housing starts of 1.1 million this year and are therefore trimming our forecast to 1.03 million. Our trajectory through year end is still up, with starts rising 11% from last year, but the rebound is more muted. Slower growth in starts combined with the weaker pace of home sales suggests residential investment will add 0.2pp to GDP growth this year versus our prior forecast of 0.3pp. ... It is important to put the recovery in housing construction into perspective. The turn started in early 2011 and gained momentum at the end of 2012. However, last year growth was weak until the bounce at the very end of the year. The question is whether that bounce was a start of a stronger rebound which just got delayed due to the weather or simply noise in the data. We think the truth is somewhere in between and are therefore penciling in an acceleration in starts, but not at the pace we experienced in Q4 of last year. We have to remember that while this is not a V-shaped trajectory, it is still a recovery. Housing construction will head higher as household formation gradually recovers, capacity constraints around available lots and labor are resolved and credit conditions slowly ease for homebuyers. But this all takes time, and we must be patient as the market finds its new equilibrium. Merrill has reduced their forecast for housing starts from 1.100 million this year to 1.033 million (still an 11% increase from 2013). They have kept their forecast for new home sales at 515 thousand (close to a 20% gain).   FREE AppDownload
This recent Gallup survey on expected future returns of asset prices is pretty interesting.  It shows that most Americans still think that owning a home is the best way to generate a high return in the future: Gallup Look at those figures.  The top two assets are gold and real estate.  This shows how out of touch with reality the average American is.  According to the U.S. Census Bureau Survey of Construction single family real estate generates a 0.74% annual return over the last 30 years (this includes multiple housing booms, mind you, so the data is probably much lower if we go further back in time).  So there appears to be some recency bias here despite the housing bust. And this doesn’t even account for many of the miscellaneous costs involved in real estate.  As I’ve shown previously, a house is basically a depreciating asset that comes with an appreciating piece of land.  But that depreciating asset is extremely expensive over its lifetime.  When you calculate the total costs that go into maintaining this asset the returns are very likely to be negative over long periods of time.  So that 0.74% figure is probably higher than you should really expect.   In fact, the returns from stocks and bonds trump real estate by a healthy margin so Americans have this one totally backwards – the American Dream isn’t quite the dream we have been sold. Gold is more interesting.  Gold is a commodity that is widely perceived as a currency.  If you look at the long-term returns of gold in the post-Bretton Woods era the real returns are pretty substantial at 7.8%.  That’s not much below stocks at 8.4%, but substantially higher than T-bonds at 3.2% and higher than the aggregate bond index at 5.4%.   This is interesting when you consider that gold is really just a commodity and commodities don’t tend to generate real returns over the long-term.  I’ve surmised that gold has a “faith put” in its price due to the currency belief.  Whether that can last over the long-term is dubious in my view.  So I wouldn’t be surprised if that view turns out to be wrong as well…. Read more at http://pragcap.com/still-buying-the-golden-american-dream#WzZbVqI0SB3Bz4Fs.99 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul BarkerGood morning! Things are very quiet and there's not that much going on due to the Good Friday holiday, which has all markets closed in Europe and the US. The only action of the day was in Europe, where things were generally positive. Japan gained .68%. Korea rose 0.61%. Hong Kong gained .23%, while the Shanghai Composite slipped a mere 0.05%. Thus ends a much steadier week for the market than what we saw last week, when violent selling pummeled momentum stocks (particularly tech and biotech). The rebound might give credence to the idea that some of the selling was motivated by  the tax bill. There is currency trading going on, but it is quiet. FREE AppDownload
