Thomson ReutersAckman, CEO and portfolio manager of Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P., speaks at the Ira Sohn Investment Conference in New York(Reuters) - Activist Bill Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management LP filed its second lawsuit in two days against the U.S. government over bailout of Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac , court documents show. In Friday's complaint with the U.S. District Court, Pershing Square alleged that the Department of the Treasury illegally seized tens of billions of dollars in Fannie and Freddie profits. Pershing Square, the largest shareholder of both the mortgage companies, said in the complaint that it was told the Fannie and Freddie stockholders no longer have fundamental shareholders rights. Fannie's and Freddie's conservator, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), denied "written demands by Pershing Square to the companies' boards of directors for a books and records inspection", according to the complaint. In the second lawsuit, Pershing suggests the mortgage companies' dividends being paid to the Treasury should be shared among other common shareholders. Three retirees who own Fannie Mae stock have joined as plaintiffs of the lawsuit. In a complaint filed on Thursday with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C., Pershing accused the government of violating the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution by taking private property for public use without just compensation. Though the lawsuits raise different legal theories and are in different courts, they are both designed to enable Ackman to recoup sums for the depressed value of his Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac shares. Pershing disclosed last November it had invested close to a half-billion dollars for common share stakes of 9.98 percent in Fannie Mae and 9.77 percent in Freddie Mac. The alleged illegal "dividend sweep" were under way before this disclosure. In July 2013, investors such as hedge fund firm Perry Capital LLC and Bruce Berkowitz's Fairholme Capital Management LLC, for example, sued the government over Fannie and Freddie, which were bailed out in September 2008 amid mounting mortgage losses. Neither the Treasury Department, nor the FHFA were immediately available for a comment. Jones Day represents Pershing and the three individual shareholders of Fannie and Freddie. The case is Rafter et al v. Department of the Treasury et al, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.  (Reporting By Kanika Sikka in Bangalore, Jonathan Stempel in New York and Svea Herbst-Bayliss in Boston) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVJim Rogers first made his name when he cofounded the Quantum Fund with George Soros.  In 2007, he packed up and moved to Singapore where he is essentially shorting the West. Behind Rogers' quick wit and endless charm are brilliant investing insights he gained during his lengthy and legendary career. We put together 14 of the best insights that every investor will find helpful. &nbsp; FREE AppDownload
Alyson Shontell/Business InsiderThe UK May Not Hike Rates Until Well Into 2015 (Wells Fargo) The consensus among economists is that the UK will commence tightening its monetary policy in Q1 2015. Wells Fargo believes there's reason to think it could come a bit later. "The Bank of England has pledged to keep its Bank Rate at 0.50 percent, where it has been maintained since March 2009, until spare capacity in the British economy has been more fully absorbed," they write. "Unfortunately, spare capacity is an unobservable variable, and it can vary over time due to fluctuations in actual GDP growth and changes in potential GDP growth, which is also unobservable. Wage growth is an observable variable that should be inversely correlated with spare capacity in the labor market (i.e., as spare capacity in the labor market falls, wage growth should rise), and we think that it will be very important to watch wage growth in coming months—the MPC has essentially told us to do so—to determine the timing of the first rate hike by the BoE since 2007. The consensus forecast among economists (as measured by Bloomberg) looks for the MPC to commence its tightening cycle in Q1-2015, and the yield curve implies that investors believe the first rate hike will happen by then as well. Our forecast looks for the first rate hike to occur in the second quarter of next year. In any event, the MPC likely will not raise rates this year, unless wages accelerate significantly over the next few months." Nine Out Of 16 Equity Valuations Above Average (Josh Brown) Josh Brown points us to this table from Bank of America showing a snapshot of the S&amp;P500's valuation on sixteen metrics. US large cap stocks are currently at or above their historic valuation on nine of them. Bank of America via Josh Brown Stick With Energy Stocks (BlackRock) BlackRock's Russ Koesterich believes that on valuations alone, energy stocks still look good, regardless of what's happening geopolitically. "Despite outperforming year-to-date, energy sector valuations still have room to grow, as measured by looking at the S&amp;P Global 1200 Energy index," he writes. "Multiples are still at a discount to their 10-year average and fund positioning is low, as I point out in my new Market Perspectives paper. In addition, I continue to see good free cash flow and several recent investment projects are beginning to bear fruit. In particular, I see good opportunities in certain integrated companies and exploration and production companies where there is resource growth. You can read more about my outlook for oil prices, and what this means for investors, in the full Market Perspectivespiece, “Oil’s Precarious Balance, and you can listen to a client call on the subject here. About That Secular Stagnation Book (VoxEU.org) On Friday Paul Krugman said a new book compiled by Vox.eu on secular stagnation is a must-read. He happens to be a contributor, but he has a point.  "Our authors are far from a homogeneous group – they come from different continents and different schools of thought," VoxEU says. "Their contributions were uncoordinated and they do not entirely agree, but a fairly strong consensus has emerged on three points.  Bond Yields Won't See A Massive Sell-Off Yet Because Corporations Have Plenty Of Cash And Credits Have Been Performing (The Financialist) As the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative easing program, people have started to worry about the bond market. Credit Suisse's Senior Advisor, Robert Parker "expects a slow burn over the next 18 months in which bond yields do rise but still remain well below their historical averages." Despite the fact that he isn't expecting "further upside" for corporate bonds, he also doesn't expect a massive selloff because most credits have been performing, and corporations "are also sitting on plenty of cash and are less leveraged than in recent years". He also points out interesting investment opportunities in equities. He believes that North Asian markets (including Japan, South Korea, China, and Taiwan) are attractive. And he expects Southeast Asian markets to underperform. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitBy Jessica Dye NEW YORK (Reuters) - A U.S. judge has appointed two lawyers who led cases against Toyota Motor Corp  and a plaintiffs’ attorney from Texas to lead litigation against General Motors Co  related to a faulty ignition switch that prompted the recall of millions of vehicles this year. U.S. District Judge Jesse Furman in the Southern District of New York, who is overseeing more than 100 cases against GM, on Friday tapped attorneys Steve Berman, Elizabeth Cabraser and Robert Hilliard as co-lead counsel. Hilliard was among the first attorneys to sue GM following its announcement in February that it was recalling millions of vehicles because of a problem with the ignition switch that could cause it to slip out of position, leading to stalled vehicles and disabled air bags, power steering and power brakes. "I’m ready to roll up my sleeves and get to the bottom of the fraud and who’s responsible for a generation’s worth of losses," he told Reuters on Friday. The lead lawyers will be expected to invest substantial time and resources in the high-profile litigation, in hopes of recovering a share of legal fees from any settlement or judgment against GM. GM's faulty ignition switches have been linked to at least 13 deaths, and the automaker is under investigation by U.S. safety regulators, Congress and the U.S. Department of Justice over its failure to detect the problems for more than a decade. Berman and Cabraser were among the lead plaintiffs' lawyers in litigation against Toyota over acceleration problems starting in 2010. In 2012, Toyota settled economic-loss claims stemming from its acceleration-related recalls in a deal valued at $1.6 billion. The company is in talks to settle personal-injury and wrongful-death cases. Berman said in an email to Reuters that he was honored by the appointment. Cabraser said she looked forward to working with the other lead lawyers both for victims of crashes linked to the switch and customers who said they suffered economic losses, such as reduced vehicle value. Berman and Cabraser, along with another lead lawyer for Toyota plaintiffs, Mark Robinson, had been appointed by Furman to serve as temporary co-lead counsel at the outset of the switch litigation. Robinson was appointed to the executive committee, along with other well-known plaintiffs’ lawyers including David Boies and Joseph Rice. Also serving on that committee will be Lance Cooper, lawyer for the parents of Brooke Melton, who was killed in a 2010 crash that their lawsuit said was caused by the switch. That lawsuit helped expose the switch issue, leading to the first of several switch-related recalls by GM. Friday’s order followed a marathon hearing in federal court on Monday, in which nearly 40 lawyers appeared before Furman to seek one of 15 positions leading the litigation. Furman has set the next status conference in the cases for Sept. 4.  (Editing by Alexia Garamfalvi and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Pavel GolovkinA Russian convoy of white trucks carrying humanitarian aid nears Ukraine."You know what I've noticed? Nobody panics when things go 'according to plan.' Even if the plan is horrifying. If, tomorrow, I tell the press that, like, a gang banger will get shot, or a truckload of soldiers will be blown up, nobody panics, because it's all 'part of the plan.' But when I say that one little old mayor will die, well then everyone loses their minds!" – The Joker, “The Dark Knight” (2008) Dick Grayson:    "Gosh, Economics is sure a dull subject." Bruce Wayne:   "Oh, you must be jesting, Dick. Economics dull? The glamour, the romance of commerce . . . Hmm. It's the very lifeblood of our country's society." – “Batman: The TV Series” (1967) It’s a funny world when stocks can soar on a -6.8% Japanese GDP print but stumble when a Russian armored personnel carrier finds itself on the wrong end of a Ukrainian howitzer shell. That’s what you get, though, in the Golden Age of the Central Banker, as all events are filtered through the narrative of central bank control. Weak Japanese GDP was “part of the plan”, to quote both The Joker and Prime Minister Abe, or at least the revised plan after the new sales tax pulled economic activity forward in Q1, and besides, this weakness just means that “help from the BOJ may be on the way”, to quote the WSJ. Direct artillery fire on a Russian APC column in Ukrainian territory, on the other hand . . . well, that’s not part of anyone’s plan. It’s a significant escalation in both Russian provocation and Ukrainian response, an escalation that for the first time illuminates a warpath that no amount of central bank jawboning can derail or recast in a market-positive light. Is this the path we’re headed down? I doubt it. There’s enough plausible deniability in the construction of this “humanitarian aid convoy” (which may or may not have some serious armament underneath those green canvas truck covers), such that both Russia and Ukraine can return to the regularly scheduled entertainment of indirect warfare through the Donetsk proxies. And so long as the fighting simmers through proxies the sanctions won’t be life-threatening to either the Russian or German economies. The economic pain is annoying, for sure, but not so overwhelming as to be catastrophic or impervious to Draghi’s tender ministrations. But three months ago I really thought Putin would call it a day with a Crimean annexation and just enough low-level insurgency in the rest of Russian-speaking Ukraine to keep the latest cohort of kleptomaniacs in Kiev on their toes. Instead, we’re seeing Russian-supported advanced surface-to-air missile capabilities and uniformed Russian “escorts” for supply convoys, and there’s nothing low-level about that. And as recently as two weeks ago I would have sooner challenged Tony Stewart to a dirt-track race than challenge Draghi’s determination to push forward more and more market-pleasing monetary easing policies. Instead, we got last week’s ECB press conference, where just as he did in the spring of 2012 Draghi threatened to withhold monetary easing beyond the already announced TLTRO program unless Italy and France moved forward with structural economic reforms and commensurate fiscal consolidation. It all just goes to show how futile any sort of crystal-ball reading effort is in the politically fractured world of 1914 . . . ummm, sorry, I meant to write 2014. My bad. But regardless of what century you’re in, when political stability breaks down, market stability is never far behind. We’re not there yet, as the Golden Age of the Central Banker provides a wonderful political tranquilizer in the West. But the East, whether it’s China or Russia, isn’t taking the same medicine, and that’s where we should be looking for sources of political instability large enough to wake the Red King from its long sleep. W. Ben Hunt, Ph.D.Chief Risk Officer SALIENT 4265 San Felipe, 8th Floor, Houston, TX 77027Direct: 713.548.2627 | Fax: 713.993.4098Twitter: @EpsilonTheorybhunt@salientpartners.com To subscribe to Epsilon Theory: §  Sign up here: www.salientpartners.com/epsilontheory/subscribe §  OR send an email bhunt@salientpartners.com with your name, email address, and company affiliation (optional). There is no charge to subscribe to Epsilon Theory and your email address will not be shared with anyone. DISCLOSURES This commentary is being provided to you by individual personnel of Salient Partners, L.P. and affiliates (“Salient”) and is provided as general information only and should not be taken as investment advice. The opinions expressed in these materials represent the personal views of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Salient. It is not investment research or a research recommendation, as it does not constitute substantive research or analysis. Any action that you take as a result of information contained in this document is ultimately your responsibility. Salient will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information. Consult your investment advisor before making any investment decisions.  It must be noted, that no one can accurately predict the future of the market with certainty or guarantee future investment performance. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. Statements in this communication are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements and other views expressed herein are as of the date of this publication. Actual future results or occurrences may differ significantly from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements, and there is no guarantee that any predictions will come to pass. The views expressed herein are subject to change at any time, due to numerous market and other factors. Salient disclaims any obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements or views expressed herein. This information is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of any offer to buy any securities. Any offering or solicitation will be made only to eligible investors and pursuant to any applicable Private Placement Memorandum and other governing documents, all of which must be read in their entirety. Salient commentary has been prepared without regard to the individual financial circumstances and objectives of persons who receive it. Salient recommends that investors independently evaluate particular investments and strategies, and encourage investors to seek the advice of a financial advisor. The appropriateness of a particular investment or strategy will depend on an investor’s individual circumstances and objectives. This article originally appeared at Epsilon Theory.  Copyright 2014. Follow Epsilon Theory on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark J. TerrillElon Musk.Elon Musk just announced Tesla will extend warranties on Model S cars to cover the life of the vehicle's battery pack. He also warned this will hurt earnings in the short term. In a note on Tesla's blog posted Friday afternoon, Musk says the Model S will now have an 8-year, "infinite-mile" warranty that will also apply retroactively. "In hindsight, this should have been our policy from the beginning of the Model S program," he writes. "If we truly believe that electric motors are fundamentally more reliable than gasoline engines, with far fewer moving parts and no oily residue or combustion byproducts to gum up the works, then our warranty policy should reflect that." But this will likely mean Tesla will require more reserves to address issues covered by the warranty, meaning lower profit margins. "To investors in Tesla, I must acknowledge that this will have a moderately negative effect on Tesla earnings in the short term, as our warranty reserves will necessarily have to increase above current levels," he writes. "However, by doing the right thing for Tesla vehicle owners at this early stage of our company, I am confident that it will work out well in the long term," he adds. Tesla shares closed the week up 1.7% to an all-time high of $262.01. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark J. TerrillElon Musk.Elon Musk just announced Tesla will extend warranties on Model S cars to cover the life of the vehicle's battery pack. He also warned this will hurt earnings in the short term. In a note on Tesla's blog posted Friday afternoon, Musk says the Model S will now have an 8-year, "infinite-mile" warranty that will also apply retroactively. "In hindsight, this should have been our policy from the beginning of the Model S program," he writes. "If we truly believe that electric motors are fundamentally more reliable than gasoline engines, with far fewer moving parts and no oily residue or combustion byproducts to gum up the works, then our warranty policy should reflect that." But this will likely mean Tesla will require more reserves to address issues covered by the warranty, meaning lower profit margins. "To investors in Tesla, I must acknowledge that this will have a moderately negative effect on Tesla earnings in the short term, as our warranty reserves will necessarily have to increase above current levels," he writes. "However, by doing the right thing for Tesla vehicle owners at this early stage of our company, I am confident that it will work out well in the long term," he adds. Tesla shares closed the week up 1.7% to an all-time high of $262.01. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA Russian convoy of trucks carrying humanitarian aid for Ukraine drives along a road as Russian servicemen look on, near Kamensk-Shakhtinsky, Rostov Region, August 14, 2014. Stocks closed mixed in a volatile session that saw stocks sell off sharply in late morning trade after headlines out of Ukraine suggested tensions in its conflict with Russia could be flaring. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Two manufacturing reports on Friday sent mixed signals about the economy. The New York Federal Reserve's latest Empire State Manufacturing survey's headline reading fell to 14.69 in July from 25.60 in June. Expectations were for a reading of 20. Citing commentary from Capital Economics' Paul Dales, BI's Rob outlined three reasons why the poor headline numbers isn't a big concern. The Federal Reserve's latest industrial production report showed production rose 0.4% in July. Capacity utilization rose 0.1% to 79.2%, and June's reports was also revised up, to 0.4% from a prior reading of 0.2%.  2. The producer price index rose 0.1% in July, in-line with expectations. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "Another unexciting PPI, with the core rising by rather less than seems to be implied by the NFIB survey for the third straight month, for reasons which are not clear." 3. The University of Michigan's preliminary reading for August consumer confidence fell to a nine-month low of 79.2, missing expectations for an increase to 82.5. "With employment expanding at a rapid clip, gasoline prices dropping back a little, long-term interest rates collapsing and equity prices rallying in recent days, we would expect this particular confidence measure to come in a little higher in the final August estimate," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "More generally, the various confidence measures are all over the place. This eight-month low contrasts with the Conference Board measure, which hit its highest level in July since the recession began." 4. Following its abysmal quarterly report on Wednesday, SeaWorld announced that it would build larger tanks and donate $10 million for killer whale research. In an e-mailed statement to Business Insider, PETA called SeaWorld's announcement a, "desperate drop-in-the-bucket move to try to turn back the hands of time at a time when people understand the suffering of captive Orcas, and it will not save the company." 5. Shares of energy drink maker Monster Beverage gained more than 30% on Friday after Coca-Cola on Thursday afternoon said it would take a 17% equity stake in the company worth $2.15 billion. The deal follows a February announcement from Coke that it would take a 10% stake in coffee company Keurig Green Mountain. Morningstar analyst Adam Fleck said these deals will help Coke diversify its product offerings as it seeks to offset some of the "secular decline" in its soft drinks business.  6. A report from Reuters said that popular burger chain Shake Shack is preparing an initial public offering. The report said Shake Shack's majority owners have been interviewing investment banks in recent weeks, and that the company's earnings are expected to total around $20 million next year.  7. Among the biggest losers on Friday was Vringo, which fell more than 70% after an Appeals Court judge overturned an earlier ruling that found Google and AOL, among others, infringed a patent of one of the company's operating subsidiaries.  Don't Miss: 30 Years Ago Warren Buffett Gave Away The Secret To Good Investing And Correctly Predicted No One Would Listen » FREE AppDownload
In one of the biggest divorce cases in history, Oklahoma oilman Harold Hamm could have to split his $17 billion fortune with his estranged wife, Sue Ann Hamm, according to Reuters.  The divorce trial of the founder of Continental Resources, one of the biggest petroleum liquids producer in the United States, is under a tight lockdown (in order to protect shareholders), but economic analysis has shown that Hamm would have acquired $17.6 billion during his 26 year marriage to Sue Ann. Hamm's enormous wealth comes from his 68% stake in his 'Oil Champion' company, resulting in him potentially being the biggest owner of oil in America. Reuters reported that if Hamm ends up with a large divorce settlement, he would have to finance it by selling Continental shares and his control in the company could dissolve. For a divorce settlement under Oklahoma law, the question comes down to how the fortune during the marriage was obtained. In other words, were there "active efforts" by either spouse to obtain the wealth — or did it just happen? Sue Ann Hamm's legal team would argue that Continental's growth resulted from the "active leadership and astute decision-making" of her estranged husband. While Harold's attorneys will try to prove that its growth resulted from "factors beyond his control." Hamm founded Continental in 1967, and married Sue Ann over two decades later in 1988. She was a former attorney at the company. They filed for divorce in February of 2014.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on a building in San Diego(Reuters) - Morgan Stanley &amp; Co Inc must pay $4.5 million to Citigroup's Banamex unit which alleged the firm had allowed funds in a family's trust account to be used to repay third-party loans without its authorization, according to a ruling on Friday. A Morgan Stanley spokeswoman declined to immediately comment.  (Reporting by Suzanne Barlyn; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukRussia's President Vladimir Putin attends the closing ceremony of the 2014 Paralympic Winter Games in Sochi, March 16, 2014. Today’s news reports about Ukraine, Russia, and separatists demonstrate the fog of war in action. We have written on this subject recently. Word comes today (see this Bloomberg piece) that the Ukrainian army has destroyed part of a column of military vehicles that crossed the border from Russia. Meanwhile, Vladimir Putin continues to insist that Russia has no military presence in Ukraine. The details of Ukrainian military forces’ engagement with separatists are lost in the fog of war. However, the interplay boils down to some fundamental realities. Putin does not want Ukraine to be part of NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) or the European Union. That is a line he has drawn in the sand. Putin continues to up the ante. In addition to his aggressive new moves with the convoys (humanitarian or otherwise) headed for Eastern Ukraine, he is making moves on his far eastern front that threaten Russia's relationship with Japan, as this Bloomberg piece explains. One additional factor must be considered as we assess market reactions and geopolitical dynamics. Every passing day brings us closer to winter. It is the power of colder weather that allows Russia, as a key supplier of energy to Europe, to apply leverage. That leverage can take the form of higher prices, restricted volumes, a combination of both, or negotiations that directly or indirectly affect these additional costs. Markets are reacting this afternoon to the ongoing developments, but in the fog of war it makes little difference what the specific elements are in each event. Instead, what drives market valuations is the knowledge of applied costs. No matter how Ukraine, Russia, and the separatists sort themselves out, the costs continue to rise. We are continuing to maintain a cash reserve. David R. Kotok, Chairman and Chief Investment Officer Resources:To sign-up for Market Commentaries from Cumberland Advisors: http://www.cumber.com/signup.aspx  For Cumberland Advisors Investment Portfolio Styles: http://www.cumber.com/styles.aspx?file=styles_index.asp  For personal correspondence: david.kotok@cumber.com Twitter: @CumberlandADV This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
statigr.am/keropokmanNothing says "I'm not an adult yet" like a fridge that contains nothing but Tabasco, packets of soy sauce, and a carton of milk (probably spoiled, let's be real). But cooking is hard — it's time-consuming and not every young man has been taught how to do it right, let alone set up a proper kitchen with necessary ingredients and tools for making a quick meal. Business Insider reached out to Jared Spafford, a former sous chef at Marlow &amp; Daughters director of culinary operations at Drive Change a not-for-profit that employs previously incarcerated people to better acclimate them to the outside. You might see, Snow Day, their maple-syrup-themed food truck rolling around New York City. And as you can imagine, part of the food truck business is about learning how to cook with limited resources. Spafford sent Business Insider a list of items — from tools to spices — that should go inside the modern gentleman's kitchen. If you build it, it will come, and it will be delicious. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Joe VanCongratulations to us!Americans are contributing more money than ever to their IRAs, a new survey says. Fidelity Investments analyzed more than 7 million IRA accounts and said the average contribution for 2013 stood at an all-time high of $4,150, a 4.7% increase since 2012. On average, Americans held $89,100 in their IRA, up roughly 10% over the past year. "The fact that IRA contributions are up across all age groups is a positive indication that many people are indeed committed to saving for retirement by putting at least a portion of what they earn into tax-advantaged vehicles such as an IRA," said Ken Hevert, a vice president at Fidelity Investments. Consumers flock toward IRAs as alternatives or substitutes to the traditional 401(k) plans offered by employers. If you're self-employed or dissatisfied with your company's 401(k), an IRA can be opened up on your own through a discount brokerage firm. In fact, some consumers doubled down on retirement savings by contributing to a 401(k) and an IRA. Rick Salus, a senior vice president and investment officer with Wells Fargo Advisors, says you should exhaust your 401(k) options before thinking about contributing to an IRA. "Many companies offer a match and if they give you 50 cents on the dollar up to 5% of your salary, you'll want to maximize that, otherwise you're turning away free money." The maximum contribution for 401(k)s stands at $17,500 for 2014. He also suggests maintaining enough money in emergency savings, ideally six months worth of expenses, in case you lose your job. Per a MainStreet report from June, one-quarter of Americans have no emergency savings account. When it comes to IRAs, plenty of consumers rely on Roth IRAs, which come with unique tax benefits. With a Roth IRA, you contribute money you've already paid taxes on and your money grows tax-free. With a traditional IRA, your money grows tax-deferred — that is, you contribute pre-tax dollars and pay ordinary income taxes upon withdrawal, similar to the 401(k). Plus, your contributions to a traditional IRA may be tax deductible, based on certain income thresholds. The maximum contributions for traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs for 2014 stand at $5,500 if you're under age 50 and $6,500 if your over age 50. "Any time you can get tax-free returns over tax-deferred, I like that," Salus adds. The report suggests younger Americans are taking retirement savings more seriously, with 3.9% of those in their 20s and 6.7% of investors in their 30s upping their average contributions in 2013, compared to 2012. The key to any successful retirement savings strategy is to start young to take advantage of compounding interest. One retirement savings goal is to put your financial situation in autopilot, by relying less on total market returns. "When you start to reach your 60s, you need to have a lot of your income needs covered by interest or dividends," Salus tells MainStreet. "You can afford to live off of total returns, but if the markets go down, then you have negative total returns." FREE AppDownload
We know we've been harping on this a lot recently, but the American oil output story has, from an economic perspective, been truly remarkable. The EIA just announced that U.S. total crude oil production averaged an estimated 8.5 million barrels per day (bbl/d) in July, the highest monthly level of production since April 1987. Meanwhile, U.S. oil imports are at lows not seen in 19 years, standing at 7.17 million barrels a day in May. A new chart from Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders, Michelle Gibley and Brad Sorensen shows another angle: The shale revolution came just when the economy needed it. You can see that the U.S. shale boom kicked off in the winter of 2008 and 2009 — right when the U.S. economy was at the nadir of the Great Recession.  And we still need its benefits now, the Schwab team says. "The energy outlook in the United States is quite encouraging for future growth and US manufacturing competitiveness globally," they write. "Especially with the Russian and Iraqi uncertainty, it is particularly heartening to know that the United States is less dependent on foreign sources of energy than it has been in quite some time." We haven't looked back. Charles Schwab FREE AppDownload
Kevin Lamarque / REUTERSShares of Vringo were down more than 70% to $0.90 per share on Friday after announcing that a Federal Appeals Court reversed a ruling finding that AOL and Google, among others, infringed on patents held by one of its subsidiaries.  This case dates back to November 2012, when the same District Court in Norfolk, Virginia found that AOL, Google, IAC, Target, and Gannett infringed on patents held by Vringo's subsidiary I/P Engine.  Friday's ruling overturned a jury verdict, and Vringo said it is, "evaluating its options with respect to the case." Before Friday's drop, Vringo's market cap was around $290 million, but at $0.90 a share the company is worth around $83 million. Vringo shares rallied in January after a U.S. District Court awarded the company a 6.5% royalty rate from Google for patents the search engine giant was found to have infringed through its AdWords system. Here's the full announcement from Vringo: NEW YORK - August 15, 2014 - Vringo, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRNG) today announced that the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the jury's verdict and held that the asserted claims of the patents-in-suit in the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary I/P Engine's litigation against AOL Inc., Google Inc. et al. are invalid for obviousness. The Company is evaluating its options with respect to the case. Here's a chart of trade in Vringo on Friday. That's called falling off a cliff. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Jim McIsaac / Getty ImagesShake Shack at Citi Field, where the New York Mets play their home games. According to Reuters, Shake Shack is preparing for an initial public offering.  The report said that the New York City-based burger chain's majority owners have been interviewing investment banks in recent weeks. Reuters said Shake Shack's earnings are supposed to be around $20 million next year.  Shake Shack's IPO would come as fast-casual restaurants like Red Robin have been under pressure, while shares of Mexican fast food chain Chipotle have been among the market's best performing stocks.  Read the whole report from Reuters here.  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoProtesters hold a banner, top of frame, with a message that reads in Spanish "No to the layoffs at Lear and Donnelley," during a demonstration in front of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Friday, Aug. 15, 2014.BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) — The government of Argentina will seek criminal charges against representatives of a U.S.-based global printing company that abruptly shuttered its plant in the South American country, the president said Thursday. Representatives of RR Donnelley &amp; Sons may have sought to "create fear in the population" and undermine the economy with the plant closure and that could be a possible violation of an anti-terrorism law, President Cristina Fernandez said in a speech to announce a new housing program. It would be the first application of the anti-terrorism law that was adopted in 2011. Fernandez said there was no legitimate economic justification for the closure and she accused the company of collaborating with foreign investors whose decade-long legal battle with the government triggered a July 30 default. Workers at the RR Donnelley printing plant on the Buenos Aires outskirts showed up Monday to find a note informing them the facility was closed due to an "insurmountable crisis." About 400 workers lost their jobs, although about half of them are trying to keep the plant going despite getting no pay. A spokeswoman in the company's headquarters in Chicago did not respond to messages seeking comment. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShake Shack CEO Garutti and Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Chairman and CEO Blankfein participate in a panel discussion during the White House Summit on Working Families in Washington(Reuters) - Shake Shack, the fast-food restaurant chain famous for its hamburgers and milkshakes, is preparing to go public, seeking to tap stock market demand for popular casual dining companies, according to people familiar with the matter. Shake Shack's majority owner, Union Square Hospitality Group LLC, has interviewed investment banks in recent weeks to appoint underwriters for an initial public offering, the people said on Friday. Shake Shack, which started out of a hot dog kiosk in New York's Madison Square Park in 2004, is expected to post earnings of around $20 million next year, one of the people added. The sources asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private. A Shake Shack spokesman declined to comment, while Union Square Hospitality did not immediately respond to a request for comment.     (Reporting by Olivia Oran and Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn all-electric FedEx delivery truck is seen in San DiegoSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - FedEx Corp was indicted on Friday in a U.S. criminal case for conspiracy to launder money over deliveries for illegal online pharmacies, according to a court filing. The company already faced several criminal counts, including conspiracy to distribute controlled substances. FedEx has pleaded not guilty to those charges. (Reporting by Dan Levine) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images A lawyer for Ghana's Ports and Harbor Authority called it an "international disaster." The International Maritime Court of the Sea had to get involved. As you can imagine, Argentina's President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, was enraged at the "vulture" hedge fund manager. Wikimedia CommonsLa Fragata Libertad A Judge in Nevada has granted Singer's request to dig into over 123 shell companies allegedly set up by an Argentine businessman named Lazaro Baez. In Argentina, Baez has been accused of laundering money for the President and her late husband, former President Nestor Kirchner, since they got to power in 2003. Singer's lawyers allege that around $65 million in Kirchner ill-gotten gains could be sitting within those companies — and thanks to a June Supreme Court ruling upholding a part of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, he's allowed to chase Kirchner money to the end of the earth. It's all in an effort to seek some payment of the over $1.3 billion worth of sovereign debt the country owes him and a group of hedge funds known collectively as NML. Back in 2001 they bought Argentine debt for pennies on the dollar and refused to take haircuts on that debt. Argentina, in turn, refuses to pay them even under an American Court's order. Until Argentina pays up, NML is trying to get whatever Argentine money it can through what seems like dogged detective work — this investigation into 123 Nevada companies is just one example of that. "We will have a much clearer road map to the source of the funds that funded these 123 corporations [once discovery is complete]," said Robert A. Cohen who serves as legal counsel to Singer and the group of hedge fund creditors known as NML Capital. "It is believed that at the end of the rainbow we will find high powered Argentine official." Here's why: Last year an Argentine TV show called Periodismo Para Todos (Journalism For Everyone) aired a series called The "K" Money Route. It was an expose attempting to answer a simple question; In the 11 years since the Kirchners came to power, how did their wealth explode from $1.4 million to $14.1 million according to government filings? The President's annual salary equals a little more than $100,000 a year according to the Council of Hemispheric Affairs. The series alleged that that $14.1 million number might low, and focused on Baez, a construction magnate who won millions in government contracts after Nestor Kirchner took power. Two businessmen — one allegedly working as a courier for Baez, and another as a financier — admitted that they had a hand in laundering money for the Kirchner's. One was even caught on tape weighing bags of cash to be sent abroad. After the segment aired, though, the two businessmen retracted their statements. One of the businessmen is now in jail for tax evasion, according to the Wall Street Journal. Also, an Argentine prosecutor named Jose Maria Campagnoli, who produced a big report on the matter was suspended in December. The report spoke of 150 companies Baez set up in the United States to funnel kickbacks from his government contracts back to the Kirchners. Baez denies any wrongdoing. He also denies that he has any business ventures outside of Argentina — let alone shell companies in the American desert. The way Baez tells it, he's only a good friend of the Kirchners; The kind of friend who allegedly rents out 90 hotel rooms from the Kirchners' boutique hotel a year — rooms that stay empty, according to the Wall Street Journal.  The kind of friend who offers to pay $1.6 million in eight installments for a property worth $1.5 million — as long as $200,000 of the last installment go to the President's reelection campaign. Baez also built the mausoleum in which Nestor Kirchner's body rests. World Economic Forum via FlikrPaul Singer, founder of Elliott Management "We're not terribly sensitive to where the money is," said Cohen on a conference call to journalists on Thursday. That lack of "sensitivity" is how, according to a Court filing, NML's lawyers tracked down these 123 shell companies in Nevada set up by a Panamanian law firm called Mossack and Fonseca. In Cohen's own words, Mossack and Fonseca operates "close to the edge of the law", with operations in Seychelles, a popular tax haven. In a Court filing NML wrote: NML suspects that 123 Nevada corporations were used to launder $65 million of embezzled Argentine funds. Now, as Argentina suffers its second sovereign default in thirteen years—(in part because of this action)—NML seeks information from these corporations to locate the $65 million. In August of 2013, NML served subpoenas on the 123 corporations and their commercial registered agent, M.F. Corporate Services. M.F. Corporate Services produced responsive documents; but the corporations did not. They contend that no responsive documents exist. NML contends this is false. The custodian of  the 123 companies is one of the firm's attorneys Leticia Montoya. In response to a subpoena from NML's lawyers issued in August of 2013, she conceded that "the 123 corporations are shell corporations without any offices, business, or personnel in Nevada." With this response in hand, NML rolled its eyes and filed a motion to compel discovery — forcing Montoya to cough up any and all documents related to the 123 — and a Nevada Judge granted that motion. "We really don't know the extent of the corruption and how much has been stolen," said Cohen. He admitted that $65 million might just be the tip of the iceberg here. "It would be a mistake for us to disclose what our plans are," said Cohen, "but I assure you we will follow [Argentina's funds] the ends of the earth."  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man does the final touches on the Porsche logo of a Macan at the new plant in the eastern German city of LeipzigNEW YORK (Reuters) - Porsche Automobil Holding SE persuaded a U.S. federal appeals court to uphold the dismissal of a lawsuit by more than 30 hedge funds that accused the German automaker of fraudulently cornering the market in Volkswagen AG shares. The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Friday said the defendants could not be held liable under U.S. securities fraud laws because enough of the alleged wrongful conduct took place outside the United States. It also said, however, that the hedge funds might still "conceivably" be able to show why U.S. laws should apply and returned the case to Manhattan federal court to consider possible amended lawsuits. The funds accused Porsche of engineering a "massive short squeeze" in October 2008 by quietly buying nearly all freely traded ordinary VW shares in a bid to take over the company, despite publicly stating it had no plans to take a big stake. VW shares soared after Porsche revealed it had assumed control of three-quarters of the company, caused large losses for hedge funds that had bet VW's share price would decline.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York, editing by G Crosse) FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesJCPenney shares spiked by as much as 10% in after-hours trading Thursday following an earnings report that appeared to give investors hope that the retailer's turnaround plan was gaining traction. But the rally vanished Friday and the stock was down nearly 5% mid-day.  Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors says investors may have been spooked by the company's admission in an SEC filing that CEO Mike Ullman has undergone a surgical procedure. In the filing, JCPenney states that Ullman had "undergone surgery related to a medical condition he has had for more than 20 years," and that he "is recovering and he expects to return to work soon." "Given that Ullman has built the leadership team and strategies for the company to return to relevance in the mall, his surgical procedure that has him 'returning to work soon' per a filing has caused concern," Sozzi said.  Sozzi said he expects JCPenney to announce a successor to Ullman before the company's Oct. 8 analyst day. In the meantime, JCPenney board member and former Saks CEO Stephen Sadove would be a "quick, highly credible fallback option should the company not announce a successor to Ullman before the holidays or if Ullman is on the shelf for a considerable period," Sozzi said.  JCPenney reported a same-store sales increase of 6% for the second quarter, marking the company's third straight quarter of positive comparable sales.  The company generated revenue of $2.8 billion for the period, which is up about 5% from last year. Analysts were expecting revenue of $2.7 billion. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche is seen outside the Shanghai Roche Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. headquarters in Shanghai(Reuters) - Roche Holding AG is in talks to buy the almost 40 percent stake in Japan's Chugai Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that it does not already own for about $10 billion, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter. A spokeswoman for Roche declined to comment on the report. The Swiss group could announce a deal to take full control of its Japanese partner for oncology and arthritis drugs as early as next week, although no final decision has been made, Bloomberg said. (http://bloom.bg/1yF2JNH) There has long been speculation that Roche might swallow Chugai - following a similar buyout of U.S. biotech group Genentech in 2009 - to maximize exposure to the Japanese drugs market, the world's second largest after the United States. Roche Chief Executive Severin Schwan was asked about such a move in April 2013 but said then he had no plans to change the company's holding in Chugai, which has been a subsidiary since 2002. Roche, the world's largest producer of cancer medicines, has a long track record of making bolt-on acquisitions. Schwan reiterated last month that he planned to steer clear of mega-mergers and focus instead on smaller deals and partnerships. In its most recent deal, Roche agreed in July to pay up to $1.725 billion to buy Seragon Pharmaceuticals, a privately-held U.S. biotech company that researches breast cancer treatments. Acquiring the rest of Chugai would be a considerably larger purchase but would still be very manageable for Roche, which has a market value of about $250 billion. ($1 = 0.9023 Swiss Francs)              (Reporting by Amrutha Penumudi and Joshua Franklin; Editing by Ben Hirschler and David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWarren Buffett. In a speech at Columbia Business School, later adapted into an essay, Buffett introduced what he called, "The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville." Buffett writes: "The common intellectual theme of the investors from Graham-and-Doddsville is this: they search for discrepancies between the value of a business and the price of small pieces of that business in that market." And that's pretty much it. Buffett doesn't think about buying a stock; he thinks about buying a business.  APBenjamin Graham. In Buffett's essay, he asks readers to consider a group of investors who outperformed the S&amp;P 500 year in and year out. "In this group of successful investors that I want to consider," Buffett writes, "there has been a common intellectual patriarch, Ben Graham ... They have gone to different places and bought and sold different stocks and companies, yet they have a combined record that simply can't be explained by random chance." Buffett explains that the investors of Graham-and-Doddsville don't care when they buy stocks, or worry about a stock's beta or the "covariance in returns among securities." He says these investors are businessmen buying pieces of businesses, not traders buying stocks.  And the strategy seems to be working out OK: On Thursday, Class A shares of Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway eclipsed $200,000 per share for the first time, and $1,000 invested with Buffett in 1984 would've been worth $155,301.  And since 1969, the book value of Berkshire Hathaway — which Buffett acquired in 1964 — has beaten the S&amp;P 500 43 out of 44 years on a five-year rolling basis. Said more simply, the relative value of Berkshire Hathaway shares have been worth more than the S&amp;P 500 collectively every year but one.  Not to mention that Buffett's personal wealth is estimated by Forbes to be more than $66 billion. In July, we featured a chapter from Cullen Roche's new book, "Pragmatic Capitalism," which debunked the myth that "you too" can be like Buffett. You can't, of course. But Roche's point isn't that Buffett's ideas about investing aren't sound, just misunderstood. Many think Buffett was a simple "buy and hold" stock investor, but his investing is about way more than that — or way less, depending on how you look at it.  Buffett concludes his essay by writing that some may wonder why he is giving away this basic investment philosophy of a number of investors who have outperformed the market. Isn't he just giving away the secret? "I can only tell you that the secret has been out for 50 years," Buffett writes, "...yet I have seen no trend toward value investing in the 35 years I've practiced it. There seems to be some perverse human characteristic that likes to make easy things difficult. The academic world, if anything, has actually backed away from the teaching of value investing over the last 30 years. It's likely to stay that way. Ships will sail around the world but the Flat Earth Society will flourish. There will continue to be wide discrepancies between price and value in the marketplace, and those who read their Graham &amp; Dodd will continue to prosper." Indeed, all of the research continues to show that the vast majority of professional and retail investors are underperforming. The whole essay is embedded below.     FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployees and guests tour a Bombardier LRV train at manufacturing facilities in TorontoBy Sophie Sassard, Pamela Barbaglia and Danilo Masoni LONDON/MILAN (Reuters) - Canadian plane and train maker Bombardier and Japanese industrial giant Hitachi are the two frontrunners to buy Finmeccanica's rail subsidiaries, several sources close to the auction process said. Italy's Finmeccanica has been trying to sell its cash-strapped train division AnsaldoBreda together with its profitable rail signals business Ansaldo STS for three years, to help reduce net debts of 4.8 billion euros ($6.4 billion). The sources said Bombardier Inc and Hitachi Ltd are expected to bid for the Italian group's rail businesses ahead of an August 29 deadline. Three other groups are also expected to bid. They are French defense electronics firm Thales, Spanish train builder Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles and train maker China CNR Corp Ltd, in tandem with its partner Insigma Technology Co Ltd. Finmeccanica has struggled to sell its rail businesses together because the division that makes trains, AnsaldoBreda, has been losing money for years and has long been a drag on the Italian defense group's results. Finmeccanica's listed signaling business, Ansaldo STS, is considered an attractive prospect for the bidders and has a market value of $1.45 billion. The sources close to the auction process, who declined to be named because the talks are private, said Bombardier and Hitachi had the most overlap with train builder AnsaldoBreda. Several sources said Bombardier Transportation was well-placed to win because it already works with AnsaldoBreda in the development, production and sale of the new Frecciarossa 1000, a train capable of transporting passengers at 360 km per hour. Hitachi, the company behind Japan's first "bullet" trains, said in March it was moving its global rail business to Britain as part of a push to expand within Europe and beyond. A spokesman for Finmeccanica, which is being advised on the sale by Mediobanca and UBS, said the process remained open and offers needed to reflect the value of the assets and guarantee investment and development prospects. Representatives of Bombardier, Hitachi and Spain's CAF declined to comment. Spokesmen for Thales, China CNR Corporation and Insigma were not immediately available for comment.  CAPITAL INCREASE? Mauro Moretti, a veteran rail executive who took over as Finmeccanica's chief executive in May, is under pressure to make changes at the Italian group and intends to wrap up the rail business auction in October. State-controlled Finmeccanica aims to raise about 2 billion euros from the sales to help cut its net debt, which is rated as junk, and focus on its core aerospace and defense businesses. The challenge for Moretti is to make AnsaldoBreda as attractive as possible so the combined sale is a success. The sources said some of the bidders, including Bombardier and Thales, are more likely to submit provisional offers by the August 29 deadline, rather than binding bids. The companies want more clarity on what parts of AnsaldoBreda will be included in the deal and what guarantees Finmeccanica is ready to make so the asset is more appealing. At least two of the bidders want the Italian defense group to recapitalize AnsaldoBreda prior to any deal, two sources said, and their bids will remain conditional until Finmeccanica spells out exactly what it is prepared to do. AnsaldoBreda, which aims to break even at an operating level in 2015, has a negative value of 150 million euros, according to one analyst estimate. It posted a loss before interest and tax of 227 million euros in 2013. Annual pre-tax losses reached a peak of more than 700 million euros in 2011. A capital increase would help bring AnsaldoBreda's value back to zero and beef up the balance sheet, as the division is likely to need more investment in the future, two sources said. This would then allow the various suitors to table a competitive offer for Finmeccanica's Ansaldo STS. The sources said the signals division would command a premium of about 25 percent over its current market value. If Finmeccanica agrees to a capital injection then it would retain a stake in the troubled train maker and could complete an ongoing restructuring plan, the sources said. Analysts say AnsaldoBreda is starting to see the impact of the plan designed to make the company more efficient and more selective in tenders to ensure adequate levels of profitability. It has seen a strong rise in orders, including a subway deal in Peru. The company employs about 3,000 people, partly based in the unemployment-plagued cities of Naples and Reggio Calabria. But a Hong Kong-based banker said there was still a pressing need for a "long-term plan" to get AnsaldoBreda back on track. He said that while a recapitalization would reduce the purchase price, it would not resolve some of the underlying issues such as the train maker's pension liabilities.  CONSOLIDATION REVIVAL A sale of Ansaldo would mark a revival of industry consolidation after an attempt to merge Siemens and Alstom's train-making units failed this year. The last major deal in the sector was Siemens' 2.2 billion-euro acquisition of Invensys' signaling arm, which received the green light from antitrust authorities in 2013. In the face of fierce competition from Asian rivals, European champions see limited scope to increase their size in the global rail market without joining larger conglomerates. China CNR, one of the bidders for Ansaldo, is the world's largest train maker by sales ahead of China South Locomotive and Rolling Stock Corp Ltd and Bombardier Transportation. Like Bombardier, CNR already has ties with AnsaldoBreda. The two companies signed a 10-year deal in 2012 for the provision of up to 600 of AnsaldoBreda's Sirio low-floor trams. But CNR's takeover ambitions could be challenged by the need for Chinese government approval, the Hong Kong-based banker said. The sources close to the Finmeccanica sale said France's Thales was mainly looking to buy Ansaldo STS and had little appetite to turn AnsaldoBreda around because of the limited overlap between the two companies. Spain's CAF, has a market capitalization of 1 billion euros and would struggle to finance a bid without teaming up with a partner, several Madrid-based bankers said. In the first-half of the year, Finmeccanica's rail businesses posted core earnings (EBITA) of 26 million euros, beating forecasts mainly thanks to smaller losses at AnsaldoBreda. Revenues rose 6.7 percent to 1 billion euros.  (1 US dollar = 0.7469 euro)  (Additional Reporting by Andres Gonzalez Estebaran in Madrid; editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovRussian military personnel sit atop armoured vehicles outside Kamensk-Shakhtinsky, Rostov Region, August 15, 2014.  Headlines from Bloomberg, citing a Ukrainian military spokesperson, said that Ukrainian troops destroyed part of an armed convoy from Russia. The Dow was down 103 points, the S&amp;P 500 fell 8 points, and the Nasdaq was down 16 points.  The price of wheat also spiked as much as 2% following the report, as Russia is a major exporter of wheat. Gold, which was down notably earlier on Friday, moved about $6 off of its lows to climb back above $1,300 an ounce.  Bonds are also rallying, with the yield on the U.S. 10-year bond falling to 2.34%. Earlier the Dow was up more than 50 points but has fallen as much as 120 points round-trip. Michael McDonough of Bloomberg put the move in both S&amp;P 500 futures and the U.S. 10-year Treasury bond in context on Twitter.         Earlier on Friday, we got a number of economic reports, which were mixed.  The headline reading for the New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing report fell to 14.69, but some internals in the report looked positive, noted BI's Rob Wile.  Producer prices were in-line with expectations, and the Fed's latest industrial production report came in a little bit better than expected.  The preliminary read on August consumer confidence from the University of Michigan fell to a 9-month low.  Here's a chart of wheat following the Ukraine news. FinViz This post will be updated.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCans of soda are displayed in a case at Kwik Stops Liquor in San Diego(Reuters) - U.S. consumer sentiment fell in August to its lowest since last November while a barometer of current economic conditions rose to its highest since July 2007, a survey released on Friday showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan's preliminary August reading on the overall index on consumer sentiment came in at 79.2, down from a final reading of 81.8 the month before. It was below the the median forecast of 82.5 among economists polled by Reuters, and was the lowest since a reading of 75.1 in November of last year. "While the data implies differential prospects for retailers, consumer confidence remains at moderately positive levels, high enough to support a continued expansion in personal consumption during the year ahead," survey director Richard Curtin said in a statement. The survey's barometer of current economic conditions rose to 99.6 from 97.4 and above a forecast of 97.8. The survey's gauge of consumer expectations slipped for a fourth straight month, to 66.2 from 71.8. The subindex was below an expected 73.0 and was the lowest since last October. The survey's one-year inflation expectation rose to 3.4 percent from 3.3 percent, while the survey's five-to-10-year inflation outlook rose to 2.8 percent from 2.7 percent. "Importantly, upper income households reported quite substantial financial progress, but they reported the same sized losses as lower income households in their outlook for the overall economy," Curtin said.    (Reporting by Sam Forgione; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Supercenters are on the decline as shoppers seek out smaller, more convenient stores. Wal-mart said yesterday that sales at U.S. mega-stores have been falling. But there's still a bright spot in its business — the Neighborhood Market concept.  Sales at the markets were up an impressive 5.6%.  "I think convenience is where the consumers have been looking, [especially] if you look at the Baby Boomers," Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said on a call with reporters Thursday. Wal-Mart has about 400 Neighborhood Markets, compared with more than 3,300 Supercenters, notes Kyle Stock at Bloomberg Businessweek. The average store is about 20% the size of a Supercenter.  Big box stores are becoming irrelevant as Americans downsize and purchase big-ticket items like furniture and televisions online.  Wal-Mart's marketplace concept focuses heavily on fresh produce and groceries. While traditional Wal-Mart stores are situated on large patches of land, the Neighborhood Markets are primarily in urban areas.  Wal-Mart shared some photos of its new concept. Chances are, one will be coming to a neighborhood near you in the future.  Here's a Neighborhood Market in California. Note how the store closely resembles a Whole Foods Market.  Wal-Mart Here's a more urban location, in Chicago.  Wal-Mart The Neighborhood Market includes ample "healthy" displays. Wal-Mart There's also an emphasis on local and organic produce.  Wal-Mart Wal-Mart is expanding the concept to more markets.  Wal-Mart FREE AppDownload
StreetEasyApollo Global Management Founder Leon Black and his wife, Debra, are "hammering out the details" to buy a $50 million townhouse on the Upper East Side, according to the New York Post. Previously, the apartment was the Knoedler &amp; Company art gallery, although it was shut down in 2009 after a scandal involving art fraud. In 2013, Christian Candy, a British luxury property developer, bought the apartment for $35 million. He refurbished the townhouse and put it back on the market for $55 million. The townhouse was originally built in 1909. It has 20,757 square feet and seven stories. FREE AppDownload
Aly Song / ReutersAchillion Pharmaceuticals was up more than 11% on Friday after the company announced positive interim results for its hepatitis C treatment.  The trial is for the company's ACH-3102 inhibitor in combination with sofosbuvir, which is marketed and sold as Sovaldi by Gilead Sciences. In its most recent quarterly report, Gilead said sales of Sovaldi, which was approved by the FDA in December 2013, totaled $3.48 billion. In its announcement Friday, Achillion said, "ACH-3102 continues to demonstrate good safety and tolerability through three Phase 2 studies. We believe these studies also confirm a differentiated efficacy profile for an NS5A inhibitor."  As a result of its findings, Achillion said 12 additional patients would begin treatment with six weeks of its ACH-3102 inhibitor with sofosbuvir.  Year-to-date, Achillion shares are up more than 190%.  Additionally on Friday, Gilead announced that an arbitrator ruled in favor of the company in a dispute with Roche related to a 2004 development agreement on sofosbuvir. Gilead shares were up as much as 2% on Friday.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFour Deere & Co planters are seen at Spirit Farms in Sheridan, IllinoisDeere &amp; Co, the world's largest maker of farm equipment, said it would indefinitely lay off more than 600 employees at plants in Illinois, Iowa and Kansas as falling grain prices hurt demand for tractors, harvesters and other agricultural machinery. The company reported a 5 percent drop in third-quarter sales on Wednesday and cut its full-year profit forecast. Deere had about 67,000 full-time employees as of Oct. 31, 2013, of which about 33,900 were in the United States and Canada. The layoffs are at plants in Moline and East Moline, Illinois; Ankeny, Iowa; and Coffeyville, Kansas. Deere, whose shares were little changed at $84.90 in early trading on Friday, said it would also implement seasonal and inventory-adjustment shutdowns at the affected plants that would result in temporary layoffs. The company operated 26 plants in the United States and Canada as of Oct. 31, of which 17 primarily make agriculture and turf equipment. Deere also makes construction and forestry equipment. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has forecast record U.S. corn and soybean crops this year - a prospect that has sent prices plummeting and discouraged farmers from buying equipment. Up to Thursday's close, Deere's stock had fallen 6 percent this year. It fell about 2 percent on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA truck drives on a street at Port Elizabeth in New JerseyNEW YORK (Reuters) - Economists raised their forecasts for U.S. economic growth in the third quarter but trimmed their estimates for the balance of 2014, though the outlook for both job growth and lower unemployment was strengthened. Analysts see the economy growing at an annual rate of 3.0 percent in the current quarter, up from a previous estimate of 2.9 percent, according to the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's quarterly survey of 43 forecasters, released on Friday. Fourth-quarter growth was forecast at 3.1 percent, down from a previous estimate of 3.2 percent, and first-quarter 2015 growth was estimated at 3.1 percent, unchanged from an earlier estimate of 3.1 percent. Meanwhile, they see the economy growing at a rate of 2.1 percent for all of 2014, down from the previous estimate of 2.4 percent in the previous survey in May. Growth in 2015 is expected to come in at 3.1 percent, unchanged from the 3.1 percent estimate in the May survey. The pace of hiring was expected to accelerate in the current quarter compared with previous expectations, with an average rate of monthly nonfarm job growth seen around 228,600 versus a previous forecast of 204,700. That is expected to dip in the fourth quarter, averaging 211,200, although that is up from a prior forecast of 197,900. Hiring should average 204,800 a month for all of 2014, compared with the prior full-year forecast of 196,500. The jobless rate was expected to be 6.1 percent at the end of the current quarter and 6.0 percent by the end of the fourth quarter. The most recent official unemployment rate released by the government showed the jobless rate in July stood at 6.2 percent, up a tenth of a point from June's reading, which was the lowest since September 2008. Inflation was expected to remain muted, with year-on-year core consumer price inflation, which strips out food and energy costs, averaging 2.1 percent in the third quarter, compared with a previous estimates of 1.8 percent. Fourth-quarter core CPI was seen at 2.1 percent versus a previous forecast of 1.9 percent. Looking at the inflation measure most closely tracked by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the core personal consumption expenditures, or PCE, index, forecasters also see muted price pressures. The third-quarter rate was seen at 1.8 percent, up from 1.7 percent in the May survey.  (Reporting by Dan Burns; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hani AmaraA damaged building is pictured after clashes between rival militias, in an area at Alswani road in Tripoli July 28, 2014. Despite continued militia fighting only one of the country's oil ports remains closed.Oil prices had a good run. But the brief bump we saw in prices several weeks ago is over. Prices have now returned to levels not seen in more than a year. Yesterday London-traded Brent crude futures fell more than 2% yesterday to $102, about where we were on July 1, 2013.  In a new note, TD Securities' Bart Melek writes that risks to global oil supply have almost entirely vanished.  "As each geopolitical event created supply risk and corresponding price support, some set of data or information would debunk supply concerns in due course." Investing.comBrent crude prices are now hovering above post-recession lows. First, investors have realized that, for now, the Islamic State's insurgency in Iraq is focused in the country's north, while Iraqi exporting and production capacities are mainly concentrated in the south. Meanwhile, Libyan production, which for months has seen outages of one form or another as a result of rebel fighting, has come back, and all but one oil port is now open. “Even though you have fighting in Tripoli, Libya seems to be able to provide volumes higher than the previous month’s,” Alexander Poegl, an analyst at JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna, told Bloomberg. Here's a recent chart from the IEA showing it's begun to creep upward: IEALibyan oil production has crept upward.As for the West's sanctions against Russia, they've been tailored around fossil fuel production tripwires, focused instead on limiting access to capital markets. And the conflict Israel-Palestine conflict shows no sign of spilling over Gaza, Melek said.  We've also recently explained how American shale production as yet shows no signs of slowing, while demand growth in Europe has flatlined, both of which have further weighed on prices.   "The general theme of geopolitical supply-risk and rapidly growing demand due to expanding/rebounding economies is starting to fade and investors have recently come to focus on the more apparent supply-demand looseness picture," Melek said. Brent futures were actually up 0.5% Friday. New York-traded West Texas Intermediate contracts were also higher. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookA 24-foot long cast bronze arm and fist monument to boxer Joe Louis is seen hanging from a balance suspension on Jefferson Ave at Woodward in downtown Detroit, Michigan. Consumer confidence has deteriorated in the past month. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index fell to a nine-month low of 79.2 in August from 81.8 in July. Economists were expecting an increase to 82.5. "The unexpected drop in confidence is at odds with the positive underlying tone in the US economy, which suggests that the souring in consumers' mood may have more to do with issues beyond economic fundamentals," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. The current conditions index improvewd to 99.6 from 97.4. But in more worrisome news, the outlook index fell to 66.2 from 71.8. "With employment expanding at a rapid clip, gasoline prices dropping back a little, long-term interest rates collapsing and equity prices rallying in recent days, we would expect this particular confidence measure to come in a little higher in the final August estimate," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "More generally, the various confidence measures are all over the place. This eight-month low contrasts with the Conference Board measure, which hit its highest level in July since the recession began." Markets aren't reacting to the news. The Dow is up 53 points (+0.3%) and the S&amp;P 500 is up 8 points (+0.4%). FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChief Executive of Barclays Bank John Varley is driven away after a meeting at the Treasury in LondonBy Kirstin Ridley and Steve Slater LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's fraud prosecutor could decide as soon as next month whether to charge former Barclays executives over undisclosed payments the bank made to Qatari investors in 2008, three sources familiar with the investigation said. In a two-year investigation the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has interviewed former chief executives Bob Diamond and John Varley, former finance director Chris Lucas, former tax advisory boss Roger Jenkins and other Barclays staff. Barclays and a spokesman for Diamond declined to comment. Varley, Lucas and Jenkins could not be reached or did not respond to requests for comment. The SFO has not specified why it is investigating the payments Barclays made to Qatar Holdings when the Qatari sovereign wealth fund invested in the bank. SFO head David Green would only say: "We are making progress with this case, and we are not going away." The sources said the agency was expected to decide by late-September or October whether to charge any of the men, after examining its evidence to determine whether there is a realistic prospect of conviction and that a prosecution is in the public interest. If charged, these would be the most senior bankers prosecuted to date for alleged crimes during the 2007-08 financial crisis, which brought the global financial system to its knees and plunged much of the world into recession.  THE COST OF CASH As the credit crisis raged in 2008, Barclays, unlike rivals Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, avoided a state bailout - and the restrictions that would have come with it - by securing almost 12 billion pounds ($20 billion) from two emergency cash injections, mostly from Middle East investors. But the deal came at a cost. As part of the deal, Barclays revealed 116 million pounds in advisory fees and commission to Qatar Holdings, but Britain's Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said it had failed to reveal another 322 million pounds in two "advisory services agreements" with the Qatari company. The FCA said the non-disclosure was "reckless" and could have broken the bank's duty to act with integrity to all its shareholders. It fined the bank 50 million pounds. Barclays said it had disclosed one of the agreements, but not the value, and is contesting the FCA findings. The FCA case is on hold pending the outcome of the SFO's investigation. During the Qatari fundraising, John Varley was CEO, and Diamond, one of London's best-paid bankers, was head of the investment bank division. Diamond succeeded Varley at the end of 2010, but was ousted in July 2012 after the bank was fined for rigging Libor interest rates. Former finance director Lucas retired last year due to ill health, and Roger Jenkins left in early 2009. The deal with Qatar was already controversial because Barclays shareholders were angry the sovereign wealth fund was offered more attractive terms than existing investors. Qatar has made a healthy profit from its investment and remains one of the bank's biggest three shareholders, with a stake of about 5 percent. Qatar Holding declined to comment. U.S. authorities are also investigating the same Barclays' Qatari commercial agreements and whether third-party relationships breached anti-bribery rules. ($1 = 0.5992 British Pounds)  (Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Rebecca Cook Regulatory filings released on Thursday give the first comprehensive look at Allergan's redrawn shareholder map since Ackman and deal partner Valeant Pharmaceuticals Inc. made public their pursuit of the Botox maker in late April. And while the data, released in so-called 13-F filings, is backward looking and could have changed in the 45 days since the end of the quarter, investors say that it gives at least a strong flavor for what savvy investors are thinking. Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management disclosed a 9.7 percent stake in Allergan at the time. By the end of June, John Paulson's Paulson &amp; Co., Jamie Dinan's York Capital Management, and Andreas Halvorsen's Viking Global Investors had also bought in, according to the documents released by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The filings show that several large mutual fund firms that already owned Allergan made even bigger bets during the quarter. T. Rowe Price, for example, more than doubled its position, although it did not say exactly which funds owned the shares. Paulson's moves have been tracked closely by investors since his winning bet against the overheated U.S. housing market. He has publicly supported Valeant's bid for Allergan, now worth about $49 billion. But many other shareholders have been silent and it was not clear who else had gotten in or gotten out. In recent weeks, the fight for Allergan has become even more bitter. Proxy advisory firms are urging its shareholders to support Ackman's call for a special meeting to consider a deal. Yet one of Valeant's top shareholders, hedge fund ValueAct Capital Management, suggested that Valeant may not be able to afford a drawn-out, damaging fight. Allergan charged in a lawsuit filed earlier this month in California that Pershing Square broke insider-trading laws when setting up its partnership with Valeant. Now U.S. securities regulators are asking questions about the planned takeover, a person familiar with the matter said Thursday. Thursday's filings show that York Capital Management bought 2.4 million shares of Allergan during the quarter. York also bought put options on Allergan. Eric Mindich's Eton Park Capital Management said it owned 901,000 shares while Viking Global Investors reported owning 803,369 shares. Viking also raised its bet on Valeant by buying an additional 2.5 million shares. Other new owners include Farallon Capital Management, founded by Tom Steyer and now run by Andrew Spokes, which said it owned 612,500 shares. Hoplite Capital Management also opened a new position and owned 625,850 shares. Sachem Head Capital, run by Scott Ferguson, who left Ackman's firm in 2012 to open his own shop, also bought in, opening a new position with 490,000 shares. Ferguson also opened a new position in Valeant with 419,500 shares. Investors who exited or cut their positions include Capital Research Global Investors, which ranked as Allergan's second-largest shareholder at the end of the first quarter but sold out its holdings during the second quarter. Hedge fund Jennison Associates cuts its position by more than half, selling 6.2 million shares while Montag &amp; Caldwell sold 1.3 million shares, cutting its stake by 36 percent. The decision to buy in at that time paid off big as Allergan's stock price surged 38 percent in the second quarter. Since then the share price has come under some pressure. The spread on the deal — or the difference between the value of the two companies' shares and the ratio implied by the deal's terms — has widened slightly to about 5.2 percent from less than 3 percent earlier this week after a key Valeant shareholder questioned the deal's logic. Some investors have said that Allergan's share price suggests the deal may have less of a chance of getting done now. But several investors told Reuters this week they expect that Ackman will succeed in attracting enough support to call the special shareholder meeting where shareholders will get their first chance to say what they think about the deal.   (Additional reporting by Caroline Humer, Olivia Oran and Soyoung Kim in New York; Editing by Michele Gershberg and Lisa Shumaker)    This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adam Fenster Industrial production rose 0.4% in July. This marks the sixth straight monthly gain in industrial production. The Fed's latest report was expected to show production rose 0.3% over last month.  June's report was revised up to show production growth of 0.4% against a prior reading for 0.2%.  Capacity utilization for July came in at 79.2%, in-line with the 79.2% that was expected. Manufacturing output in July rose 1% in July, the largest increase since February.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "Headline flattered by autos, but core production looks solid, too."  This chart from Pantheon shows industrial production over the last three-plus years.  Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Whether you wear prescription glasses or simply sunglasses, choosing the right frames for your face is a difficult task. Here are some key tips from eyewear specialist Shannon Malone, a director of product marketing at Warby Parker, to find a pair that will complement your face.  Produced by Matthew Stuart. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
AP ImagesOrca whales at SeaWorld.SeaWorld announced it will build new, larger habitats for its Orca whales.  The announcement comes after the company on Wednesday saw its shares fall more than 30% as it faces continuing declines in attendance in the wake of the controversial "Blackfish" documentary. The company said the first new tank would be built at its San Diego park, and will have a water volume of 10 million gallons and will have a surface area of nearly 1.5 acres.  The Wall Street Journal's Tom Gara reported that the upgrades would cost "several hundred millions dollars." SeaWorld also announced that it will donate $10 million in matching funds for killer whale research. SeaWorld is also engaging an independent advisory panel, "to bring new perspectives and ideas to the project."  "Like so many others in science and industry, we are constantly learning more about how we can evolve our knowledge and continue to learn more about these amazing animals and stewardship of those in the wild," SeaWorld CEO Jim Atchison said. You can read SeaWorld's full release here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Lehman Brothers building is pictured in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Unsecured creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc's brokerage unit who have waited nearly five years to recoup their money will begin receiving an initial $4.62 billion payout next month, the trustee liquidating the unit said on Friday. James Giddens, the trustee, said distributions would begin on Sept. 10 and cover 17 percent of the $27.2 billion of unsecured claims associated with the brokerage unit, Lehman Brothers Inc. About $3.47 billion will go to creditors whose claims have been deemed valid, and another $1.15 billion will be set aside for claims that are still pending. The payout follows distributions of $105 billion to 111,000 former customers, who have been paid in full, and other creditors whose claims had higher priority. In a statement, Giddens said a payout to unsecured creditors had been "far from certain" when the brokerage liquidation began soon after Lehman went bankrupt on Sept. 15, 2008. More payments to unsecured creditors are expected, he said. Giddens' recovery efforts suffered a setback on Aug. 5 when a federal appeals court said Barclays Plc was entitled to retain $5.9 billion of disputed assets as part of its hurried purchase of much of Lehman's brokerage unit. [ID:nL2N0QB112] Lehman was Wall Street's fourth-largest investment bank before seeking Chapter 11 protection. It reported $639 billion of assets, in what remains the largest U.S. bankruptcy. The case is In re: Lehman Brothers Inc, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York, No. 08-01420.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Oxford Said Business School(Reuters) - Pershing Square Capital Management LP, the hedge fund firm run by William Ackman, on Thursday sued the U.S. government, claiming that its stripping of profits from Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac unconstitutionally short changes investors in the companies' common stock. In a complaint filed with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C., Pershing said the practice since 2012 of sweeping profits from government-controlled Fannie and Freddie into the U.S. Treasury as dividends creates a "windfall" for the government at the expense of shareholders. It said the practice violates the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution by taking private property for public use without just compensation. The lawsuit seeks damages and other remedies. The Treasury Department and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie and Freddie, were not immediately available for comment. FREE AppDownload
King Retail SolutionsProducer prices rose in-line with expectations. Prices rose 0.1% in July; expectations were for prices to rise 0.1%, less than the 0.4% increase in June. Excluding food and energy, producer prices rose 0.2%, also in-line with the expected 0.2% rise. Year-over-year, prices rose 1.7%, also right in-line with expectations. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "Another unexciting PPI, with the core rising by rather less than seems to be implied by the NFIB survey for the third straight month, for reasons which are not clear." This table from the BLS shows the latest reading for producer prices.  BLS FREE AppDownload
New York FedEmpire State Manufacturing Survey, August 2014, Expectations Six Months Ahead, Seasonally AdjustedOutlook for New York-area business conditions climbed 18 points to 46.8, the highest level since January 2012. The reading came even as the headline reading for the New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing survey for August plunged to 14.69. Consensus was for a reading of 20 versus 25.60 prior. "Most of the indexes for the six-month outlook rebounded sharply after slipping last month, and a number of them reached multiyear highs, signaling increasingly widespread optimism about the near-term outlook," the New York Fed said in a release. It added that, "despite the pullback in most of the survey’s indexes for current conditions, optimism about the near-term outlook grew increasingly widespread." At right you can see how the six-month outlook increased across the survey's sub-indexes. "The fall in the Empire State index, to 14.7 in August from 25.6 in July, is not a big concern for three reasons," Capital Economics' Paul Dales said in a note. "First, sentiment was probably hit by the weakness of stockmarkets earlier this month. The indices measuring actual activity fared better – the shipments index rose and the new orders index only fell a bit. With equity prices now rising, the headline index may recover in September. Second, the survey remains strong by recent standards. It’s consistent with manufacturing output rising at an annualised rate of close to 10%. Third, both domestic and overseas demand have stayed strong, which will support industrial activity." But Dales says the survey's paltry 0.1% producer prices increase, which took the annual rate down to 1.7% from 1.9%; and core price annual rate decline to 1.6% from 1.8% signals inflation remains elusive, though this could yet prove temporary.    Meanwhile, the new orders index slipped almost five points to 14.1, and unfilled orders inched down one point to -8.0. Shipments edged up a point to 24.6 — a multiyear high. Employment declined slightly, but the index for hours worked climbed modestly. Here's the chart for the headline reading. You can see it's still well off the first-six-months-of-2014 mat: New York Fed FREE AppDownload
ABC News Dov Charney.From American Apparel Inc. to Lululemon Athletica Inc., Men's Wearhouse Inc., and Best Buy Co Inc., a series of boardroom battles across North America underscore how difficult it can be for companies to part ways with their founders. In each of these cases, the boards decided it was time for the founders to step down from their roles either as chief executive or chairman — but faced stiff resistance from the founders, some of whom used their substantial equity stakes to fight back. Corporate governance experts expect more such corporate dramas as shareholders are increasingly holding boards accountable for succession planning, investment returns, and overall fiduciary duties. As a result, boards are asserting their authority more frequently, which can put them on collision courses with CEOs, including founders. "Today's boards are increasingly feeling pressure to anticipate the CEO leadership needed to drive future success. This is especially true when the CEO is the founder of the company," said Jane Stevenson, head of the global CEO succession practice at Korn Ferry International. "In these situations the board can feel significant conflict between appropriate homage to the past and the leadership needed to drive success in the future." As many as 42 Fortune 500 companies have founders in CEO positions, according to data compiled by recruitment firm Heidrick &amp; Struggles for Reuters. These founder-CEOs have an average tenure of 22.5 years, compared with around six years for non-founder CEOs. "Founders are often the ones that have the 'special sauce' that makes a company's offering and culture work, so they might be given additional latitude ... as their vision drove value creation in the first place," said Heidrick &amp; Struggles' Vice Chairman John Wood. American Apparel, under Charney's leadership, was known for its racy advertising and "Made in the USA" sweatshop-free model. However, the company has posted losses in almost every quarter in the past four years and has come under fire for lax financial controls. In June, the board fired Charney for allegedly misusing corporate funds and helping to spread nude photos of a former employee on the Internet. Charney has denied the allegations and is fighting to regain control of the company. He increased his stake in the apparel retailer to 44 percent, from about 27 percent, but signed over his voting rights and shares to the hedge fund Standard General as collateral for a loan. Charney intends to have a say over key decisions, such as the makeup of the board or M&amp;A deals, whether or not he returns as CEO, a source close to the matter said this week. American Apparel is waiting for the results of an internal investigation before deciding what to do about its founder. A spokesman for American Apparel declined to comment. FOUNDERS' SHADOW In the case of Lululemon, the Canadian yoga apparel chain was once one of the hottest stocks in retail, but it suffered a damaging recall last year involving see-through yoga pants. Late last year, Chip Wilson, the company's founder, stepped down as non-executive chairman to pave the way for new CEO Laurent Potdevin to run the company. Wilson, however, remained on the board so that directors could tap his knowledge about the company and its customers. The board assured Potdevin that he would be able to run Lululemon without undue influence from Wilson, according to a source familiar with the situation who spoke on condition of anonymity. But tensions began to build as some directors felt Wilson wanted to be excessively involved in management decisions; at the same time, Wilson, who has a 27 percent stake in Lululemon, became increasingly frustrated that he was not being fully heard, the source said. Representatives for Wilson and Lululemon declined to comment. The problems spilled out into the open in June, when Wilson lashed out at the board, saying its new chairman and another director were too focused on short-term growth. The two sides settled last week, when Wilson agreed not to wage a proxy contest and to sell half his stake to private equity firm Advent International. Still, shares of Lululemon have fallen more than 40 percent since Potdevin's appointment in December, underscoring the toll such corporate clashes can take on share valuations. Similar battles between the boards and founders of Men's Wearhouse, Best Buy, and Groupon Inc. have rattled their investors until the disagreements were finally settled. "Numerous times I've seen first-hand how the founder dynamic can be particularly challenging for fellow board members to successfully grapple with. Internal disputes that become public are one of the most dysfunctional events companies face," said Brad Allen, the founder of Branav Shareholder Advisory Services, which counsels boards and shareholders on governance issues. FOUNDERS AS AN ASSET To be sure, not all founder departures are acrimonious. Directors and recruiters say many founders have a deep well of knowledge about their companies and customers, and they can be invaluable to their successors. Former Nielsen Holdings N.V. CEO David Calhoun said he used to seek advice from Arthur Nielsen Jr. on how to resist pressure from media clients for favorable research. Nielsen Jr. is credited with transforming the company, which his father founded in 1923, into a name synonymous with television ratings. "Art Jr's advice went to the heart of our business: the potential conflict between serving client's needs (the companies we measure) and our commitment to objective measurement," said Calhoun, who is now executive chairman at Nielsen. Bill Ford had fully supported Alan Mulally when he took over as CEO of Ford Motor Co. in September 2006, said Marshall Goldsmith, an executive coach who has worked with Mulally. Early in his tenure, when some top executives challenged Mulally's initiative to conduct a weekly review of business priorities, he had the backing of Ford, who helped Mulally implement the plan. The weekly review turned out to be central to the No. 2 U.S. automaker's successful turnaround, according to Goldsmith. Goldsmith said his advice to founders is to pick a date to hand off the company and start working on a succession plan. "Leave with dignity; don't get thrown out," Goldsmith said. (Reporting by Nadia Damouni; Additional reporting by Euan Rocha; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Tiffany Wu) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Wolfgang RattayA carnival reveler rides down the Schiltach stream in an old bath tub during the "Bach na fahre" (Race down the stream) raft contest on Rose Monday in the southwest German Black Forest town of Schramberg on March 3.The German soccer team's romp to victory in last month's World Cup was hailed at home as a symbol of the country's emergence as a confident global economic power. But in an ironic twist, the feel-good triumph in Brazil may have come at a time when Germany's new "Wirtschaftswunder," or economic miracle, is coming to an end. In recent weeks, the economy that proud German politicians have taken to describing as a "growth locomotive" and "stability anchor" for Europe has been hit by a barrage of bad news that has surprised even the most ardent Germany skeptics. The big shocker came Thursday, when the Federal Statistics Office revealed that gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 0.2 percent in the second quarter. "The euphoria that we've seen, the perception that the German economy is booming, is simply misplaced," said Marcel Fratzscher, director of the DIW economic institute in Berlin. So why is Germany suddenly ailing? The standoff with Russia over Ukraine has received its fair share of blame in the German media. But that conflict may not hit the economy with full force until the third quarter. It was only last month that Europe stung Moscow with economic sanctions, prompting a tit-for-tat response from Russian President Vladimir Putin. In reality, economists and some government officials acknowledge, there are deeper reasons for the recent downturn. And they have little to do with the spike in geopolitical tensions in eastern Europe or the Middle East. They start at home, where Chancellor Angela Merkel's abrupt exit from nuclear energy after the Fukushima disaster in Japan and aggressive push into renewables has unnerved German industry. A recent overhaul of the country's complex renewable energy law has done little to alleviate uncertainty over future policy or assuage fears about German energy competitiveness. "Energy intensive industries in particular have lost confidence in the future of Germany as a business location," said Thomas Mayer, a former chief economist at Deutsche Bank who now runs the Cologne-based Flossbach von Storch Research Institute. "I think this is a major issue that will burden German industry for years to come." Further souring the mood among businesses has been a roll-back of economic reforms that Merkel's predecessor Gerhard Schroeder introduced a decade ago, and which many credit with fuelling a sharp drop in German unemployment and a rebound in growth that began in 2006 — when Germany itself hosted (but failed to win) the World Cup. Since coming to power in late December, Germany's left-right "grand coalition" government has pushed through a reduction in the retirement age for some workers and won parliamentary approval for a nationwide minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.40) an hour. Next on the agenda are stricter limits on temporary workers. The pension reform, which allows longtime workers to retire four years early at 63, risks aggravating a skilled labor shortage in some sectors of the economy. Ratings agency Moody's said this week that it undermined the sustainability of the German pension system. The unintended effect of the policies has been to discourage firms from investing at home. Corporate investment in machinery and equipment, for example, hit an all-time low of 6.2 percent of GDP last year, Elga Bartsch of Morgan Stanley points out, despite solid domestic demand dynamics, low lending rates and still-upbeat business sentiment. Compounding the problem has been pronounced weakness in public investment. A study by the DIHK Chambers of Commerce and Industry last month said Germany was suffering from an overall investment gap amounting to 3 percent of GDP, or 80 billion euros annually. At roughly 17 percent of GDP, total annual investment levels in Germany lie below those of other industrialized countries, which average over 21 percent. In Germany's southern neighbor Austria, for example, the level is 27 percent. Pointing to these figures, DIHK President Eric Schweitzer likens the current mood in Germany to that on the Titanic: "Everyone is partying and no one sees the threat of the looming iceberg." In private, government officials also admit to concern. The Economy Ministry has been examining ways to tackle Germany's investment problem, and Minister Sigmar Gabriel has invited outside experts to discuss the matter later this month. After his Social Democrats (SPD) pushed through the pension and minimum wage legislation, Gabriel is trying hard to show the business community that he is listening. Earlier this month he spent nearly a week touring small-to-medium-size Mittelstand companies in eastern Germany. "There have been periods, for example in the late 1990s, when Germany lost its economic edge," said one government official, who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the growth debate. "Are we heading into another of these periods? There are people who are concerned that we are." Germany still looks good compared with European partners like Italy, whose economy also contracted by 0.2 percent in the second quarter, and France, which acknowledged this week that it would miss its deficit targets for this year after its economy stagnated in the period. Part of Germany's second quarter weakness can be explained by weather effects: The mild winter led construction firms to invest more heavily in the first three months of the year, at the expense of the recent quarter. German unemployment, at a rate of 6.7 percent, is near post-reunification lows and wages are on the rise, supporting domestic demand, which has taken over from trade as the economy's main growth pillar. In contrast with some of its European counterparts, Germany's finances are also in excellent shape. Data released on Thursday showed that total public debt — combining federal and state governments, local authorities and the social security system — fell last year for the first time in the post-war era. The government's 2015 budget contains no net new borrowing for the first time since 1969. "It doesn't look like we're on the brink of disaster," said Andreas Woergoetter, head of division at the economics department of the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Still, economists including DIW's Fratzscher believe the economy will continue to shrink in the third quarter, putting Germany into recession and deepening concerns about the broader European recovery. Woergoetter says it would be foolish to dismiss the long-term impact of the Russia conflict, which he believes could be far bigger than bilateral trade ties — Russia makes up only about 3 percent of total German exports — would suggest. "Whatever comes out of this crisis, it is a game changer because the framework for German-Russian economic cooperation has been seriously damaged," he said. "Russia was an extremely profitable market. It was an investment opportunity for which there is no replacement and now the strategic plans of many companies will have to be rethought. That too will contribute to the uncertainty in Germany." (1 US dollar = 0.7469 euro)   (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were higher on Friday, with major indexes on track for a second week of gains, as traders bet there would be no immediate escalation in the tense situations in Ukraine or Iraq. Recent trading has taken its cue from news overseas, with investors concerned about the potential impact of any exacerbation of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, or in violence in Iraq. Ukrainian border guards crossed the frontier to inspect a huge Russian aid convoy, which some had speculated could be a cover for a military invasion. The inspection comes a day after Russian President Vladimir Putin struck a softer tone in comments regarding Ukraine. In Iraq, Nuri al-Maliki stepped down as prime minister, paving the way for a new coalition that world and regional powers hope will be able to quash a Sunni Islamist insurgency that threatens Baghdad. Investors awaited August data on both manufacturing and consumer sentiment. The New York Fed's read on manufacturing, due at 8:30 a.m. EDT, is seen falling to 20 from 25.6, while the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers - due at 9:55 a.m. - is seen rising to 82.5 from 81.8 previously. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures rose 5.25 points and were above fair value, a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures added 50 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures gained 14.5 points. For the week, the Dow is up 1 percent, the S&amp;P is up 1.2 percent and the Nasdaq is up 1.9 percent. The benchmark S&amp;P index is 1.7 percent off a closing record hit late July. In a sign of the market's long-term strength, the index has marked more than 1,000 days since its last correction, which Wall Street defines as a drop of 10 percent from the most recent high. Applied Materials Inc late Thursday reported third-quarter earnings that beat expectations, boosted by demand for DRAM chips. It also forecast adjusted current-quarter profits that were largely above estimates. Monster Beverage Corp jumped 21 percent to $87 in premarket trading after Coca-Cola Co said it was buying a 16.7 percent stake in the company for $2.15 billion. JD.com Inc fell 6.7 percent to $28 in premarket trading after the company reported a wider second-quarter loss than a year earlier, even as revenue jumped 64 percent. Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc disclosed a new $366 million stake in Charter Communications Inc, part of a flurry of changes in its stock investments during the second quarter. It also trimmed its stake in DirecTV and is no longer reporting any stake in Starz.   (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/StringerVisitors run away as waves caused by a tidal bore surge past a barrier on the banks of Qiantang River, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Iraq's Maliki Relinquishes Power. "Nuri al-Maliki finally bowed to pressure within Iraq and beyond on Thursday and stepped down as prime minister, paving the way for a new coalition that world and regional powers hope can quash a Sunni Islamist insurgency that threatens Baghdad," reported Reuters' Raheem Salman and Michael Georgy. "Maliki ended eight years of often divisive, sectarian rule and endorsed fellow Shi'ite Haider al-Abadi in a televised speech during which he stood next to his successor and spoke of the grave threat from Sunni Islamic State militants who have taken over large areas of northern Iraq." "I announce before you today, to ease the movement of the political process and the formation of the new government, the withdrawal of my candidacy in favor of brother Dr. Haider al-Abadi," Maliki said. Monster Deal. Coca-Cola is buying a 16.7% stake in energy drink company Monster Beverage. "Our equity investment in Monster is a capital-efficient way to bolster our participation in the fast-growing and attractive global energy drinks category," Coke CEO Muhtar Kent said. Shares of Monster are up 20% in pre-market trading. UK Is A G-7 Star. The U.K.'s GDP grew by 0.8% in Q2, which reflects 3.2% year-over-year growth. This was in line with expectations. And it confirms that the U.K. is the fastest-growing economy among the G-7 nations. "The broader picture of the U.K. recovery is one of employment-led growth as spare capacity is absorbed," Bloomberg economists Jamie Murray and Niraj Shah said. Alibaba Accounting Issue. "A media firm Alibaba Group Holding Ltd recently bought said on Friday a review of its finances revealed possible accounting irregularities, casting doubts on the Chinese e-commerce giant's due diligence as it prepares for a U.S. initial public offering," reported Reuters' Elzio Barreto. "The announcement by Alibaba Pictures Group Ltd comes less than two months after Alibaba Group completed its $804 million purchase of a 60 percent stake in the film and TV production company once known as ChinaVision Media Group Ltd." Ackman Sues The US Government. "Pershing Square Capital Management LP, the hedge fund firm run by William Ackman, on Thursday sued the U.S. government, claiming that its stripping of profits from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac unconstitutionally short changes investors in the companies' common stock," reported Reuters' Jonathan Stempel. "In a complaint filed with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C., Pershing said the practice since 2012 of sweeping profits from government-controlled Fannie and Freddie into the U.S. Treasury as dividends creates a "windfall" for the government at the expense of shareholders." Soros Bets Against The Stock Market. According to a new SEC 13-F filing, George Soros' Soros Fund Management cranked up his put option position on the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF (SPY), a fund that mimics movements on the S&amp;P 500. A put option protects the holder from price declines. Soros now holds puts on 11.29 million shares of SPY, up from 1.6 million three months ago. Markets Are Up. U.S. futures are in the green with Dow futures up 48 points and S&amp;P futures are up 4.7 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.6%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.7%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.9%. Asia closed up with Japan's Nikkei 0.01% above breakeven. Inflation Check. The producer price index report will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate PPI climbed by just 0.1% month-over-month or 1.7% year-over-year. Excluding food and energy, core PPI is estimated to have climbed by 0.2% or 1.6%, respectively. "The higher producer prices combined with rising unit labor costs will likely play a role in moderating corporate profits as the year progresses," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia. "The magnitude of the impact on profits will depend on the ability for producers to pass along the higher costs to consumers." Industrial Production Check. The industrial production report will be released at 9:15 a.m. ET. Economists estimate production increased by 0.3% in July with capacity utilization increasing to 79.2%. "Based on the BLS’s accounting of aggregate hours worked, we expect manufacturing production (excluding vehicles) to decline in July, while mining output should remain unchanged," said Nomura economists. "We expect vehicle production to increase, especially given reports that there were fewer auto factory shutdowns for retooling this July. Lastly, based on weekly utility output data, we expect utilities production to decline due to less cooling demand (July was cooler than usual). Taking these factors into consideration, we expect industrial production to remain unchanged in July." Confidence Check. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence report will be published at 9:55 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this index of sentiment climbed to 82.5 in August from 81.8 in July. "This would largely reflect equity markets, which have moved lower as volatility has picked up," said Barclays economists. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Antonio Bronic By this point, it’s become rather trite to make sweeping statements about the ever-expanding impact of the Internet. We’ve been hearing it for years. Still, the overcooked notion bears revisiting in light of a pair of new phrases gaining a foothold in the international lexicon of technology. The “Internet of Things” refers to the growing number of everyday objects—from shoes to blood pressure monitors—that are able to connect to the Internet and communicate with each other. Then there’s the “Internet of Everything,” which basically means adding connectivity to—you guessed it—pretty much everything else one desires. The numbers suggest that neither concept is hyperbolic. In the year 2000, when desktops were still the computer of choice, there were 1 billion devices connected to the Internet worldwide. Then came laptops and all things mobile, and that figure increased tenfold to 10 billion connections by 2010. It’s on track to reach 50 billion units by 2020. There were fewer Internet-connected devices than there were people in 2005, but trend lines suggest there will be 3.5 connected devices per person by 2015 and almost 7 by 2020. At the same time, the number of mobile broadband access points is set to increase to 8 billion by 2019 from 2 billion today, and Swedish communications giant Ericsson predicts that the amount of data sent by the average smartphone will quadruple between now and then. Cisco Systems, a major player in the space, estimates that The Internet of Everything will generate a remarkable $14.4 trillion in economic value over the next ten years. And whole industries will be shaken up: the medical device industry could see $97 billion in additional revenue by 2024 as more and more devices are online-enabled, according to GSMA, an association of mobile operators. Total sales of clothing and accessories that incorporate computer technology—a market that includes well-known brands such as Google Glass and Fitbit—are on target to grow 70 percent a year through 2018, rising from $3 billion today to $42.5 billion, according to Credit Suisse. But the real upheaval will come in manufacturing and industrial goods, where experts predict it will soon be the norm to have machines communicating with each other online and generating data that tracks production and helps prevent disruptions. Consider the automotive industry, which already uses machine-to-machine connections for GPS navigation and emergency services. Increasingly, company vehicles will be equipped with tracking systems that allow managers to keep track of their fleets. So-called M2M connections can also help flag and prevent vehicle malfunction. Future models, for example, will be able to self-detect problems such as low air pressure in a tire, and send the driver an e-mail or text message alert. Governments want in on the action as well. So-called “Smart Cities” are retooling their own communications infrastructure with the aim of better managing of municipal energy, waste and traffic. Tricked-up garbage cans, for example, light up when full to keep trucks from wasting fuel on picking up half-empty containers. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently announced a $1.2 billion investment to fashion urban centers with sensors that will monitor traffic flows, water and energy usage, and security, and then send that information to city officials. And IBM, which is already using analytics to improve transit systems and snow removal in Minneapolis, has also been hired to install mobile devices in Qatar to improve road maintenance and drainage networks. All told, the smart city applications and services market could grow to $3.3 trillion by 2025, according to consulting firm Frost &amp; Sullivan. The range of beneficiaries of The Internet of Everything is almost as wide as the list of devices waiting to be hooked up. There’s the obvious opportunity for manufacturers of cutting edge devices, including medical equipment and consumer wearables, as well as the makers of the semiconductor chips and sensors that enable the actual connectivity. Data service providers will obviously see increased demand. But someone needs to process, arrange and analyze all that data as well. Firms that make the software to do so will benefit, as will Internet platform companies that are already well practiced at analyzing and commercializing large pools of data. Finally, increased connectivity will open the door to more hacking and cyber attacks, ultimately generating more business for companies specializing in network security. In other words, there’s something for everyone in everything. FREE AppDownload
FlickrEuropean markets are up early in trading on Friday.  Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.69%. Germany's DAX is up 0.83%.  Spain's IBEX is up 0.43%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.29%. Earlier, we learned U.K.'s GDP grew 0.8% in Q2, which was right in line with expectations. This reflects a healthy 3.2% year-over-year growth rate. In the U.S., the Empire State Manufacturing Survey, set for release at 8:30 a.m. ET, is expected to show a decline in the regional manufacturing index from 25.6 in July to 20.0 in August  The BLS Producer Price Index for July 2014 will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists forecast PPI climbed by just 0.1% month-over-month or 1.7% year-over-year. The U.S. Fed will release industrial production data at 9:15 a.m. ET. Economists estimate industrial production increased by 0.3% in July with capacity utilization increasing to 79.2%. Economists estimate the latest numbers from University of Michigan Confidence report will show sentiment climbed to 82.5 in August from 81.8 in July. "This would largely reflect equity markets, which have moved lower as volatility has picked up," said Barclays economists. Asian markets closed up with Japan's Nikkei up 0.02% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.62%. U.S. futures are up with Dow futures up 48 points, Nasdaq  futures up 4.9 points, and S&amp;P futures up 12.5 points.  FREE AppDownload
Citi analyst Rob Buckland has published this diagram of where he thinks we are in the economic cycle, and it's slightly terrifying. (We first saw the note on FT Alphaville.) Basically, we're in "Phase 3" of a four-phase credit/equity cycle. In Buckland’s theory — originally developed by Citi's Matt King many moons ago — that's the phase in which irrational bubbles form right before everything comes crashing down again. Here's the diagram, which we've annotated in red. We'll explain it below: Citi / FT Alphaville In Buckland's telling, the economy goes through four cycles. Phase 1: This begins at the end of a recession, when interest rates have fallen, money is cheap, but stocks are still battered. Phase 2: A bull market sets in during phase 2, when stocks start to rise as easy credit lubricates the economy. Phase 3: This is the tricky part. Stocks are still flying high, but credits spreads are widening as investors become increasingly unwilling to finance further risk. Corporate CEOs have now experienced a lengthy period of gains and become risk-happy. (And we'd note that central banks are already talking about tightening credit by raising interest rates.) Bubbles can form in Phase 3, Buckland says, as the high-flying stock market ignores the early warning signs of the deteriorating credit market. Hello, tech startup IPOs! Phase 4: Stocks react to the lack of available credit by collapsing, and we see the kinds of things you get in a recession: "This is the classic bear market, when equity and credit prices fall together. It is usually associated with collapsing profits and worsening balance sheets," Buckland says. We're in Phase 3 right now, Buckland says, but we may not be very far into it. Here's Buckland's checklist of warning signs for Phase 3. We've highlighted the bit that scares us: Citi / FT Alphaville FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jerry LaizureAbout 30 rail cars hauling grain derailed Tuesday September 30, 2003, in Norman, Oklahoma The Burlington Northern Santa Fe train was hauling wheat and no injuries were reported. TORONTO (Reuters) - More than eight months after an extreme winter began snarling North American rail traffic, a Reuters analysis of industry data shows delays lingering, raising the risk of a second winter of chaos on the rails. Across the continent's seven largest operators, trains ran almost 8 percent slower on average and sat idle at key terminals for nearly three hours longer in the second quarter than a year earlier, data from the main railroads, known as Class 1, show. While Canada’s rail operators have nearly recovered, many U.S. operators lag far behind. The concerns are sharpest in the U.S. Farm Belt, with lawmakers fearful that the biggest crops on record may be slow to reach markets or could even rot. Rail logjams contributed to the economic slowdown early in the year, rippling across corporate America and affecting everything from car makers to ethanol producers. Many experts blame an incomplete recovery from last winter's freight backlogs, coupled with record crops and rising competition with crude oil tankers for track space amid an economic recovery. "It's like a sinking ship - you're bailing out at one end, but it's coming in the other end just as fast, if not faster," said Citigroup Global Markets transportation analyst Christian Wetherbee. Performance fell behind as loads grew: between April and June, U.S. rail carload volumes grew 5.4 percent and intermodal traffic, which include shipments partly by rail, rose 8 percent, Association of American Railroads (AAR) data shows. At the same time, the industry is producing "tremendous" margins, profit and cash flow, with some companies setting records, said rail analyst Tony Hatch. The largest operators plan to spend about 18 to 20 percent of annual revenue this year on new terminals, track, sidings and equipment to help boost capacity and efficiency, according to Thomson Reuters data. That is slightly higher than recent average annual spending. Some shippers complain that spending hasn't been sufficient to meet demand, especially in bad weather. Still, many investment projects are multi-year improvements that can't quickly fix traffic jams. "We're criticized ... because we haven't put infrastructure in to handle the growth. But then when you try to put infrastructure in, the not-in-my-backyard lobby kicks in and says: We don't want you here," Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd &lt;cp.to&gt; &lt;cp.n&gt; Chief Executive Hunter Harrison said on a recent earnings conference call. Over the four decades to 2000, the nation's major track system shrank by about half, in terms of miles of rails, according to the U.S. Federal Highway Administration. Although Berkshire Hathaway's &lt;brka.n&gt; &lt;brkb.n&gt; BNSF Railway Co is spending a record $5 billion this year, its performance lagged those of competitors last quarter. BNSF trains traveled 11 percent slower than year-ago speeds, and stayed at terminals for 18 percent longer. Fadi Chamoun, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said BNSF is unlikely to recover until mid- to late-2015 due to the amount of work it must do. In recent years, BNSF accounted for some 50 percent of the entire rail industry's volume growth, analysts said. The company says it handles up to 15 percent of U.S. intercity freight. BNSF declined to respond to Reuters' questions about its performance metrics. The Fort Worth, Texas-based railway has said it is working closely with shippers to clear backlogs and adding track, locomotives and crews. The other four U.S. Class 1 railroads are CSX Corp&lt;csx.n&gt;, Kansas City Southern &lt;ksu.n&gt;, Norfolk Southern Corp&lt;nsc.n&gt; and Union Pacific Corp&lt;unp.n&gt;. Kansas City Southern and Norfolk Southern did not respond to requests for comment. CSX said it was investing in strategic capacity additions and was adding train crews and locomotives to restore performance and support growth. Union Pacific CEO Jack Koraleski told Reuters that the railroad’s performance has been improving even as volumes have been increasing, adding that it has worked hard to address disruptions and customer issues. Cowen &amp; Co analyst Jason Seidl said winter exacerbated problems for the industry. "As they were trying to dig out, the volumes took off," he said.  ECONOMIC FALLOUT     In the United States, more than 40 percent of goods, valued at more than $550 billion, are shipped by railroad each year on some 140,000 miles of track. Canada's 30,100 miles of track carry half of the country's export goods. Frozen transportation links contributed to a nearly 3 percent contraction in the U.S. economy during the first quarter, the New York Federal Reserve said last week. Lawmakers and the $395 billion agricultural industry fear that trains may fail to clear last year's record-breaking crops in the Midwestern U.S. Farm Belt, which could strand part of this summer's grain harvest. "We’re sounding the alarms right now," North Dakota Senator Heidi Heitkamp told Reuters. "We believe the 2014 crop could be taken off the fields and there won’t be any place to store it, because of the lack of ability to move product by rail." BNSF and Canada's CP Rail operate the main rail networks in North Dakota, where farmers vie for space with some 700,000 barrels per day of crude oil shipped by rail from the state's Bakken Shale. "You can't see these massive increases in crude-by-rail and not appreciate that they are creating problems for moving agricultural products," Heitkamp said. Members of Congress, utility companies, the United States Department of Agriculture and others are asking the U.S. rail regulator, the Surface Transportation Board, for help. “With remaining grain in storage due to the backlog, grain elevators in some locations, such as South Dakota and Minnesota, could run out of storage capacity during the upcoming harvest, requiring grain be stored on the ground and running the risk of spoiling. The projected size of the upcoming harvest creates a high potential for loss,” USDA Under Secretary Edward Avalos wrote to the regulator this month. Utility Xcel Energy said coal deliveries to a key Midwest facility were behind schedule. “When we run out of coal, the plant can't produce electricity. We are right in the middle of summer when air-conditioning load creates our highest levels of electric demand,” Xcel Chief Executive Ben Fowke wrote in a letter to the STB at the end of July. Since an April 10 hearing on rail service, the STB has issued several orders, primarily involving CP and BNSF. The most recent directive, issued in June, required the two railways to publicly file their plans to resolve their backlog on grain orders and provide a weekly update on grain car service. It declined to comment on complaints or its plans. Earlier this month, the Canadian government ordered Canadian National Railway Co &lt;cnr.to&gt; &lt;cni.n&gt; and CP to further boost regulated grain shipments, in an effort to prevent a repeat of last season's backlog. Recent University of Minnesota data showed that transportation bottlenecks cost the state’s soybean, corn and spring wheat farmers nearly $100 million between March and May. United Parcel Service Inc &lt;ups.n&gt;, the world's largest courier company, said that "very poor" railroad performance last quarter raised its costs. Even passenger service Amtrak has been affected, with some of the trains it runs on Class 1 tracks falling far behind schedule. Canada's biggest rails, CN and CP, operated their trains at speeds 4.7 percent and 3 percent slower in the second quarter than year-ago levels respectively, better than most U.S. rivals. CN said its ability to avoid Chicago, a hub notorious for bottlenecks, helped its sector-leading recovery. In 2009, CN bought a rail network that encircles Chicago, the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Co. CHICAGO BLUES Chicago's third-snowiest winter on record severely tangled traffic at a hub that handles one quarter of the nation's freight-by-rail and has recently become a major conduit for Bakken crude. Data from Union Pacific shows its trains idled in Chicago for an average 65 hours in February, around double the typical time for much of 2013. Following a severe 1999 blizzard that paralyzed trains for days, government and railroads launched a $3.8 billion plan to improve the Chicago system. That's not a quick solution for the industry's woes. “It takes a long time for new lines and new terminals to get built, and additional locomotives to be delivered and additional crews to be trained,” said Steve Ditmeyer, an adjunct professor at Michigan State University’s Railway Management Program. “There’s a time lag that the railroads cannot snap their finger and, all of a sudden, get out of the current problem.”  (With additional reporting by Joshua Schneyer and Jonathan Leff in New York, and Sagarika Jaisinghani in Bangalore; editing by Joshua Schneyer and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
@RBS_EconomicsThe U.K. economy grew by 0.8% in Q2. This measure was unchanged from a preliminary estimate a month ago, and it's right in line with expectations. This reflects 3.2% growth year-over-year. "The broader picture of the U.K. recovery is one of employment-led growth as spare capacity is absorbed," said Bloomberg economists Jamie Murray and Niraj Shah. On Thursday, we learned GDP growth in the euro zone screeched to a halt as Germany contracted. FREE AppDownload
IMDB/Universal Pictures"Casino"NEW YORK (Reuters) - Large global banks are facing increased pressure from U.S. regulators to clamp down on casino money-laundering as the government pushes the industry to police not only its own transactions but customers' as well.     Bankers, casino executives and consultants said the U.S. crackdown has resulted in unprecedented scrutiny and collaboration between the two industries, including banks vetting casino customers' anti-money laundering systems, checking to make sure casinos don’t accept anonymous wire transfers, and offering databases and other information to help the gaming industry identify risky transactions.     While the idea of money-laundering through casinos is nothing new – and has been fodder for plots in Hollywood movies like "Casino" – until recently, banks haven't been expected to take part in regulators' and prosecutors' pursuit of such criminals.     Some bank executives grumble about the extent of the work they have to do for government enforcement agencies now, and the penalty for failure. Standard Chartered Plc said on August 6 that a computer in its anti-money-laundering surveillance system made an error, which a source said could trigger fines between $100 million and $340 million payable to New York State's financial regulator. In an interview with Reuters on August 7, Standard Chartered Chief Executive of Asia, Jaspal Bindra, said the penalties are unfair.     "We are supposed to police that our counterparties and clients are not money laundering," said Bindra, "and if when we are policing we have a lapse, we don't get treated like a policeman who's had a lapse, we are treated like a criminal."     Casinos were historically a popular place for criminals to launder money because it was easy to make large-scale transfers through casino accounts, and swap ill-gotten gains for chips, and back into clean cash. Because of this, regulators have required casinos to report suspicious or abnormally large transactions for a number of years. That hasn't stopped the flow of illicit funds because criminals have grown more sophisticated in working around the rules, and because casinos have not always fully complied with the rules, according to anti-money-laundering consultants.     In recent years, regulators have also become more aggressive about enforcing the rules – on both casinos and banks. In 2012 financial institutions agreed to pay $3.5 billion in anti-money laundering infractions, up from the $26.6 million in 2011, according to the Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists.     In light of the enforcement actions and tough public statements by federal authorities, banks have begun taking further steps to ensure their casinos customers' accounts are legitimate. As opposed to merely asking whether a casino has anti-money laundering programs, banks are now reviewing them and conducting onsite work to test their efficacy, said Adam Shapiro, a director specializing in preventing money laundering at Promontory Financial Group.     "What we're seeing is some catch-up in oversight of other institutions involved in transferring money," such as casinos, Shapiro said.     The casino industry is just one of many that enforcement officials have started targeting through banks to enforce laws.     The Department of Justice's "Operation Choke Point," which aims to protect consumers from online scammers, has subpoenaed 50 banks that process transactions for companies like payday lenders. Meanwhile, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is penalizing banks including Ally Financial Inc &lt;ally.n&gt; that fund loans made by auto dealers, if the car sellers are found to have discriminated against minorities or other protected groups.     Spokespeople at the CFPB and the Justice Department did not respond to requests for comment. Spokespeople at Bank of America Corp &lt;bac.n&gt;, Citigroup Inc &lt;c.n&gt;, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;jpm.n&gt; and Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;wfc.n&gt; declined to comment.     TIME TO STEP UP     Preventing money laundering has become a higher priority for the Department of Justice and other enforcement officials in recent years, and banks have been a key target of enforcement actions. HSBC Holdings PLC &lt;hsba.l&gt; and JPMorgan Chase have been censured for lax controls that did too little to prevent money laundering by Latin American drug cartels and Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff, respectively.     The increased scrutiny on banks in regards to money-laundering has only recently extended to the casino industry. In August 2013, Las Vegas Sands Corp &lt;lvs.n&gt; agreed to pay the Justice Department more than $47 million over anti-money laundering lapses linked to high-roller Zhenli Ye Gon, a Mexican pharmaceutical magnate.     Prosecutors said Ye Gon transferred around $45 million to Las Vegas Sands, mostly from accounts of Mexican currency-exchange companies with which he had no obvious affiliation. His actions did not arouse any serious suspicion from casino staff, prosecutors said. Ye Gon is currently fighting extradition to Mexico, which has charged him with drug trafficking. His case is pending, according to his attorney. Pressure on the gambling industry intensified over the past year as the head of a U.S. Treasury agency that monitors the financial system for evidence of money laundering gave two speeches reminding the casino industry of its compliance obligations. Jennifer Shasky Calvery, who has led the agency – called the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN – since September 2012, has a background in prosecuting organized crime.     A spokesman for FinCEN declined to comment.     "Banks that do business with casinos would be wise to pay attention to what the FinCEN director is talking about," said Kevin Rosenberg, a former federal prosecutor in Los Angeles. "Banks are years ahead of casinos when it comes to anti-money laundering compliance. Now it's the casinos' turn to step up."     But there are limits to how much banks should be expected to know about the casino customers because casinos are either unwilling or unable to hand over detailed information about individuals to bankers, said one anti-money laundering executive at a large bank.     In addition to regulators' own actions, bank examiners are pressing institutions they oversee to better manage the risk associated with the casino-related transactions they process, compliance officers in both industries said.     The anti-money laundering executive said his bank has forbidden casinos from accepting transfers of large sums of money from corporations or limited liability companies if the identity of the person that controls the account is unknown. Owners of private businesses and operators of junkets to Las Vegas commonly transfer money from such entities to gamble, but they could also be used for illicit purposes.     A spokesman for the American Gaming Association said in an email that the industry group is currently developing a list of best practices around anti-money laundering and "know your customer" issues that it expects to have completed in the coming months.     An executive at another large U.S. bank whose clients include gaming companies said that when the bank's compliance team comes through Las Vegas, he sometimes arranges meetings between them and the compliance staffs of different casinos. The meetings are an opportunity to share know-how about what the latest money-laundering threats are and how each side is updating systems and screening transactions, said the executive. Powwows like these have been encouraged by regulators, including FinCEN's Calvery.     Additionally, even though banks want to obey regulators’ directives, they are reluctant to have too much oversight and validation outsourced to them if it comes with having to assume legal liability when something goes awry with casinos’ compliance programs.     "Banks don't want to be casinos' de facto regulators," said James Dowling, the founder of Dowling Advisory Group, a consulting firm specializing in regulatory compliance. "I think you'll get a lot of pushback from the banking industry if they have to do that."   (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair and Brett Wolf in New York; editing by Dan Wilchins, Lauren Tara LaCapra and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bernadett SzaboGeorge Soros In a 13-F filing three months ago, Soros' fund had puts on 1.6 million shares, valued at $299.264 at the time. Even though he is still net long stocks, this took the short position (where he owns an option which will profit from a fall in stocks prices) on the S&amp;P 500 from 2.96% of his Soros Funds Management Portfolio to a whopping 16.65%. (Hat tip to @BullionBarron for the heads up.) WhaleWisdom.com Where the S&amp;P goes, so likely goes Australia's ASX200 if Soros is right — so we’ve been warned. Investing.com  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Tim Hortons employees preparing coffee before the company's annual general meeting in TorontoTORONTO (Reuters) - Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons, which has offered only one coffee blend in its 50-year history, hopes to lure new coffee drinkers and fend off rivals such as Starbucks Corp &lt;sbux.o&gt; and McDonald's Corp &lt;mcd.n&gt; with the launch throughout North America of its new dark roast blend. Tim Hortons, which announced the move on Thursday, may also increase prices to tackle rising costs and competition from U.S. rivals expanding in Canada. "Looking at the coffee market, I would suggest that, given the degree of cost increases, that we are looking at prices going up sometime in 2015," Tim Hortons Inc &lt;thi.to&gt; chief executive Marc Caira said on Thursday. Tim Hortons, which says it serves nearly 8 out of every 10 cups of coffee sold in Canada, outlined a plan in February to kick-start growth and improve returns by fine-tuning its menu to encourage more spending, improving service and opening new restaurant formats. Last week, the chain reported market-beating quarterly growth that showed its strategy, which includes higher priced and new menu items, is paying off. Still, traffic declined for the ninth consecutive quarter in Canada and is flat in the United States. Caira expects the new dark brew, which will also be available for home brewing in formats such as Keurig Mountain Inc's single serve pod, to contribute to results, but he declined to give details. The alternative brew was first sold late last fall in Columbus, Ohio and London, Ontario, and then in the province of Quebec in June. It will be offered at all 4,496 restaurants across Canada and the United States starting Friday. "There's about 38 to 40 percent of coffee drinkers that are looking for a darker roast," said Caira. "Those are very intriguing numbers for us ... If we weren't pleased with the (initial) numbers, we wouldn't be launching it."   INFLATION PRESSURE Caira, a former top Nestle SA executive who took over at the Canadian chain a little more than a year ago, plans to tackle inflationary pressure from higher coffee bean prices and labor costs by cutting waste and improving efficiencies. "The last thing that we want to do is arbitrarily increase prices," said Caira, but he conceded the chain will likely raise prices in 2015. He could not say what products might be affected. Caira said the company was also working with Ottawa to address labor shortages in some parts of Canada following tighter rules on hiring temporary foreign workers in the restaurant industry. "There must be flexibility in the system to address labor issues in certain parts of the country," Caira said. He added that in some markets there are not enough people to work in the company's restaurants. "That is a fact proven out by number," he said. "In those cases, there's a need for this program."   (Additional reporting by Euan Rocha. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA concrete sign marks the city limits for San Bernardino, CaliforniaRIVERSIDE Calif. (Reuters) - San Bernardino, California, has begun face-to-face talks with some of its biggest creditors - bondholders and insurers - for the first time, two years after filing for bankruptcy in a case that has slowed to a crawl in the past 12 months. Paul Glassman, an attorney representing the city, said in a court hearing on Thursday that an all-day mediation session was held on Aug. 5 with Ambac Assurance Corp, the insurer of $50 million of pension obligation bonds issued to the city in 2005. Ambac was also negotiating on behalf of Erste Europäische Pfandbrief-und Kommunalkreditbank AG, the holder of the bonds, and Wells Fargo Bank, the bond trustee and the flagship bank of Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;wfc.n&gt;. Details of the negotiations are subject to a judicial gag order. Glassman said the city will begin talks soon with another creditor, bond insurer National Public Finance Guarantee Corp, a unit of MBIA Inc &lt;mbi.n&gt;. San Bernardino, a city of 205,000 people located 65 miles east of Los Angeles, filed for bankruptcy in August 2012 with a budget deficit of $45 million. The city is one of a handful of municipal bankruptcies being closely watched by the $3.7 trillion U.S. municipal bond market. Bondholders, public employees and other state and local governments are keen on understanding how financially distressed cities handle their debts to Wall Street, compared with other creditors like large pension funds such as Calpers, during Chapter 9 protection. Stockton, another California city that declared bankruptcy around the same time as San Bernardino, is significantly closer to exiting Chapter 9. Detroit, Michigan, which filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history in July 2013, filed a plan of adjustment to deal with its $18 billion of debt in February. 'TENTATIVE' POLICE PACT San Bernardino has also reached a "tentative" deal with the police union - the city's biggest - after months of closed-door negotiations, Glassman said. He added that the deal represented "significant progress" in the city's attempt to issue a bankruptcy exit plan, known as a plan of adjustment. In June, the city reached a deal with its biggest creditor, the California Public Employees' Retirement System (Calpers). San Bernardino has imposed significant cuts in pay and other benefits on its police and firefighters. While the police have now reached a deal with city leaders - details are also subject to a judicial gag order - the firefighters have not. A request by the firefighters' union to impose a January deadline on the city to issue a plan to exit bankruptcy was rejected by U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Meredith Jury, who is overseeing the case. Mark Angelov, an attorney for Ambac, said no progress was made in the mediation session, adding that "the case has been going on a long time. If there continues to be no progress, we may well ask for a deadline for the city to file a plan."   (Reporting by Tim Reid; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn eBay logo is projected onto white boxes in this illustration picture taken in WarsawSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Ebay Inc's &lt;ebay.o&gt; PayPal is in talks with Coinbase Inc and other bitcoin transaction providers to integrate the virtual currency within its Braintree payments system, The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday. Executives at PayPal, which owns the service that handles payments for startups from room-bookings network AirBnB to car-on-demand service Uber, have not struck any agreements, the Journal cited people familiar with the matter as saying. A deal would be an endorsement for a crypto currency, which is gaining acceptance with a slowly growing number of businesses, including online retailer Overstock.com. But some industry executives have warned about the risks of an unregulated currency. Ebay bought Braintree for $800 million in 2013 to boost PayPal's mobile presence. "We do believe that Bitcoin will play an important role in payments in the future, but we have nothing to announce," eBay spokeswoman Jennifer Hakes said.   (Reporting by Eddie Chan. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Ahmed SaadPeople hold a portrait of Nuri al-Maliki and signs as they gather in support of him in Baghdad August 13, 2014.  1. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri Maliki has agreed to step down from his post on Thursday, making way for potential successor Haider al-Abadi. The resignation marks the end of Maliki's eight-year rule.  2. The World Health Organization said the number of deaths and reported cases from the Ebola outbreak "vastly underestimates" the scale of the crisis. "The outbreak is expected to continue for some time," WHO said in a statement.  3. The situation in Ferguson, Missouri — the site of riots for last five days after the fatal shooting on an unarmed teen by an officer — appears to have turned around overnight. A photo of Police Chief Sam Dotson taking a selfie with a demonstrator is going viral on Twitter.  4. Pope Francis held the first public mass in South Korea on Friday during the second day of his 5-day visit to the country. The first papal visit to the country in 25 years shows the growing influence of Catholicism in the region.  5. A Russian aid convoy of nearly 300 trucks carrying food, generators, and other supplies, is stuck at the Ukraine border as the two governments argue over proper crossing procedures. The Ukraine government thinks the convoy "could be a cover for a Russian military incursion," Reuters said, though Moscow denies the claims.  6. A separate fleet of Russian military trucks did cross the Ukraine border Thursday night, the Telegraph reports. "The convoy, which included at least 23 vehicles, appeared to be waiting until sunset near a refugee camp just outside Donetsk, before moving towards the crossing without turning off headlights or making any other attempt to conceal itself," the website said.  7. Robin Williams' wife revealed on Thursday that the late actor was in the early stages of Parkinson's disease. Williams committed suicide in his California home at age 63.  8. Louis Suárez can't play in an official game for Barcelona until October, a court said Thursday. The ruling upholds the Uruguayan striker's 4-month-ban from soccer after biting an opponent in the World Cup.  9. Coca-Cola is buying a 17% stake in Monster beverage at a cost of $2.15 billion. Here's the full statement from Coke.  10. Harvard scientists have found a way to make more than 1,000 tiny robots work together without a guiding central intelligence. "The beauty of biological systems is that they are elegantly simple and yet, in large numbers, accomplish the seemingly impossible," Harvard computer scientist Radhika Nagpal told The Wall Street Journal.  And finally... Whoops! A promo picture for Downtown Abbey features a major blooper: A plastic water bottle can be seen on the mantelpiece in the background of the show's characters. The drama is set in the early 1920s, before the water-filled plastic bottles we know today made their entrance. A fan first pointed it out and now it's an internet sensation.  @downtonabbey/PADownton Abbey promotional picture with a water bottle in the background FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBUA Wal-Mart Stores Inc company distribution center in Bentonvillein this file photo(Reuters) - Weak results from the likes of Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;wmt.n&gt; and Macy's Inc &lt;m.n&gt; are the latest sign less affluent U.S. consumers are still pinching their pennies and the trend appears to be hurting upmarket retailers as well. A number of large U.S. retailers who cater to low and middle income consumers reported disappointing quarterly comparable sales this week, pointing to a cutback in spending and a shift in preferences to stores nearer to home. "Consumers are still concerned about cost of living and employment...overall we are seeing no changes in the consumer than what we have seen in the last few quarters," Wal-Mart Chief Financial Officer Charles Holley said on Thursday. Wal-Mart cut its profit forecast for the year, citing higher healthcare and online investment costs, but also cautioned that heavy discounting would continue into the holiday season to draw in its shoppers, many of whom depend on government assistance. Even department store operator Macy's, which caters to a more affluent clientele, lowered its same-store sales forecast for the year. The weak sales and margin data illustrate the effects of a slowly improving job market, volatile fuel prices and government food stamp cuts, Joseph Agnese, equity analyst at S&amp;P Capital IQ told Reuters. "Even though the job market has picked up, income growth is very weak. We are adding jobs but average earnings aren’t growing very rapidly," Robert Brusca, chief economist at consulting firm Fact and Opinion Economics, said in a phone interview. Amid the general gloom, one surprising glimmer of hope came from struggling department store chain J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;jcp.n&gt;, which reported a 5 percent rise in quarterly sales and a narrower loss.   SPENDING RESTRAINT Even McDonald's Corp &lt;mcd.n&gt;, which sells burgers and fries for as little as a dollar, has struggled to grow sales at established restaurants in the United States since November 2013. Same-restaurant sales at home fell 3.2 percent in July. The Labor Department's monthly employment report showed more than 200,000 jobs created for the sixth straight month in July. But, Brusca said, a lot of the jobs are being added in low-income brackets. Spending would be much greater if wages increased for the people already employed, he said. American workers, on average, earned $24.45 an hour in July, up only a penny from June, the Labor Department's data showed. Over the last year, wages have grown just 2 percent, in keeping with where they have been stuck since late 2009. Before then, hourly earnings typically rose 3 percent or 4 percent a year. "Consumer sentiment is the highest since 2007, but consumer optimism isn't translating into spending," Guy LeBas, analyst at Janney Capital Markets told Reuters. The restraint is hurting retailers in the "affordable luxury" space such as Michael Kors Holdings Ltd &lt;kors.n&gt; and Kate Spade &amp; Co's &lt;kate.n&gt;, which have had to fall back on discounts to push their handbags and other accessories. Kate Spade shares lost nearly a quarter of their value on Tuesday after the retailer said gross margins were being hit by intense competition, particularly in its low-end Kate Spade Saturday brand. Michael Kors's quarterly margins were squeezed by increased discounting to clear inventory and watchmaker Fossil Inc &lt;fosl.o&gt; announced lower profits as declining mall traffic, a problem for many retailers, took its toll. The rise of e-commerce has played a role in the weakness of brick and mortar retailers as well, although Amazon.com Inc &lt;amzn.o&gt; is struggling to reap a bottom-line boost from its surging sales. Price cuts have now become a necessity for many retailers as well, to be able "to compete with the aggressive department store promotions" and get customers "to purchase in an otherwise stagnant fashion environment," Wedbush analysts wrote in a note. In addition to McDonald's, the U.S. consumer's reluctance to spend has also hit some of the country's more upscale "fast-casual" eateries, where many chains have been feeling the squeeze even as Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc &lt;cmg.n&gt; has prospered. Noodles &amp; Co &lt;ndls.o&gt;, a full-service restaurant chain, on Wednesday slashed full-year sales forecasts, in part for a drop in frugal customers visiting its restaurants. Red Robin Gourmet Burgers Inc's &lt;rrgb.o&gt;, also a fast-casual chain, fell 18 percent on Thursday, reported lower-than-expected quarterly sales and profit citing intense and "non-sustainable discounting" from rivals.   (Reporting by Siddharth Cavale and Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA combination photo shows British corporate investigator Humphrey and his wife Yingzeng as they leave the Shanghai No.1 Intermediate People's Court inside police vehicle in ShanghaiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - British corporate investigator Peter Humphrey and his American wife Yu Yingzeng do not plan to appeal a Chinese court's decision to sentence them to prison, a lawyer told Reuters on Friday. "All us lawyers have met with the couple and they said they don't want to appeal," said Humphrey's defending lawyer Zhai Jian. Humphrey was sentenced to 2-1/2 years in jail last week while Yu was sentenced to two years in jail. The couple, who  ran risk consultancy ChinaWhys, were charged with illegally obtaining private records of Chinese citizens and selling the information. They were detained last year following work they did for British pharmaceuticals giant GSK, which is at the center of a separate government corruption investigation involving hundreds of millions of dollars.  (Reporting by Brenda Goh; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe U.S. Capitol building is seen before U.S. President Barack Obama delivers his State of the Union address in front of the U.S. Congress in WashingtonBy Emily Stephenson WASHINGTON (Reuters) - All but the biggest U.S. banks could see relief from some financial reforms after the November elections even if control of the U.S. Congress remains divided between Democrats and Republicans.     Post-election committee leadership changes and growing momentum behind bipartisan fixes may lead to tweaks to the 2010 Dodd-Frank law for the smallest community banks, larger firms such as PNC Financial Services  of Pittsburgh and Regions Financial  of Birmingham, Alabama, and insurers, lobbyists and congressional staffers said.     Small banks "make loans to local small businesses, support their communities, and would not threaten our financial system if they defaulted," Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said in a statement to Reuters. Brown is a contender for a committee leadership post in the 114th Congress, which begins in January.     To be sure, President Barack Obama retains his veto power, so there will be no gutting of Dodd-Frank, which aims to make banks less risky, end the problem of "too big to fail" institutions, and prevent a repeat of the 2007-2009 financial crisis.     Instead, the possible changes range from adjusting which banks count as "rural" and are exempted from certain rules, to declaring fewer banks big enough that their failure would threaten markets, a designation that brings extra regulatory oversight.     "I think that it's likely that we will see actually some significant community bank regulatory relief in the new Congress," said Camden Fine, head of the Independent Community Bankers of America, a Washington lobby group for small banks.     Community institutions have won supporters on both sides of the aisle and in both houses of Congress, in part because most lawmakers represent a small bank. The House of Representatives has approved bipartisan bills to free small banks from Federal Reserve and other rules.     Banks that describe themselves as regional banks, including PNC, the 11th biggest US holding company with $324 billion in assets, according to U.S. regulatory data, and Capital One  of McLean, Virginia, the 13th biggest with about $291 billion in assets, have banded together to form a coalition that argues they are like community banks, accepting deposits and lending to consumers and local businesses, and shouldn't have to meet the same requirements as Wall Street firms.     "The Regional Bank Coalition believes that it's time to move beyond the simple asset-only model to determine systemic risk because it does not match the reality of the U.S. banking system," Deron Smithy, treasurer of Regions Bank, said in congressional testimony in May. "Rules designed for large, complex firms impose real, burdensome costs when applied to middle-market lenders." Regions has $118 billion in assets and is the 26th biggest holding company.     Under Dodd-Frank, banks with more than $50 billion in assets must test their performance in a hypothetical crisis, plan for what would happen if they should fail and meet other rules. A bill in the House to change that threshold now has more than 70 co-sponsors.     "We never thought $50 billion was a forever number, and I think it was one of those things we would have looked at again," former Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat and one of the law's co-authors, said in an interview.     Senate Democrats, led by Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, shied away from changes to Dodd-Frank for fear Republicans would try to use the opportunity to weaken the law. But Johnson is retiring, and several of his possible successors support targeted relief for some institutions.     Johnson's committee has already moved forward with changes for insurers. The Senate in June voted to change the so-called "Collins amendment," which governs capital rules for big insurers.     The adjustment, which would no longer make insurers follow banks' relatively more strict capital rules, was sought by Prudential Financial  and MetLife .     "The minute that we saw the Collins amendment pass ... it became very clear that there could be legislative fixes to the Dodd-Frank Act in the 114th Congress," said Isaac Boltansky, an analyst with Compass Point Research and Trading.  POLITICALLY DIVISIVE     Despite limited areas of bipartisan agreement, most banking issues remain politically divisive.     For instance, Brown, a possible chairman of the banking committee, has scrutinized consumer products such as payday loans. Senators Richard Shelby and Mike Crapo, potential leaders if Republicans take over, are critical of the new agency that oversees those products.     Neither side can make headway on pet issues single-handedly. "The Republicans can't get anything done in the Senate without some Democrat support," said Mark Calabria, a former Shelby staffer who is now at the libertarian Cato Institute.        There is also concern that the House and Senate have struggled to cooperate even on issues they agree on, such as the Collins bill. "That doesn't bode well for larger, more complex issues," Brown said.     House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling wants to ease the Collins amendment, and could still do that before the midterm elections. But he might attach it to other Dodd-Frank legislation that Democrats would not support, congressional staffers said.     "When we have tried to forge compromises with the chairman, he has insisted on undermining financial stability and consumer protection by providing carve-outs for large banks," Maxine Waters, the top Democrat on the committee, said in a statement to Reuters.     Hensarling has blamed the Senate, where he has said "good ideas go to languish and fail," for not taking up other relief bills. A committee staffer said the House had passed numerous bipartisan financial bills that the Senate has not taken up, including to exempt small banks from some Fed and consumer bureau rules.  (Reporting by Emily Stephenson, additional reporting by Peter Rudegeair in New York; Editing by Karey Van Hall and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
