BitcoinwisdomThe final image of Gox' trades before it shut down.A group of investors that includes a former Hollywood child actor are attempting to hit the emergency stop button on MtGox's liquidation.  Late Monday, Sunlot Holdings announced it had arranged a settlement in two class action lawsuits brought on behalf of Gox customers. The terms of the settlement must still be approved by Gox' court-appointed bankruptcy administrator, who just last week ordered liquidation to begin.  "The company negotiated the settlement as part of its effort to take over the bankrupt exchange before a court-ordered liquidation," Sunlot's statement said. William Quigley, one of the Sunlot investors, added that,“Liquidation would have adverse consequences for Mt Gox customers and the entire Bitcoin community. Millions of dollars worth of lost bitcoins would never be recovered and most of Mt Gox's assets would go to paying bankruptcy lawyers and others involved in the process rather than customers.”  Under the proposed settlement, recovered Mt. Gox assets would be distributed to 127,000 affected customers on a proportional basis. Customers would also receive a 16.5% interest in Sunlot, allowing them to share in company dividends, as well as benefit from any future buyout or IPO. Sunlot also says it hopes to set up an Administration and Prosecution Fund to return $275 million of stolen customer assets — though it does not explain how this would work. Former Gox CEO Mark Karpeles said earlier this year nearly half a billion dollars' worth of Bitcoin had gone missing. Sunlot has a website running called SaveGox.com, where it explains part of its rationale for trying to rehabilitate the troubled exchange. "If the Bitcoin community can prove to be self healing without government bailouts, the entire ecosystem will benefit, including our portfolio of bitcoin investments." FREE AppDownload
APBill GatesBill Gates has urged China's extraordinarily wealthy business elite to shed its aversion to philanthropy and donate to the poor, a potent message in one of the world's most economically divided societies. "Only when we help poor people break away from destitution and illness can the whole world achieve sustainable development," Gates wrote in the People's Daily, a mouthpiece of the country's top leadership. "Investing in poor people requires the involvement of every social strata. I believe that the returns from investing in poor people are just as great as [returns] from investing in the business world, and have even more meaning." China had 358 billionaires at the end of 2013 – a rise of 41 over the previous year and the second-most of any country in the world, after the US. Yet in terms of charitable giving, it ranks among the world's worst. According to the World Giving Index 2013, an annual survey by the NGO Charities Aid Foundation (pdf) (pdf), China ranked 115 among 135 countries for donating money and last for volunteering. Income inequality counts among the country's most pressing social ills. According to a 2012 survey by Peking University, families in China's cities and coastal provinces earn significantly more than their rural and inland counterparts. An average Shanghai household, for example, brings in £2,790 a year, while an average family in the inland province Gansu makes less than £1,200. While handfuls of individuals have profited enormously from China's economic boom, few have shown willing to share their wealth. In 2010, Gates, who runs the $38bn Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the American business magnate Warren Buffet asked 50 of China's richest people to join a charity dinner in Beijing. Many turned down the invitation, reportedly because they were uncomfortable being asked for donations. Yet the country's philanthropic record is slowly improving. On Friday, Jack Ma and Joe Tsai, co-founders of Alibaba, China's biggest e-commerce company, announced plans to fund a $3bn foundation, the country's largest. The amount represents about 2% of the company's equity, all of it from the founders' shares. According to state media, the foundation will focus on environment, education and healthcare. Yet other details, such as its name and how the money will be distributed, remain unclear. Ma, China's eighth richest man, stepped down as Alibaba's CEO last year and has since dedicated much of his time to charity efforts. He sits on the Nature Conservancy's board of directors and helps lead kung fu star Jet Li's One Foundation. "When you register a new foundation in China you need a supervisory agency, so a lot of people have worried that by registering a private foundation they'd be giving up control over their personal wealth," said Anthony Spires, a sociology professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who researches China's civil society. "Many of these folks are used to being in charge – they have very clear issues that concern them  … and they don't want the government to tell them how to spend their money." Spires called the size of the promised foundation "staggering". "This will be the largest foundation in China, if they really do it," he said. "It's on par with Michael Bloomberg's philanthropy." Alibaba is preparing a high-profile initial public offering on the New York stock exchange. Analysts expect the company to be valued at more than $100bn, which would make its IPO one of the biggest in history. "My wife and I had this thought of setting up a personal charitable fund when we started the business," Ma, 49, told the state newswire Xinhua. "We'd like to earn money before we turn 50 years old and do charitable work in our time after 50." Gates has responded to Ma's announcement, saying that the foundation will "do an immense amount of good, particularly in this remarkable time in the development of philanthropy in China", the newswire reported. Warren Buffet has called the two Alibaba founders "extraordinary leaders in business [who] have now become leaders in philanthropy". This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookGloria Lincoln-Thompson carries her 9mm Smith & Wesson pistol in her waist band during a rally in support of the Michigan Open Carry gun law in Romulus, Michigan April 27, 2014. Markets are up. US stocks made a big comeback late in the session after earlier falls, and the Dow finished up 0.5% while the S&amp;P 500 was up 0.3% and the NASDAQ was flat. ASX futures point to a rise of 21 points when the market opens in Australia. Twitter reports Q1 earnings tonight in the US. Quiet in Asia after a fall. Regional markets followed Wall St’s weak Friday close with the Nikkei off 0.98% yesterday despite strong retail sales data. In Shanghai stocks fell 1.65% after a meeting of senior Chinese leaders on the weekend showed there aren’t any major stimulus measures on the way. Some bourses may recover following the US lead but Japan is closed for a holiday. Budget signals. Tony Abbott used the annual Sydney Institute lecture last night to set down some markers for the federal budget. The full speech is here, but the key points: no changes to the age pension in this parliament but there will be changes in three years’ time; thresholds for eligibility for some payments will be reduced; and some payments may also be cut. The major revelations about the budget, however, are in News Corp papers this morning, with reports saying the “deficit levy” will kick in at $80,000 with an extra 1c in the dollar; those earning over $180,000 will pay an extra 2c. Most vivid line from Abbott’s speech was his characterisation of the public finances inherited from Labor: “They didn’t just booby-trap the budget; they created a ponzi scheme of unsustainable spending because they thought that new taxes, more spending and bigger bureaucracies were the answer to every problem.” Parental leave pressure. Abbott could be rolled by people within his own party on his signature paid parental leave scheme. The AFR reports some Coalition MPs are increasingly clamorous in their opposition to the $5.5 billion program, especially as the government is now talking about the deficit levy and winding back welfare payments. Tinkler trailer. Another Independent Commission Against Corruption inquiry opened in Sydney yesterday and has the potential to create more chaos for the state Liberal Party. Premier Mike Baird – having an early wet week after replacing Barry O’Farrell only days ago thanks to another ICAC inquiry – has asked parliamentary secretary Marie Ficarra to stand aside. But the best revelation is reported by Kate McClymont at the SMH, on how embattled coal baron Nathan Tinkler texted a mate last year to ask: “Who is ICAC?” He certainly knows now – he’ll appear before it by the end of the week. Hacker hedge fund. US hacker Andrew “Weev” Auernheimer, who was released from prison earlier this month after serving time for exposing a flaw in AT&amp;T, has announced he’s starting a hedge fund. He says it will generate “financial intelligence from the computer underground and internet communities”, and its primary strategy will be shorting companies, “so far as information security and taking a leverage position in put options on their stock, and then releasing information on those outstanding liabilities to the public.” Should be fascinating. Solar eclipse this afternoon. There’s a partial solar eclipse visible just before sunset in eastern Australia tonight. Here’s how to watch it. Ukraine sanctions. Tensions over Ukraine have been rising again. The US overnight imposed sanctions on Russian individuals, including the head of Russia’s state-owned oil conglomerate Rosneft, Igor Sechin, along with six others. Sechin is worth knowing about: he’s a former KGB agent who has been called “the scariest man on Earth” and “Russia’s Darth Vader”, believed to be the second most powerful person in the country after Putin. Problem solvers. Australian startup Aston Club is wants to make sure you never leave your credit card behind a bar again. They’ve signed up 1000 venues in Melbourne to allow customers pay using a mobile app, and are looking at expanding nationally and into Hong Kong and Singapore. The company’s shareholders include a bunch of AFL players and they’ve just raised $1.5 million in seed funding. Australian restaurants slip. Melbourne’s Attica is the only Australian restaurant to make Restaurant magazine’s coveted global top 50 list. Quay has dropped out. Copenhagen’s Noma was No.1 again. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APNew York City Republican Rep. Michael Grimm isn't resigning from Congress because of his legal troubles, but he will be leaving the House Financial Services Committee. House Speaker John Boehner's office announced it received a letter from Grimm asking to be removed from the committee Monday.  "In light of recent events, I am writing this letter to respectfully request to be removed from my position on the House Financial Services Committee," Grimm wrote. "Upon a successful resolution of pending legal matters my intention is to resume said position as an active member of the committee." Federal prosecutors announced a slew of charges against Grimm Monday relating to his management of a Manhattan health food restaurant he partially owned prior to entering Congress in 2011. Among other things, Grimm allegedly concealed over $1 million in receipts at the restaurant to avoid paying taxes, hired illegal immigrants, and perjured himself at a 2013 deposition when he was asked whether he paid restaurant employees with cash.  Boehner's spokesman, Michael Steel, also issued a statement about Grimm's choice to remove himself from the Committee. "The Speaker believes Rep. Grimm’s decision is appropriate under the circumstances," Steel said.  View Grimm's letter to Boehner below.  U.S. House of Representatives  FREE AppDownload
Whether it be a big report, presentation, or an exam, there are the people who prepare for  it weeks in advance, and then, there are the procrastinators. Watch these tried and tested tips on how to pull a classic all-nighter effectively. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Originally published in August 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
FREE AppDownload
Bernt Rostad/flickrEditor's note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Brad Delong, economics professor at Berkeley. The topic was Thomas Piketty's new book "Capital in the Twenty-First Century." Delong blogs here »  This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER:What one comment or idea has stuck with you most from Berkeley's "Piketty Day?" <U+200B> BRAD DELONG: That Piketty has a very uphill climb to get modern American economists to believe his story, for their – our – default models were built for an age in which and assume that virtually nothing has a big effect on income and wealth inequality. BI: Should everyone be reading Piketty's book? Do you/the department plan on telling all of your students to?  BD: Well, what else do you have to do with your time? I am an economist: it is a matter of opportunity costs. Certainly students taking courses focused on inequality or advanced economic history should read "pick-Eddie" cover to cover. And I think six hours spent reading because he is far superior to spending six hours watching episodes of "The Cat from Hell"...<U+200B> BI: Do you have any sense of how Piketty is being received by elected officials?  BD: Not really. As you know, Elizabeth Warren likes the book. <U+200B>BI: We've seen a lot of curious examples of who in real life might embody Piketty's patrimonial capitalist, from Paris Hilton to Bill Gates, none of which really seem to fit. Who in your mind embodies Piketty's archetype? It is too early for there to be an archetype. The Walton heirs might fit as a stopgap...the archetype Piketty has in mind isn't a entrepreneur, or the child of an entrepreneur, but an heir whose parents were themselves among the idle rich... BI: What is the best criticism of Piketty you've read? BD: You know, that is a surprisingly hard question to answer because the average quality of the negative criticism has been so low. I do not understand why this is so. I guess I would say Suresh Naidu's forthcoming review in "Jacobin"--but that is not so much a criticism as a development and an extension and a filling in holes in the argument... FREE AppDownload
LOC'Peak oil' proponents — the guys and gals who believe overconsumption combined with scarce resources will lead to stratospheric energy prices — are now clinging to the hope that the shale oil and gas boom will fizzle out as the cost of drilling climbs. For the most part, the boom has held up, though no one believes it will last forever. But there is a fifth-column phenomenon this group has completely overlooked that will once-and-for-all obliterate their arguments: energy consumption efficiency. Contained in Exxon's new Outlook for Energy report is the following damning statistic:  Electricity generation will grow by 90% by 2040, but the amount of fuel needed to generate that electricity will only have to grow by 50%. And the projected increase in energy demand is 20% less than the demand increase seen from 1980 to 2010. The IEA has previously projected that electricity will become more affordable over time in most regions as income levels increase faster than household electricity bills. Exxon is making the case that greater efficiency is in fact the fuel of tomorrow, according to the Dallas Morning News' Nicholas Sakelaris. Energy efficiency technology will save 500 quadrillion British thermal units over the next 30 years, said Ted Pirog, an energy analyst with Exxon Mobil Corp. How much energy is that? “That’s the amount of energy that the world uses today,” said Pirog, as he spoke at the North Texas Commission luncheon Wednesday. “Our greatest source of energy in the future is our ability to use it more efficiently.” So while our electricity needs are not going away, the idea that their costs will spiral out of control has surely perished.  Check out the full report here » FREE AppDownload
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderAfter nearly three years in our old office space, Business Insider's growing team moved into its new world headquarters on Fifth Avenue last week. Since we've given our readers a peek inside so many other neat office spaces, we thought we would give you a glimpse inside our home. Keep reading to meet some of the team and see where we work. Welcome!
Reuters/Aly SongFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Stick To Quality (BMO Capital Markets)  "A preference toward higher-quality stocks has been one of our overriding investment themes over the past few years," writes Brian Belski, chief investment strategist at BMO Capital Markets. "We continue to believe that companies with stronger balance sheets, liquidity characteristics and consistent earnings growth are better positioned to deliver outperformance for longer periods of time – particularly as market and business cycles mature. "Admittedly, this has been a somewhat mediocre strategy over the past year or so as lower quality stocks have been significantly outperforming. However, we believe the market is entering a period that puts low-quality strategies at a disadvantage."  Fundamentals support high quality stocks, writes Belski. And he argues that we will see "increased volatility" in the stock market right through this year. And low quality stocks underperform when volatility occurs. Looking at low quality stocks in every period since 1990 where the VIX moved from a trough to 20, they returned 4.5%, compared with 9.89% for high quality stocks. "Quality has overtaken momentum again," writes Belski.  Hedge Funds Are Shorting Small Caps (Bloomberg)  Hedge funds are shorting small cap stocks which offered the best returns during the bull market, reports Alexis Xydias at Bloomberg. "Large speculators such as hedge funds are betting $2.8 billion this month that the Russell 2000 Index will fall. That’s the most since 2012 and the highest versus average levels since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp," reports Xydias. Small cap stocks have got very expensive, with the Russell 2000 reaching a valuation that's the highest since 2005. ROUBINI: The Most Important Global Tail Risk Right Now Stems From Ukraine (Bloomberg TV) Economist Nouriel Roubini thinks that as global tail risks go, the most important one for the moment stems from Ukraine. In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Roubini said that this "is the beginning now of a new cold war between the West and Russia, and this cold war could actually become a hot war if it’s possible Russia were to effectively destabilize and invade the eastern provinces of Ukraine, in which case things would escalate." "You could have another episode of global risk aversion. If this were to become a real war, (inaudible) even a situation in which the supply of gas to Europe may be cut off from Russia. The European economy is barely now recovering from a recession. That could tip back the eurozone into a recession." Seven Morgan Stanley Brokers Join Independent Advisor (Investment News)  Seven Morgan Stanley brokers that together managed $740 million are joining independent advisory firm Integrated Wealth Management Inc, reports Trevor Hunnicutt at Investment News. The brokers will operate as the Cypress Group and will push Integrated's assets above the $1 billion mark. Integrated is currently reported to have nine advisors and $623 million in assets under management. The seven brokers are: Mark Thatcher, Shad F. Lamm, Chris Risenmay, Ross Biesinger, David Thatcher, Clark Penney and Marc Koven. An Ugly Trend In Corporate America Has Finally Flipped After 10 Straight Negative Quarters (Charles Schwab) About 60% of S&amp;P 500 companies have announced Q1 financial results. And over 61% of those U.S. companies that have reported, have beaten expectations. But there's another key thing to note from this quarter's earnings announcements.  "For ten quarters in a row, companies have been unwilling to offer up anything positive about their forward business projections," writes Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. "We have seen a “negative guidance spread” (more companies lowering guidance than raising it) in each of the past ten earnings seasons." "This season, though, the guidance spread has finally flipped positive, with the percentage of companies raising guidance outnumbering the percentage of companies lowering guidance by 2.3 points, as you can see in the chart below." Charles Schwab, Bespoke Investment Group FREE AppDownload
APTexas Gov. Rick Perry thinks Texas' "employer-friendly combination of low taxes, fair courts, smart regulations, and world-class workforce" are responsible for Toyota's decision to move its sales headquarters from California to the Lone Star State.  "Over the past decade, Texas and Toyota have developed a strong partnership that has resulted in good-paying jobs for thousands of Texans," Perry said in a statement about the automakers move Monday. "Toyota understands that Texas’ employer-friendly combination of low taxes, fair courts, smart regulations and world-class workforce can help businesses of any size succeed and thrive. We’re proud that both the Tundra and Tacoma bear the words ‘Made in Texas,’ and we’re excited our state will be the nexus for Toyota’s North American operations moving forward." Toyota already has manufacturing facilities in Texas. Perry's office said the Texas Enterprise Fund offered Toyota a $40 million investment for moving its sales headquarters, which are expected to employ about 4,000 people.  TEF was created in 2003 to give companies incentives to bring jobs and investments to Texas. Perry's office said the Toyota project would be "one of the largest job creation projects in TEF history" when it is completed. The TEF investment is contingent on the finalization of contracts as well as a local incentive agreement.  Perry has made luring out-of-state companies to Texas one of his major priorities. Last week, Perry traveled to New York in an effort to recruit businesses there to make the move.  FREE AppDownload
APAT&amp;T announced today that it's working on a way to bring in-flight Internet access to planes using technology based on the 4G LTE network it uses for smartphones and tablets.  Gogo's stock tanked on the news. It was down as much as 24% after hours. Gogo is one of the most popular providers of in-flight WiFi. AT&amp;T says it will start offering in-flight Internet in late 2015. It's partnering with Honeywell to install the necessary equipment on planes. Here's the full announcement from AT&amp;T: AT&amp;T today announced plans to launch a high-speed 4G LTE-based in-flight connectivity service for airlines and passengers in commercial, business and general aviation. The service, planned to be available as soon as late 2015, will be capable of providing in-flight broadband for customers including fast, reliable Wi-Fi and onboard entertainment. Following launch, aviation customers can also expect improved connectivity solutions such as cockpit communications, maintenance operations and crew services. To deliver this new service, AT&amp;T plans to build an innovative air-to-ground network in the continental United States, based on global 4G LTE standards, to provide fast speeds and efficient utilization of spectrum already owned by AT&amp;T. As the architect and operator of the nation’s most reliable 4G LTE network**, AT&amp;T has the expertise, spectrum and financial strength to transform airborne connectivity. “Everyone wants access to high-speed, reliable mobile Internet wherever they are, including at 35,000 feet,” said John Stankey, Chief Strategy Officer at AT&amp;T. “We are building on AT&amp;T’s significant strengths to develop in-flight connectivity technology unlike any other that exists today, based on 4G LTE standards. We believe this will enable airlines and passengers to benefit from reliable high speeds and a better experience. We expect this service to transform connectivity in the aviation industry – we are truly mobilizing the sky.” Honeywell, an aerospace industry leader, recently issued its Wireless Connectivity Survey indicating that in-flight Wi-Fi currently causes frustrations for nearly nine in 10 users worldwide, most often due to inconsistent or slow connections. AT&amp;T plans to work with Honeywell to provide hardware and service capabilities to deliver the in-flight connectivity solution. Along with Honeywell’s expertise, AT&amp;T’s technical strength and scale in building networks and managing their evolutions provide a unique opportunity to change the way passengers and airlines connect to the mobile Internet. With AT&amp;T’s planned new network, passengers would gain the reliability they have long hoped for in the sky – for browsing the Internet, checking email, keeping in touch with friends and family through social networking and messaging services, and increasing business productivity. AT&amp;T’s in-flight connectivity also offers the potential for improved communications between the plane and the ground through transmission of real-time aircraft data for optimizing, monitoring and evolving airlines’ operations. In-flight connectivity is a natural fit for AT&amp;T, which over the past six years (2008 to 2013) has invested more than $140 billion into its wireless and wireline networks, when you combine capital investment and acquisitions of spectrum and wireless operations, and already operates the nation’s most reliable 4G LTE network. AT&amp;T has more than 116 million wireless subscribers, more than 16.5 million total broadband subscribers and serves many of the world’s largest corporations, including all of the Fortune 1000.  AT&amp;T is a leader in connected devices and continues to win awards for its wireless and wireline services, while also continuing to innovate with its recent launches of its Connected Car platform and Drive Studio, and introduction of AT&amp;T U-verse® with GigaPowerSM in select U.S. cities. AT&amp;T sees an opportunity to deliver an innovative and high-performing in-flight connectivity and entertainment service, and will build on existing relationships within the aviation industry to deliver a better customer experience than what is available from others today. AT&amp;T plans for its in-flight connectivity service to support both business aviation and commercial airline customers from day one of the service launch. AT&amp;T will provide information on pricing and availability prior to launch. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Robert GalbraithHerbalife just reported first quarter earnings and it's a nice beat for the nutritional supplements seller. The company reported adjusted EPS of $1.50 versus analyst estimates of $1.30. Revenue for the first quarter came in at $1.26 billion versus estimates of $1.23 billion. The company said in the release that it has terminated its dividend and will use cash to repurchase stock. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn is happy about that. "Great move by #HLF to suspend dividend &amp; buyback shares. $HLF accelerates return to shareholders. Confirms confidence in the future," Icahn Tweeted.  The stock is flat in after-hours trading. Herbalife's stock has been at the center of a nasty battle between hedge fund billionaires.  Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. He's betting $1 billion that the company will be shut down by regulators.  Icahn disagrees with Ackman, his long-time rival. Icahn owns a massive stake in Herbalife's stock.  The company is currently under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.  Here's an excerpt:  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today reported first quarter net sales of $1.3 billion, reflecting an increase of 12 percent compared to the same period in 2013 on volume point growth of 9 percent. Adjusted1 net income for the quarter was $151.1 million, or $1.50 per diluted share, as compared to 2013 first quarter adjusted net income of $137.4 million, or $1.27 per diluted share. GAAP net income for the quarter was $74.6 million, or $0.74 per diluted share, compared to $118.9 million, or $1.10 per diluted share for the same period in 2013, primarily due to a foreign exchange loss for Venezuela during the quarter ended March 31, 2014. "We continue to achieve record earnings, strong sales growth and enhanced profitability," said Michael O. Johnson, Herbalife's chairman and CEO. “Our performance reflects the demand for our exceptional products, as well as the hard work of our independent members who continue to cultivate and grow their base of satisfied customers worldwide. In addition, we are pleased to raise our expectations for the balance of 2014. This reflects our confidence that Herbalife is well-positioned to continue to grow and play an increasingly important role in improving nutrition and reducing obesity around the world.” For the quarter ended March 31, 2014 the company generated cash flow from operations of $190.6 million, an increase of 39 percent compared to 2013; paid cash dividends of $30.4 million; invested $49.7 million in capital expenditures; and spent $685.8 million for approximately 9.9 million outstanding common shares under our prepaid forward share repurchase agreement. As of April 25, 2014, the company has spent $255 million during the month of April to repurchase approximately 4.5 million outstanding common shares under our existing repurchase program and pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. As of March 31, 2014 we moved to the SICAD I rate of 10.7 Venezuelan bolivar per U.S. dollar for US GAAP remeasurement purposes. This change impacted our 2014 Q1 reported results by $89.3 million before tax and we have normalized this impact out of our adjusted results. First Quarter and Fiscal 2014 Key Metrics3,4 Regional Volume Point and Average Active Sales Leader Metrics 2014 Second Quarter and Full Year Guidance Forward guidance excludes the impact of expenses (primarily for legal and advisory services) relating to the company's response to information put into the marketplace by a short seller, which the company believes to be inaccurate and misleading, expenses related to a FTC inquiry, and the impact of non-cash interest costs associated with the company’s Convertible Notes. Forward guidance is based on the average daily exchange rates of the first two weeks of April. Included in the guidance is the use of the GAAP rate for Venezuela of 10.7 to 1 for the balance of the year and excludes the potential impact of future devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar and future repatriation, if any, of existing cash balances in Venezuela. Board of Directors Accelerates Cash Returns to Shareholders The company’s board of directors also announced today that, as part of its goal to accelerate cash returns to shareholders, it has approved terminating the company’s quarterly cash dividend and instead utilizing the cash to repurchase additional shares of the company’s outstanding common stock during the second quarter of 2014. The company now expects to repurchase a total of $581 million of its outstanding common stock during the second quarter of 2014 as part of its previously announced $1.5 billion share repurchase program. The $581 million is comprised of the approximately $315 million expected to be purchased in April as part of a 10b5-1 trading plan ($255 million already completed as of Friday, April 25); plus the $50 million included in previous guidance and $216 million that otherwise was expected to be returned to shareholders in the form of quarterly cash dividends over the next eight quarters. Mr. Johnson stated, “Our strong sustained financial performance and the current market valuation of our shares make repurchasing stock the most attractive method of returning capital to shareholders and reflects our continued commitment to creating long-term value for our shareholders.” FREE AppDownload
Kleier Residential The Upper West Side co-op that belonged to the late-hedge fund manager Robert Wilson is on the market for $25 million, the New York Times reports [via Curbed]. Wilson, a retired fund manager and a big philanthropist, jumped to his death from the 145 Central Park West apartment late last year. He had previously suffered a debilitating stroke a few months before. He was 86. Kleier Residential has the listing on his former residence. It's a lovely apartment with breathtaking views of Central Park. Now we're going to take a tour.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Victor FrailePandora's stock continued to suffer today following its Q1 earnings report.  During the day, it went down as much as 8%. It closed down 2.85% at closing bell.  Last Thursday, Pandora reported better than expected earnings, but the stock closed down 16% that day anyway.  Last quarter, Pandora saw revenues of $194.3 million, well ahead of the $177.7 million analysts expected. Pandora also reported a loss of $0.13 per share, which is a penny better than analysts expected. The stock is likely tanking due to Pandora's disappointing guidance for Q2. Its guidance ranged from break-even to a profit of $0.03 per share on revenue $213 million to $218 million. But analysts were expecting a profit of $0.05 per share on revenue of $219 million. Despite how investors reacted, Pandora is still growing. In Q1, listening hours grew 12% year-over-year to 4.8 billion. Pandora's number of active listeners also grew 8% to 75.3 million people.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuStocks were up, then down, then up again. At one point, the Nasdaq was down by as much as 1.8%. The Dow was down by 51 points. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
NELP Here's a really important chart from the National Employment Law Project, spotted by FT Alphaville's Cardiff Garcia. It's from a report called "The Low-Wage Recovery: Industry Employment and Wages Four Years into the Recovery."  It plots median hourly wage in 2013 dollars in about two dozen different sectors against the net change in employment from Feb. 2010 to March 2014 in those sectors. Right away, you'll notice the data slope downward, meaning payroll growth in higher-wage jobs has not kept up with growth in lower-paying ones. BI's Mamta Badkar expanded on this point, here. But when we look at the bubbles furthest to the left — meaning the sectors with the greatest absolute job losses — what do we see? Government gigs. As the NELP authors write: Over the past four years, private sectors gains have been partially offset by public sector job losses  resulting from budget cuts at the federal, state, and local levels. Net job losses totaled 627,000 across all  levels of government during the recovery period. Employment declines were particularly severe at the local level, where education absorbed nearly three-quarters of the 378,000 net job losses over the past four  years. And government jobs tend to be higher paying. So if you've lost your job working for the county, not only are you not likely to get that job back anytime soon, many of the new posts you interview for are likely going to come with a lower wage. We now know a primary culprit behind the anemic labor market. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. economy has come a long way from the recession. The unemployment rate is now at 6.7%, compared with a peak of 10% in late 2009. Of course many have pointed out that this ignores that the unemployment rate fell in part because many people left the labor force. But there is another disappointing trend about the job recovery the U.S. has seen. Most of the job losses during the labor market downturn from January 2008 to February 2010, came from high and mid-wage industries. The latest report from the National Employment Law Project (NELP), via George Magnus, shows that in the recovery, from February 2010 to 2014, most of the job growth has come from lower-wage industries. There are 1.85 million more jobs in lower-wage industries now than before the recession, and two million fewer jobs in the mid and higher-wage industries than before the recession. Here are the details from the report (verbatim): NELP FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersInvestor Warren Buffett poses for a portrait during an interview after a luncheon to benefit the Glide Foundation of San Francisco in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - The next chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway should be the only one at the company to get options, Warren Buffett, the current head of the sprawling conglomerate, said on Monday. In an interview with Fortune, Buffett said he had written a memo to the Berkshire &lt;BRKa.N&gt; board to suggest the next CEO should be "the only one who would receive options because he would be the only one who is responsible for the overall success of the operation." Buffett, an investing icon and the world's third-richest man, came under fire last week when he said that he disagreed with a controversial equity compensation package for Coca-Cola &lt;KO.N&gt; management but nonetheless abstained from voting. He told CNBC last week that he "didn't want to express any disapproval of management but we did disapprove of the plan." He's since drawn broad criticism for not voting against the measure, which passed. Buffett in the past has spoken out about stock options for executives as expensive and ineffective. In 1995, for example, Buffett wrote: "Who, after all, refuses a free lottery ticket?" and called such arrangements "wasteful to the company." Still, Buffett said on Monday that executive compensation is not out of whack with pay rates in the rest of the country. "If you run a multibillion-dollar company the difference between a 10 and an eight is huge in terms of value," he said. "Still, almost on a voluntary basis, I think it should be somewhat restrained in some cases." He offered no more details on who the next Berkshire Hathaway CEO could be, a source of widespread speculation as investors wonder how much longer the octogenarian can continue in his current role. Buffett, 83 and Charlie Munger, 90, the chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of Berkshire Hathaway, have each drawn a salary of $100,000 each for more than 25 years. In a securities filing this year, the company noted that "Mr. Buffett has advised the (Governance) Committee that he would not expect or desire such compensation to increase in the future." Buffett's fortune is estimated at $65 billion by Forbes magazine. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel; Editing by Andrew Hay and Sandra Maler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuStocks were up, then down, then up again. At one point, the Nasdaq was down by as much as 1.8%. The Dow was down by 51 points. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred Prouser Russia and Ukraine continue to be the geopolitical hotspot of the world. The U.S. just imposed stricter sanctions on key Russian officials who are believed to have played a role in escalating the crisis in Ukraine. Economist Nouriel Roubini believes this crisis could certainly escalate. "There is the beginning now of a new cold war between the West and Russia," Roubini said in an interview with Bloomberg TV's Eric Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle. "And this cold war could actually become a hot war if it’s possible Russia were to effectively destabilize and invade the eastern provinces of Ukraine." Roubini warned that escalation could disrupt Russia's ability to supply gas to Europe, which could in turn fall back into recession. Here's an excerpt from the interview transcript: Schatzker: Yes. We’ve got to take the opportunity. Let’s go global. Nouriel, right now it would seem to most people like the situation that’s unfolding in Ukraine, especially as it concerns Russia, presents the single biggest risk, but maybe it isn’t. I want you to share with us your view of what’s happening there, how you think it’s going to unfold, and whether we’re missing something bigger. Roubini: Certainly among the global tail risks, the one coming from Ukraine is the most important one. There is the beginning now of a new cold war between the West and Russia, and this cold war could actually become a hot war if it’s possible Russia were to effectively destabilize and invade the eastern provinces of Ukraine, in which case things would escalate. You could have another episode of global risk aversion. If this were to become a real war, (inaudible) even a situation in which the supply of gas to Europe may be cut off from Russia. The European economy is barely now recovering from a recession. That could tip back the eurozone into a recession.  Ruhle: From a risk management from a 1 to 10 scale, how concerned are you that things could get catastrophic there? Roubini: Well today I would say the risk is around 7 and raising because the situation is (inaudible) one in which Russia seems to be really very aggressive in Ukraine. They want to try to take over Ukraine, and therefore an escalation is likely to occur. Schatzker: Okay, but an escalation in what form? You talked about the possibility that this might become a hot war, which – which I take to mean the use of force on both sides. Roubini: Yes. Yes. (Inaudible). Schatzker: That assumes that NATO will act - Roubini: Suppose that Russia at this point decides to effectively either to destabilize, invade the eastern province of Ukraine. Two things will happen. The stance (ph) of the West will have to become more Russia and Russia could have (inaudible) going as far as limiting the supply of gas not just to Ukraine but also to Western Europe. Secondly, the NATO, even if they’re not going to have a military intervention, they’ll have certainty provide some military support to the government in Kiev. And that means that this war could escalate for quite a while. And therefore from a financial market point of view, there may be contagion deriving two (ph) advanced economy’s financial market, especially in the eurozone. Schatzker: But could it really escalate for quite a while? Because we know that if Putin wants to exercise force in a big way, he can. And there’s really nobody capable of responding to it other than the United States.Roubini: Well, the situation is such that even if he wanted to use force there (inaudible) first of all. Secondly, he’s not going to invade all of Ukraine. And you don’t know for how long a military conflict of this sort is going to continue, especially if the US and Europe were then to support militarily the government in Kiev. This war could continue and last for a while. So I’m saying this is not my baseline, but there is certainly downside risk that that will happen. But even a baseline (inaudible) remains lingering for a while, at some point investor may become worried about it. Ruhle: What does all this mean for the European economy? Roubini: Well the eurozone right now is recovering. There’s been a severe recession. There’s the beginning of an economic recovery, but this is a recovery that’s fragile, it’s anemic, it’s uneven, especially in the periphery of the eurozone. I would say the last thing that the eurozone can afford and need right now is another shock coming from an increase in gas prices and or even a cut off of supply of gas coming from Russia to the Western European economies. That would tip the European economies back into a recession if that were to occur. Watch the entire interview here:  FREE AppDownload
Ani Mason, a New York-based divorce lawyer and mediator, recently noticed more clients were asking her to prepare prenuptial agreements. Crafting an agreement that speaks specifically to your situation allows a couple to flesh out each individual's expectations about how they will manage their finances in the future. It also defines how pre-existing assets will be treated. Here's what you should do. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
CNBCWell-known hacker Andrew "Weev" Auernheimer, who released thousands of iPad users' email addresses to point out a flaw in AT&amp;T's servers, is starting a hedge fund. His fund will be called "TRO LLC" (clever) and the primary strategy will be to short companies. "The underlying theme is generating financial intelligence from the computer underground and internet communities," he told CNBC. He continued: "And there's a number of strategies here, but short is definitely the most dramatic. And our primary strategy is to identify a company that has liabilities that no one knows about yet, and so far as information security and taking a leverage position in put options on their stock, and then releasing information on those outstanding liabilities to the public." He's not going to be hacking companies, though. "First we probe the public surface of a company. And second, we take a look and we actually watch hackers — foreign hackers like the Russian Business Network and find out what they're doing. There's another company in New York it's called Consumer Bell...and they do what we do, but for really old boring products — like finding food that has mold in it that makes children sick, when a car company that has a car that hurts people, the stock value droppings or when a software or cloud company has a similar problem, their stock is going to drop, too." Auernheimer also told CNBC that he already has interested investors. The first offering will be in August.  Auernheimer got out of prison earlier this month after his conviction was vacated. He had served 13 months after being sentenced to 41 months  Watch below:    Here's a screenshot from his website:  www.trollc.com   FREE AppDownload
Around 60% of the S&amp;P 500 companies have announced their Q1 financial results, and for the most part the numbers have beaten expectations. "Through Friday (April 25), over 61% of all US companies have beaten consensus earnings estimates; while for the S&amp;P 500 it’s closer to 75%, according to our friends at ISI Research," noted Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. "And, we’ve seen a lift to the top-line (revenue) beat rate over the past week: according to Bespoke Investment Group (B.I.G.), for all companies having reported, 55% have beaten revenue estimates; up from 50% the prior week." Then again, better-than-expected earnings tends to be the norm. Furthermore, analysts and investors had been slashing their expectations for earnings, so the bar was arguably set low. Importantly, it's worth noting that the unusually negative trend in earnings guidance may be ending. "For ten quarters in a row, companies have been unwilling to offer up anything positive about their forward business projections," noted Sonders. "We have seen a “negative guidance spread” (more companies lowering guidance than raising it) in each of the past ten earnings seasons. "This season, though, the guidance spread has finally flipped positive, with the percentage of companies raising guidance outnumbering the percentage of companies lowering guidance by 2.3 points, as you can see in the chart below." Sonders remains bullish on stocks. "With many macro indicators signaling a pickup in growth and no signs of a recession on the horizon, in our view the bull market is likely intact." Charles Schwab, Bespoke Investment Group FREE AppDownload
The model has been more useful for explaining corporate financial behavior. The corporate finance yield spread between the S&amp;P 500 forward earnings yield and Moody’s seasoned Aaa corporate bond yield has been positive since 2004 and is currently 237bps. When it is positive, company managements can get a better return on their cash by repurchasing their shares than by investing it in fixed-income securities. Alternatively, their companies can benefit by borrowing the money to buy back some of the company shares. Last year, nonfinancial corporations’ net new issuance of bonds totaled a record $640 billion. Some of those proceeds funded buybacks. (Although the Aaa yield applies to only a handful of corporations, it is pre-tax. So it should still be a good proxy for corporate borrowing rates after taxes, in my opinion.) The corporate finance version of the FSVM suggests that companies can also benefit by using their cash or borrowed money to fund M&amp;A when the forward earnings yield of the combination exceeds the corporate bond yield.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: M&amp;A Mania? (1) Here we go again. (2) Fed Model not a good market timing tool, but it does explain corporate buybacks. (3) Forward earnings yield vs. corporate bond yield. (4) Companies using inflated stock prices as M&amp;A currency. (5) Software and R&amp;D accounting for more of capital spending. (6) Macroeconomic vs. microeconomic models of inflation. (7) Competitive model explains a lot. (8) Yellen’s tools aren’t working. (9) Stocks should grind higher this year. (10) So far, 2014 is reminiscent of 2013, when defensive stocks outperformed until the end of April. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe future of an economy is determined heavily by its evolving demographics. Knowing how young or old a country's population will be is crucial for investors and businesses. Many point to population growth in developing nations as a source of rising domestic demand. But there's a lot more to be considered. For example, the Arab Spring was an extreme, but important reminder of what can happen when you have a young and able workforce with little access to jobs. With that in mind we drew on George Magnus' presentation to The Conference Board titled "The Age of Ageing: Global demographics, destinies and coping mechanisms." In it, Magnus highlights five big demographic trends shaping the world right now. 1. The ratio of children to older citizens is declining: The ratio of children to older citizens stands at about 3:1 but is declining. By around 2040, there will be more older citizens than children. By 2050, there will be twice as many older citizens as there are children. Some exceptions to this however are China and Russia. "The number of over-60s in the rich world is predicted to rise by 2.5 times by 2050 to 418 million, but the trajectory starts to level off in about 20 years time. Within this cohort, the number of people aged over 80 will rise six times to about a 120 million.  "In emerging and developing world, the number of over 60s will grow by more than 7 times to over 1.5 billion by 2050, and behind this, you can see a 17-fold increase in the expected population of those aged over 80, to about 262 million." Conference Board/George Magnus2. There has been a sea-change in the nature of illness to non-communicable diseases: One of the consequences of rapid aging and rising longevity is the "sea change in the nature of illness and disease and therefore scientific and pharmaceutical businesses," said Magnus. "I'm referring, of course, to what the World Health Organization has called the invisible epidemic of non-communicable diseases, which is now responsible globally for about 60% of deaths, and nearly half of the actual and effective life years due to disability." "By 2030, depression is expected to become the biggest single cause of disability affected life years, which is a composite measure of years of life lost to  premature death and disability. The arrows show a complete turnaround in the principal burden of disease." Conference Board/George Magnus 3. The speed of aging is rising rapidly in emerging economies: The time taken to double the share of those over 60 years old from 7% to 14% of the population took a long time in western countries. But the emerging markets are aging "at an astounding pace," according to George Magnus. In France it took over a century to cross this milestone. And in most developed countries it took about 40 - 80 years. In emerging markets, however, the process is playing out in about 20 years with China taking the lead in speed.  "It's this that gives that rise to the common mantra of 'growing old before you get rich,'" said Magnus. What this means is that emerging markets have far less time to build the financial infrastructure and social security systems to deal with consequences of an aging and rising old age dependency. Conference Board/George Magnus4. Old age dependency ratio is rising rapidly in Japan, European countries, but at a slower pace in Anglo Saxon economies:  The rising dependence of those over 65 on the working age population is referred to as the old age dependency ratio. This is a product of weak fertility and rising longevity. The old age dependency ratio in countries like Germany, Japan, Italy, Spain is expected to rise rapidly. These countries are characterized as the "hares" because of the rapid progression of old age dependency. The number of workers per older citizen is expected to fall from about 3-5 today to about 1.5 by the mid-century mark. Meanwhile, the Anglo-Saxon economies like Sweden and France are "tortoises" by comparison. Here the support ratio will fall from 4-5 workers today, to about 2-2.5 by the mid-century. This is because of higher fertility rates and a more open immigration policy.. Conference Board/George MagnusThe tortoises of the emerging markets have a support ratio of 10-20 workers per older citizen, and this is expected to get to where developed countries are by mid-century. But in some countries in sub-Saharan Africa, the pace of aging is much slower than say in Indonesia, Turkey and Brazil. India is a "demographic darling" because one-third of its population is aged under 14, and its working age population will grow in the next 20 years, to more than the existing stock of working age people in Western Europe today. Conference Board/George Magnus5. It's getting harder to exploit demographic dividend: This is a phase that countries go through when child dependency is falling and the working age population is expanding. But they're also in a phase just before old age dependency starts to rise. Typically, this phase comes with stronger trends in income, savings, investment, and technical progress. This is where where other emerging markets countries hope to be in the next few decades. Once the old age dependency ratio starts to rise, however, the demographic dividend can't be exploited and it tends to drag on growth. The demographic dividend creates the opportunity to draw on these benefits, but doesn't guarantee it. Exploiting your demographic dividend depends on four Is, according to Magnus — better institutions, investment climate, infrastructure, and innovation. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov"[T]oday’s action fell well short of broad sanctions against the Russian energy sector. We would suggest that the U.S. action was taken very carefully so as to enable European leaders to present a united front. As we have noted in past publications, divergent energy security risks have undercut policy unity between U.S. and Europe since the shale gas boom. In our view, Western leaders likely want to avoid taking any action that would reinforce Russian President Vladimir Putin’s sense he can exploit this divergence to his advantage. As we noted on Friday, Europe has differentially greater trade exposure, too." That's the take from Kevin Book, managing director of Clearview Energy Partners, on the latest round of U.S. sanctions against Russia.  The new penalties seem to be a ratcheting-up from the previous round, since the U.S. is now targeting people in President Putin's inner circle, such as Igor Sechin, the head of energy giant Rosneft and a man once described as "the scariest man on Earth."  But while the names may be flashier this time around, the sanctions themselves may not end up doing much to deter further Russian incursions.  For Book — who recently gave us an in-depth tour of global energy markets for our "10 Things You Need To Know" morning bulletin — today's announcement was much too delicate to be of much use.   Instead, he says, the U.S. should come up with a "script" that would give Putin a pretext to back down, and that there remains no compelling reason for Putin to pull the troops amassed at Ukraine's border. FREE AppDownload
jesse?First it was JP Morgan's $6 billion 'London Whale' trading loss, then it was The Federal Reserve slapping Citi for inadequate structural controls. As of Monday morning, you can also add Bank of America's math mistake to that list of what CLSA analyst Mike Mayo is calling, "The Trifecta of Misery on Wall Street." It's a list of mishaps that show Wall Street is it is now is too big to manage. In this most recent incident, Bank of America announced that it miscalculated, and doesn't actually have as much capital as it previously reported. The Fed responded to that by asking the bank to change its plans to return money to shareholders and boost its stock price through a buy back, punishing the company and its stockholders. "How can the board not come to the conclusion that Bank of America is too complex to manage?" Mayo said to Business Insider. "I think the incident today impacts the controls, capital and credibility... I mean, banking is a business of numbers and getting the numbers right is paramount." Since the financial crisis, Bank of America has engaged in a restructuring and cost cutting plan called 'New BAC'. By and large analysts have considered it a success since it has contributed to the bank's significantly healthier balance sheet. But there are downsides, according to Mayo, who asked, "How do they [Bank of America] know when the restructuring cuts into meat instead of fat?" In other words, how does Bank of America know its cuts aren't cutting corners? Earnings have been lumpy anyway, so perhaps the time has come for bigger divestments out of businesses that aren't performing. The bank has its annual shareholder meeting in Charlotte, N.C. on May 7th, and Mayo will be there to ask those questions and more. Since this latest mishap directly impacts shareholders, he'll also be asking how management's interests are aligned with those of shareholders, and how management defines success now. "The world we should live in would treat annual meetings like big events... It's the only opportunity to publicly hold the Chairman Chad Holliday accountable to investors." To Mayo, Wall Street has found itself in what he calls the "Big Brother" era of banking, where the government is watching everything banks do and coming down on mistakes hard. It's the opposite of what we had before the financial crisis, but that doesn't make it better for everyone. "Big brother doesn't need anymore excuses to regulate the banks more aggressively but it's getting them," said Mayo. And no matter who the CEO is, it seems the shareholders are paying for those excuses. "A more effective public, private sector solution is needed," said Mayo, "and that means making boards hold people accountable." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRosneft President and Chairman of the Managing Board Sechin speaks during the IHS CERAWeek energy conference in HoustonMOSCOW (Reuters) - When Vladimir Putin brought Igor Sechin out of the shadows and into the Kremlin 14 years ago, Russian newspapers said they had no photographs of him and alluded to his behind-the-scenes influence by calling him Darth Vadar. A man with no energy industry background, Sechin has served for two years as boss of Rosneft &lt;ROSN.MM&gt;, a state-controlled company that under Putin swallowed up Russian oil assets to become the biggest publicly listed oil producer in the world. A close lieutenant of Putin's for more than two decades, Sechin is the most important figure among a list of Russians whose U.S. assets were frozen on Monday as part of sanctions intended to push Moscow to stop supporting a pro-Russian uprising in eastern Ukraine. His biography has gaps - he was posted to Africa in the 1980s, officially as an interpreter for a Soviet trade body. But he is widely reported to have served, like Putin himself, as a spy during the dying days of the Soviet Union, which he has never denied. That shared international cloak-and-dagger background has helped make him one of Putin's most trusted aides and arguably the second most powerful man in Russia, despite having no official role in government since 2012. He played a central role in Putin's drive to reimpose the state's authority over Russia's most valuable asset, its energy industry, which had been carved up and sold off to oligarchs in rigged privatization auctions in the 1990s. Sechin, 53, joined Putin in the Kremlin from the outset, quickly earning a reputation as a leader of the "siloviki" - a conservative faction of former members of the security services close to Putin who controlled the levers of power. With reports growing in recent weeks that Sechin might be on a sanctions list, he has shrugged off the likely impact, saying last month they merely would unite people around Putin. "As for the country's loyal elite, sanctions have always led to the consolidation and concentration of forces against pressure from outside," Prime news agency quoted him as saying. The comment is a sign of Sechin's loyalty to Putin, the single asset that has made him most useful to the president. "He is very faithful. He has his own notion of honor, which is to stay loyal till the bitter end," said Yevgeny Muravich, who studied languages, including Portuguese, with Sechin at Leningrad State University, and worked with him in Mozambique. COLD WAR, HOT FRONT Sechin's languages were useful when posted to southern Africa in the 1980s, at a time when guerrilla wars in Portuguese-speaking Angola and Mozambique were two of the hot frontlines of the Cold War. He says he was serving in the military at the time. Rosneft declined to comment on Sechin's past jobs. Repeated requests for an interview were left unanswered. After the fall of the Soviet Union, Sechin, like Putin, returned home to a Russian Federation suddenly shorn of its empire. The two men worked together in the St Petersburg mayor's office in the 1990s where Putin began the rise that brought him to the Kremlin at the start of the new millennium. When Putin took over as president from an ailing Boris Yeltsin, he brought Sechin to the Kremlin as deputy chief of staff, where he became known as a "grey cardinal" with power beyond his official title. With most of the Russian oil industry then in the hands of oligarchs, Putin used Rosneft, a state-controlled firm that produced just 250,000 barrels of oil a day in 1998, to reassert the state's role. Putin named Sechin Rosneft chairman in 2004. Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a former oligarch who fell out with Putin and was jailed for more than a decade, says it was Sechin who masterminded the breakup of his Yukos oil firm, mostly sold into state hands after Khodorkovsky's 2003 arrest. After relentlessly extending its reach, Rosneft now produces 4.2 million barrels per day - 40 percent of Russia's output and nearly 5 percent of the world's. That is nearly double the output of Exxon Mobil, the biggest Western major. When Putin took a break from the presidency and served as prime minister for a term from 2008-2012, Sechin served as deputy premier. When Putin returned to the Kremlin, he put Sechin in charge of Rosneft again, this time as CEO. Under Sechin, Rosneft acquired BP's &lt;BP.L&gt; half share in a Russian joint venture last year in a huge deal that left Britain's largest company with a 20 percent stake in Rosneft. TAKING AND GENERATING ORDERS By concentrating so much of the Russian oil industry in one state-controlled firm under the supervision of a personally loyal lieutenant, Putin reversed the chaos of the Yeltsin era, when Russia's oil fields were divided among oligarchs. Former employees at Rosneft say Sechin is a demanding boss. "He rules with an iron fist, he keeps all figures in his head. He has a great memory and a fantastic ability to work long hours," one former employee said. Sechin strictly follows Putin's instructions but also appears to influence the president. Industry sources say that in 2005 Sechin blocked plans that Putin had blessed for Rosneft to merge with Gazprom &lt;GAZP.MM&gt; because he did not like the way control of the behemoth would be shared. "He follows orders from above (Putin), but sometimes he generates these orders," said a top Russian executive who asked not to be named. Putin and Sechin have also used Rosneft's giant portfolio of undeveloped assets to win international influence. While serving as deputy prime minister, Sechin struck exploration deals with Exxon Mobil &lt;XOM.N&gt;, Norway's Statoil &lt;STL.OL&gt; and Italy's Eni &lt;ENI.MI&gt;. Those partnerships seek to develop Rosneft's vast offshore reserves and help it acquire know-how in extracting hard-to-recover oil. Industry sources say Sechin cleared the way by convincing Putin to back a new tax regime that encourages firms to invest. An industry insider told Reuters that Sechin's ultimate goal was to turn the company into a global major, similar to BP &lt;BP.L&gt; and Shell &lt;RDSa.L&gt;. Its purchase of Morgan Stanley's oil trading business is a part of that drive. (Additional reporting by Katya Golubkova, Editing by Timothy Heritage and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
Pavel Durov, the ousted founder of Russian social media website VKontakte, has taken to Facebook to celebrate the latest round of U.S. sanctions on Russia amid crisis in Ukraine. Durov fled Russia last week as Putin allies Igor Sechin and Alisher Usmanov took over Russia's version of Facebook after Durov refused to hand over information about activists. Sechin, CEO of the Russian state oil major Rosneft, is on the new American sanction list. Durov, who now lives in the Caribbean nation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, expressed his satisfaction on Facebook. Facebook Former Russian oligarch and Putin rival Mikhail Khodorkovsky owned Yukos, a now-defunct oil company that pumped 2% of the world's output, before being jailed for 10 years for fraud and tax evasion in 2013. Most of Yukos' assets are now owned by Rosneft. Durov's last post on VKontakte featured a cartoon strip calling for freedom of information in Russia. h/t @BBCDanielS FREE AppDownload
Jamie Squire/Getty ImagesThe Dallas Fed manufacturing survey climbed to 11 in April, beating expectations for a rise to six.  This report showed that factory activity in Texas climbed for the twelfth straight month.  "The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 17.1 to 24.7, reaching its highest level in four years and indicating stronger output growth," according to the press release. Investors watch this number to  get a sense of the health of the economy. Here is the full release: Texas factory activity increased for the 12th month in a row in April, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 17.1 to 24.7, reaching its highest level in four years and indicating stronger output growth. Some other measures of current manufacturing activity also reflected more robust growth. The new orders index posted a four-year high, rising to 21.3. The capacity utilization index rose to a multiyear high as well, climbing from 13.1 to 18.7, with a third of manufacturers noting an increase. The shipments index fell 7 points to 12.4, indicating the volume of shipments grew but at a slower pace than in March. Perceptions of broader business conditions were markedly more optimistic in April. The general business activity index rose for a second consecutive month, increasing from 4.9 to 11.7. The company outlook index jumped nearly 15 points to a four-year high of 23.4, reflecting a sharp rise in optimism among manufacturers. Labor market indicators reflected stronger employment growth and longer workweeks. The April employment index rose to 19.7, its highest reading in more than two years. Twenty-eight percent of firms reported net hiring compared with 8 percent reporting net layoffs. The hours worked index spiked from 5.3 to 13.9, indicating a sizeable increase in workweek length. Upward pressure on input prices eased somewhat in April, while pressure ticked up for selling prices and wages. The raw materials price index declined sharply from 23.1 to 10.2, reaching an 8-month low. Meanwhile, the finished goods price index edged up to a reading of 8. Looking ahead, 36 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 25 percent expect higher finished goods prices. The wages and benefits index increased slightly to 21.3. This index has been consistently elevated since December, suggesting strong upward pressure on compensation costs for five months. Expectations regarding future business conditions remained optimistic in April. The index of future general business activity rose 7 points to 24.5, while the index of future company outlook was largely unchanged at 26.9. Indexes for future manufacturing activity pushed further into positive territory. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected Apr. 15–23, and 109 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted as necessary. FREE AppDownload
There is no shortage of housing in most U.S. metro areas.  There is a shortage of housing in the areas most attractive to today's young and affluent urban pioneers.  Their efforts to increase supply in cities, in the most desirable areas, is misguided and could ultimately cause more harm than good.There is a spreading meme that the dominance of single-family zoning districts in major cities is artificially reducing housing supply. Economists like Harvard professor Edward Glaeser have been stating for some time that super-tight regulation of land use in large metro areas has depressed housing construction, through a complex mix of zoning districts, air rights, historic preservation districts or byzantine permitting approvals and NIMBY-oriented residents  Others, like Matt Yglesias, have made the same point, and it's becoming increasingly common among a growing group of young urbanists seeking to address their most pertinent concerns.Admittedly, there is a shred of truth to this in many coastal metros, and in a select group of interior metros like Chicago.  They are, in fact, not adding new housing supply relative to the demand for housing.  Yglesias showed this in a recent article in which he suggests that the lack of recovery in the housing industry is a drain on the national economy.  He uses two charts to make the claim; he compares the number of housing permits authorized between Houston and the San Francisco Bay Area: FRED and for Atlanta and Boston: FRED True enough, Houston adds more units than the Bay Area, and Atlanta adds more than Boston.  But there are other factors contributing to that besides land use regulations: However, in answering his own question in a recent blog post, blogger Daniel Kay Hertzsheds some light on the thought process behind the growing meme: "Why are there no apartment buildings in your standard affluent single-family-home neighborhood, common in metro areas from Chicago to Kansas City to New York to Memphis? Not because people don’t want to live in them. Not because you couldn’t make money by building them. They don’t exist because they’re illegal." The emphasis is added because it highlights the salient point, which can be reduced to this: "why isn't there more housing where I want it?" Because there are plenty of apartment buildings with plenty of vacancies in other parts of the city.  Let's fill those up, and then talk. If young urbanists are serious about moving back to the city, maybe they ought to consider more of the city to live in.  For every highly desirable attractive urban neighborhood, even in the most in-demand metro areas, there are just as many languishing neighborhoods that aren't even part of the conversation.  For every Lincoln Park or Lakeview in Chicago that lacks affordable housing, there is a Garfield Park or Woodlawn with tons of it.Let's dig deeper into Chicago. I recently wrote a post where I tried to define the differences between the most in-demand parts of Chicago with the rest of the city.  In it, I identified what I called "Global Core Chicago": Google EArth The area highlighted in green corresponds roughly to the ten Chicago Community Areas (Chicago's officially designated neighborhoods) that make up Global Core Chicago.  Let's see how it compares with the balance of the city, which could be called Rust Belt Chicago, on a few data points: Census The data is from the 2012 Census American Community Survey.  You know what I see?  I see a "Global Core Chicago" that, in terms of density alone, already looks very similar to the most desirable urban areas in the nation, like New York, Boston, Washington, DC and San Francisco.  Not only does this core have 55% more people per square mile than the remaining parts of the city, it already has 2.2 times more dwelling units than the rest of the city.  A big factor in this disparity is the difference in household size -- households in the global core are only two-thirds the size of those in the rest of the city.  And this makes no mention of the income and wealth differences between the two parts of the city. I don't believe we should be talking about expanding the global core at its margins.  We should be talking about expanding development throughout the city.  If young affluents are serious about returning to cities, they should consider Austin, Bronzeville, Woodlawn and South Shore, and not just Wicker Park and Logan Square. The same applies to every metro area in the nation.We haven't learned.  This push for more affordable housing in affluent city neighborhoods, because we like it there, is akin to the push for more suburban housing at the urban outskirts 60 years ago.  "The demand is there!  Accommodate our needs!"  And that led directly to a disinvestment in cities from which we are only now beginning to recover from.We must be really careful in what we ask for in the development of our cities.  Simply requesting relaxed land use regulations so that more units will be built could result in serious unintended consequences.  Doing so in Chicago, and in many cities around the nation, would result in a spurt of housing growth in the most desirable areas -- and in the most desirable areas only.  The global core would add far more units relative to the rest of the city.  It would not reduce residential and economic segregation, it would increase it, and contribute to one of the most vexing problems of our cities today -- the exploding bifurcation of our cities by race, class and opportunity. Doing so would result in cities made up of contiguous enclaves of affluent, dense, walkable and self-sufficient communities.  They would be beautiful, and they would be made up of the kind of development that is most preferable to me.  Yet they would be adjacent to yet wholly disconnected from half-empty expanses of impoverished, working class and middle class neighborhoods.  I can't reconcile that in my mind.Do we really want that?  Can't we do better than that? This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Tony DejakPending home sales climbed 3.4% month-over-month in March, and were down 7.4% year-over-year. This beat expectations for a 1% MoM rise amd a 10.3% YoY fall. Meanwhile, February's reading was revised up to reflect a more modest 0.5% monthly fall, and a 10% YoY fall. "The increase in March pending sales reverses only about half the drop over the previous three months," writes Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Home sales improved in three of four regions on a monthly basis: The index is considered to be a leading indicator for future existing home sales. "While March was much less stormy than Dec-Feb, it was the coldest month of the winter, relative to normal. The Mar reading points to existing home sales rising a bit to 4.7M in April from 4.59M in March," said Shepherdson. "We expect little further increase in home sales in Q2; the market is still digesting the biggest drop in affordability in 32 years." Existing home sales have been down 7.5% compared to a year ago, and the pace of sales is the slowest since June 2012. Higher mortgage rates, stricter lending conditions and the severe winter have weighed on the housing market. Many expect that the weakness in the housing market could be temporary. Here's a look at the trajectory of pending and existing home sales: Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload

ReutersAmazon reported its first-quarter earnings last week, and despite hitting earnings-per-share estimates and achieving a tiny revenue beat, stock was down nearly 5% today. It was only down about 3% when markets closed, after being down 9.8% Friday.  Not only did the company's sales growth fall to 23% in Q1, down from 25% in 2013's Q4 and 29% in Q3, but it expects a hefty operating loss in the next quarter. Amazon's guidance said that it expects to lose between $55 and $455 million, likely as it continues to pour money into its grocery delivery service, streaming TV box and content, and potential in-house delivery service.  Amazon has always been a long-term-focused company, and investors have generally tolerated the lack of profits, but it seems they could be getting a little impatient.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Earlier, today Pfizer confirmed that it was pursuing a takeover of AstraZeneca in a deal that could be valued at $100 billion. Obviously a lot of drugs are in play in many categories that both Pfizer and AstraZeneca compete in. Importantly, AstraZeneca would get Pfizer into some key markets — notably, oncology. Here's Citi's Andrew Baum in a note to clients this morning: Transforming PFE into an oncology company. We gently probed Mikael Dolsten, PFE’s head of R&amp;D at our Feb 2014 Citi Healthcare Conference on whether Pfizer had the ability to turn itself into an oncology company given several high profile historic mis-steps. He gave a wry smile and “that’s a very good question”. As we highlighted previously, the acquisition of AZN enables PFE to realistically transform itself into an oncology player by leveraging AZN's historic research and commercial expertise in this area. Critically it catapults PFE+AZN into a key player along the axes of immuno-oncology and auto-immune diseases, with a broad range of assets to both up-regulate and down-regulate the immune system, in our view... In a presentation to investors this morning, Pfizer offered a couple slides showing what a Pfizer-AstraZeneca combination could look like. Here are a few bullets: Here are three slides showing how the two companies' established and pipeline drugs would complement each other. Odds are, you're on one or you know someone on one. PfizerPfizer Pfizer
ReutersYouths slide down a huge slide at a public water park in Kabul, Oct. 4, 2013.This morning, Bank of America put out a statement revising its regulatory capital levels lower than the bank had previously thought. As a result, and at the request of the Federal Reserve, the bank will have to suspend its plans to boost dividends from $0.01 to $0.05 a share and repurchase $4 billion worth of stock. It would've been the first time Bank of America was allowed to boost its dividend etc. since the financial crisis, so naturally this does not make shareholders happy. The stock is down 6% on the news. From the bank's press release: On April 16, the company issued a press release announcing preliminary financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. As part of such release, the company included estimated preliminary Basel 3 capital amounts and ratios as well as Basel 1 capital amounts and ratios for 2013. Subsequent to the press release, the company discovered an incorrect adjustment being applied in the determination of regulatory capital related to the application of the fair value option to certain legacy Merrill Lynch structured notes resulting in an overstatement of its regulatory capital amounts and ratios. The company correctly adjusted for the cumulative unrealized change on structured notes accounted for under the fair value option, but it incorrectly adjusted for cumulative realized losses on Merrill Lynch issued structured notes that had matured or were redeemed by the company subsequent to the date of the Merrill Lynch acquisition. This month, Bank of America missed earnings estimates because of a one-time legal charge. FREE AppDownload
Lionel Barber In today's Financial Times, a former investment-bank CEO wrote a letter slamming the CEO of Barclays bank for continuing to be "held up at gunpoint" by bankers demanding higher pay. It goes like this: The banker tells his boss that if he doesn't get paid more, he'll head to xyz competitor. The bank freaks out about losing talent — a phenomena sometimes called "The Death Spiral" — and the banker gets his way. After a while everyone is doing it. The former CEO who wrote the letter, Robert Pickering, says this whole thing a myth. It happened to him when he was a CEO, and he always managed to live without whoever left. Here's the key paragraph. The full letter, picture above, was tweeted out by FT editor Lionel Barber. I ran an investment bank for a number of years and was regularly held up at gunpoint and told that we had to jack up so-and-so’s pay to prevent him or her from leaving (usually for Goldman Sachs and invariably for “twice what they get here”). Sometimes I paid up and sometimes I didn’t, but the outcome in the long term was usually the same; people came and went, the business went through peaks and troughs but life carried on. In the febrile days of 2000, my predecessor was told that the very survival of our 200-year-old firm was dependent on the continued employment of a 20-something individual who had been in the industry for about 18 months. We offered him a partnership but he left anyway. A few years later, I reminded my senior management team of this incident and none of us, myself included, could remember his name. The big rub with all of this is that Pickering is a Barclays shareholder, and the British bank isn't delivering for him while still paying its top brass the big bucks. Barclays has had a rough ride for the last few years — it was caught in the Libor manipulation scandal, went through a CEO change, and has simply not made money. So it's no surprise that there's been a fair amount of outcry about the fact that its high-level bankers are still commanding massive salaries. The problem, Pickering says, is that this myth is ingrained in Wall Street culture, and that is always a very difficult thing to change. Read the full letter over at The Financial Times » FREE AppDownload
APTexas Governor Rick PerryToyota is relocating its sales headquarters from California to Texas to bring its various U.S. operations, which are currently spread across the country, into once space, Reuters reports. Texas Gov. Rick Perry reportedly courted Toyota by promising lower taxes and easier regulations, according to Bloomberg. Sales, service, marketing, advertising, manufacturing, and quality operations will relocate to suburban Dallas, according to Reuters. Employees will be informed of the move on Monday, and some will be offered relocation packages and financial assistance. The relocation is a blow to California, which holds the biggest auto market in the U.S. Toyota has more than 5,300 employees in California, most of whom work at the Torrance headquarters near Los Angeles, Bloomberg reports. Moving Toyota's headquarters will take several years, according to the Los Angeles Times. The LA Times notes that 75% of Toyota's cars that are sold in the U.S. are built in America — mostly at plants in Texas, Mississippi, and Kentucky — so the relocation will place the automaker's headquarters closer to its production centers. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonWorkers raise a U.S. flag outside the Pfizer building in New York.Earlier today, pharmaceutical giant Pfizer confirmed that it had made peer AstraZeneca a merger proposal in a deal valued at $100 billion. In a note to clients last week, Morgan Stanley's David Risinger addressed the deal rumor and explained why Pfizer would want to pursue it. Strategic rationale. Astra Zeneca would dramatically boost Pfizer's presence in primary care (incl. respiratory and diabetes), oncology (in particular immuno-oncology candidates), and Emerging Markets, among other areas. It would also offer significant cost rationalization opportunities — Pfizer mgmt has a track record of delivering above-forecast merger cost savings. However, size works against R&amp;D productivity because large entities often stifle innovation. As with any merger, this deal would certainly increase the combined company's geographic footprint and addressable market. Also, you're looking at cost synergies (for example, layoffs and combined offices). But that last point on R&amp;D is a bit depressing. The combined company would likely become one whose R&amp;D department would lurch, unlike the ones belonging to the smaller, more nimble companies whose lives depend on the success of what's coming out of the R&amp;D pipeline. Interestingly, becoming bigger goes against a strategic shift Pfizer has been pursuing for years. "Pfizer mgmt has been seeking to downsize in order to grow faster off a smaller base later this decade," noted Risinger. "Pfizer recently exited its Nutritional and Animal Health (Zoetis) businesses, and mgmt has stated publicly that it could consider exiting certain Established Products (off-patent drugs)." FREE AppDownload
More bad news for the bears. Q1 earnings — despite widespread expectations that they were going to be weak, and possibly show a year-over-year decline in EPS — are actually doing good. That's what Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danBTIG) points out in a note to clients this morning. He writes: Earnings season was supposed to go terribly. Television news was littered (again) with people discussing the downward trend (again) in expected earnings and by extension, the negative impulse such an earnings season would apply to stocks. We did not believe this to be the case, arguing that earnings growth was likely to be in the 1-3% range and as we find ourselves half way through earnings season, that forecast is looking to be accurate, albeit in the middle of the range. Earnings from Utilities and Energy names have been excellent while buy rated AAPL reported sales figures roughly $2 billion above analyst estimates; somewhat unsurprisingly, the utility and energy sectors are the two best performers in the S&amp;P 500 since the start of April. Similarly, telecom (VZ) is having a hard earnings season and its price performance has been poor. Here's some charts that show the nice performance. You can see how EPS growth expectations have spiked nicely in recent weeks, while companies across all sizes are showing nice revenue growth. BTIG FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Here's a startling map from Michael McDonough that speaks volumes about the global demographics situation. It shows the only countries that have seen their populations decline since 1990. Michael McDonough As you can see, the countries are dominated by former Soviet and Eastern bloc countries. These countries are presumably afflicted by low birth rates and high emigration. Here's the chart showing the specifics of which countries are in decline. Michael McDonough FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohammed Salem Palestinian youths practice their parkour skills at the Shati refugee camp in Gaza City April 27, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Pfizer Courts AstraZeneca.  Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer has made a $100 billion takeover offer for UK pharmaceutical maker AstraZeneca. AZ says that undervalues the company. Still, AstraZeneca shares are surging pre-market.  France Okay With GE Bid. Despite reports French economy minister Arnaud Montebourg is encouraging Germany's Siemens to make a counter-offer to GE's bid to acquire conglomerate Alstom's energy assets, the Socialist government doesn't actually care which firm gets it as long as jobs are maintained, Bloomberg says. SEC Probes Christie. The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into whether New Jersey Governor Chris Christie improperly diverted funds from the Port Authority to transportation projects in his state.  New Russia Sanctions. The U.S. will impose new sanctions on people and companies close to Russian President Vladamir Putin today. "This is a declaration of war by the Obama administration on the current governing Russian elite," Ariel Cohen, senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a Washington-based research group, told Bloomberg. As Sen. Robert Menendez said recently, "It’s like standing in a circle and all of a sudden everyone in the circle is getting a bomb thrown on them, and you get the message that it’s getting close.”  Credit Default Swaps Moving Abroad. Large U.S. financial institutions are moving credit default swap agreements overseas to avoid U.S. regulation. U.S. regulators are basically okay with this, the Wall Street Journal says. "The moves are legal, and some officials have argued that the severing of guarantees could even help reduce the risk to the U.S. parent bank should a counterparty to an offshore contract renege on their agreement, some people said." But some says parent companies could end up shouldering costs if the swaps blow up. China Hacked Australian Emails. China enjoyed access to Australian politicians' emails for a year, according to a new report from the Australian Financial Review. From The Guardian:"The newspaper, citing government and security sources, said new information showed the attack had been more extensive than previously thought and "effectively gave them control of" the entire system. 'It was like an open-cut mine. They had access to everything,' a source told the newspaper." BTC China Suspends Accounts. BTC China has been forced to suspend customer accounts affiliated with a major financial institution. China Merchants Bank had announced on its website it would no longer handle Bitcoin transactions. Bitcoin prices have fallen 13.4% in the past week to $433. Pending Home Sales. At 10 a.m. we get pending home sales for March from the National Association of Realtors. Consensus is for a 0.6% gain from a0.8% decline prior. Dallas Fed. At 10:30 a.m. we get the April manufacturing survey from the Dallas Federal Reserve. Consensus is for a reading of 6.0 from 4.9 prior. Markets. U.S. futures are up, as are European stocks. Shares in Asia fell. No major earnings today. FREE AppDownload
If you create a lot of charts in Excel, you should definitely be creating and using your own chart templates. It helps keep the look of your charts consistent and will save you a ton of time.  Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Margin CallThis is going to be a very busy week for the economy. Today it starts with two datapoints. Here they are, via Calculated Risk: • At 10:00 AM ET, Pending Home Sales Index for March. The consensus is for a 0.6% increase in the index.• At 10:30 AM, the Dallas Fed Manufacturing Survey for April. This is the last of the regional Fed manufacturing surveys for April. We'll be covering the numbers LIVE. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGet ready. There's a huge wave of economic data coming this week. The all-important April U.S. jobs report will be published on Friday. Before that, we'll get an estimate of Q1 U.S. GDP growth. We'll also get the results of manufacturing surveys (PMI and ISM) from around the world. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee will meet and then update us on the direction of monetary policy. We'll also get two report on the housing market, which has suddenly come up on everyone's radar screens. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary The price-earnings multiple on the stock market is well above average. And over the long run, these multiples tend to revert to the historic average, which means either prices will fall or profits will eventually catch up to prices. In the short-run, however, there's no telling what these multiples will do. Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker pushed back on the belief that we were doomed for multiple-mean reversion: "At nearly every meeting we have done lately, we have heard that multiple contraction is more likely than multiple expansion. People could be right that the market multiple will contract, but we doubt they can provide empirical evidence to support this claim... Low management hubris in terms of capital spending, hiring, inventory, and M&amp;A, and high interest coverage make the top of the cycle unlikely to occur in the next 12 months. Hence, we think the multiple can creep toward 16x or more 12 months out. We can’t show that with data, but we know the counterfactual can’t be shown either. The part of the argument we really don’t like is the part where people say that the multiple expanded a lot last year, so that increases the odds of less or no multiple expansion or even contraction this year. That’s baloney. Analysis please? The fact is that knowing that there was a large change in last year’s multiple does not forecast a down or even a lower expansion in this year’s multiple. The only three times in history that the market multiple expanded as much as it did in 2013 (by 3 turns), the subsequent year saw strong market performance all three times. We aren’t claiming statistical significance, just saying that a large rally can be followed by a nicely up market again the subsequent year..." Parker has a 2,014 year-end price target for the S&amp;P 500, which is 8% higher than current levels. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
AFPJapanese electronics giant Panasonic on Monday booked its first annual net profit in three years and reversed a huge loss suffered in the previous 12 months as it presses on with a sweeping restructuring. The Osaka-based company said net profit hit 120.44 billion yen ($1.17 billion) in its fiscal year to March, after suffering a loss of 754.25 billion yen a year earlier, while revenue ticked up to 7.74 trillion yen from 7.30 trillion yen. Panasonic -- recovering from combined losses topping $15 billion in the previous two fiscal years -- also said it expected net profit to come in at 140 billion yen over the year to March 2015. The company, along with rivals Sony and Sharp, has struggled in recent years, largely because of huge losses in their televisions units, but a sharply weaker yen over the past year has helped boost their bottom line. The trio are also undergoing painful overhauls aimed at rescuing their battered balance sheets. Panasonic credited the weaker yen for its healthier results, and pointed to an uptick in its auto-related businesses on the back of a global recovery. It also saw better sales of household appliances as Japanese consumers splashed out on big-ticket goods before an April 1 sales tax increase. "Despite some economic slowdown in emerging countries including India, the global economy moderately continued to recover with a pick-up in Europe, a continuing stock market recovery and the robust consumer spending in the US... yen depreciation and a surge in consumer spending before (a) Japanese consumption tax hike," it said in a statement. "Meantime, (the firm is) focusing on profitability rather than sales volume." It also pointed to company-wide cost cuts and efforts to reduce materials outlays for boosting its bottom line. But sales in digital consumer products, including its struggling television business, remained weak as Panasonic shifts its attention away from loss-making divisions as part of a wider restructuring. The firm has said it will abandon the consumer smartphone market and stop production of plasma television screens, in line with a broader industry shift away from plasma units. Hitachi and Pioneer have also exited the market in recent years. "The company has benefited from the weak yen, but its restructuring is the major contributor to its recovery," said Mitsushige Akino, analyst at Ichiyoshi Investment Management in Tokyo. "But the television business is still struggling. Panasonic should say for the current year how it wants to revamp that sector, including the possibility of getting out the business." Sony has resisted calls for it to exit the TV sector where razor-thin margins and competition from low-cost operators overseas, including South Korea and Taiwan, have hurt Japanese manufacturers. Sony reports its financial results next month along with Sharp, maker of Aquos-brand electronics, which returned to profit in the April-December period. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
We all know that QE has a substantial psychological impact on the market.  Perhaps more importantly, depending on how such a program is implemented and in what environment, it can be extremely powerful.  One of the more noticeable stories has been that of Japan where Abenomics has appeared to be at least a marginal success in recent years.  Whether this has been mainly due to the exchange rate or due to other factors is impossible to know, but one thing appears to be certain – the positive directional trend of many indicators appears to have changed from a steady rise to a steady sideways. As our friends over at Sober Look note, inflation appears to have stopped rising as the persistent low inflation trend continues to exert itself: PragCap The Nikkei Index, which looked like a one way bet for 6 months, has stalled: NKY The Yen rally has stalled: This remains one of the most interesting monetary experiments in the world today.  If the central bank is able to pull Japan out of its sustained deflation then we will likely see a permanent change in the way central banks engage their economies.  But I wouldn’t get too hopeful.  Not only do I fear that this has been primarily exchange rate driven, but I also fear that Japan’s terrible demographic trends are something that no central bank can overcome.  And of course, that assumes QE has the power to sustain a recovery or avert disaster in the first place, which I tend to think is a position that’s overstated. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adam HungerThe Pfizer logo is seen next to a U.S. flag in a conference room at its world headquarters in New York.Here's a big, juicy mergers-and-acquisitions story to get the market excited on a Monday morning. Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer has said in a new press release that it has approached U.K. pharmaceutical maker AstraZeneca about a $100 billion takeover offer but that AstraZeneca so far has shown no interest in doing a deal. (UPDATE: AstraZeneca has responded urging shareholders to take no action.) Pfizer made the announcement in a press release, indicating that earlier discussions had ended in mid-January, and that Pfizer tried to engage in new discussions on April 26, to no avail. Shares of AstraZeneca are surging 15% this morning. "Astra Zeneca would dramatically boost Pfizer's presence in primary care (including respiratory and diabetes), oncology (in particular, immuno-oncology candidates), and emerging markets, among other areas," said Morgan Stanley's David Risinger in a note to clients last week. "It would also offer significant cost-rationalization opportunities — Pfizer mgmt has a track record of delivering above-forecast merger cost savings." Risinger also pointed to downside risks. "However, size works against R&amp;D productivity, because large entities often stifle innovation," he wrote. It's worth noting that this aquisitinon would effectively be a 180-degree reversal of Pfizer's strategy to slim down. "Pfizer mgmt has been seeking to downsize in order to grow faster off a smaller base later this decade," noted Risinger. "Pfizer recently exited its Nutritional and Animal Health (Zoetis) businesses, and mgmt has stated publicly that it could consider exiting certain Established Products (off-patent drugs)." Pfizer will hold a conference call later this morning to discuss the proposal. Pfizer Inc. confirms that it previously submitted a preliminary, non-binding indication of interest to the board of directors of AstraZeneca in January 2014 regarding a possible merger transaction. After limited high-level discussions, AstraZeneca declined to pursue negotiations. The discussions were discontinued on 14 January 2014 and Pfizer then ceased to consider a possible transaction. In light of recent market developments, Pfizer contacted AstraZeneca on 26 April 2014 seeking to renew discussions in order to develop a proposal that could be recommended by both companies to their shareholders. AstraZeneca again declined to engage. Pfizer is currently considering its options with respect to AstraZeneca. Pfizer’s previous proposal made to the board of AstraZeneca on 5 January 2014 included a combination of cash and shares in the combined entity which represented an indicative value of £46.61 ($76.62)1 per AstraZeneca share and a substantial premium of approximately 30% to AstraZeneca’s closing share price of £35.86 on 3 January 2014. As in its previous proposal, Pfizer is considering a possible transaction in which AstraZeneca shareholders would receive a significant premium for their AstraZeneca shares, to be paid in a combination of cash and shares in the combined entity. Pfizer believes that a transaction, if proposed and consummated, would offer AstraZeneca shareholders a highly compelling opportunity to realise a significant premium to the undisturbed AstraZeneca share price as of 17 April 2014, which includes a substantial cash payment. AstraZeneca shareholders would become significant shareholders in the combined company and participate in significant value creation opportunities, including benefiting from the potential growth opportunities and operational and financial synergies that the combination of two complementary global pharmaceutical companies would be expected to generate. Pfizer is confident a combination is capable of being consummated. The transaction, if consummated, is expected to result in the combination of the two companies under a new U.K.-incorporated holding company. As a global corporation, Pfizer would expect the combined company to have management in both the United States and the United Kingdom, and to maintain head offices in New York and list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. The making of any firm offer by Pfizer would be subject to the following pre-conditions (which may be waived in whole or in part by Pfizer): Commenting on the possible transaction, Ian Read, Chairman and CEO of Pfizer, said: “We have great respect for AstraZeneca and its proud heritage as an innovation-driven biopharmaceutical business with a rich science-based foundation in both the United Kingdom and Sweden. In addition, the United Kingdom has created attractive incentives for companies to manufacture products and maintain and protect intellectual property, and we have seen that capital and jobs have followed these types of incentives. “We believe patients all over the globe would benefit from our shared commitment to R&amp;D, which is critical to the future success of the pharmaceutical industry, in the form of potential new therapies that help to fight some of the world’s most feared diseases, such as cancer. “The combination of Pfizer and AstraZeneca could further enhance the ability to create value for shareholders of both companies and bring an expanded portfolio of important treatments to patients. A potential combination with AstraZeneca aligns with Pfizer’s current structure and fully supports its existing strategy to build world-class businesses. The combination would complement our two innovative businesses and our Global Established Pharmaceutical business, allowing us to maintain the flexibility for the potential future separation of our businesses whilst at the same time broadening our pipeline breadth and potential new product launches over coming years. We believe that a transaction would further strengthen our ability to generate strong and consistent cash flow, targeted for both investment in our business and return to shareholders, while at the same time offering an efficient operating structure and the anticipated realization of attractive synergies. “As always, we continue to focus on value creation and will be disciplined in our approach to capital deployment. Pfizer has a proven track record of successful acquisitions and, if a transaction were consummated, would use its extensive integration experience to support a successful combination of the businesses and focus on delivering value to shareholders.” Pfizer believes the strategic, business and financial rationale for a transaction is compelling. Pfizer believes the possible combination would create a highly complementary mapping of products, pipeline and operating assets to Pfizer’s new operating structure, providing additional critical mass to all business segments and strong cash flow through: The possible transaction is expected to be accretive to Pfizer’s adjusted diluted earnings per share2 in the first full year following the combination3. In addition, Pfizer has a track record of realising operational synergies and delivering meaningful value accretion for shareholders in prior transactions of a similar type and scale. Pfizer believes that synergies would be achieved through the combination of the two companies’ operations and that the combination would enable greater capital efficiency and a more efficient tax structure. In particular, the currently contemplated structure under a new U.K.-incorporated holding company would not subject AstraZeneca’s non-U.S. profits to U.S. tax, which would be in the best interests of the combined company’s shareholders. The completion of a possible transaction is subject to the approval of Pfizer’s shareholders and is expected to be a taxable event to Pfizer’s shareholders. Pfizer reserves the right to introduce other forms of consideration and/or vary the mix of consideration and waive in whole or in part any of the pre-conditions to making an offer. Pfizer reserves the right to make an offer for AstraZeneca at any time for less than the equivalent of £46.61 ($76.62) for each AstraZeneca share: (i) with the agreement or recommendation of the AstraZeneca board; (ii) if a third party announces a firm intention to make an offer for AstraZeneca which, as at the date Pfizer announces a firm intention to make an offer for AstraZeneca, is valued at a lower price than the equivalent of £46.61 ($76.62) for each AstraZeneca share; (iii) following the announcement by AstraZeneca of a whitewash transaction4 pursuant to the Code; or (iv) in the event that any AstraZeneca dividend is declared, made or paid in excess of what is expected by the consensus analyst forecasted dividends of 53.6 pence5 per share due to be announced by AstraZeneca on 31 July 2014, a £ for £ adjustment reduction equal to the excess amount. The deadline set by Rule 2.6(a) of the Code (the “Deadline”) requires Pfizer either: (i) to announce a firm intention to make an offer for AstraZeneca under Rule 2.7 of the Code; or (ii) to announce that it does not intend to make an offer for AstraZeneca, in which case the announcement will be treated as a statement to which Rule 2.8 of the Code applies, by not later than 5.00 pm on 26 May 2014, save where either: (i) AstraZeneca and the Takeover Panel have consented to an extension of the Deadline; or (ii) the Deadline does not apply, or ceases to apply, by virtue of Rule 2.6(b) (a firm intention to make an offer for AstraZeneca under Rule 2.7 of the Code being announced by an offeror (other than Pfizer) prior to the Deadline). A copy of this announcement will be available on Pfizer’s website at www.pfizer.com. Pfizer will hold an analyst and investor call in respect of this announcement today at 8:30 a.m. EDT (1:30 p.m. BST). A live and recorded webcast will be available from www.pfizer.com. FREE AppDownload
NASAGood morning! Following Friday's market selloff (which was particularly heavy in the NASDAQ) markets in Europe and futures in the US are on the rise. The buying isn't particularly dramatic however. Germany's DAX is up 0.27%. UK stocks are up 0.26%. US futures are up modestly. There wasn't tons of news over the weekend. The situation in Ukraine continues to deteriorate. Also Pfizer has confirmed its interest in a $100 billion acquisition of UK pharmaceutical company AstraZenica, which is a blockbuster deal. Beyond that, the most important news of the week is in front of us, as we've got tons of economic data coming up over the next several days. FREE AppDownload
