Coldwell BankerAnother insanely expensive home has hit the Silicon Valley real estate market, according to Curbed.  This beautiful six-bedroom house is located in ritzy Woodside, Calif., where Larry Ellison's Japanese estate and Steve Jobs' historic mansion can also be found. The house, which currently belongs to mutual funder Harry Hagey, was designed in the 1980s-era California contemporary style by noted San Francisco architect Sandy Walker. There's a huge pool, tennis courts, and a separate greenhouse.  The house has some amazing features, but be forewarned: It's listed for a cool $19.95 million.  FREE AppDownload
With loads of cash, celebrities can afford to buy the finer things in life. But having an excessive amount of money also means celebrities are more likely to make poor choices. Some celebrities invest their money unwisely and fall victim to fraud, others make outrageous purchases and wind up in debt. Here are five costly mistakes that celebrities have made, with a few examples to illustrate the bad behaviors:  From former President Bill Clinton to cyclist Lance Armstrong to country singer LeAnn Rimes, there are plenty of celebrities who have been at the center of scandal. Some celebrities manage to bounce back, others aren’t so lucky. For some celebs, getting caught in a compromising position or taking a controversial stance can be costly. Madonna is certainly no stranger to controversy. The Material Girl once signed an endorsement deal with Pepsi-Cola in the 1980s that was worth $5 million. But after the release of her controversial “Like a Prayer” video, which includes burning crosses and religious imagery, protesters threatened to boycott the soft drink maker unless they dropped Madonna. Pepsi responded by dropping the megastar. Madonna, however, kept her $5 million paycheck. While Lindsay Lohan didn’t lose $5 million, her troubled image has cost her at least one big lucrative endorsement. Because of Lohan’s legal issues, the clothing company Odaingerous decided to hold off on an ad campaign it had planned with the “Mean Girls” actress. She reportedly lost $500,000 because of it. Troublesome behavior is also the reason why Rapper T.I. lost a huge endorsement deal from General Motors. After the rapper plead guilty to charges of attempting to buy firearms and a pair of silencers from a law enforcement informant, GM dropped T.I. and he lost out on a deal that might have garnered him between $10-12 million. Sometimes it’s not legal issues that cost celebrities endorsements, it’s being involved in a sex scandal. In 2010, the three highest-paid American athletes — Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and LeBron James — reportedly made over seven times as much from endorsements than from their salaries and winnings. That’s about $147 million. But after Tiger Woods was caught committing marital infidelity, earnings from his endorsements fell from nearly $100 million in 2009 to $54.5 million in 2012. From $100,000 leggings to a $2 million bathtub, celebrities purchase a lot of outrageous things. So it’s no surprise when stars declare bankruptcy due to their money mismanagement. Here are some celebrities who should learn when to put their credit cards away: Academy Award winner Nicolas Cage has starred in a number of successful films, but he’s also made some pretty expensive purchases, including a $276,000 dinosaur skull, a $300,000 Lamborghini, and a $3 million Bahamian island. Are we surprised that the actor has experienced real estate and tax problems? That said, one purchase he made definitely paid off. Cage bought an Action Comics #1 in 1997 for $110,000. He sold it in 2011 for a record-breaking $2.16 million — to help pay off his tax liens and other debts. Singer Toni Braxton has declared bankruptcy twice. In 1996, despite selling more than 20 million records at the time, Braxton filed for chapter 7 and relinquished many of her possessions, including Grammy awards. In 2007, she again filed for bankruptcy after she was sued by multiple companies for abruptly canceling a series of concerts. Several high-profile sports stars have also declared bankruptcy, including boxer Mike Tyson, who reported a debt of $27 million when he filed, and NFL players Mike Vick and Warren Sapp. Tyson and Sapp both spent their money unwisely, while Vick filed for bankruptcy in 2008 after amassing huge legal bills and losing endorsements once it was revealed that he was involved in a dog-fighting ring. Other stars that have filed for bankruptcy include country star Willie Nelson, who owed more than $16.7 million to the IRS when he filed, rap mogul Suge Knight, who claimed he had just $11 to his name when he filed, and LaToya Jackson, who amassed a massive amount of debt because of her ill-fated singing career. Several celebrities have been victims of Ponzi schemes, a type of fraudulent investment operation where an individual or organization pays returns to its investors from money coming from other new investors rather than profit earned by the operator. Kenneth Ira Starr, a former money manager, was convicted of running a $35 million Ponzi scheme with money from numerous celebrity clients, including Uma Thurman, Neil Simon and Lauren Bacall. Simon may have lost $8.7 million in the fraud. In 2010, rapper Wyclef Jean came under fire for allegedly misusing funds from his charity, Yele Haiti. After the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Yele Haiti achieved a higher profile amid efforts to raise money for the devastated nation. But not long after the earthquake, the charity was accused of misusing money raised for relief efforts to fund projects for Jean’s production company, allegations that the Haitian-born musician has denied. The year of the earthquake, Yele allegedly spent $9 million with half going to travel, salaries, and consultant fees. In 2012, the charity shut down in the wake of an investigation into its money mismanagement, leaving a trail of debt and angry creditors searching for answers. As many celebrities have taught us, sometimes it’s best to keep your mouth shut. Many celebrities have gotten into trouble for not thinking about the things they say — with some losing out on jobs and valuable endorsements. When Paula Deen admitted to using a racial slur in 2013, it not only considerably damaged her reputation, but also caused the Food Network to sever ties with the celebrity chef. Deen also had endorsement contracts and publishing deals cancelled by Walmart, Target, QVC, Sears, and Home Depot, among other companies. Racial remarks have caused a bevy of stars to lose work — and money. Dior suspended fashion designer John Galliano after he was arrested over an alleged anti-Semitic rant. In 2013, NFL player Riley Cooper was caught on tape using the “n” word and fined an undisclosed amount. Even in the crazy world or reality TV, some stars have felt the effects of racial remarks. A couple of contestants on “Big Brother” lost jobs after making racist comments. And actor Mel Gibson and Alec Baldwin have certainly felt the heat over racist comments they’ve made, tarnishing their reputations. Several celebrities have also lost jobs due to homophobic remarks. Actor Isaiah Washington, who lost his job at “Grey’s Anatomy” in part due to controversy over on-set incidents with one of his gay castmates. More recently, stars from “The Bachelor” and “Duck Dynasty” have experienced backlash due to their homophobic remarks. While it’s free to sign up for most social media networks, making a mistake on Twitter or Facebook can really cost you. Former Congressman Anthony Weiner learned the hard way when he tweeted out a photo of his nether regions. At first the New York politician claimed that his account had been hacked, then came clean about his sexting ways. Eventually, the disgraced Democrat resigned from Congress. Former Aflac spokesperson Gilbert Gottfried also lost his job over an inappropriate tweet. In March 2011, Gottfried joked about the Japan quake, tweeting: “Japan called me. They said ‘maybe those jokes are a hit in the U.S., but over here, they’re all sinking.’” Aflac, which does a substantial amount of business in Japan, fired him. Other social media gaffes may not result in the loss of a job, but it can cost you some money even lose some celebrities a few fans. Here are a few examples: In the midst of the Arab Spring in Egypt, fashion designer Kenneth Cole tweeted out: “Millions are in uproar in #Cairo. Rumor is they heard our new spring collection is available online.” He later apologized. NFL wide receiver Chad Johnson was fined $25,000 for tweeting during a preseason game in 2010, a no-no according to league rules. He later tweeted this: “Dear NFL I apologize for tweeting during the game but that was 2 months of my Bugatti payments you just took from me, I won’t do it again” — Chad Johnson (@ochocinco) August 24, 2010 Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban was fined $25,000 by the NBA for tweeting his issues over referees. After finding out about the fine he tweeted this: “can’t say no one makes money from twitter now. the nba does” — Mark Cuban (@mcuban) March 29, 2009 This article originally appeared at MyBankTracker.  Copyright 2014. Follow MyBankTracker on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Ivy League admissions decisions came out today, and instead of getting a fat envelope, the lucky accepted students were face to face with their computer screens. Some colleges do a better job than others of really welcoming their newest students. Yale University, which had one of the nicer welcome pages, displayed a simple message to admitted applicants, along with a cute picture of a bulldog, their mascot. Here's what it looks like to get into Yale: OMG #Yale2018 pic.twitter.com/5VMASAyOnb FREE AppDownload
It looks to me like the right thing to be doing right now in shares of Bank of America is to be selling.  There are four charts that I’m looking at that all say the same thing: Sell Bank of America! The first chart helps to put things in perspective. We’re looking at a weekly bar chart running into resistance from 2009 and 2010. Last time prices were up here they fell by 75%. This is a level where the sellers have proven they are in control. I don’t like to fight that:  Bank of America has tripled in the last 2 years. I think it’s now the time to be selling. Here is a relative strength chart showing Bank of America vs the S&amp;P500. Momentum in relative strength is putting in a bearish divergence. With relative prices running into former highs, momentum is already putting in much lower highs:  We are seeing something similar on the daily relative strength chart. Higher highs that failed very quickly combined with another bearish divergence in momentum:  And finally here is a closer look at what is happening today. With the longer-term picture warning us of bigger trouble ahead, we can see in the short-term that we had a failed breakout in price followed by a bearish momentum divergence at recent highs.  A break below 16.70 would confirm a break of the recent uptrend line, it would confirm the bearish momentum divergence, and it would be a lower low which breaks the trend of “higher lows &amp; higher highs”. I would look for a breakdown below that key level as some big time confirmation. On the flip side, I would take a much more neutral stance in this name if prices break back above 17.65. Up there things get a little bit more messy and would deserve a reevaluation of the bearish thesis. Things don’t look good in the stock market. Here is why we got bearish the Nasdaq recently as money flows into the safe haven that is the US Treasury Bond market. I think this trend continues. *** REGISTER HERE for more information on how to access this top/down technical analysis for other stocks and asset classes. FREE AppDownload
Yale/CourseraFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. SHILLER: I Tell People To Get An Investment Adviser (The Wall Street Journal)  When asked if he tells investors that they can pick winners in the stock market — or whether they should go to index funds because they can't pick winners — Robert Shiller told the WSJ's David Wessel, "I tell people to get an investment adviser. That makes sense to me.  "The question is often whether it's possible for anyone to pick stocks, and I think it is. It's a competitive game. It's like some people can play in a chess tournament really well, but I'm not recommending you go into a chess tournament if you are not trained in that, or you will lose. So for most people, trying to pick among major investments might be a mistake because it's an overpopulated market. It's hard. You have to be realistic about how savvy you are. But if you are thinking about buying real estate and renting it out, fixing it up and selling it, that's the kind of market that's less populated by experts. And for someone who knows the town, that's doing business, I'm not going to tell someone not to do that." Wealthy Under-40 Clients Pay More Importance To Advisers' Ability To Assess Human Needs (Investment News) A survey of high-net-worth people under age 40 — conducted by SEI Investments Co., Scorpio Partnership, and NPG Wealth Management — showed that they place more importance on human factors. "Understanding of individual needs, level of experience, and market knowledge" each received a score of 65 out of 100, reports Joyce Hanson at Investment News. They attached less importance to digital technologies. "The most significant study result to me is that you just can't replace the importance of human contact in the advisory experience," Al Chiaradonna, of SEI Wealth Platform for North America, told Hanson. Apparently There's A 'Goldilocks' Hedge-Fund Size (Business Insider)  Hedge funds with $100 million to $499 million in assets under management (AUM) and $500 million to $999 million in AUM have had 12-month average returns of 13.79% and 13.71%, respectively. These funds beat bigger hedge funds in 12-month average returns in 2013, according to a report by Preqin. Meanwhile, hedge funds with $1 billion to $5 billion in AUM had 12-month average returns of 12.08%.  "As funds become larger, the distribution of returns among the best performing funds moves towards the lower end of the return spectrum," Amy Bensted, Preqin's head of hedge-fund products, said in the report.  "The size range $500-999mn had the lowest proportion of funds suffering a loss in 2013, and the longer term return and volatility characteristics of these funds are similar to funds with assets of more than $1bn. Therefore, those investors which are looking to move away from investing in just the largest funds, but without taking on too much volatility, may choose to look towards investing in those funds with more than $500mn in assets." Morgan Stanley Duo Managing $1.2 Billion Joins Lebenthal Wealth Advisors (The Wall Street Journal)  Carrie S. Gallaway and Andrew L. Stern, who managed $1.2 billion in client assets at Morgan Stanley, have left to join Lebenthal Wealth Advisors, reports Corrie Driebusch at the WSJ. The duo have "received partnership and an equity stake in Lebenthal Holdings LLC, the parent of Lebenthal Wealth Advisors," reports Driebusch. Jimmy Janeczek, Leigh Moglia, and Alexander Tuason also joined as vice presidents of wealth management. Want To Retire With $1 Million? Here's How Much You Should Already Have Saved (Business Insider) "Assuming a 6% annualized rate of return and a monthly contribution of $400 starting at the indicated age, this chart shows the savings balance you need by that age in order to get a total of $1,000,000 by the time you are 65 and ready to retire," writes Business Insider's Andy Kiersz. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz FREE AppDownload
@Penn/TwitterToday at 5 p.m., top high school students from around the world found out whether they will attend one of the eight prestigious Ivy League universities next year. This year was extremely competitive for some of the Ivies, with Princeton University, University of Pennsylvania, and Cornell University all recording their most selective admissions classes ever. Princeton admitted 7.28% of applicants, down slightly from 7.29% in 2013, and accepted 1,939 students out of 26,641 applicants The University of Pennsylvania admitted 9.9% of applicants to the Class of 2018, down from 12.1% last year. The Philadelphia-based university accepted 3,551 of their 35,788 applicants. Cornell University, which has the highest admissions rate in the Ivy League, dropped over a percentage point this year, with a 14% acceptance rate, taking 6,025 students from 43,041 applications. Cornell accepted 15.2% of applicants last year. Brown University accepted 2,619 of 30,291 applicants, or an 8.6% acceptance rate. Last year, the university had a 9.2% acceptance rate. Yale University was the last to release their admissions data, but also posted a lower acceptance rate than last year's 6.72%. Yale admitted 1,935 of 30,932 applicants for a 6.26% acceptance rate. Other Ivies saw their acceptance rate rise from last year. Dartmouth College took 11.5% of applicants to the Class of 2018, up from a 10% admissions rate last year. Dartmouth recieved 19,235 applications this year, and accepted 2,220 students. Harvard University admitted 5.9% of applicants, up slightly from last year's 5.8% admissions rate. Harvard accepted 2,023 of their 34,295 applications. Columbia University admitted 6.94% of applicants, up from a record low 6.89% acceptance rate for the Class of 2017. Columbia accepted 2,291 of their 32,967 applicants. Other top colleges have also released their admissions data. MIT took 7.7% of applications, while Duke University accepted 10.7% of student applicants. Probably the most interesting statistics released are for Dartmouth, which has posted consistently lower application numbers over the past two years. Dartmouth recieved 19,235 applications this year, down 14% from the year before. Here's how many students applied to and were accepted to the Ivy League this year: Many of the schools welcomed their new classes on Twitter, and some were a bit cornier than others: A roaring welcome to the Class of 2018! pic.twitter.com/rKLNqr6s7m Say, Ben, what have you got there? #Penn18, the Admissions decisions are live now! https://t.co/d1sFKKMY0m pic.twitter.com/GpqbS4to0J Congrats to the Class of 2018! We can't wait to meet the 2,619 who were admitted! Brown2018 #RegularDecision pic.twitter.com/GShVdJdKtD #WelcomeToHarvard College Class of 2018! #Harvard2018 pic.twitter.com/XacywCKtLO Congratulations to the newly admitted members of the Yale Class of 2018! #Yale2018 pic.twitter.com/m2JsmU97zL Welcome to Brown, Class of 2018! Admission decisions will be available today at 5pm EST. #BrownUniversity #Brown2018 pic.twitter.com/3UGMKHZAcp FREE AppDownload
Inside HookThis is Danny, he can help you. It seems like the long, Siberia-like hellscape that was this winter will soon be over, so it's time to pull off the layers and show some style. There are two ways a man can do this: the right way and the wrong way. A man can go shopping (in a store, online) picking up the random stuff he likes ... "These orange cuffed pants look cool. I like this blue seersucker blazer. I'll take these gray-wash jeans. A vintage Mr. T tee. And a baseball hat." That is wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Wrong. "More than anything ... you don't need to go buying everything under the sun," said Danny Agnew, New York editor at men's lifestyle daily InsideHook. "Dudes need to think of each item as one piece of a greater whole. You can take 8 key pieces and incorporate them into your wardrobe." That is the concept behind InsideHook's new Spring Style Issue. It's got everything: clothes, attractive ladies wearing one (really, just one) item of those clothes, and most importantly eight pieces you can get right now and how you should wear them with everything else you already have. You see gentlemen, when you shop, you should be thinking about how to use new pieces from this season to complement who you've been every season. The pieces should go with your overall sense of self. You can even go out there a little — maybe pairing some brightly colored sneakers with a suit. You just have to wear everything with confidence. Take Agnew's favorite look from the Style Issue, for example (pictured below). It's a grown-up version of the baseball jacket from Gant. Obviously you can wear your baseball jacket with a T-shirt when it's a little chilly, but since it's made of suede, you can also pair it with something a little classier for an evening out. "If you do it wrong, it's all wrong, if you do it right it's alllll riiighhhttt," said Agnew. All right? Here's the jacket, straight from Inside Hook's Style Issue. Inside Hook   FREE AppDownload
Associated PressWal-Mart Stores Inc. is suing Visa for $5 billion over what it says were unreasonably high fees, The Wall Street Journal's Shelly Banjo reports. The retail giant is accusing the credit-card behemoth of violating antitrust statutes by setting uncompetitive swipe fees. "The anticompetitive conduct of Visa and the banks forced Wal-Mart to raise retail prices paid by its customers and/or reduce retail services provided to its customers as a means of offsetting some of the artificially inflated Interchange Fees," the company said. "As a result, Wal-Mart's retail sales were below what they would have been otherwise." Visa shares are down 0.73% after hours. Click here to read the full story at WSJ.com »   FREE AppDownload
CrockettandJones1 via YouTubeQuality dress shoes are expensive, but they can last for decades, especially if they are cared for properly. That's where shoe trees come in. Some men look at the wooden shoe inserts as an unnecessary purchase, but shoe trees are crucial to keeping shoes in amazing shape as they age. Our feet sweat throughout the day, and the leather and lining of our shoes absorb all that moisture. This can cause the lining to rot, your shoes to stink, and the leather to crack over time, thereby ruining expensive footwear. A shoe tree holds a shoe in its proper shape so it dries out correctly, and keeps the leather from cracking by wicking away moisture. The absorbent wood also helps dry out the lining of shoes so that they don't rot from the inside out. Long story short: Shoe trees are a whole lot cheaper than a new pair of nice shoes, and will keep your current pair in excellent condition for years. Not all shoe trees are created equal. There are three tiers of shoe trees, as well as travel shoe trees. Cheap Shoe Trees ($15-$30) AmazonThese are the bare minimum for those who want a shoe tree but don't want to spend too much money. If your shoes cost less than $200, this is a fine option. Cheaper shoe trees generally don’t have full wooden heels. Instead, a nob or a piece of thin wood helps stretch out the shoe. These will help with odor and leather cracking, but they won’t hold the shoe shape quite as nicely as more expensive options. Also, don’t buy a varnished shoe tree. They look nice, but they don't properly draw moisture and sweat from the leather and lining, which is the point of the product. A rough cedar version should work well. (Pro tip: When the smell of the cedar starts to fade, you can lightly sand the shoe tree to bring it back.) Quality Shoe Trees ($25-$50) Jos. A. BankShell out for nicer trees if your shoes cost more than $200. Quality shoe trees will have ventilation slots at the toe to help dissipate moisture, a longer, crafted heel, and contain more wood for better drying and odor control. They will also ensure the closest possible fit between the shoe and tree. As with the cheaper versions, top marks go to unfinished cedar models and those with knobs or handles for maintaining your shoes' shape during polishing. Lasted Shoe Trees (bespoke, costs will vary) BlueflyIf your shoes cost more than $700, chances are they will come with their own lasted (specially crafted) shoe trees. Brands like Prada and Gucci sometimes sell their own with high-end shoes, or they come as a perk for splurging on fine footwear. These are the best of the best when it comes to shoe trees, because they are essentially an entire cedar foot that draws out moisture and maintains the natural shape of the shoe. Travel Shoe Trees ($10-$20) FootFitter.comPerfect for business travelers or jetsetters, travel shoe trees are typically plastic (although there are cedar versions) that are lightweight and great for keeping your shoes’ shape in a suitcase without them getting smooshed. This is the most common question about shoe trees, and something shoe bloggers and experts find controversial. It would be ideal to have a shoe tree in every nice pair of shoes you own — no, you don’t need them in your sneakers — but it's not absolutely necessary, as long as you rotate your shoes and shoe trees throughout the week. Shoes need a full 24 hours to dry before the next wearing, and the best way to properly dry them is to insert a shoe tree. If you have a few pairs of nice shoes that you rotate, ostensibly you need only one or two shoes trees to keep in your most recently worn pair of shoes. The vital time for using shoe trees is the hour or two after you’ve removed your shoes from your feet to best draw out moisture and help the shoe return to its natural shape. After that, the shoe trees merely retain shape and help with odor control. But if you’re a huge fan of all your shoes and have a vast collection of expensive footwear, then buy a shoe tree for every pair. Some shoe collectors swear by them. But most men can get away with using a single set of shoe trees on their most recently worn shoes. FREE AppDownload
St. Louis FedStocks (red) and GDP (blue), 1966-1982I'm cautious about the stock market these days. Yes, stocks could keep going up, especially if the Fed keeps frantically pumping out money. But most valid valuation measures suggest that stocks are radically overvalued. And, in the past, radical overvaluation has led to crappy long-term stock performance. (Current prices suggest that stocks will only deliver returns of about 3% per year for the next decade. That's a far cry from the 10% long-term average.) But lots of folks are bullish about stocks these days, despite these valuation measures. And one of the arguments these bullish folks trot out when I mention my concerns is that the economy is growing nicely and is expected to continue to grow for the foreseeable future. And, hey, if the economy continues to grow, then stocks will go up! That argument sounds compelling. But there are two big flaws in it. First, just because economists expect the economy to keep growing doesn't mean that the economy will actually keep growing. Economists have a terrible track record when it comes to predicting recessions (they almost never see them coming). Second, and more importantly, even if the economy keeps growing, that doesn't mean that stocks will go up. Don't believe it? Let's go to the Oracle, Warren Buffett. Back in 1999, Warren Buffett wrote an amazing article for Fortune in which he quietly reminded investors that the remarkable stock performance of 1982-1999 (17% per year) was not likely to continue indefinitely. As usual, Buffett was right. Less than a year after he wrote his article, the market crashed, and 15 years later, it's still not much higher than it was then. Anyway, in his article, which you should read, Buffett reminded everyone that stocks and the economy are not always correlated. In fact, he pointed out, there have been many long periods in history in which stocks and the economy have not been correlated at all. Here's Mr. B, writing in 1999: Now, to get some historical perspective, let's look back at the 34 years before this one--and here we are going to see an almost Biblical kind of symmetry, in the sense of lean years and fat years--to observe what happened in the stock market. Take, to begin with, the first 17 years of the period, from the end of 1964 through 1981. Here's what took place in that interval: DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE Dec. 31, 1964: 874.12 Dec. 31, 1981: 875.00 Now I'm known as a long-term investor and a patient guy, but that is not my idea of a big move. And here's a major and very opposite fact: During that same 17 years, the GDP of the U.S.--that is, the business being done in this country--almost quintupled, rising by 370%. Or, if we look at another measure, the sales of the FORTUNE 500 (a changing mix of companies, of course) more than sextupled. And yet the Dow went exactly nowhere. Catch that? For the 17 years through 1981, the economy grew by 5X. And stocks were flat. Yes, you say, but that's because of interest rates. In the 17 years through 1981, interest rates skyrocketed from low to super-high and inflation soared. That's true! But what makes you so certain that interest rates and inflation won't soon do the exact same thing again? In any event, if you think stocks are going to keep going up because interest rates are going to keep going down (somehow, despite the fact that they're already super-low), then say so! Don't go around making bogus arguments that stocks will go up if the economy grows. It just ain't necessarily so!   FREE AppDownload
Immigration from abroad is a huge driver of population growth for America's biggest cities. Even though Ellis Island closed 60 years ago, New York is the country's largest magnet for immigrants. The U.S. Census Bureau releases an annual report on population changes across the United States. Based on their data for city-centered areas, we made the map below showing levels of net international migration over the year between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2013. Large cities draw the most people from abroad. In particular, New York stands in a class of its own, with a level of net international migration more than twice as high as any other city.  Most smaller cities had a negligible amount of net international migration, and only a handful of cities saw any amount of net population loss to other countries, and in those cities the loss was extremely small. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Here are the top twenty cities, and the net immigration for those cities between July 2012 and July 2013: U.S. Census
REUTERSThen Citicorp EVP William Campbell (L) picks up a large credit card presented to International pop star Elton John (R) at a news conference Jan. 22, 1998.Today's economic data dump was overshadowed by an unfavorable surprise from one of America's biggest banks. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
redditEarlier this year we saw a civil war emerging between Bitcoin's earliest, most anarchist, and most libertarian advocates; and those willing to accept a greater level of regulation in the name of mainstream adoption. Thursday afternoon brought more evidence of this conflict. In new comments on Quora, reddit CEO Yishan Wong heavily criticized Bitcoin evangelists on the very site he runs, calling out the hysteria that can fill Bitcoin forums there.  Without being too inflammatory, the user base for bitcoin is basically crazy libertarians who are increasingly poorly-informed about currency systems and macroeconomics.  I say "increasingly" because at one time it was fairly well-informed libertarians but as the currency has become mainstream, it's attracted more poorly-informed individuals and the conversation have become more polarized and less knowledge-based, driving the well-informed and balanced people away, or at least prompting them to recede into the background. He sees nothing wrong with the currency itself, but says these types of individuals are giving the currency a bad name: I think that the obsession in the bitcoin community with bringing down central banks, fiat currencies, and governments is misguided and generally misses the point of bitcoin, which I think is that for the first time in history, we have the technology for enabling extremely low-friction electronic payments and certain trust-delegation mechanisms.  That in and of itself is incredibly valuable.  (There are also programmability features in the codebase that potentially open the door for zero-trust contracts and other intriguing possibilities, but they haven't been activated or tested yet) And he argues it actually makes it easier to track transactions for illicit goods.  "I would not be surprised if the NSA is actually heavily in favor of Bitcoin," he wrote, "because by combining their other data streams, they can cross-correlate activity on the blockchain and essentially know exactly who is doing what." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/timsackton35,000 students are dreaming of studying in the Harvard Yard.Thousands of high school seniors went online at 5 p.m. today to find out if they had been accepted to one of the eight Ivy League universities for the incoming Class of 2018. Each school receives tens of thousands of applications every year, and some routinely post single digit acceptance rates. While a handful of these students have already been accepted or rejected via early admittance policies, the vast majority of them will find out their fate at 5 p.m. today. Harvard University had 34,295 applicants. It admitted 5.9% of those applicants, according to The Harvard Crimson, up slightly from last year's 5.8% admissions rate.  Here's how many students applied to each Ivy League school: We're keeping track of admissions stats at top schools across the country. Click here to get the latest updates. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHello, Business Insider readers! We're hiring a bunch of tech journalists for a secret new project. We'd be grateful if you could pass this post on to anyone you know who might be interested. Here are the specifics: We're hiring (at least) 5 tech industry reporters (or talented folks who want to be great tech industry reporters). Not "writers" — although you have to be able to write accurately, quickly, cleanly, and succinctly. Not "opinionators." Reporters. Professional journalists who know or want to quickly learn what's important on their beat, develop industry sources (people, documents, feeds, databases, etc.), gather important information about topics that matter, assess the information, and then explain to readers what the information is, why it matters, and what it means. To do this job well, you will have to learn what's important and why, and then share your ever-growing expertise every day. You will have to use your brain and judgement. (We're not looking for folks to parrot press releases). You don't necessarily need prior reporting experience or industry expertise, although it will help if you have some. (If you don't have any, we might start you with a paid internship.) You will probably travel a bit. You will use the telephone and the Internet a lot. This job will be great training and experience for pretty much every other job you might have in your life, including other great jobs in journalism and at Business Insider. We're hiring 1 great business editor.  You need to be able to hire and manage a great team, including teaching them how to figure out what's important, develop sources, gather information, analyze information, write accurately, quickly, cleanly, and succinctly, and produce awesome graphics (visual storytelling). And you need to edit your team's work and make sure it's great. To be clear: Your job will be to gather and analyze important business information (reporting) and then explain and show why the information is important and what it means. Your job will not just be to "write articles," although you might occasionally choose to share the information that way. Your job will also not be to generate page views or "traffic." You will need to care deeply whether your readers are reading, valuing, and sharing what you write, of course, but the raw volume of that readership will not be important. Interested? Awesome! Please send your resume, links to stuff you have written (and reported!), and a note to our Assistant Managing Editor, Lyndsay Hemphill (lhemphill@businessinsider.com). FREE AppDownload
WealthTrack / YouTubeBill Miller Former Legg Mason Chairman and Chief Investment Officer Bill Miller has an extraordinary returns record, at one point beating the market for 15-straight years. And on CNBC Thursday afternoon, he said he personally owns Bitcoins.  "Bitcoin is like a venture investment. It could go to zero, but what's interesting is the addressable market," he said. Bill Miller owns #Bitcoins. #Wow @CNBCClosingBell @Kelly_Evans It would also seem to fly in the face of Marc Andreessen's thoughts this week on older white males' appreciation of new technologies. As we reported earlier today, Bitcoin prices are down about 11% on unconfirmed rumors out of China that the country is banning Bitcoin. Miller currently serves as portfolio manager of the Legg Mason Opportunity Trust. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidCiti is down more than 5% today after failing the Federal Reserve's annual stress test.  The Fed released the results of its stress test of major banks operating in the U.S. on Wednesday afternoon following the closing bell, and Citi was the only major U.S. bank to fail. The Fed said Citi's "2014 capital plan reflected a number of deficiencies in its capital planning practices, including in some areas that had been previously identified by supervisors as requiring attention, but for which there was not sufficient improvement." "We think Citi's qualitative fail is about bad processes, not a bad business model," wrote Derek De Vries, an equity analyst at UBS, in a note to clients. "This is an important distinction because processes can be fixed, while business models are difficult to change."De Vries expects the "qualitative fail to be reversed in less than 12 months." He also maintains his Buy rating on the stock. This five-day chart show's today's sharp sell-off: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
"Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal" Months after becoming Olympus's first non-Japanese president and then CEO in 2011, British executive Michael Woodford called for an investigation into allegations that the tech company had covered up losses dating back to the 1990s. Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and other board members opposed him and ultimately voted to dismiss him and told him to leave Japan. It was not long, however, before a $1.7 billion accounting scandal unraveled, taking down Kikukawa and other executives and causing Olympus' stock price to fall more than 75%. Woodford recounts his experiences in "Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal: How I Went from CEO to Whistleblower," now out in paperback, with a movie on the way. A chilling account of his showdown with the board is excepted below. As I entered the Monolith building I glanced at my phone: it was 8.41, Friday, 14 October. I entered the lift in silence, a deference to the etiquette in Japan, where everyone seems to keep fixed, unreadable expressions in such situations. I wondered if my Japanese colleagues around me knew what was about to happen. I got out on the fifteenth floor, walked the twenty or so yards to the electronically controlled double doors into the executive suite. Normally I would enter the secretaries’ office by the reception desk and say: ‘Ohayou gozaimasu’ (good morning), and then, having exhausted my Japanese repertoire, would in English ask the four secretaries who shared the office how they were and spend a few minutes talking and joking. That day I went straight to my own office. There was a knock at the door and Michiko entered. She had clearly been crying. I could see in her eyes that those wretched men had told her what was going to happen and no doubt had forbidden her from saying anything to me. In that moment I felt such warmth for her, remembering all the funny times we had together. We had laughed a lot when we had gone out shopping to buy my tailor-made shirts (which were necessary to accommodate my long limbs), my fancy Porsche-designed electronic pepper and salt grinders and my beloved Nespresso coffee machine. Every morning before I arrived she would go down to the building’s subterranean shopping arcade and in Cafe´ Croissant buy me my favourite egg croissant for breakfast. She knew how to look after me – a useless gaijin who didn’t speak Japanese – and had made my time in Tokyo go smoothly. She loyally watched my back, and now she couldn’t stop her own colleagues from stabbing me right between the shoulder blades. But she was completely professional. She didn’t say a word. I wanted to say goodbye to her properly but subsequently found out she had been instructed to go across the road to wait in the Keio Plaza Hotel, until I had left the building. They didn’t want her to bump into me when I came out of my last board meeting as president. The meeting was scheduled for nine o’clock, and in a culture where nobody is late for anything, ever, the boardroom was full at the appointed hour. The roll call that day was thirteen board members, two translators, four attending auditors and one secretariat member. But somebody was conspicuously absent. Having called this extraordinary meeting, Kikukawa was late. Late? How could he be late? At 9.02 I looked to my right and caught Hisashi Mori’s eye. His gaze, as ever, offered nothing. I made an exaggerated play of checking my watch and raising my eyebrows. He leaned slightly towards me and, in a feeble attempt to humour me, asked about my visit to Tohoku [a region badly damaged by the earthquake and tsunami] the preceding day. ‘Michael, how was it? You must have been affected?’ With my mind fresh from the scenes of devastation I had witnessed the day before, I felt an overwhelming revulsion that he would use this of all subjects to try and distract me. A low-level fury rose from my stomach. In a raised voice, and deliberately omitting the honorific ‘san’, I replied: ‘Mori, stop playing games. Just get on with it.’ Realizing that I knew my fate, Mori shrugged nervously and scuttled off to find his master. Kikukawa eventually arrived, with Mori dutifully in his wake. It was 9.07. Kikukawa waddled in like a duck, wearing a shiny blue suit. He nodded at those present, and anxiously, perhaps even a touch excitedly, fiddled with his tie. I immediately recognized the tie. It was one of the three he had recently bought from the Imperial Hotel boutique, at a price of $500 each, about which he had later boasted. A little puffed-up duck in a five-hundred-buck tie. He didn’t go to his normal chair, immediately to my right, but stood at the podium as if he were to give a routine PowerPoint presentation on the last quarter’s financial results. He cleared his throat. ‘Today’s board meeting to discuss concerns relating to M&amp;A activity has been cancelled.’ (I was listening in my earpiece to the translation.) ‘There is instead to be a new agenda: firstly the dismissal of Mr Woodford as president, CEO and representative director.’ I waited for a ripple of murmured astonishment, perhaps even dissent. Everyone stayed silent. Kikukawa put the motion, as company law directed, to a vote, and almost before he had finished speaking, all fifteen members simultaneously raised their hands in approval. I was reminded of young children in a classroom who know the answer to a simple question, all stretching their arms up, desperate for the teacher to call on them. There was to be no discussion, no debate, just acquiescence. Kikukawa was now talking again. ‘Mr Woodford,’ he said, looking into the middle distance, ‘is not permitted to make any comments here, because he has a vested interest in the outcome.’ Oddly, I had an overwhelming desire to laugh. I was in a room full of people – of colleagues, some of whom I had known for over thirty years – who were now operating beyond all the recognizable codes of conduct, not just in Japan but anywhere in the business world. I stared at Kikukawa: at the cut of his expensive suit, at the precision of the knot in that silk tie, at the curt, pinched smile that played beneath his nose, and the reflection of the overhead lighting on the lenses of his glasses. He struck me as a ludicrous figure, and so delusional. He resembled little more than the captain of a sink- ing ship who believed that by throwing out the deadweight, his vessel would suddenly right itself and resume its calm drift into the horizon. He read out a second motion: ‘Mr Woodford is stripped of all his directorships of Olympus’s subsidiary companies, including Olym- pus Corporation of the Americas and Olympus Europa Holding GmbH’ (the American and European organizations at both of which I was CEO and chairman of the board). Tellingly, he went on to announce, ‘Hisashi Mori will replace Mr Woodford in these roles.’ Mori, I thought. The Emperor’s trusted sidekick, a bureaucrat, a creature of the corridors – he knows nothing about the real business of customers and products. It was no comfort to know that I was making history, for the forced removal of a company president is almost unheard of in Japan. No one is let go unless they are guilty of major malfeasance such as when, in 1997, the chairman of Japan’s then largest bank, Dai-Ichi Kangyo, was convicted of lending billions of yen to members of organized crime groups. So why were Kikukawa and his board cronies acting this irrationally? They knew waves of publicity would be generated by my dismissal, but they were obviously scared of something far worse. But now they were going to hold a press conference to announce their bizarre decision to the world. "Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal"I checked my watch; it was 9.15 a.m. Just eight minutes had elapsed. An eight-minute corporate execution. I was now officially the ex-president. I remained a director, albeit one without portfolio, thanks to a quirk in Japanese corporate law whereby, if you don’t resign, only the shareholders can remove your directorship. I rose quietly, left the room and, deliberately holding my head high, walked back to my office. I immediately opened the safe in the corner of the room, retrieved my bank book, about £1,000 worth of yen and, most importantly, my Japanese name stamp. If massive fraud had been taking place, the very last thing I wanted was these people getting hold of my name stamp. The red Japanese characters it leaves on a page are legally as good as my signature and are crucial for endorsing all official documents in Japan. Made out of wood and beautifully painted, the stamp was the size and width of my index finger. I kept it in a small leather box with a red ink pad. Using it always reminded me of my childhood Post Office set, but it was no plaything. The only thing on my mind was to escape as quickly as possible. I just couldn’t understand why the board members were acting in this way. They had seemed scared, but of what? I was confused and disorientated. My thoughts turned again to the second Facta article, and its suggestion of connections to organized crime, to the Yakuza. I was both frightened and angry. Somebody entered my office, and I turned to see Hironobu Kawamata, who in effect fulfilled the role of Olympus’s chief financial officer. He was accompanied by the recently appointed head of the secretarial division, a quiet and unassuming man who had clearly been ‘volunteered’ to make this encounter two against one. He remained silent during the exchange that followed. Kawamata was smiling broadly enough to reveal his teeth. Japanese people often smile or laugh when nervous, but this was not the case. There was too much relish in his expression. ‘Michael, there are a few points I need to go through with you,’ he said, as if what had just taken place in the boardroom was routine. ‘Firstly, I want your two phones.’ His manner was so rough that I became angry again. I looked him in the eye and, passing him the Samsung Galaxy, which I had used most frequently in Japan, said, ‘You can have this one.’ I could not help but add, ‘I’ve already wiped it.’ My other phone – an iPhone – had been issued to me by the British subsidiary. I held it up. ‘I’ll keep this one because my wife will be worried if she can’t make contact with me.’ I walked towards him and with my face just a few inches from his I said, ‘Or are you going to take it off me? Are you a policeman?’ He buckled slightly, which pumped me up all the more. I wanted to shout, Who the f--- do you think you are? My fingers curled, I clenched my hands at my sides. Kawamata took a step back, relocated his resolve and demanded my two Sony Vaio laptops. It was my turn to smile. I told him, ‘I know your games and they have already been sent back securely to London. I’ll drop them off at KeyMed [Olympus’s UK headquarters] once they’ve been wiped of all data.’ Numerous colleagues from around the world had assisted or written to me, expressing in the most explicit language their contempt for the Olympus board’s behaviour, so my overwhelming priority was to protect them. Next, Kawamata demanded that I relinquish my company-issued credit card. I passed it to him with no comment. ‘Your apartment,’ he said, moving through his to-do list, ‘you have to vacate it by the end of the weekend.’ This I found extraordinary: I paid more than half of the rent personally. I stayed calm, telling him that I would pack a bag and return the keys in due course. Lastly, he said, ‘And by the way, when you go to the airport, you are not allowed to use Nick. You can take the airport bus.’ His smile had returned. Over my many years visiting Japan, I had never seen or heard of anything like this. This aggressive rudeness was all so very atypical, simply not the way business was carried out here. My efforts to highlight wrongdoings had brought out a bullying mob mentality in my colleagues. My hands turned cold. I wanted to get out. Kawamata did not accompany me the fifteen floors down to the ground floor, and for that I was grateful. I breathed heavily through my nose as the lift descended, my hands like ice, a cold sweat breaking out across my forehead and the back of my neck. Once at the foyer I strode briskly from the lift across the gleaming marble floor and out into an unseasonably warm and sunny Tokyo morning. Rush hour was over, so I had no trouble hailing a taxi. It was a relief to be inside, amid the curious frilly white doilies that cover the seats, and being driven away. I gave the driver a laminated card with my address in Shibuya, his hands white-gloved and resting at a calm ten to two on the steering wheel, and resisted the urge to ask him to drive quickly. We arrived at Grosvenor Place and there were two men in suits loitering downstairs in the foyer. They looked hefty and officious. One of them gave me a sidelong glance. Did they have all their fingers? I went upstairs. My apartment, technically no longer mine, was silent. I went straight to the bedroom and packed my bags, pulling clothes from drawers and cupboards, taking photos of my wife and children and stuffing them into a case, my ears alert to any sounds outside the window or the front door. I crossed the floor to the kitchen, sud- denly feeling thirsty; I drank deep from the tap. Zipping up my bags, I hesitated by the front door. I took a very careful look through the fisheye lens spy hole which revealed an empty corridor. I opened the door, stepped out, and allowed it to close quietly behind me. Back downstairs, the two suspicious men still loitered. I passed the reception desk where the three uniformed ladies bowed, not knowing it would be the last time they would see me. Out on the street and hurrying along the pavement, I was soon sweating as I lugged my large silver suitcase in one hand and my black leather briefcase in the other. Reprinted from EXPOSURE: Inside the Olympus Scandal: How I Went from CEO to Whistleblower by Michael Woodford with permission of Portfolio, a member of Penguin Group (USA) LLC. Copyright (c) Michael Woodford, 2012. FREE AppDownload
The EU and the US must not sit on their hands as Russia pursues "the old way of doing things," he said. "That message would be heard not just in Europe but in Asia and the Americas, in Africa and the Middle East." Russian President Vladimir Putin might have had a field day listening to the speech. But he was busy. He was at his official residence in Novo-Ogaryovo near Moscow, meeting with German industry tycoons, including Joe Kaeser, CEO of multinational engineering conglomerate Siemens. It wasn’t an emergency response to the current sanctions spiral but had been planned during their last meeting in October. That meeting in October must have been Kaeser’s first meeting as CEO with Putin. Saturday night, July 27, 2013, Kaeser’s predecessor had been unceremoniously sacked. There was no immediate successor. Eventually, the board settled on Kaeser who was CFO at the time and has been with Siemens his entire working life. And he didn’t wait long to go see Uncle Putin. Which shows how connected German industry and Putin are. Regular powwows are de rigueur. So this time, Kaeser explained to Putin that Siemens, which had already invested €800 million in Russia, wanted to continue its “long-term involvement and localization strategy," a Siemens spokesman said. The company is of the opinion "that we should not let the conversation break off even if it is perhaps difficult politically at the moment." So it would continue to produce in Russia and help industrialize the country. "We have built relations with Russia on the basis of long-term prospects and trust," Kaeser said, according to Russian news agency, Itar-Tass. When questioned about the possible consequences for Siemens due to its cooperation with Russia, given the sanctions, he said, “Siemens and I personally do not feel any pressure from the federal authorities,” which had known about the visit. “And certainly there has been no pressure when the chief executive of Germany’s leading company, cooperating with Russia for 160 years, comes to meet the Russian president.” Kaeser also met with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller, the Siemens spokesman confirmed. Despite any sanctions, both sides favored continuing with the strategic partnership agreement they'd inked in 2011. Gazprom is currently threatening to turn off the natural gas tap for the Ukraine. Unless the Ukraine pays up, it could run out of gas in two or three months. Siemens, which employs more than 3,500 people in Russia, partners with state-owned Russian Railways – whose president Vladimir Yakunin is on the US sanctions blacklist – to provide high-speed trains. It’s involved in energy projects and numerous other activities in Russia. Siemens isn’t alone. About 6,200 German companies were trading with Russia. The bilateral trade volume was over €76 billion in 2013. German companies have invested €20 billion in Russia, and about 300,000 jobs in Germany depend on this economic relationship. A sanctions-spiral could have “unforeseen consequences,” said the president of the German Association of Exporters, Anton Börner. It would be tough for Germany but “life threatening” for Russia. And there’d be a political price to pay as well, he warned [read....German Exporters Fire Warning Shot About Russia “Sanction-Spiral,” Banks At Risk]. The intricate and convoluted connections between Germany and Russia can exude a peculiar aroma. Gerhard Schröder, Chancellor from 1998 to 2005, had moved heaven and earth to push Germany into a deal on the Nord Stream sub-sea gas pipeline from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea. It was signed in October 2005, shortly before Angela Merkel kicked him out of office. Without waiting to take a breath, he joined Nord Stream AG as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Gazprom owns a controlling 51% of Nord Stream. The remaining 49% are owned by German mega-utility E.on, German chemical company BASF, and Gasunie, a Dutch natural gas infrastructure company. With Schröder’s infinite foresight, the Nord Stream system vastly increased Germany’s dependence on Russian natural gas. Gazprom Chairman Alexei Miller, whom our Siemens hero Kaeser also met while in Moscow, is Deputy Chairman of the Board of Nord Stream, right next to Putin’s buddy Schröder. It’s good to have Schröder on board to bring all these people together. Chancellor Merkel is getting the message, apparently. She has been forceful and very vocal in condemning Putin's actions, but on Wednesday, she commented in Berlin that the West “has not reached a stage that implies the imposition of economic sanctions” on Russia. “And I hope we will be able to avoid it,” she said. “I am not interested in escalation. On the contrary, I am working on de-escalation of the situation.” Clearly, she forgot to check with President Obama recently. Alas, it doesn’t take long for Russian humor to tear into the pronouncements of American politicians. Read.... Putin Playing Chess (Hilarious Picture, Russian Point of View) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Barria A businessman looks at his mobile phone as he walks in the financial area of Pudong in Shanghai May 30, 2013.Investors are worried that defaults in China's shadow banking system could trigger a financial crisis.  Chinese policymakers have also grown increasingly cautious, issuing a new set of guidelines this year, known as Document No. 107 to curb the shadow banking sector. Shadow banking refers to financing activities that occur off-balance sheet and largely goes unregulated. But in a new report titled 'Why China Is Not Facing A Lehman Moment', UBS' Tao Wang writes that China's "shadow banking system is much smaller relative to the size of its overall financial system when compared with many developed economies such as the US." She thinks China's shadow banking system was about 50-70% of GDP at the end of 2013. This compares to a global average of 117%, and 170% for the U.S. at the end of 2012 according to data from the Financial Stability Board. Here's the chart that shows that China's shadow banking system is small compared to other countries. The Netherlands, UK, Switzerland, and the U.S. have much bigger shadow banking systems than China. and they also account for a larger part of their total credit system. The growth in shadow banking in these countries was largely attributed to the proliferation of synthetic financial products ahead of the financial crisis.  The large size of the Netherlands' shadow banking sector is because of "the large number of special financial institutions (SFIs)," according to a report from DNB — The Dutch Bank.  UBS While China's shadow banking system is the fastest growing, its size is still manageable. Wang also thinks it's manageable because "lack of leverage and securitization, and mark-to-market mechanism in China's shadow banking system." "Trust companies, corporate bond issuers and other shadow banking players in China are not highly leveraged. They also have almost no securitization, limiting the impact that any default would have on the entire financial system; and their underlying assets are mostly loans. In the event that a cluster of defaults triggers a mass unwind of shadow credit, assets that Chinese banks may be forced to bring back onto their balance sheets would largely be loan assets, which are simpler and more straight forward to "re-intermediate" than the MBS/ABS/CDO structures that US banks had to deal with." Moreover, Chinese credit growth has been driven by "domestic, not foreign funding" and benefits from high savings. "Simply put, a systemic banking crisis is not in sight," Wang writes. "For these reasons, should a credit squeeze take place in China (not our base case scenario), it should not be of Lehman proportions." FREE AppDownload
BIIThe recent decision by the IRS to deem Bitcoin as property and tax it in the mode of stocks, rather than treating it as currency, is going to create a lot more uncertainty for Bitcoin in the short-term. The drumbeat for more clarity and regulation is getting louder in the face of the decision. At BI Intelligence, we believe Bitcoin's real value is as a payments network. Bitcoin offers merchants and individuals an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system. Value can easily be transferred around the world without transmitting sensitive information that could be used for fraud, and without forcing merchants to pay exorbitant transaction fees. But as the IRS decision makes clear, the digital currency still faces stiff hurdles, not least of which are regulatory.  In  a recent report from BI Intelligence, we explain how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared to the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial.   FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVLate last year, NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran valued Tesla at $67. The stock was trading at about $170 then.  Now, Damodaran has revisited the stock in a new blog post, and is valuing it between $110 - $115. The stock is currently trading at $220, and is down from its all-time intra-day high of $265. Here's a look at Damodaran's assumptions: Damodaran says investors should consider three things when looking at Tesla. The first is the discounted cash flow (DCF). When it comes to this it's important to remember that Tesla will have to "make substantial infrastructure investments over the next decade, to deliver its growth potential." He also looks at buzzwords surrounding the automaker. Tesla has the trifecta: China, batteries, and disruptive. The company has announced that it is expanding into China, and building a Gigafactory to produce electric batteries. But for the $220 value, you need the battery business to add "about $90 billion to Tesla's annual revenues by the tenth year." It's also important to remember that other companies, like Honda, are also "in this disruption game." Finally, and this is the stuff from Damodaran we watch closely, he talks about 'keeping the faith'. "My investment philosophy is built on the foundation that you should buy an asset only if it trades at a price less than your estimated value for that asset, error-prone and uncertain though the latter may be," Damodaran writes. "It is true that I can offer no proof that my value is right, that the price is wrong or even if the first two assertions are true (right value, wrong price), that the price will adjust to the value, but is that not the essence of faith? That you believe, without proof! If I stay true to my philosophy, I cannot justify buying Tesla at the current price. Of course, a year from now, the stock may be at $400, but I will have no regrets, because I also believe that if you don't stand for something, you will fall for anything."  Note: Damodaran is not short Tesla and he does not plan to short the stock. And he doesn't believe his valuation is the 'right' valuation.  You can see Damodaran's valuation spreadsheet here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Finbarr O'ReillyCrosses stand at the American Cemetery and Memorial at Colleville-sur-Mer in Normandy, October 11, 2009.The U.S. recorded the most deaths in its history last year, while births fell to their lowest level since 1998, according to Ken Johnson, a demographer at the University of New Hampshire.  The Census could not confirm the "most ever" point, but did say the 2,540,928 deaths in 2013 were the most since at least 2000. Bloomberg was the first to report Johnson's findings, which were emailed to reporters. The population increase from natural causes (more births than deaths) sunk to a 35-year low of 1,412,000. “The recession’s influence on migration may be waning, but it continues to have a negative impact on births,” Johnson wrote. Johnson says a third of American counties are now seeing more deaths than births. The rate is nearly 40% among the nation’s rural counties. The fertility rate for women 20-24 has declined at least 21% since 2007 to 83.1 births per 1,000.  "These data suggest that the impact of the recession has been particularly pronounced among younger women, who are likely delaying fertility," Johnson said. FREE AppDownload
Via Wikimedia CommonsJPMorgan Chase has blackballed the Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity as a client. Bloomberg News' John Hechinger and David Glovin report that JPMorgan sent a letter on March 7 saying that it would stop managing SAE's charitable foundation account, which had about $500,000 in it. The reason JPMorgan severed ties was that the firm was concerned about the frat's reputation, the report said, citing a JPMorgan vice president who worked with the foundation.  A spokesperson for JPMorgan declined to comment in the Bloomberg report.  SAE has been called the "deadliest" frat. Since 2006, nine of its members have died from drugs, alcohol and hazing, either during or right after SAE-related events.  The day that the JPMorgan letter was received, SAE's national office decided to get rid of pledging. Now, anyone who accepts a bid from the fraternity will become a collegiate member who's considered an equal to the current members. They will no longer be considered a "pledge."   SAE is one of the largest frats in the U.S. It also has a stacked Wall Street alumni base. Prominent alums in finance include, Paul Tudor Jones II (University of Virginia), Maverick Capital's Lee Ainslie III (UVA) T. Boone Pickens (Oklahoma State University) and Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn (Cornell) and Greenlight's CIO Daniel Roitman (Cornell).  FREE AppDownload
Will Wei, Business InsiderSAN ANTONIO (Reuters) - Mexican restaurants in the United States are being squeezed by a sudden jump in the price of limes, an essential ingredient, which has led managers in places like San Antonio that are a hotbed for the cuisine to alter recipes. "Mexico received some heavy rains that destroyed a large amount of the lime crop, so with limited supplies we are seeing lime prices skyrocket," Bryan Black, director of communications for the Texas Department of Agriculture, said on Thursday. Texas like most U.S. states receives most of their limes form Mexico. John Berry, who runs La Fonda, a prominent Mexican restaurant in San Antonio, said on Thursday the price he pays for a case of limes has jumped to nearly $100 from $14 last year. "Real simple," Berry said. "We don't buy them. We substitute lemons." Limes are used in guacamole and to garnish beers. Serving a margarita without a lime garnish is burning at the heart of Louis Barrios, who runs the family-owned Mexican restaurant chain "Los Barrios." But he's doing without. "Ninety nine percent of the time, people don't squeeze it into the margarita anyway," Barrios says. A combination of factors has prompted the spike in lime prices. Most limes consumed in the United States come from the Mexican states of Oaxaca, Colima, and Guerrero, which have been hit by an unusual combination of cold weather and flooding, wholesalers said. Shipments have also been disrupted by violence attributed to drug gangs, they said. The high prices are not expected to end any time soon, according to wholesalers. (Reporting by Jim Forsyth; Writing by Jon Herskovitz; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Steve JenningsBox CEO Aaron Levie with Joelle Emerson, a Skadden Fellow.When enterprise-focused online-storage company Box filed for its IPO, the No. 1 thing that jumped out at people was the size of its losses. On revenue of $124 million, the company lost $168 million. Mark Cuban, an early investor who bailed on Box, tweeted that he would "combust" if he was responsible for losses like that. Since launching, Box has raised over $400 million in funding — and it's burned through about $300 million of that. In the past year alone, Box has burned through $168 million.  Perhaps worse than the lack of profitability and the burn rate was that Box spent $171 million on sales and marketing. A lot of people unfamiliar with enterprise businesses looked at that and thought, "Wow! That's a really big spend!" It calls into question the entire business model of Box. Is it doomed to burn cash on sales to grow revenues forever? Or is this totally normal? Is everyone who is freaking out wrong? Is this how enterprise companies operate — spend money up front to get recurring revenue in the future? Tomasz Tunguz, a VC at Redpoint, did a comprehensive analysis of Box, comparing it to 40 software-as-a-service (SaaS) companies. His analysis is not good for Box. Here are seven key metrics for Box, versus the market at large: So, Box is growing its revenue like crazy, but just about everything else is much worse than others in the industry.  Since Box filed for its IPO, it's been in a quiet period and can't talk right now. But, in a perhaps ingenious bit of timing, Re/code just ran an interview with Box CEO Aaron Levie, done before it filed its IPO.  In the interview, Levie explained his company's crazy burn rate. "I would be the first to say we’ve been aggressive, but there is simply not another logical way to attack the market. If you assume this market is going to be worth tens of billions, if it’s that big there can only be two, maybe three leaders. So we’re incentivized to grow as fast as possible." It sounds like Levie has no plans to cut back on the company's burn rate. His biggest problem? "I can’t grow a sales force that’s big enough in time for when I need it." He's going to continue staffing up, which costs money. But he also says he plans on relying on third-party sellers, which can cost less.  Anyone considering an investment in the Box IPO has to have faith that at some point Box will be able to rein in spending while boosting revenue. That seems like a big ask for an investor right now. Of course, it all comes down to price. At a certain price, the burn rate isn't a big problem. For an investor, it's figuring out the right price.  Read the full Tunguz report here &gt; For another analysis, click here&gt; And for the good Re/Code story on Box click here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Why isn't the economy surging? Because we're still running a policy of government austerity. This chart, via our friend Matt Busigin, shows that at this point in his Presidency, Reagan was running a deficit as a % of GDP that's higher than what Obama is today. Matt Busigin FREE AppDownload
The Fine Young Gentleman Men have two goals when they pack— The first goal is to economize space while still having enough clothing to keep up appearances.  The second is to pack in a way that is best for your clothing; essentially, in a manner that will limit the possibility of creasing, wrinkling, stress and stains. Before we get into how to pack your wardrobe, let’s first go over a few facts that will help you keep your expectations reasonable when packing and unpacking. First, packing is not a perfect art, it is impossible to pack, travel and unpack and not have any creases or wrinkles in any of your clothing. One of the most important things to do is the make sure things stay in place. When they are able to shift around a likelihood of creases (and thus ironing) increases. Second, not all textiles are created equal. Certain fabrics will crease more easily than others. For instance, linen will crease just by looking at it, whereas wool is a bit hardier. Also as part of this, it is important to realize that heavier weight fabrics crease less easily than lighter weight ones. For instance, a heavy wool flannel suit will rarely crease whereas a tropical wool suit will crease relatively easily. Third, garment bags are a waste of money. You can pack your suit, shoes and shirts in your normal suitcase and they will emerge in a similar, if not a better state. FREE AppDownload
Apparently hedge funds of a certain size are best at getting the market 'juuuuust right.' Hedge funds with assets under management of $100-499 million and $500-999 million beat their bigger brethren in terms of 12-month average returns in 2013, says a report by Preqin, a researcher. The mid-sized firm groups had average 12-month returns of 13.79% and 13.71%, respectively. Big hedge funds — or as Preqin classifies them, funds with $1-5 billion — posted 12 month average returns of 12.08%. That doesn't mean the smaller the better, though. Small hedge funds — those with less than $100 million — did worse than large ones, coming in with average 12 month returns of 11.45%. "As funds become larger, the distribution of returns among the best performing funds moves towards thelower end of the return spectrum," said Amy Bensted, Preqin's Head of Hedge Fund Products. "The size range $500-999mn had the lowest proportion of funds suffering a loss in 2013, and the longer term return and volatility characteristics of these funds are similar to funds with assets of more than $1bn. Therefore, those investors which are looking to move away from investing in just the largest funds, but without taking on too much volatility, may choose to look towards investing in those funds with more than $500mn in assets.” That's the sweet spot. Business Insider has reported over and over again that the bar to start a hedge fund has been raised over the last decade. It's hard to go to investors with less than $50 million assets under management and attract sticky money from institutional investors like pension funds. So when we're talking about funds with $100 to $499 million AUM, we're talking about funds that could be relatively new to the game. And indeed, we're beginning to see that investors are more willing to go with new hedge funds without the brand name of a big time investor. They see that the smaller funds are cheaper and more nimble in choppy markets than big funds. That $100-500 million spot is especially attractive these days, according to this Preqin chart: Preqin  FREE AppDownload
    Wal-Mart is an absolute behemoth in the world of retail. It hauls in a massive $405 billion dollars in sales annually. That's more than Kroger, Target, Costco, and Walgreens combined. And the incredible facts don't end there. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/DonHankinsAfter a spectacular five-year run, global real estate stocks look headed for a period of more normal returns. We think winning in this space will require a more  discriminating eye—and venturing into the often neglected nooks and crannies of the smaller-cap real estate world. Real estate stocks are a multifaceted bunch, spanning a variety of sub-industries, each with its own set of advantages and challenges. Yet the action in the space is dominated by a small band of very large stocks, which get a disproportionate share of Wall Street analyst coverage (Display 1) and are typically used as proxies for the entire asset class by investors seeking generous and stable yields, frequently via exchange-traded exchanges or other passive strategies. The AllianceBernstein BlogThis favoritism leaves a mass of small- and mid-cap (or SMID-cap) real estate stocks flying under the radar and trading at lower valuations than the big names, many times despite similar or better operational health and growth prospects.  This is fertile hunting ground for nimble stock pickers who do their homework and are familiar with the neighborhood. Indeed, since 1992, SMID-cap real estate stocks have collectively delivered higher returns than their large-cap peers, with less volatility, resulting in superior risk-adjusted returns, as measured by Sharpe ratios (Display 2). Unsurprisingly, much of this alpha potential stems from investors’ general indifference. Because SMID stocks are underfollowed and often misunderstood, they tend to get hit harder than their larger, more liquid counterparts when faced with near-term controversy, which often creates opportunity. The AllianceBernstein Blog Many active strategies use large, high-profile names to express their country or sector preferences, which can be significant performance drivers. Larger stocks have the liquidity needed to quickly increase or decrease portfolio exposures. But by limiting exposures to just the biggest names in the category, investors forgo the potentially bigger payoffs in many of the smaller real estate stocks, which tend to be influenced more by company-specific catalysts. US lodging stocks offer a prime example. A single company (Host Hotels &amp; Resorts) accounted for roughly 40% of the US lodging market capitalization of $37.2 billion at year-end 2013. Of the remaining 11 US lodging stocks in the global benchmark, nine had a market cap of less than $3 billion, while two had market caps in the $3 billion to $4 billion range. Propelled by the US economic recovery, rising occupancy rates and limited room supply growth, US lodging stocks strongly outperformed both the US and global real estate indices. Clearly, an overweight in Host Hotels alone would have been rewarding. But why miss out on even stronger returns enjoyed by smaller lodging players, many of which rose on both favorable industry trends and growing investor recognition of their individual competitive strengths?  Take RLJ Lodging Trust, which entered 2013 trading at a significant discount to peers, as investors sought safer accommodations in rivals with premium properties in prime gateway cities such as New York and San Francisco. Though it lacked a presence in gateway cities, RLJ was also nearing the completion of renovations at many of its hotel properties, setting the stage for a dramatic surge in cash flows. As the company’s financial improvement became increasingly apparent, the stock soared, outperforming Host Hotels.   SMID caps also allow active managers to stay in the game and add value even when country or sector opportunities aren’t particularly provocative. So, when searching for alpha potential in real estate stocks, don’t forget to scour the smaller neighborhoods. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio managers. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin was down nearly 12% on rumors China has banned Bitcoin, CoinDesk's Jon Southurst reports. This follows an erroneous report that that had occurred last week.  But this time the reporter writing up the news is sticking by his story, Southurst says, although the PBOC has not released any information: News that the Chinese government would penalize any bank transacting with bitcoin exchanges after 15th April started to break around mid-morning China time on Thursday 27th March. This time, it was reported as fact by a number of news services. Here's the price action: CoinDesk FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Several high-beta emerging-market currencies are having a great day against the U.S. dollar — especially the Turkish lira, the Brazilian real, and the South African rand (pictured above). It's been about two months since the worst of the selling in an episode that sent the lira to record lows and saw the rand and the real fall to their lowest levels since 2008. The biggest gainer of the three today is the real, up 1.1% against the dollar. The rand is up 0.9% and the lira is up 0.3%. All of these currencies have been strengthening in recent days. The rand got an additional boost today after the South Africa Reserve Bank left its benchmark policy interest rate unchanged and hinted that hikes may be coming. In Brazil, the move is being attributed to sovereign credit rating downgrade by S&amp;P this week, the idea being that the action was priced in beforehand and market participants can move past that news now. In general, this action probably suggests EM investors are closing out short positions in these volatile currencies as they strengthen. Not all of the "fragile five" emerging economies, as they are known, have stronger currencies today. The other two, India and Indonesia — are both seeing their currencies weaken against the dollar. FREE AppDownload
We recently looked at how much money you would need to be saving each month in order to be able to retire at 65 with a million dollars assuming you started from zero. Now, here is how much you should have saved up already at different ages in order to hit the goal of being a millionaire retiree. Assuming a 6% annualized rate of return and a monthly contribution of $400 starting at the indicated age, this chart shows the savings balance you need by that age in order to get a total of $1,000,000 by the time you are 65 and ready to retire: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz A 20 year old under these conditions would need to have nothing saved up — putting in $400 a month at a 6% return will get them about $1,113,851 by the time they are 65, even with nothing in the account to start with. Meanwhile, if a 40 year old wants to retire with a million dollars with our assumptions, they need to have already saved up $161,573. Naturally, you need less already saved up at a given age if you can put more into your account on a monthly basis. The following table shows how much you need to have saved at each age for a range of monthly contributions, again assuming a 6% rate of return: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz FREE AppDownload
CBCSAINT JOHN, New Brunswick (Reuters) - Keystone XL, a pipeline proposal to pump Canadian oil sands through the heart of America, has alarmed environmentalists and become one of the most contentious issues of the Obama presidency. But there is a "Plan B" to cut the United States out of the picture, and it is championed by one of Canada's wealthiest business dynasties. Since 2012, the billionaire Irving family has been advocating a proposal called Energy East. The 2,858-mile (4,600-km) pipeline would link trillions of dollars worth of oil in land-locked fields in the western province of Alberta to an Atlantic port in the Irvings' eastern home province of New Brunswick, north of Maine, creating a gateway to new foreign markets for Canadian oil. The C$12 billion ($10.8 billion) line, which would pump 1.1 million barrels per day, would include about 1,865 miles of existing natural gas pipeline converted to carry oil. The rest would be new construction, most of it along the banks of the Saint Lawrence River and into New Brunswick. The industry is keen. Pipeline company TransCanada Corp, which is also backing Keystone, unveiled plans in August to build and operate Energy East by 2018. Customers as far away as India are lined up to take the oil, according to New Brunswick provincial officials. Canadian oil companies, frustrated by Washington's dithering on Keystone, say they have seized on it as a viable alternative to the route through the United States. "The genesis of this is really the Keystone XL pipeline, and the continuing political obstacles to getting approval for it," said Frank McKenna, former New Brunswick premier, Irving family friend and vocal advocate of the project. The Energy East proposal began with the Irvings, people familiar with the project say. If it is built, it will stop with them, too, at a C$300 million marine terminal they are planning to build in Saint John, New Brunswick, to service the project. Thomson ReutersThe Irving Oil refinery is seen in Saint John, New Brunswick The Irvings also would be among the top beneficiaries. A study commissioned by TransCanada and prepared by Deloitte calculated that the pipeline's access to cheaper crude from the west would save as much as C$1.2 billion per year for a refinery owned by the Irvings, while creating 121 direct long-term jobs in sparsely populated New Brunswick. The idea of a pipeline from west to east was not new: TransCanada had been looking at a possible route that would stop in Quebec, but that plan had not left the drawing board. The Irvings' proposal breathed new life into it. The family's industrial empire in New Brunswick, a century in the making, can help make it possible: Here in Saint John, their flagship company, Irving Oil, runs the East Coast's only ice-free, deepwater oil port capable of receiving the largest crude tankers. It also operates Canada's largest oil refinery - the source of nearly one in three tanks of gasoline imported to the East Coast of the United States. The Irving advantage extends beyond infrastructure. The family's companies generate two-thirds of New Brunswick's global exports and are the province's largest private sector employer. Their buildings dominate the Saint John skyline: Irving's Atlantic Wallboard, Irving Tissue, Irving Pulp and Paper, Irving Canaport, the Irving refinery; many of them chuffing white smoke into the winter air around downtown. That commerce - and a strong grip on the province's media - gives the Irvings significant political influence in a heavily indebted part of Canada where one in 10 people are without a job. Irving Oil's CEO, Paul Browning, said at the formal announcement of Energy East that the company was "extremely pleased to be partnering with TransCanada." Representatives of both the Irving family and Irving Oil declined comment for this article. A TransCanada spokesman said the Energy East project was the culmination of hard work by "many different parties." MEET THE IRVINGS The Irving empire got its start more than 130 years ago, in a fishing village huddled on New Brunswick's northern coast. A Scottish immigrant named James Dergavel Irving built a saw mill and a general store in the late 1800s near stands of spruce and fir. But it was J.D.'s son, Kenneth Colin, born in 1899, who drove the family's success. In his early 20s, K.C., a car salesman, convinced his father to let him open a gas station in front of the general store to sell fuel for the Model Ts he retailed. That service station, and the hundreds that followed, became the center of a conglomerate. Though K.C. died in 1992, many here still refer to the man rather than to the business empire, a feature of the company-town feel of this Canadian province. "If it moves in New Brunswick, the Irvings are involved," says Donald Savoie, a New Brunswick historian. Today, the Irving holdings span 162 companies in the Atlantic provinces. Two of K.C.'s sons, Arthur and James, are now the family's most powerful members. They own Irving Oil and forestry giant J.D. Irving, respectively, the group's two largest companies. Forbes Magazine's 2014 billionaires list placed Arthur's net worth at around C$6.1 billion and James' at C$6.7 billion. Irving-owned companies build warships, sell French fries, run a railway network and operate a private security firm. The family is also a huge landowner. Its 1.2 million acres of timberland in Maine made it the No. 5 U.S. landholder in 2012, according to the Land Report. In Canada, the Irvings own more than 2 million acres, and operate timber licenses on another nearly 2.5 million acres of public land, according to a 2013 audit by KPMG. Canadian Business Magazine's 2014 edition ranked the Irving family third on its Top 25 most wealthy Canadians list, placing its riches at some C$7.85 billion - nearly the size of the province's total projected revenues for the year. PLAN 'B' The Keystone XL pipeline was proposed in 2008 as a way of getting 830,000 barrels per day of crude from Alberta to the U.S. market. It would start near the Canadian town of Hardisty, Alberta, and terminate in Steele City, Nebraska. There, it would link up to an existing pipeline network terminating in Nederland, Texas, near the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. TransCanada says the project would be "the safest and most advanced pipeline operation in North America." U.S. environmental groups say it will threaten American groundwater resources and hasten climate change by fuelling expansion of Alberta's oil sands. The Obama administration has delayed making a final decision that could anger environmentalists, a key constituency of the Democratic president. In October 2012, representatives from Irving Oil and New Brunswick's government traveled to the western Canadian oil hub of Calgary to present their alternative: a west-east oil pipeline that would go all the way to the Atlantic. Irving Oil had asked for the meeting, according to a person who attended. Waiting for them in a conference room were Canadian provincial energy officials, executives from TransCanada, and representatives from industry heavyweights Canadian Natural Resources, Imperial Oil, Suncor, and Shell Canada. Representatives of all the companies involved declined to comment on the record about the meeting. Alberta's oil minister, Ken Hughes, whispered into the ear of his counterpart from New Brunswick, Craig Leonard. Never before, Leonard remembers Hughes saying, had he seen so many of the major oil sands players together in a single room. And they were listening keenly. "It was like a light bulb turned on," said Leonard. "It was very clear from the reaction that this was an idea that had tremendous potential." According to Leonard and others at the meeting, Mike Ashar, at the time the CEO of Irving Oil, outlined how a pipeline east across Canada to Saint John could help get Alberta's oil efficiently to the world market, paving the way for higher prices and the potential for expanded production. Ashar said the pipeline could provide a reason to build Canada's first oil sands upgrader - a facility that processes tar sands into a product that can be more easily refined into gasoline, diesel and other fuels - on the Atlantic coast. There, lower labor costs and easy access to imports could reduce the facility's multi-billion dollar price tag by 40 percent, according to an attendee who asked not to be named. The need for a new route for Canada's oil was acute, say industry experts. While the United States delayed Keystone, Canadian supply mounted and prices dropped. The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce estimated the glut and lack of pipeline capacity had cost Canada C$25 billion in oil revenues in 2012. "The value destruction as a result of not getting our crude to market is a staggering cost to Canada. It needed a solution," said former New Brunswick premier McKenna, who is now on the board of oil sands producer Canadian Natural Resources. As Irving Oil prepared to make its sales pitch to TransCanada and the oil sands producers, it stepped up its lobbying efforts in Ottawa. Irving Oil executives held more meetings with Canadian regulators and office-holders in 2012 than in the two previous years combined, according to federal lobbying disclosure documents reviewed by Reuters. These included repeated meetings with Joe Oliver, then Canada's natural resources minister, the ministry's director of oil sands, advisors to Prime Minister Stephen Harper, and environment ministry officials. Now Energy East has the public support of Canada's conservative government and the government of New Brunswick, where much of the new pipeline construction would take place. The project has also moved much more quickly, from conception to requesting regulatory approval, than its all-Canadian rival, Northern Gateway, which would transport oil over the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Coast. The Northern Gateway project, announced in 2006, took four years to file its request and still does not have approval due to questions about how it would install and operate the line in an environmentally sensitive region. By comparison, TransCanada filed a preliminary request for Energy East with the National Energy Board in February and plans to submit the full request this summer, just over a year after the project was announced. 'BRING IT ON' New Brunswick has also moved fast. Just two months after the initial Calgary meeting, the provincial legislature was ready to act. The assembly voted unanimously to endorse "construction of a west-east crude oil pipeline to bring western crude oil to Saint John" eight months before the project was officially unveiled. If the Energy East pipeline is built, it would be a blow to those who oppose oil sands development on environmental grounds: Energy East would pose no less a threat than Keystone. It could even be a bigger problem, Canadian environmental groups say, because the line would be longer and carry more oil. Their opposition hasn't gained much traction. "Unlike in other provinces, we just said, 'bring it on,'" said David Coon, leader of New Brunswick's Green Party, which has no seats in the assembly. "There was no serious debate. No serious discussion. No inquiry," he said. Keystone, by contrast, has seen virtually every detail scrutinized by U.S. media and environmental groups, who have fervently questioned the project's promises for job creation, spill-prevention and climate change impacts. Supporters of Energy East say the economic environment in New Brunswick explains local eagerness: The province's 10 percent unemployment rate is 3 points above the Canadian national average. Saint John could also use a boost. Municipal records show a population decline of 25 percent since the early 1970s. It has the 6th highest concentration of low-income residents among cities in Canada, according to Statistics Canada. It isn't clear that the Energy East project would do much to help, though. The Deloitte study estimated that the pipeline would create 1,427 direct jobs in the development and construction phases in New Brunswick, but only 121 jobs long-term. Mark Tunney, former editor-in-chief of Irving's flagship Saint John Telegraph-Journal, attributes local support for the pipeline in part to the Irving family's control of media in the province. The Irvings' Brunswick News owns all the province's English-language daily newspapers and three-quarters of its weeklies - 20 newspapers in all. They also own Acadia Broadcasting, which operates 10 radio stations in three provinces. A March 4 editorial in the Telegraph-Journal called on provincial politicians to stand united in support of Energy East and against the "small minority" who oppose it. The editorial was written in reaction to a small public protest against the pipeline days earlier. Patricia Graham, the ombudswoman for Brunswick News, which publishes the Telegraph-Journal, said the company was committed to providing balanced coverage, including of Irving ventures. "I am unaware of any facts that demonstrate that the number of papers owned equates to poor journalism," she said. "But management at Brunswick News is sensitive to these types of concerns and won't shy away from considering or addressing them." The Irvings are a major employer. They decline to say how many people they employ today, but a 2006 Canadian Senate study estimated their workforce at one in 12 of New Brunswick's 750,000 people, and concluded that the family's combination of a large industrial presence and high media ownership concentration in New Brunswick was "unique in the developed world." In a Reuters interview in December, Saint John Mayor Mel Norton said the Irvings had earned a "social license" - or popular support - to industrialize the city and win public incentives to do so, mainly because of their importance to the economy. As an example: The New Brunswick legislature passed a law in 2006 allowing Saint John to freeze taxes on an Irving/Repsol LNG terminal for 25 years, in hopes of attracting more jobs to the depressed city. According to registry documents the terminal pays C$500,000 in taxes a year, on a property-value assessment of C$300 million - the province's most valuable private real estate. It employs 40 people, according to its website. By contrast, the Moncton, New Brunswick hospital is valued at half the price of the LNG terminal but pays five times more in taxes and employs 2,899 people. ASSEMBLING THE PIECES By early 2013, at Irving Oil's headquarters in Saint John on the fog-shrouded Bay of Fundy, the plan to ship crude across the Canadian continent was proceeding apace. Under a corporation named 658273 N.B. Ltd., the family consolidated land holdings on Mispec point in East Saint John, taking small plots of land they had already purchased from local residents and bundling them into larger lots, according to registry documents. Blanketed in forest, Mispec is home to Irving Canaport, a large industrial facility already receiving crude supertankers. It is also the site of a shelved refinery project with energy giant BP, for which Irving still holds a valid Environmental Impact Assessment. Irving Oil has declined to comment publicly about the possibility of building an upgrader on Mispec point. But a former Irving official who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed the idea was being studied. Former premier McKenna said Irving Oil was assembling the pieces for what could become a petrochemicals hub. "If we can get a million barrels a day coming to the East coast, it takes some of the stranglehold away that the U.S. market has on us," he said. "Let's face it, for Canada, developing our raw materials in our own country is probably in our best interests." (Reporting By Richard Valdmanis, editing by Ross Colvin and Sara Ledwith) FREE AppDownload
Just when it seems like Mike Mayo and Citigroup were going to let bygones be bygones, the outspoken CLSA analyst said that some people at the firm need to go. “There’s no question in our minds that heads should roll,” Mr. Mayo told the New York Times. Last fall, Mayo raised his price target on Citigroup to $66 a share. It was like a peace offering. Back in 2010 Mayo was telling everyone who would listen that the bank should take a write down on its assets. Then-CEO Vikram Pandit hated him, according to Fox Business' Charlie Gasparino. Even after Pandit quit in October 2012, Mayo wasn't completely happy.* In other words, Mayo raising his price target was a bit of a reversal, to say the least. It seems like the bank and its analyst could be friends. Then yesterday happened. Citigroup failed its Federal Reserve stress test, and couldn't withstand another Doomsday Scenario (like 2008). Today the stock is at $47.98 today and has fallen over 4.5% in today's trading day. Failure means Citigroup definitely can't go with the $6.4 billion common stock buyback and $0.05 common stock dividend it was planning next year. Investors, obviously, don't love this. "Needless to say, we are deeply disappointed by the Fed’s decision regarding the additional capital actions we requested," said CEO Michael Corbat. "The additional capital actions represented a modest level of capital return and still allowed Citi to exceed the required threshold on a quantitative basis." The word is that Corbat wasn't just disappointed, he was surprised, and held meetings at the bank after the Fed's report was released to figure out what went wrong. Perhaps the bank will consider asking Mayo, as he wrote a note about it in a note Thursday morning. "Citi needs to make this defeat into victory by improving the pace of restructuring," he wrote. The bank, he suggested, needs to shed assets and watch its cash a little more closely. “It is not as though they haven’t had time to clean up their act,” he told the New York Times. Looks like the truce is over. *This article has been changed to reflect that Mike Mayo did not want to see a CEO change after Michael Corbat got on board. FREE AppDownload
LululemonLululemon shares are surging 9% after the company revealed a new strategy on its earnings call.  New CEO Laurent Potdevin revealed that the company is planning to offer more fashionable assortments, such as its new "&amp;Go" line.  The yoga retailer also said it expects positive sales this year.  Potdevin said that the company is going to be more aggressive about media coverage. Lululemon has had several public relations gaffes in the past year, including recalling 17% of its pants for being too sheer.  Lululemon also revealed that it plans to open several men's and children's stores this year.    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia, CC.Professor Tyler Cowen George Mason University economics professor Tyler Cowen was pepper-sprayed in his classroom yesterday by a man claiming to make a "citizen's arrest."  Local news station WJLA ABC7 reports: The school says that on Wednesday afternoon during a law and literature class in this fourth floor classroom, intruder entered. He jumped up on the desk, announced that he was making a citizen's arrest, and then pepper sprayed Professor Tyler Cowen in the face. Cowen ran into the hall, and the intruder chased him until an off-duty officer who happened to be a student in class caught him at one of the building's exits and held him until police arrived. Fortunately, Cowen seems to be fine. He's back to work today.   Back to work! (as usual)... Here's a shot of the suspect being taken into custody. Via WJLA FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIf you're just looking at broader markets these days, things seem kind of quiet. Markets have been slipping a little bit, but nothing too special. But actually, there's been a lot of pain in a specific area: high beta and tech. This tweet from Sammy The Walrus captures a lot of it: "We have a mini tech stock crash going on. AMZN at 6-month lows. Down 12% in a week. GOOG down 6% in a week. Twitter down 14% in 3 days." Others have been getting hammered as well. Facebook is down to $59 from a high of $72. The Social Media ETF SOCL is down over 2.5% just today, and it's down 17% from recent highs. Tesla is down 21% from recent highs. Then of course there's the biotechs. The big biotech ETF IBB is down 15% from the highs. You can read into this as much as you want. If there were to be a big selloff, then you might surmise that it would start with selling off these risky, speculative companies. Or it could just be a momentary pause. But either way, this is the story to watch in the market right now to see how it develops. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Richard ClementPending home sales fell 0.8% month-over-month in February. This was the eighth consecutive monthly fall. On the year, pending home sales were down 10.2% on the year. This missed expectations for a 0.2% MoM rise and a 9% YoY. January's numbers were revised down to reflect a 0.2% MoM fall, and a 9.3% YoY fall. This compares to an initial reading of 0.1% month-over-month rise and a 9.1% YoY fall. "Contract signings for the past three months have been little changed, implying the market appears to be stabilizing,” Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release. "Moreover, buyer traffic information from our monthly Realtor survey shows a modest turnaround, and some weather delayed transactions should close in the spring." "Unfortunately this reading is consistent with the downward trend inmortgage applications, which appear still not to have adjusted fully to the plunge in affordability over the past year," said Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Here's a look at the regional breakdown: The index is considered to be a leading indicator for future existing home sales."The index suggests February existing home sales dipped to about 4.5M from January's 4.60M, putting activity at its lowest level since mid-2012," writes Shepherdson. He doesn't think we've seen the bottom in declining sales and worries that a spike in mortgage rates could inflict more pain. The Commerce Department expects that 80% of signings will become existing home sales transactions within two months. Here's a look at the continued decline in pending home sales: National Association of Realtors FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA mascot dressed as a character from the mobile game "Candy Crush Saga" walks the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during the IPO of Mobile game maker King Digital Entertainment Plc March 26, 2014. Another day, another rough session for King, the parent company of Candy Crush.  The stock is down 3% this morning. Yesterday it was off 15%, making it the worst IPO debut of the year. The stock was priced at $22.50 for its IPO, and now it's trading at $18.45. That's an 18% decline.  The reason the stock is falling is that investors are skittish about the long term viability of King.  It gets 78% of its revenue from Candy Crush Saga. Mobile games are fickle. Not have really proven to be a long term winner.  When King filed to go public, we saw that its revenue was already dropping on a sequential basis. There's no reason to believe this is going to change. The question we have after seeing the stock drop is, who bought the IPO in the first place? The company had warning signs galore. Whoever bought in is now underwater on the investment.  FREE AppDownload
Paramount“The Wolf of Wall Street” not only won over the box office, it also generated a lot of interest in stockbroker jobs.  The movie, of course, follows the rise and fall of Jordan Belfort’s Stratton Oakmont brokerage firm. According to a four-month study by job site Indeed.com, there was a spike in the number of searches for stockbroker positions leading up to and around the release of the Martin Scorsese film. Indeed saw a 79.6% increase in stockbroker job searches in the U.S. and a 44% increase in the U.K. Courtesy of Indeed.com The study sampled more than 100 million job search queries on its site. The company also conducted an additional two-year study to confirm this is the "most significant" Indeed has seen in stockbroker job search queries. Indeed did not have any results on how many people applied for related jobs. FREE AppDownload
Reuters / Steve MarkusActivist investor Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, once got in a dispute with the moms in 15 Central Park West over the temperature of the swimming pool, author Michael Gross writes in his new book "House Of Outrageous Fortune." Central Park West has a 75-foot lap pool. That's definitely an amenity in New York City since it's difficult to find a decent sized lap pool.  Loeb, who competes in triathlons and has braved the 50-something degree water in the San Francisco Bay—likes the water cold. Most triathletes would agree with him on this one. They want the pool cold for swimming long distances. Naturally, the moms and kids, who most likely aren't completing a 2-mile swim workout, enjoy a warmer pool.  According to Gross, a questionnaire was sent out to the residents of the building about the pool's temperature among other fitness center issues.  The moms were victorious in the pool temperature battle, according to Gross. UPDATE: They actually reached a compromise in the building where the pool temp would be set at 81 degrees until 10 a.m. and then move up to 84—5 over the course of the day to accommodate children and their moms, Business Insider has learned. Both sides can declare "victory" on this one.  15 CPW FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesWorking on Wall Street and not having an opinion on New York City steakhouses is like working in Hollywood without having an opinion on dieting. It's impossible. The steakhouse is where Wall Street entertains clients, drowns its sorrows — and yes, eats. Two years ago Business Insider readers voted for the best steakhouse in NYC, and we put together a list of the top vote-getters for all the world to see. However a lot has changed since then. Restaurants — some good ones, even — have come and gone (RIP Post House). So it's time to find the new heavyweights. We've compiled a list of some of the best and most beloved NYC-based steakhouses, and we want to know your favorite. We'll publish the results in April. Until then, cast your vote. Tell your friends. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. Department of Labor says jobless claims fell to 311,000 last week. Consensus was for a slight increase to 323,000 from a revised 321,000. The 4-week moving average was 317,750, a decrease of 9,500 from the previous week's revised average of 327,250. The post-recession low is 315,000. "This is consistent with our expectation that the separation side of the labor market will continue to improve in 2014," Barclays said. This not a universal view. "We are still cautious about calling the data evidence of a real downshift in the trend," Pantheon Macro's Iam Shepherdson said in a note.  He continued:  The seasonals have been quite favorable so we expected a decline this week. Next week's seasonals look like a stiffer test, and a rebound to 330K would be no surprise. Claims are volatile and it takes more than three good weeks to establish a new trend. Elsewhere, the 0.2% upward revision to Q4 GDP to 2.6% was a ten- th below consensus. Consumption was revised up to 3.3% from 2.6% - we expect sub-2% in Q1 - but investment in business structures was cut to -1.8% from +0.2%; no other significant revisions. Here's what the four-week moving average has looked like recently. FRED FREE AppDownload
The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis has just released its third and final estimate of GDP in the fourth quarter of 2013. GDP growth slowed to 2.6% at an annualized pace in Q4 from 4.1% in Q3. Personal consumption growth accelerated to 3.3% annualized from 2.0%. Previously, the BEA estimated that GDP and personal consumption rose only 2.4% and 2.6% annualized, respectively, in Q4. The consensus forecasts of market economists published after the previous BEA estimate called for GDP growth and personal consumption growth of 2.7% annualized. The GDP price index rose 1.6% at an annualized pace and the price index of core personal consumption expenditures rose 1.3% annualized, both in line with previous BEA estimates and consensus forecasts. Below is a summary of the data from the BEA release: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 (that is, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter), according to the "third" estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the third quarter, real GDP increased 4.1 percent. The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source data than were available for the "second" estimate issued last month. In the second estimate, the increase in real GDP was 2.4 percent. With this third estimate for the fourth quarter, the general picture of economic growth remains largely the same; personal consumption expenditures (PCE) was larger than previously estimated, while private investment in inventories and in intellectual property products were smaller than previously estimated (see "Revisions" on page 3). The increase in real GDP in the fourth quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from PCE, exports, and nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by negative contributions from federal government spending and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. The deceleration in real GDP growth in the fourth quarter reflected a downturn in private inventory investment, a larger decrease in federal government spending, a downturn in residential fixed investment, and a deceleration in state and local government spending that were partly offset by accelerations in PCE and in exports, a deceleration in imports, and an acceleration in nonresidential fixed investment. The table below shows a complete breakdown of annualized growth rates in each component of GDP. BEA
Shutterstock.comThe meetings and events industry covers the gambit from backyard weddings to massive citywide festivals like SXSW, plus conferences, galas, fundraisers, and celebrations. It's a huge industry that does its business anonymously, hidden from view, and often during odd hours. Total yearly economic contribution from the events industry is approximately $393 billion, which is more contribution to GDP than "air transportation, motion picture, sound recording, performing arts, and the spectator sport industries." Powering this industry are both professionals that plan and organize the events, as well as the venues that host and service them. The technology company connecting these two groups, and doing a slew of other interesting things in the space, is Cvent.  Cvent is an event management cloud platform that serves two markets: event planners and venues. Last month, Cvent provided guidance for 2014 that reflects yearly revenue of $138 million, which will represent a 20% increase over 2013. That growth is coming from a company that was started in 1999 and has largely grown organically in its prior 13 years. Its growth and success has come from having out-sized and out-played competitors over the years. During the dot-com bubble, over $1 billion in venture capital went into the event technology space, and subsequently left once the bust came. This created a dire situation within Cvent that forced the company to lay off 80% of its staff (from 126 to 26), and it was on the verge of closing shop in 2001. Management persevered through this period, and 11 of 12 executives are still with the company today. Now, Cvent dominates the market that it essentially created, without a true pure-play competitor. This affords it an enviable position to make the market its own.  The supplier network side of the business is steady and growing, accounting for 30% of 2013 revenue. Venues pay Cvent for RFP's that are generated through the platform. In 2013, 5,700 partners paid for this marketing to the tune of $36 million. Notable partners that have been using the RFP service include Marriott International and Caesars Entertainment, which collectively generated over $10 billion in total revenue in 2013. A large driver of room bookings and predictable average room rates are group bookings generated from events taking place at the venue. These large players view Cvent as indispensable to their sales goals, not only in current years, but in the future. Sometimes, RFPs go out years in advance, as planners put out feelers on where to hold their conferences.  In 2013, 60,000 users were on the planner side, producing $77.5 million of 2013 revenue, which was 70% of Cvent's business activity. Clients use the service to control budgets, register attendees, sell tickets, find venues, and arrange RFPs all from one place -- the cloud. Planners have traditionally done everything manually, taking an enormous amount of their time. Cvent makes what could otherwise be a very stressful job simple and organized. The pricing model for planners is a subscription payment based on the number of attendees. Each projected attendee is paid for up front, whether they actually end up registering or not. This way, Cvent gets paid no matter how well-attended the event actually is. Subscriptions represent one of the most reliable streams of revenue, and it's comforting to know that planners amount to 70% of sales.  Reggie Agarwall, the company's founder and CEO, was awarded the title "CEO of the year" by the Washington Business Journal. "Aggarwal was selected from among the 50 'Most Admired CEOs' list of nominees, which included CEOs from some of the largest and most prominent organizations such as Marriott International, Lockheed Martin, George Washington University, General Dynamics, Inova Health Systems and the Carlyle Group."  Agarwall has stated that he personally interviewed 80% of the 1,400 employees who work at Cvent. He is passionate about getting A-players and fostering teams that operate at exceptional standards. Clearly, Reggie is a strong leader.  Seed Labs and TicketMob were acquisitions that have been integrated into the Crowdtorch brand. Crowdtorch develops mobile app solutions that engage attendees at live events, pushing Cvent beyond just corporate meetings. The company is now creating mobile apps for venues, shows, and festivals, which allow fans to engage with artists and other attendees through social media, buy and sell tickets, and receive news. Promoters, entertainers, and venues can use the apps to track engagement, marketing metrics, and consumer behavior data. There are also ticketing platforms that help eliminate friction points that prevent attendees from making purchases. Cvent competes directly with Live Nation's Ticketmaster by offering a next-gen ticketing platform for artists and venues. Clients can use the platform to create custom tickets and emails, sell on Facebook, offer merchandise, and collect payments. It gives sellers much greater control over the process. Last year, Ticketing revenue (excluding face value) from Ticketmaster was $1.4 billion. The tickets business is clearly no slouch and offers Crowdtorch a big opportunity to take market share. FREE AppDownload
The tool "Paste Special" in Excel can do so much more than just pasting values or formats. Here's how you can use it to transform your data in a variety of different ways. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueHillary ClintonPotomac Research Group's Greg Valliere says having Hillary Clinton as president could be great for stocks. The odds of another Clinton presidency, assuming the former senator and first lady runs, are strong, he says, because the Republican field remains weak. Plus, the GOP continues to struggle among key demographics, including Hispanics and young people. He writes: WHAT WOULD THIS MEAN FOR THE STOCK MARKET?  The last time we had a pragmatic, pro-Wall Street Democrat in the White House -- checkmated by a Republican Congress -- equities surged by 150% over eight years, GDP growth averaged 3.8% and unemployment fell to 4.2%.  We refer, of course, to the Bill Clinton presidency. THE KEY -- DIVIDED GOVERNMENT:  The stock market surged after Clinton's first two years, when the Republicans captured both houses of Congress in the 1994 election.  The Newt Gingrich revolution was largely hype, but the GOP thwarted Bill Clinton -- as it would Hillary Clinton. Hillary has remained coy on her plans. "I'm obviously thinking about all kinds of decisions," she recently told Jimmy Kimmel. FREE AppDownload
BelusLululemon was once a favorite among both yoga practitioners and growth investors. However, a series of bad decisions (banning customers who resell clothes online) and product mishaps (see-through pants) have turned off customers, making way for competitors. Comparable-store sales growth, which had been falling in recent years, turned negative and fell 2% in Q4. Belus Capital's Brian Sozzi characterized this as "a once unthinkable development." Earlier today, the yoga retailer reported that Q4 earnings came in at $0.75 per share, which was better than the $0.72 expected by analysts. Revenue of $521 million was higher than the $515 million expected. Unfortunately, guidance fell short of expectations. The company expects to earn $0.31 to $0.33 per share in Q1, much lower than the $0.38 expected. This is on sales of $377 million to $382 million versus the expectation for $389.6 million. They expect comparable-store sales to grow in the "low to mid single digits," which compares to expectations for a 4.2% decline. Sozzi said these forecasts were "worrying even when considering Lululemon is not known for guiding in line in times of operational greatness." Laurent Potdevin, Lululemon’s CEO, said "2014 is an investment year with an emphasis on strengthening our foundation, reigniting our product engine, and accelerating sustainable and controlled global expansion." The company will hold a conference call at 9:00 a.m. ET to discuss the results. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
People who invest in biotech stocks are largely speculating on the future sales of drugs that have yet to be approved for the market. Unfortunately, the experts who forecasts those sales have a track record of being way too optimistic. In a new research note, Morgan Stanley's Matthew Harrison and Dr. David Friedman reference a recent study published in Nature magazine that found "estimations are in general &gt;160% of peak sales." The study — conducted by Myoung Cha, Bassel Rifai and Pasha Sarrah — reviewed the consensus sales forecasts for 260 drugs launched between 2002 and 2011. The data set included over 1,700 analyst forecasts. "[M]ost consensus forecasts were wrong, often substantially," they found. "And although consensus forecasts improved over time as more information became available, accuracy remained an issue even several years post-launch." Some findings: To sum it up, drug forecasters tend to be wrong by a wide margin, overly optimistic, and persistently wrong even years after the drug is launched. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/MinzayarGerman shoemaker Georg Wessels helps Win Zaw Oo, who according to his medical team, at 2.3 metres (7.5 ft), is Myanmar's tallest man, in Yangon March 26, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  Citi fails stress test. The Federal Reserve rejected Citigroup's capital plan, citing "deficiencies included Citigroup’s ability to project revenue and losses under a stressful scenario for material parts of the firm’s global operations." Shares are down 5% pre-market.  Births and deaths. The U.S. simultaneously recorded the fewest births since 1998 and most deaths in its history last year. "Americans remain cautious about having babies following the worst recession since the Great Depression, although they are increasingly changing residences again, suggesting growing confidence in the economic recovery," Bloomberg's John McCormick wrote. BofA settles. Bank of America will pay $9.5 billion to settle mortgage claims with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and their federal regulator. Former CEO Ken Lewis was also banned for three years from working for any public company. Ukraine bailout. The International Monetary Fund said it had agreed on a $14-18 billion stand-by agreement with Ukraine, a deal that will unlock further credits to reach a total of $27 billion over the next two years.   Charlotte Mayor booked. The mayor of North Carolina's largest city resigned Wednesday after prosecutors said he had been arrested on federal public corruption charges that include accepting more than $48,000 in bribes from undercover FBI agents. Booming UK retail sales. British consumers crushed expectations in February, lifting retail sales 1.7% month-over-month versus a consensus forecast of 0.5%. The pound was 0.25% higher against the dollar. Meanwhile, French shoppers followed up their Italian counterparts by lifting consumer confidence readings to a two-year high. The INSEE index climbed to 88 from 85, beating expectations for a reading of 85. Markets. Stocks were mostly up. France's CAC40 and Germany's Deutsche Boerse were higher, while the UK FTSE was down. Japan's Nikkei was up 1%. U.S. futures were higher. Gold and Bitcoin were both lower.  Data. Thursday will be a busy day for data. As usual it kicks off with initial jobless claims at 8:30. They're expected to come in at 323,000 from 320,000 last week. Later, at 10 a.m. we get pending home sales, which are expected to be up a tick to 0.2%. GDP. Also at 8:30 we get a Q4 GDP reading, which is expected to hit 2.7%, up from a prior estimate of 2.4%. Core personal consumption expenditures were forecast at 1.3%, unchanged from the prior reading.  Morgan Stanley on biotech. Some have been speaking of a bubble in the sector, but Morgan Stanley's Morgan Stanley's Matthew Harrison and Dr. David Friedman believe there remains opportunity in this space. "Major de-risking events leading to new mega blockbusters have transformed the Big 4 Biotechs (Amgen, Biogen, Celgene and Gilead)," they wrote in a new 24-page note to clients. "We expect total group revenues to double from $175B over the last 5 years to $335B over the next 5 years and total cash flows to triple from $31B to $95B. Investors have rewarded the group with a return ~2.3x the S&amp;P 500 over last 3 years." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstAn environmental activist dressed as a superhero smiles as she is detained during a rally in opposition to the Keystone XL Pipeline on the sidewalk in front of the White House in Washington March 2, 2014. Editor's note: Below is an interview with Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist at ITG. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. Business Insider: Who should be most worried about the situation in Ukraine? Judith Dwarkin: Obviously, there are many serious dimensions to the situation, including the potential for further military incursions by Russia into eastern and southern Ukraine, and battling factions within Ukraine itself contributing to ongoing internal instability. From the narrow perspective of the country’s energy supplies, a top concern is that deliveries of Russian gas (and/or gas in transit through Ukraine to Europe) could be disrupted, either intentionally or because of sabotage. Given the current environment of open hostilities and that Ukraine owes Russia around $2 billion for previous gas purchases, there also is the question of how much Russia will charge Ukraine for gas as of April 1. Obtaining gas from eastern Europe to replace the Russian product would give Ukraine a bargaining chip, but arranging this would take some time. BI: What will be the fate of the Keystone Pipeline? JD: Putting “bullish” and “Keystone” in the same sentence is impossible, given the tortured history of this project. The latest wrinkle in the saga is the ruling by a Nebraska judge that the state’s oil pipeline siting law is unconstitutional. Meanwhile, the 90-day “National Interest Determination/Final Decision” phase now underway notionally concludes early in 2Q14, after which a decision, in theory, can (finally) be rendered. While an objective reading of the State Department’s findings and consideration of other aspects of the “national interest” associated with this project should favour a positive decision, who knows which way the political winds will be blowing at this time?    BI: Are you bullish on the timeline for Mexican energy investment? JD: “Bullish” relative to what? The pace at which development may or will proceed depends on many things, most notably the details on how reform is to be implemented, including local content rules and government take. These details have yet to be worked out. The country also must build new regulatory institutions able to supervise a sector that will be much more complex than previously. The first post-reform bid round reportedly isn’t planned to take place until sometime in 2015. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Russian soldier guides a Ukrainian tank in northern CrimeaKIEV/MOSCOW (Reuters) - Ukraine won a $27-billion international financial lifeline on Thursday, rushed through in the wake of Russia's annexation of Crimea, as Moscow's economy minister spoke of the cost of military action in its former Soviet neighbor. The International Monetary Fund announced agreement on a $14-18 billion standby credit for Kiev in return for tough economic reforms that will unlock further aid from the European Union, the United States and other lenders over two years. The IMF deal, to be approved by the global agency's board next month, was a political boost for the pro-Western government that replaced ousted Russian-backed President Viktor Yanukovich last month, prompting Moscow to seize the Black Sea peninsula. "The financial support from the broader international community that the program will unlock amounts to $27 billion over the next two years," an IMF statement said. The Ukraine crisis has triggered the most serious East-West confrontation since the end of the Cold War a quarter-century ago, deepening the slump in Ukraine's battered economy, centered on coal and steel production, gas transit and grain exports. Without IMF-mandated austerity measures, the economy could contract by up to 10 percent this year, Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk told parliament, explaining why his government had bowed to the Fund's conditions. "Ukraine is on the edge of economic and financial bankruptcy," he said. Kiev opened the way for the IMF deal by announcing on Wednesday a radical 50-percent hike in the price of domestic gas from May 1 and promising to phase out remaining energy subsidies by 2016, an unpopular step Yanukovich had refused to take. It also accepted a flexible exchange rate that is fuelling inflation, set to hit 12-14 percent this year, according to Yatseniuk, and a central bank monetary policy based on inflation targeting. The prime minister, who took on the job a month ago saying his government was on a "kamikaze" mission to take painful decisions, said the price of Russian gas on which the nation depends may rise 79 percent - a recipe for popular discontent. The IMF statement said a key element of the program would focus on cleaning up Ukraine's opaque energy giant Naftogaz, which imports gas from Russia's Gazprom. Naftogaz's chief executive was arrested last week in a corruption probe. "The program will focus on improving the transparency of Naftogaz's accounts and restructuring of the company to reduce its costs and raise efficiency," it said. The international rescue for Ukraine was in sharp contrast to Western measures to isolate Russia diplomatically and charge it an economic price for the annexation of Crimea, home to Moscow's Black Sea fleet and a majority of ethnic Russians. Targeted U.S. and EU visa bans and asset freezes against senior Russian and Crimean officials, with the threat of tougher economic sanctions to come if President Vladimir Putin goes any further, have accelerated capital flight. Russian Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said on Thursday capital outflow could be around $100 billion this year, and would slow economic growth to about 0.6 percent. "If we assume in the first quarter capital outflow was $60 billion ... then (it) will reach around $100 billion for the whole year," Ulyukayev told an investment conference. "Under this scenario, we estimate that economic growth will slow down to 0.6 percent." The Economy Ministry forecast in January that GDP growth this year would be about 2.5 percent. The World Bank gave a gloomier forecast for the Russian economy, saying that in a high-risk scenario of persistent tension over Ukraine, Moscow's economy could shrink by up to 1.8 percent, even without Western trade sanctions. Ukraine's dollar bonds jumped on news of the IMF bailout while Russian stocks were down about 1.5 percent on economic pessimism there. U.S. President Barack Obama, in the main policy speech of his European tour, warned Russia on Wednesday that it faced growing isolation, incremental sanctions and more severe economic consequences unless it changed course. In a statement after Ukraine's IMF deal, the White House said: "This represents a powerful sign of support from the international community for the Ukrainian government. "The IMF program will be a central component of a package of assistance to support Ukraine as it implements reforms and conducts free and fair elections that will allow all the Ukrainian people to determine the future of their country." Russian leaders have already said that Ukraine's discount from Gazprom will come to an end next week. Yatseniuk said he expected Moscow to charge Kiev as much as $480 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas from April 1 instead of the current $268.50. That could exacerbate the country's economic woes and cause political instability in the run-up to a May 25 presidential election. The European Union signed a political association agreement with Ukraine last week but is holding off from signing a far-reaching trade and economic cooperation pact until a new elected government is in place. (Additional reporting by Pavel Polityuk in Kiev and Lidia Kelly and Jason Bush in Moscow; Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Alastair Macdonald) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA job seeker stands in a room of prospective employers at a career fair in New York CityWASHINGTON (Reuters) - A growing number of Americans quitting the labor force are likely gone for good, offering a cautionary note to the Federal Reserve as it tries to gauge how tight the jobs market is and how quickly to raise interest rates. For a long time, data suggested a significant portion of the decrease in labor force participation was because many job seekers had grown frustrated with their search and had given up looking. If the job market tightened enough, the thinking went, these Americans would be lured back to hunt for work again. But a different picture is now emerging. Data shows participation in the past few years has fallen mainly because Americans have retired or signed up for disability benefits. "The data suggest that the recent exits from the labor force have been more voluntary in nature than was the case in 2009, when the economy was weak and job prospects were dire," said Omair Sharif, senior economist at RBS in Stamford, Connecticut. According to economists who have analyzed Labor Department data, 6.6 million people exited the workforce from 2010 and 2013. About 61 percent of these dropouts were retirees, more than double the previous three years' share. People dropping out because of disability accounted for 28 percent, also up significantly from 2007-2010. Of those remaining, 7 percent were heading to school, while the other 4 percent left for other reasons. In contrast, between 2007 and 2010, retirees made up a quarter of the six million people who left the labor force, while 18 percent were classified as disabled. About 57 percent were either in school or otherwise on the sidelines. "This suggests the current drop in the labor force is more structural in nature," said Sharif. If so, there is less hope of luring people back to hunt for work as the jobs market tightens, as many Fed officials believed would be the case. And the U.S. central bank, which has held benchmark rates near zero since December 2008, will likely need to push them up sooner than they would have otherwise. "It is not clear whether the overall participation rate will increase anytime soon, given that the underlying downward trend due to retirements is likely to continue," said Shigeru Fujita, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Some Fed policymakers, such as San Francisco Fed President John Williams, are starting to acknowledge that structural factors are playing a big role in the labor force's decline. In a speech last month, Williams said the slack in the labor market could be "much less than assumed," cautioning that inflation could rise more quickly than currently anticipated. There are people who are not in the labor force who say they want a job and who could potentially be drawn back in. Last year that figure stood about 700,000 higher than it would in a normal market, according to the Labor Department's survey of households. But if employment increased by about 115,000 jobs per month, as the survey found it did last year, they could easily be absorbed in about six months. The disappearing slack is underscored by a sharp decline in the ranks of the short-term unemployed. These workers, whose skills are still sharp, are viewed as the most desirable by employers, economists say. Further, they appear to hunt for work more aggressively, according to a study released last week by former White House economist Alan Krueger. In contrast, long-term unemployed can see their skills erode and lose contact with people who could help them find a job. Because employers find them less desirable, their presence in the labor market may not do much to keep wages down. The unemployment rate for people out of work for six months or less was at 4.2 percent in February, well below its 5.2 percent post-recession average. The number of short-term unemployed workers is now at about the same level as in 2004. As for the long-term jobless, their ranks are still more than double their 2004 level. Some economists say the dwindling pool of attractive workers may already be leading employers to bid wages up. Average hourly earnings for production and nonsupervisory workers notched their biggest gain in four years in February, even as some broader measures showed little acceleration. "With the short-term unemployment rate already back to its pre-crisis level, any further declines will put upward pressure on wages and ultimately inflation," said Torsten Slok, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. "For the Fed, the problem is we are still having a fed funds rate which is zero. I think the Fed will start to change its tone, most likely in the second half of this year." (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Tim Ahmann and James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyInvestors and traders have been chattering about biotech stocks lately. Even after a recent 10% drop, the sector is still up by around 200% since its bull market began in 2011. Some folks have speculated that biotechs have been in a bubble, and they also worry that the bubble may be bursting. But Morgan Stanley's Matthew Harrison and Dr. David Friedman believe there's opportunity in this space. The analysts initiate coverage on the sector with Amgen (price target: $140) and Bioden Idec ($395) at over-weight and Celgene ($150), Gilead ($75), Regeneron ($320) and Pharmacyclics ($120) at equal-weight. "Our top pick is Biogen given upside to EU Tecfidera, Hemophilia and what we see as the best pipeline in the industry," they said. "We also favor Amgen as we see a business with durable cash flows and a lower risk pipeline that has been overlooked for its lack of one hit wonders. Among our four EWs, we see the most risk to Pharmacyclics based on duration of therapy and Gilead based on the sustainability of its HCV revs." As you can see in the chart above, these stocks also have the potential to blow past those price targets. They also have the potential to collapse. "Major de-risking events leading to new mega blockbusters have transformed the Big 4 Biotechs (Amgen, Biogen, Celgene and Gilead)," they wrote in a new 24-page note to clients. "We expect total group revenues to double from $175B over the last 5 years to $335B over the next 5 years and total cash flows to triple from $31B to $95B. Investors have rewarded the group with a return ~2.3x the S&amp;P 500 over last 3 years." Words like "double," "triple," and "mega-blockbuster" are what biotech stocks are all about. It's the epitome of speculation with high risk and high rewards. Morgan StanleyBiotech stocks have some of the most mind-bogglingly high valuations on the planet. But this is largely due to the fact that most of these companies' revenues and profits don't yet include the drugs and medical devices that are still in the development and regulatory pipeline. These analyst reports typically include charts like the one you see to the right. It's a long-term path of estimated revenues. As you can see, these companies offer the potential for — not the promise of — massive sales and profit growth. Again, it's the potential for — not the promise of — massive growth. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople gather in front of a branch of Rural Commercial Bank of Huanghai in Yancheng, Jiangsu province YANCHENG, China (Reuters) - The rumor spread quickly. A small rural lender in eastern China had turned down a customer's request to withdraw 200,000 yuan ($32,200). Bankers and local officials say it never happened, but true or not the rumor was all it took to spark a run on a bank as the story passed quickly from person to person, among depositors, bystanders and even bank employees. Savers feared the bank in Yancheng, a city in Sheyang county, had run out of money and soon hundreds of customers had rushed to its doors demanding the withdrawal of their money despite assurances from regulators and the central bank that their money was safe. The panic in a corner of the coastal Jiangsu province north of Shanghai, while isolated, struck a raw nerve and won national airplay, possibly reflecting public anxiety over China's financial system after the country's first domestic bond default this month shattered assumptions the government would always step in to prevent institutions from collapsing. Rumors also find especially fertile ground here after the failure last January of some less-regulated rural credit co-operatives. Jin Wenjun saw the drama unfold. He started to notice more people than usual arriving at the Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank next door to his liquor store on Monday afternoon. By evening there were hundreds spilling out into the courtyard in front of the bank in this rural town near a high-tech park surrounded by rice and rape plant fields. Bank officials tried to assure the depositors that there was enough money to go around, but the crowd kept growing. In response, local officials and bank managers kept branches open 24 hours a day and trucked in cash by armored vehicle to satisfy hundreds of customers, some of whom brought large baskets to carry their cash out of the bank. Jin found himself at the bank branch just after midnight to withdraw 95,000 yuan for his friend from a village 20 kms (12 miles) away. "He was uncomfortable. It was late and he couldn't wait, so he left me his ID card to withdraw his cash," Jin said. By Tuesday, the crisis of confidence had engulfed another bank, the nearby Rural Commercial Bank of Huanghai. "One person passed on the news to 10 people, 10 people passed it to 100, and that turned into something pretty terrifying," said Miao Dongmei, a customer of the Sheyang bank who owns an infant supply store across the street from the first branch to be hit by the run. Claiming to be a Yancheng resident, one user of Sina Weibo's Twitter-like service repeated the story on Monday about the failed 200,000 yuan withdrawal, adding that "rumors are the bank is going bankrupt." When later contacted by Reuters online, he said he had heard the rumor from his mother when she came back from town. Huanghai and Jiangsu Sheyang banks declined to comment. Yancheng police said on the force's official microblog on Thursday that they had detained a person suspected of spreading rumors. China's banks are tightly controlled by the state and bank bankruptcies are virtually unheard of, so the crisis has baffled many outsiders. Yet in Sheyang, fears of a bank collapse resonate. In recent years, this corner of hard-strapped Jiangsu province has experienced a boom in the number of loan guarantee, or ‘danbao', companies and rural capital co-operatives. These often shadowy private financial institutions promised higher returns on deposits than banks, but many have since failed. Qu Guohua, a spiky haired former migrant worker in his 50s, nearly lost 30,000 yuan in a credit guarantee scheme that went up in flames. What saved him one day in January 2013 was a tip-off from a friend at a rural co-operative just down the street from the loan guarantee company where he had his money. "He told me the other one was going to go out of business and I better go get my money quick," he said. Qu managed to get his cash, but others behind him in line were not so lucky, he said. That helps explain why lines formed so quickly once the rumors started circulating this week. Luck has it, he deposited the cash in a bank next door: Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank. Banks are different than credit co-operatives and guarantee companies in that they are regulated by China's banking watchdog and subject to strict capital requirements. On Wednesday, officials' painstaking efforts to drive that message home were in full swing. Bank managers stacked piles of yuan behind teller windows in full sight of customers to try to reassure them that they had plenty of cash on hand. Local officials used leaflets, radio and television to try to calm nerves. Near one of the troubled banks, a branch of the China Construction Bank - one of China's 'Big Four' state-owned banks - was running a ticker message on an electronic board over the entrance stating: "Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank is a legal financial organization approved by the state, just like us". While small groups of depositors still gathered at several bank branches in and around this part of Yancheng, some arriving by motorbike, others by three-wheeled motor vehicles common in the Chinese countryside, there were signs that the banks' efforts were bearing fruit. Jin said he did not panic when the rumors were spreading and on Wednesday, like many others, he made a deposit. Others, like Qu, are holding their nerve. On a visit to see his hospitalized granddaughter, he decided to nip into a local bank where he still has about 10,000 yuan - just for a look. "I'm not nervous about my money in the bank. It's protected by national law." (Additional reporting by Adam Jourdan, Gabriel Wildau and the Shanghai Newsroom; Writing by Pete Sweeney: Editing by Tomasz Janowski and Neil Fullick) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn elderly man walks along trees amid heavy haze in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinese regulators have told the country's two largest insurers to stop selling coverage against smog, a week after such policies were launched, the China Daily reported on Thursday. The newspaper did not say why the country's insurance watchdog had ordered People's Insurance Company of China (PICC) and Ping An Insurance Group to cease sales of the coverage. The country's worsening air quality is at the top of the list of concerns of China's leaders, anxious to douse potential unrest as a more affluent urban population turns against a growth-at-all-costs economic model. PICC last week offered coverage to Beijing residents against health risks caused by air pollution in the city, promising to pay 1,500 yuan ($240) to policy holders hospitalized by smog. It also said it would pay 300 yuan if the city's official smog index exceeded the hazardous 300 level for five consecutive days. Ping An had partnered with an online travel agency to sell pollution insurance to travelers that allowed them to get compensation of up to 50 yuan per day if they spent at least two days in a smog-filled city. Both firms said policies that had already been sold would be honored, the China Daily reported. Beijing's official air quality index (AQI), which measures airborne pollutants including particulate matter and sulfur dioxide, routinely exceeds 300, and sometimes hits levels higher than 500. The capital is on the frontline of a "war on pollution" that Premier Li Keqiang declared earlier this month in a major policy speech. Beijing is choked by traffic and surrounded by the big and heavily polluted industrial province of Hebei. ($1 = 6.1781 Chinese Yuan) (Reporting by Fayen Wong; Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachTwo traders talk with each other on the floor of the German bourse in Frankfurt on July 21, 1997.Markets are down slightly early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.2%. Germany's DAX is down 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.3%. Later today, we'll get the final Q4 estimate of Q4 US GDP. Economists estimate that the economy grew at a 2.7% rate driven by 2.7% growth in personal consumption. As the GDP report is released at 8:30, we'll also get the latest weekly tally of initial unemployment claims. Economists estimate claims ticked up to 323,000 from 320,000 a week ago. "Jobless claims have trended lower over the past few weeks and hint of a snap-back in hiring," noted Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna."The 4-week moving average on claims for March 15, which corresponds to the employment survey period, fell -4k to 327k. This is a new post-recession low if we exclude the artificial drop last September which was due to a backlog in the processing of claims in California—the result of a changeover in computer systems. If inclement weather dampened hiring over the past few months, then jobless claims should trend lower, and they have." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Anatolii Stepanov A customer and street vendor are seen before the background of an outdoor ad with an image of the Ukrainian hryvnia and U.S. dollar bank notes in central Kiev.KIEV (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund said on Thursday it had agreed a $14-18 billion stand-by agreement with Ukraine, a deal that will unlock further credits to reach a total of $27 billion over the next two years. "The mission has reached a staff-level agreement with the authorities of Ukraine on an economic reform program that can be supported by a two-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF," the IMF said in a statement. (writing by Elizabeth Piper, editing by Steve Gutterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeBillionaire financier and Berkshire Hathaway Chief Executive Warren Buffett at the national launch ceremony for the BYD M6 vehicle in Beijing September 29, 2010. SHANGHAI (Reuters) - BYD Co Ltd &lt;002594.SZ&gt; &lt;1211.HK&gt;, the Warren Buffett-backed Chinese carmaker, plans to sell new stocks worth as much as 20 percent of its Hong Kong-listed shares, Bloomberg reported on Thursday, citing unidentified sources. The firm's Hong Kong-traded shares fell 4.6 percent by midday and its mainland-listed shares declined 2.5 percent. BYD has submitted an application for the plan to China's securities watchdog and could raise an estimated HK$7.61 billion through the share sale, the report said. A BYD spokeswoman declined to comment when contacted by Reuters. (Reporting by Samuel Shen and Kazunori Takada) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man holds instant noodle packs in front of a KFC restaurant in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Yum Brands Inc's &lt;YUM.N&gt; fast food chain KFC is rewriting its menu and launching a publicity drive as it struggles to emerge from the shadow of a food safety scare in 2012 and see off rivals luring diners with innovative, home-grown fare. The U.S. chain is planning an "unprecedented" overhaul to its China menu, will leverage Chinese celebrities in its publicity and revamp its store design and packaging, Yum said in a statement on Thursday. Yum gets more than half of its overall sales in China and plans to open 700 stores there this year. KFC, Yum's key brand in the China market, has been hard-hit since official media reported that chicken it purchased had been fed excess antibiotics in late 2012. Revenues dipped, with China sales at established restaurants falling 4 percent during the fourth quarter of last year. Sam Su, vice chairman of Yum Brands Inc, said in the statement the overhaul would involve new packaging, store designs and digital initiatives to help marketing and sales. Yum, the largest fast-food chain in China with over 6,200 stores, has seen its market share held flat over the past five years, with around 41.2 percent in 2012, according to data from research firm Euromonitor. U.S. rival McDonald's Corp &lt;MCD.N&gt; had around 14.7 in the same year. (Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
