Thomson ReutersHeavy machinery is seen in a construction site in TokyoBy Tetsushi Kajimoto TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's core machinery orders rose for a second straight month in July, but analysts said the data failed to dispel some doubts about the strength of business investment that is needed to propel Japan out of the slump caused by April's sales tax hike. The 3.5 percent rise in core orders, a highly volatile data series regarded as an indicator of capital spending in the coming six to nine months, was less than the median estimate of a 4.0 percent increase in a Reuters poll of economists. That followed a 8.8 percent rise in June and a 19.5 percent drop in May, which was the biggest drop in data going back to 2005. The data followed a recent run of weak economic indicators that suggest a rebound expected this quarter from April's slump may not prove as strong as originally thought. Weak readings cloud the prospects of a planned increase in the sales tax in October 2015, while keeping policymakers under pressure to provide fresh stimulus to prop up the economy. "Some companies are still cautious about demand. I expect the second sales tax hike to happen, but keep an eye out for more stimulus from the government," said Hiroaki Muto, senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. The core orders were boosted by one big order from a chemicals producer, a government official said, adding that excluding the one-off factor overall growth in July was moderate. The Cabinet Office data showed orders from manufacturers for new machinery  rose 20.3 percent in July - thanks to the big order from a chemicals producer - while those from non-manufacturers fell 4.3 percent. "The rebound was weak. Manufacturers may be turning cautious about capital spending due to sluggish exports and consumption, and the decline in orders from nonmanufacturers likely reflect weak domestic demand," said Koya Miyamae, senior economist at SMBC Nikko Securities. The Cabinet Office stuck to its assessment of machinery orders, saying they are "seesawing". Capital spending holds the key to the success of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's reflationary policies dubbed Abenomics, which policymakers are counting on to generate a virtuous cycle of growing business output, household income and spending. Companies held off spending in April-June after boosting investment earlier this year on factors such as upgrading of Windows operating systems. As the temporary factors run their course, analysts expect capital spending will resume picking up due to steady corporate earnings, a well as the need to upgrade aging equipment and manage a labor shortage. Compared with a year earlier, core orders, which exclude ships and power utilities, rose 1.1 percent in July, versus the expected 0.6 percent rise, the Cabinet Office data showed. Revised data showed on Monday that Japan's economy shrank an annualized 7.1 percent in April-June as capital spending slid and private consumption took a hit from the sales tax hike. Analysts in a Reuters poll forecast a 3.8 percent bounce this quarter. The strength of an expected rebound in the current quarter will be crucial to Abe's decision, expected by year-end, on whether to proceed with the  scheduled second increase in the sales tax to 10 percent in October 2015.  (Additional reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMa, the founder and executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding, leaves following the company's roadshow meeting in New YorkBOSTON (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd &lt;ipo.baba.n&gt; has two major things going for it as it prepares for an initial public offering that could raise more than $21 billion: founder Jack Ma and a "capital-lite" business model. While corporate governance remains a concern, several fund managers and analysts said Ma gave an impressive performance during the company's pitch in Boston on Tuesday for what stands to be the largest-ever U.S. technology IPO. They also said the Chinese e-commerce company's business model features strong cash-flow generation and low capital intensity similar to U.S. Internet stars Facebook Inc &lt;fb.o&gt; and Google Inc &lt;googl.o&gt;. "He's executed well," said Will Danoff, who runs the $111 billion Contrafund &lt;fcntx.o&gt; for Fidelity Investments. Danoff declined to say whether he will invest in Alibaba. But Alibaba has some characteristics of companies that have produced home runs for Danoff's fund. He favors companies tied to the Internet, especially ones operating profitable business models with low capital intensity that enable strong free-cash generation. "There's a lot of big numbers in there," Danoff said after the Boston event, pointing to Alibaba's thick prospectus. At the end of July, Contrafund held significant stakes in Google and Facebook, according to fund disclosures from Fidelity. Large cap stock mutual funds of all styles need more winners this year as they lag the benchmark S&amp;P 500 Index &lt;.SPX&gt;. Large cap funds of all styles are up 8.33 percent so far this year, trailing the 9.83 percent advance of the S&amp;P 500, according to Lipper, a Thomson Reuters unit. Alibaba accounts for about 80 percent of all online retail sales in China, where rising Internet usage and an expanding middle class helped the company generate gross merchandise volume of $296 billion in the 12 months ended June 30. Alibaba is seeking to raise more than $21 billion in the IPO, valuing the company at up to $163 billion. The offering is expected to price on Sept. 18 at $60 to $66 per American Depositary Share, according to a notice to brokerage customers from Fidelity. One major concern among U.S. investors has been a 2010 decision to spin off Alipay to a company Ma controlled. Ma told about 150 people in Boston that the Alipay decision was the hardest of his life, but it was necessary for the growth of the company. He added that "history will judge," said Adam Grossman, a research analyst for Middleton &amp; Co. Before the event, Grossman said he had planned not to invest in the IPO because of concerns about Alibaba’s corporate governance and ownership structure. After attending the event, Grossman said he had heard nothing from Ma and other executives to make him change his mind. Still, he said, "Management is very impressive. Ma tells a great story."     (Editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsKenmore Square in Boston.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Venezuela's state-run oil company PDVSA is seeking preliminary offers for its U.S. unit Citgo Petroleum by the end of September, a deal that could fetch up to $10 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. Investment bank Lazard Ltd &lt;laz.n&gt;, which is running the sale process for Citgo on behalf of PDVSA, has sent offering materials to potential buyers, the people said, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. The assets up for sale have annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of around $1.5 billion, the people said. Citgo's assets, the core of which are three refineries with combined capacity of 749,000 barrels per day (bpd), could fetch between $8 billion and $10 billion, the people added. Bidders can put in offers for individual assets, which include refineries, terminals, storage and wholesale operations, they added. Representatives for Lazard could not be immediately reached for comment, while PDVSA and Citgo did not respond to requests for comment.   (Reporting by Mike Stone in New York; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee is seen behind a glass wall with the logo of Alibaba at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou, Zhejiang province(Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's desire to keep tight control over its $21.1 billion share sale has left a vacuum at the helm of its banking syndicate, leading underwriters to take unusual steps to manage the offering, according to sources familiar with the situation. Typically, initial public offerings have a "lead left" bank that controls the process, sometimes as a first among equals in the syndicate. Facebook Inc, for example, had Morgan Stanley in that role, while Twitter Inc used Goldman Sachs Group Inc for the job. Alibaba, however, decided to do without one bank in charge of its IPO, and instead is seeking advice from all its major bookrunners. The move gives Alibaba control of the process as no one bank has a complete picture of what is going on. It also helps avoid potential pitfalls of relying too much on one institution. Facebook's botched 2012 IPO was also one of the reasons for this choice, sources have previously said. But it has led to a complicated arrangement and left some bankers complaining that it has created additional layers of work, the sources said. Alibaba declined to comment. To make sure that the process goes smoothly, Alibaba’s six bookrunners have paired up and divided tasks among them, the sources said. The teams include: Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Deutsche Bank AG, and Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, the sources said. All the banks declined to comment. The entire syndicate has been divided into three tiers, with the six joint bookrunners on top, followed by eight banks that have been invited to analyst meetings and have prepared analysis to help value Alibaba. A third tier of banks will help sell the deal, according to one of the sources. While bankers working on the deal said the process was working smoothly, some sources said the system was not very efficient. Since firms were working on individual tasks, there was not one bank that had an overall view of how the process was going, they said. Also, because they all had to report to the rest of the group, it made the process longer and more repetitive, they said. Rothschild, which does not have any underwriting operations, is also advising Alibaba on the offering as an independent equity adviser, serving as a middleman between the company and the underwriters. Alibaba has also negotiated lower underwriting fees. The company will pay underwriting fees of about 1 percent, which would yield some $211 million for all the banks on the deal, the sources said. That is far less than the 7 percent that smaller deals typically generate, or the 2 to 3 percent for larger offerings. Facebook, which raised $16 billion in its IPO, paid 1.1 percent in fees, while a much smaller listing by Twitter last year paid 3.25 percent. Alibaba's main Chinese rival, JD.com Inc, agreed to pay banks 4 percent when it went public in New York in May. The low fees for Alibaba have been partly credited to work by Joe Tsai, Alibaba’s executive vice chairman, and Michael Yao, a former Rothschild banker who heads Alibaba's corporate finance division. One source described both Tsai and Yao as “tough negotiators," but they also had more leverage than most other executives. Alibaba could be valued at up to $163 billion in one of the biggest IPOs of all time. The company accounts for about 80 percent of all online retail sales in China, where rising Internet usage and an expanding middle class helped the company generate gross merchandise volume of $296 billion in the 12 months ended June 30. Banks have been drawn to the deal both by the prestige of working on such a large IPO and by the chance to participate in Alibaba's future deals. It is unlikely any other company will hold such heft. The bulk of the fees, about 80 percent of the total, will go to the six main underwriters of the IPO. Of those, five are expected to take 15 percent each of the fee pool, or around $32 million apiece. Citigroup, the sixth bookrunner, will receive only about half that amount because its role in the offering is smaller than others, the sources said. Rothschild will earn $9 million for its role, according to Alibaba's securities fillings. Alibaba expects to price the IPO at $60 to $66 per American Depositary Share and list on the New York Stock Exchange later this month. The company is currently in the midst of a multi-city marketing blitz to drum up demand for its shares, which are expected to price on Sept. 18.     (Reporting by Liana B. Baker and Olivia Oran in New York and Elzio Barretto in Hong Kong; editing by Bernard Orr and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBOJ Deputy Governor Iwata poses for a photo after an interview with Reuters at the BOJ headquarters in TokyoKANAZAWA Japan (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata said on Wednesday the economy continues to recover with households and companies seen increasing spending ahead, shrugging off a severe second-quarter contraction as a temporary slump caused by an April sales tax hike. "With job and income conditions improving steadily, private consumption is firm as a trend. The downturn in spending, which came in reaction to pent-up demand ahead of the tax hike, appears to be easing," Iwata said in speech to business leaders in Kanazawa, a city in Ishikawa prefecture in central Japan. The BOJ has stood pat since deploying an intense burst of monetary stimulus in April last year, when it pledged to double base money via aggressive asset purchases to achieve its 2 percent inflation target in roughly two years. A former academic, Iwata has been a vocal advocate of a monetary policy targeting base money.  (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Additional reporting by Stanley White in TOKYO; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsJeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine just wrapped up his latest webcast about the markets and the economy called, "Fixed Income Playbook." Among the top items addressed by Gundlach was his view on the future of U.S. interest rates. Gundlach highlighted a number of problems that Fed Chair Janet Yellen is likely to see in the labor market, namely the declining share of wages to GDP, the decline in the minimum wage in real terms, and the decline in inflation-adjusted hourly earnings for the bottom seven deciles of workers.  As Gundlach sees it, inflation may be subdued when you look at headline readings, but the ways that inflation is showing up in the economy is putting pressure on middle income earnings. The housing market also remains a concern. Gundlach said the market "appears sick," as new home sales remain flat, the price of new homes goes up while the home ownership rate declines.  Home ownership rates have returned to their long-term average, but Gundlach thinks the market is assuming that this reverts to exceeding historical norms, which he says is "illogical."  Gundlach also gives some international context for the price of U.S. Treasury bonds, and thinks that ultimately, Scotland will not vote to be separated from the U.K.  Gundlach's commentary is always among the sharpest and most closely watched in the market, and his full presentation is well worth going through.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJeffrey Gundlach, star bond investor and head of DoubleLine Capital, speaks at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York, May 8, 2013.Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine just wrapped his latest webcast about the markets and the economy. Gundlach talked a bit about the rally in bonds this year, and wondered why market participants never ask if they should be buying the rally in bonds the way people ask about buying the rally in stocks.  Gundlach also addressed the labor market, which he noted Fed Chair Janet Yellen is singularly focused on, and says there is no real reason for the Fed to raise rates if the purchasing power of the bottom seven deciles of wage earners is declining year over year.  The Fed is also focused on inflation, and while headline inflation remains low, an outsized portion of these modest increases has come from housing, which Gundlach says impacts middle class wage earners, again giving the Fed no real incentive to raise interest rates. The housing market, which Gundlach hasn't viewed all that positively over the last couple years, also appears to be in a tough spot, as new home sales have flatlined. The price of housing has also increased while the home ownership has declined. "When you look at this, the housing market actually appears quite sick," Gundlach said.  Gundlach also addressed Europe, saying that there is some contagion risk with regard to a potential break up of the economic bloc given the recent momentum behind the Scottish movement for independence. Gundlach does not, however, think the Scottish vote will be a "Yes," and sees significant movement in financial assets due to this fear is unlikely.  The presentation, called "Fixed Income Playbook," followed an appearance from Gundlach on CNBC earlier this morning, where he talked about his thoughts on the Treasury market, Apple, and the Japanese yen.  FREE AppDownload
Apple announced its first new gadget since the iPad -- the Apple Watch. See what it looks like and what it does in 90 seconds.  Produced by Matthew Stuart.  Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Business InsiderTwo NYC-area ladies have posted the following ad on Craig's List seeking a pair of preppy vest and loafer-wearing boyfriends with Ivy League degrees. Perhaps some of our hedge fund analyst friends could fit the bill. The gig is just for the fall.  Here's the ad:  Seeking Fall Boyfriends 2 smart, funny, attractive girls each looking for a fall boyfriend with chill group of bro friends, now is the time you must start dating someone in order to spend the holidays together/go on ski trips/have a NYE kiss you're stoked on.Labor Day has happened, we are saying goodbye and filtering out our casual summer, meet up at 2 a.m. hook ups and are looking for boys we might be able to stand being sober around.Needed: 2 males interested in something steady/serious-ish as the weather fades from hot, humid, and care-free to crisp, chill Patagonia vest season. Interested parties should have a window in their bedroom and want to cuddle with the window slightly open to let the fresh autumn air in while a fall scented candle (that I'll buy for you, babe) fills the room with cozy comfort.RequirementsChill group of guy friends (preference will be given to bros who come from the same group of friends, just because that makes it easier and more fun for double date brunching)27 and older 6 feet or taller (if you're 5'11" but have a personality to make up for the height difference, willing to consider it. Any shorter? Don't apply.)Wardrobe should include: Driving mocs, Barbour coat, Half-Zips (at least 3, please send pics if possible), Ray-Bans (Wayfarers or Clubmastesr preferred, but open to other styles), loafers, Patagonia vest(s), Vineyard Vines, basketball shorts for me to sleep inCollege education. Ivy league preferred. Def in a frat or played a sport (lacrosse, crew, tennis, etc.)Probs spent at least 4 weekends in Montauk over the summerActivities can include but are not limited toApple PickingSunday FundaysBorrowing your pullover and returning it after an indecent amount of time, if at allTaking selfies in Patagonia vests/taking selfies while doing all activities #fall #boyfriendweatherWatching football (aka me getting drunk while you watch football, and you thinking it's so adorable when I wear jeans and Converse to the bar and get blackout in your team's hat.) *sneakers show how chill and laid back I am &lt; this is why it's kinda essential for the two boys to be friends so me and my friend can blackout together and I won't get bored.Cooking - Instagramming dish with captions such as "Fall night with my babe @yourhandle *heart emoji all the fall emojis*" Brunching outdoors until weather permitsStrange how the night moves, with autumn closing in(If you don't know that song, don't apply)Looking forward to meeting you! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozWilliam Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to the audience in New York, July 22, 2014.Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman sent the following letter to Allergan's board telling them they have put up the most "shareholder-unfriendly" defense in the "history of corporate America."  Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, has teamed up with Valeant to pursue a hostile takeover bid for the maker of Botox.  Here's the full letter:  To the Board of Directors of Allergan: It has been nearly five months since Valeant proposed to merge with Allergan. During this period, Allergan has distinguished itself in running the most shareholder-unfriendly, hostile defense process perhaps in the history of corporate America. In doing so, Allergan has wasted corporate resources, poisoned its relationship with its shareholders, and destroyed shareholder value. Just this past week, we delivered consents from a third of Allergan shareholders to call a special meeting. This one-third participation vastly understates shareholder sentiment on this issue. I note that six of the top 10 shareholders participated in the consent process, which is remarkable in light of the extraordinarily burdensome, inappropriate, and unprecedented requirements to call a meeting, particularly for these large institutions for which your bylaws create even more cumbersome disclosure requirements. Since the bid was announced in April, 75% of Allergan’s shareholders have sold all or a portion of their investment including the Company’s largest shareholder, which has sold its entire position. These shareholders are sending the board a message. They would not have sold if they believed that Allergan stock was worth more than current values. Just prior to the bid, David Pyott sold $31 million of stock and other senior executives sold $57 million of stock in the low $120s per share, voting with their wallets on the Company’s value. Allergan has repeatedly, unfairly, and inaccurately attacked Valeant’s business and accounting practices. Valeant has responded to each of these attacks with direct factual responses specifically rebutting each of the expressed assertions. When enough was enough, we and Valeant filed formal complaints with U.S. and Canadian regulators. We thought then that perhaps the manipulative and misleading attacks would end. Just last week, however, you again attacked Valeant’s business – making many of the same false and misleading accusations you had before, but this time in a filing with a federal court in California, and with a contemporaneous press release encouraging shareholders to review the filing. It appears that you did so as a public relations tactic knowing full well you could libel Valeant in your legal papers because California law protects a litigant from libel for any statements made in a court filing. I have attached a copy of Valeant’s latest response to your inappropriate attacks and a link here: http://www.valeant.com/Portals/25/PDF/09082014%20AGN%20rebuttal.pdf I encourage you to read Valeant’s responses carefully so that you understand the facts. These false and misleading attacks serve only to further discredit management and the board. You have sued Pershing Square, Valeant, and me personally, and publicly accused us of violating the law and of “misconduct” with no basis in fact for this litigation. You did so after your own counsel (prior to it being hired by Allergan) had sent a memo to its clients explaining that neither we nor Valeant had violated any laws in purchasing shares or in connection with the tender offer rules. It is clear from the timing of the lawsuit – literally days before you knew that we were about to deliver consents from your largest shareholders to call a special meeting – that this was yet another attempt to frustrate the Company’s shareholders’ opportunity to express their views on the board, the bylaws, and the Valeant transaction. To make matters worse, Mr. Pyott has repeatedly threatened and, according to press reports, has actually attempted to do a ten plus billion dollar deal before the special meeting which will not offer any synergies of any consequence. His motives are clear: to try to stymie a transaction regardless of the cost to shareholders. You are fiduciaries for a $50 billion asset. Your actions have wasted corporate resources, delayed enormous potential value creation for shareholders, and are professionally and personally embarrassing for you. Based on your actions to date, many shareholders have expressed to us their concern that the board and management would rather destroy the Company than do what is in the best interests of shareholders, and that if the Valeant deal does not go through, Allergan stock will decline significantly. As importantly, your and management’s behavior is destructive to morale at Allergan and will likely lead to a flight of the best talent at the Company while the business remains in limbo. We note CFO Jeff Edwards recent decision to retire from the Company at age 53 for family reasons, and his replacement by an investor relations executive rather than an experienced public company CFO. The notion that Allergan should execute the largest acquisition in its history led by an investor relations executive is a frightening proposition. While we respect an executive’s need to retire from a company for family reasons, Mr. Edwards exit also calls into question the Company’s forward earnings guidance which shareholders expected him to execute on when the Company presented these projections on July 21st. There have been numerous examples of consensual and unsolicited transactions of scale that have been announced during the pendency of this transaction. In contrast, these other managements and boards have acted prudently and professionally, have maximized value for their shareholders, and have not stooped to attack the acquirers or attempted to stop or delay their shareholders’ opportunity to express their views on a transaction. Instead, they have obtained independent advice – that is, advisors hired to represent the independent directors separately from management – and worked prudently to consider alternative transactions while contemporaneously working to extract as much value for shareholders as they could achieve in the proposed transaction. A large scale merger between two companies of similar size with substantial synergies is complicated and requires significant and detailed analysis. You have shown a remarkable lack of understanding about Valeant’s business based on the nature of your attacks. Your fiduciary obligations require you to fully inform yourselves about Valeant and this deal. Valeant has offered to engage and share confidential information with the board to address any concerns you may have. You have to date refused to do so. I had expected that at some point one or more directors would have woken up and smelled the coffee. There is still time for a subset of directors to rescue their reputations by taking over leadership of this process from David Pyott and his handpicked advisors and doing what you are paid $400,000 per year to do on behalf of the Company’s owners. I have been hoping that to date that you had simply been uninformed and misled, and that the calling of a special meeting by many of your largest, most important and long-standing shareholders coupled with the harsh rebuke you have received from both ISS and Glass Lewis would jolt you out of your stupor. The smell of strong brew is in the air. Now is the time to wake up. "Mr. Ackman’s hyperbole, bluster and personal attacks do not change the fact that Valeant’s offer is grossly inadequate and substantially undervalues Allergan. We recognize that what matters is value, and the Allergan Board remains confident in the Company’s ability to deliver significantly more value than Valeant's offer," An Allegan spokesman responded in an emailed statement.  FREE AppDownload
Chris Hondros/Getty ImagesThe dollar is getting stronger, and it will probably continue to do so.Last week ended on a sour note with a weaker-than-expected August jobs number. But while disappointing, as I write in my new weekly commentary, last week’s number is not necessarily indicative of a softening U.S. economy. First, we shouldn’t put too much weight on the weak August numbers. As my colleague Rick Rieder pointed out in a recent post, August’s modest print was mostly a reflection of seasonal weakness and is likely to be revised higher. In addition, while the labor market still faces structural headwinds, average monthly non-farm payroll gains are above the 200k level, consistent with a decent economic expansion. Meanwhile, outside of the jobs report, other U.S. economic releases are painting a consistently positive picture of the domestic economy. In the latest ISM manufacturing survey, new orders reached their highest level since 2004. And the service component of that survey hit a nine-year high. Finally, the rate-sensitive auto sector recently witnessed a surge in annualized auto sales to 17.45 million, the best level since early 2006. In short, while the U.S. economy certainly still has structural issues, most cyclical factors suggest that the economy should be relatively strong through year end. So what does this mean for investors? There are three main takeaways: upward pressure on short-term rates, a stronger dollar and continued pressure on commodity prices. Long term rates have remained relatively contained (although they did rise 10 basis points (bps) last week. The lack of volatility in longer-term Treasuries is partly a function of the collapse in yields in Europe and much of the developed world. But while long-term yields have been stable, short-term rates have been steadily grinding higher. While still a bit off of their July highs, 2-year yields are nearly 25 bps above last fall’s lows. As such, I continue to believe that investors should exercise caution on the 2-5 year portion of the Treasury curve. The recent strength in the dollar is not simply a function of an accelerating U.S. economy; it also reflects weakness in other regions. For example, weak European economic data forced the European Central Bank to further lower interest rates and initiate a new program to buy asset backed securities. The effect, as expected, was to push the euro down against other currencies, especially the dollar. The S&amp;P GSCI Total Return Index is down nearly 3% year-to-date, with bigger losses in Brent Crude, natural gas and nearly the entire agricultural complex. Even gold, which has benefited year-to-date from the drop in real-interest rates, has lost approximately 5.0% from its July high, including another 1.5% last week. To the extent that the dollar continues to rise, particularly if real rates start to reverse and move higher, investors should expect commodities to remain under pressure. FREE AppDownload
Film Still"Risky Business"FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Risk Is Only One Dimension Of A Security's Unpopularity (Morningstar) Investors should rethink the conventional split of low-risk/high-risk and instead consider a popularity spectrum, argues John Rekenthaler. Popular securities are defined as "those that people tend to like and therefore are willing to hold even if the returns are relatively modest."  He adds that risk alone is not enough to account for a security's popularity, and suggests four other factors that contribute to unpopularity. The first and main factor he notes is "economic" or the possibility that a security "might not be able to make required current payments, that these payments might not prove as valuable as expected" or "that projected future payments might be less than anticipated." Other sources of unpopularity include structure (or how the security is packaged), restrictions (the barriers to ownership), and behavioral (the psychological aspects of ownerships).  Advisors Can Improve Their Presentation Skills In Several Ways  (The Wall Street Journal) There are several ways to improve your presentation skills. First, an advisor must deliver a concise message. Clients don't want to hear all the fancy words and details — they just want to know the bottom line. "Be mindful of what time of the day you are speaking. Advisers need to adjust their energy depending on the hour. A morning audience is more alert and energized while an after-lunch presentation may require more audience interaction and energy from the adviser to keep everyone engaged," Karol Ward, a communication consultant, told the WSJ.  Additionally, it's important to consider what people you are speaking to. Specifically, keep in mind the clients' income levels, how they spend money, and what they are concerned about. Adjust the details of your speech so that it applies specifically to them. There Are Still Plenty of Concerns About Investing In Chinese Companies (Financial Planning) Many experts are still concerned over investing in China. They're nervous about the "lack of transparency, and warnings about a possible bank or property crisis" in China — and thus advise staying out for now. Additionally, Patricia Oey, a senior analyst and manager of research at Morningstar, warns that China is "'still a communist country,' where most large enterprises are still owned by the state — either the central or provincial governments — and as such they can often be 'asked to do things that are not necessarily for the good of shareholders.'" However, those still looking into China need to look at companies that "understand the Chinese consumer, and that address all the pent-up demand of the millions of new people entering middle class — the travel industry, financial services and education," according to Peter Engardio. JP Morgan Broker Who Produced $2 Million In Revenue Just Got Hired By Morgan Stanley (Wealth Management) Peter Risch from JP Morgan Securities in Columbus, Ohio produced $2 million in revenue last year, and managed $250 million in client assets. Reuters records show that Morgan Stanley recently hired seven "high-producing" brokers in late August. All together at their previous companies of employment, they managed $1.9 billion and produced $9.5 million in annual revenue. Morgan Stanley did not publicly announce this hire. FREE AppDownload
APSenator Sherrod Brown (D-OH)When people talk about politicians that aren't friendly to Wall Street, they always bring up Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). They rarely remember a man who's quietly proposed more bipartisan Wall Street regulation than Warren — Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown (D). Now is the time to remember him though, because if the Democrats keep control of the Senate Brown could end up heading the powerful Senate Banking Committee according to Guggenheim Securities analyst Jaret Seiberg "If Democrats keep the Senate, Sen. Sherrod Brown may be the next chairman," Seiberg wrote in a recent note. "This is the senator who wants the biggest banks to maintain a 15% equity to assets ratio. Despite this, he also would help the regional banks, small banks and insurers and could favor raising the SIFI [Systemically Important Financial Institutions] threshold to $100 billion or more." That 15% ratio is part of a bill Brown proposed along with Senator David Vitter (R-LA). It's called the "Terminating Bailouts for Taxpayer Fairness" Act and is meant to end 'Too Big To Fail.' TBTF- See what they did there? The bill's very existence is a testament to Brown's ability to build coalition while avoiding negative attention. He's made it clear that he believes Wall Street banks "continue to jeopardize our financial system because of their size, their complexity, their interconnectedness." But despite that frank manner of speaking, and the fact that he's been in the Senate since 2006, his name doesn't elicit the same knee-jerk reaction on Wall Street as Warren's does. "I'm just building the coalition here fairly quietly," Brown said in an interview with Business Insider last year. "It's not an issue that people rally around so much — breaking up the banks, limiting their liabilities, that's not something that excites people particularly. But I think it will. We're seeing intellectual and political support growing, and I think we'll continue to see that." Brown has also been one of the main politicians driving the federal investigation into whether or not big Wall Street banks get a funding advantage from the government. The Government Accountability Office recently released a report on this matter at Brown and Vitter's request, and it found that the advantage was inconsistent, and sometimes quite small. But that doesn't mean Brown and Vitter are done. "Well first of all the megabank seems to be arguing there was never a subsidy, no subsidy. Now they're having to admit, yes, there was or is a subsidy, and they're arguing about the amount of it," Vitter said in an interview with Bloomberg TV back in July. "The report says it may have gone down some with economic conditions and getting much better. The report also says if we go back to the same crisis conditions of 2008 the subsidy goes up. So I think clearly there is a too big to fail subsidy or cost of funding advantage. And I don't think it's been reduced significantly if you factor in the general economy." Of course, for Wall Street there is a bright side. If Republicans take control of the Senate, Richard Shelby (R-AL) would take over Senate Banking. And while Shelby is a critic of Too Big To Fail, he's also a gotten more support (read: money) from the securities industry over the last five years than any other industry. Guggenheim also points out that if Brown were to take over the committee he might go easier on banks to show that he's not just an anti-Wall Street firebrand.  Or he could just let it all hang out. FREE AppDownload
Gareth Fuller/ReutersThe Cuadrilla drilling site is seen in Balcombe, southern England August 15, 2013. An oil explorer has suspended drilling in southern England in response to the threat of an escalating protest against fracking, the controversial process used to extract gas and oil from shale deposits that has transformed the U.S. energy market.Canadian geologist David Hughes has some sober news for the Kool-Aid-drinking boosters of the United States' newfound eminence in fossil fuel production: it's going to go bust sooner rather than later. Working with the Post Carbon Institute, a sustainability think-tank, Hughes meticulously analyzed industry data from 65,000 US shale oil and natural gas wells that use the much-ballyhooed extraction method of hydraulic fracturing, colloquially known as fracking. The process involves drilling horizontally as well as vertically, and then pumping a toxic cocktail of pressurized water, sand, and chemicals deep underground in order to break apart the rock formations that hold deposits of oil and gas. Hughes found that the production rates at these wells decline, on average, 85 percent over three years. "Typically, in the first year there may be a 70 percent decline," Hughes told VICE News. "Second year, maybe 40 percent; third year, 30 percent. So the decline rate is a hyperbolic curve. But nonetheless, by the time you get to three years, you're talking 80 or 85 percent decline for most of these wells." His conclusion calls into question the viability of developing a long-term national energy policy on the assumption that fossil fuel extraction will continue at current levels. Several new natural gas export terminals are under consideration across the country, and the energy industry is pushing for the reversal of a 1970s Congressional ban on crude oil exports. Calls to approve the Keystone XL pipeline and allow for greater transportation of oil and gas over the nation's rail lines are also based on the revolution in domestic energy production. REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonPump jacks are seen in the Midway Sunset oilfield, California. The nearby vast Monterey shale formation is estimated to hold 15 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil. Most of that oil is not economically retrievable except by hydraulic fracturing, a production-boosting technique in which large amounts of water, sand and chemicals are injected into shale formations to force hydrocarbon fuels to the surface. America's political elites are embracing the promise of American energy independence — and that, Hughes believes, is pure folly. He says that policies being urged by politicians ranging from former Alaska Governor Sarah "Drill, Baby, Drill" Palin to President Barack "All of the Above" Obama are promoting a quick, profit-making bonanza for the industry rather than the growth of a maintainable national energy policy. "There is no doubt that the shale revolution has been a game-changer in the short term," Hughes said. "The implication of my work is that it is not sustainable in the long-term." Hughes is no climate-change catastrophist prone to hyperbolic attacks on the fossil fuel industry. He works as a consultant to fossil fuel companies, such as Canada's Imperial Oil, and frequently advises energy investors. His high regard among energy industry professionals comes from 32 years of analyzing coal, oil, and gas formations for the Geological Survey of Canada, which provides the Canadian government with impartial scientific research on the nation's natural resources. A prosperous shale exploration area, known as a "play," requires the right mix of decomposed organic matter maturing over millennia into natural gas or oil, and rock formations that are permeable enough for surface wells to break them apart and extract the fossil fuel. Until recently, oil and gas trapped within shale rock formations was inaccessible: too technologically difficult to reach and too costly to extract. That changed in the 1990s, when Mitchell Energy pioneered horizontal, hydraulic fracturing and demonstrated that large-scale fracking could extract a reliable supply of shale gas from the Barnett Play of East Texas. According to the US Energy Information Administration, American shale oil production has rocketed over the last decade from 260,000 barrels per day to nearly four million barrels of oil per day, putting the US behind only Saudi Arabia and Russia in total oil production. Roughly 50 percent of US natural gas production comes from shale formations, helping the US become the world's largest producer of natural gas. But Hughes's analysis indicates that this rapid increase in domestic production will quickly decline. "Companies always drill their best locations first," he said. "Once you've run out of locations in the sweet spots, you're forced to lower and lower quality rock. The wells don't get any cheaper, however. They still cost the same, it's just that you have to drill more of them to offset that fuel decline." Hughes explained that more than 80 percent of the nation's shale oil comes from just two plays, the Bakken field in North Dakota and Montana and the Eagle Ford in Texas. He estimates that production in those regions will recede back to 2012 levels in 2019. Overall production across the nation's shale oil fields will peak in 2017. In just the Bakken, Hughes calculates that 1,400 new wells are needed per year to offset current production decline, which right now is 45 percent of current production rates of about a million barrels per day, or 450,000 barrels per day each year. "You need 1,400 $8 million wells to keep production flat, and they're drilling more than that — they're drilling 2,000 wells per year," he explained. "So production in the Bakken will continue to go up. But it's because at the moment they're continuing to drill the sweet spots." As those sweet spots are tapped, though, they will also begin to decline. Flickr/Credo Policy SummitActivists an anti-fracking demonstration in Manhattan, New York City organized by CREDO Action and New Yorkers Against Fracking. The scenario is similar to that of the nation's shale gas plays, where 80 percent of production comes from just five areas, several of which are already in decline, according to Hughes. "Take a look at the Haynesville play, which is primarily in Louisiana and East Texas," he said, referring to an area whose natural gas deposits were fracked starting in 2008. "It was the biggest shale gas play in the US in 2012, when it peaked, and it's now down 46 percent below its peak." In order to maintain current levels of shale gas production, Hughes estimates that the high rates of deterioration of such wells across the country will require the drilling of 7,000 new wells a year at a cost of $42 billion annually. For maintenance of the overall production of shale oil, some 6,000 new wells would need to be drilled every year, an endeavor that would cost $35 billion. New York's silent but deadly fracking problem. Read more here. Dan Whitten, a spokesman for the trade group America's Natural Gas Alliance, did not respond specifically to Hughes' data when approached for comment, but he did offer a general statement on the US natural gas sector. "Our companies make investments in these wells because the people with expertise in actual production rates have studied this and know that while wells do decline, they are able to continue to produce robust volumes of natural gas for decades," he said, "which is why most credible scientists who have looked at this see very strong production of this clean, American resource now and well into the future." The Independent Petroleum Association of America did not respond to a request for comment on the specifics of Hughes' research or on the long-term viability of shale oil production in the US. "David Hughes's data is not disputed," Jigar Shah, a solar energy entrepreneur and frequent commentator on US energy investment and production, told VICE News. "What it does is raise the question of what role governments are playing in places like North Dakota. At some point the dream ends." Shah pointed to the massive strain that the fossil fuel industry imposes on public infrastructure like roads and utility networks. He thinks that once the energy boom is over and industry giants have raked in their profits and withdrawn, states and taxpayers will be left to sort out their crumbling highways and decaying water systems on their own. "I can certainly understand corporate interests," Hughes remarked. "They do what they're doing because they're concerned about their quarterly returns. But they are not concerned about the long-term sustainability of energy production for America." "For me," he added, "the long-term policy is that shale is a short-term bonanza."  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook introduces the new Apple Watch on Tuesday, Sept. 9, 2014, in Cupertino, Calif.Today was all about Apple. The market rallied with Apple when it surged, and it tumbled as Apple tanked. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. Apple was up as much as 4% Tuesday, hitting a high of $103.08 as management unveiled a slew of new products. The real show-stopper today was the "Apple Watch," which will start at $349 and be available in early 2015. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will start at $199 and $299, respectively. There was also the introduction of "Apple Pay," which could change the way we buy everything. 2. But the excitement in the market was short-lived with Apple stock falling to as low as $96.14, a 3%. Shares closed at $97.99, down 0.4%. 3. Apple's competitors got slammed today. Watch-maker Fossil fell 2.1% and payments processor eBay tumbled 2.8%. 4. "I would sell Apple," said DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach ahead of Apple's event. Gundlach's big concern is that Apple lost its innovative spark after Steve Jobs passed away. 5. According to the July Job Openings &amp; Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS), U.S. companies had 4.67 million job openings in July, which was basically in line with the 4.70 million expected by economists. "Employers, it seems, either can't find people with the right skills in the right place, or they don't want to hire people who have been out of work for a long period," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. Indeed, jobs data can be quite ambiguous. 6. Small business optimism improved in August, reported the NFIB. Survey responses related to business spending were particularly encouraging. "Fifty-eight percent reported outlays, up 3 points from July, and the second best reading since January 2008," the NFIB said. "The percent of owners planning capital outlays in the next 3 to 6 months rose 4 points to 27 percent, the best reading since the peak of the last expansion." DON'T MISS: RANKED: The 50 US State Economies From Worst To Best » FREE AppDownload
Yahoo Finance Apple shares were all over the place Tuesday. After announcing two new iPhones, a new Apple Pay payment system, and Apple Watch, Apple shares gained as much as 4.5% and lost as much as 2.2% in a volatile day that saw more than 170 million shares change hands. On Tuesday, Apple announced two new phones, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which will be available to preorder on Sept. 12. Apple also announced a new mobile-payment system, Apple Pay. The company said it has retail agreements for Apple Pay with Disney, Macy's, Walgreens, Staples, Subway, McDonald's, and Whole Foods. The company has credit-card agreements for Apple Pay with American Express, MasterCard, and Visa. Apple also announced Apple Watch, which sent shares of the company off their best levels. Apple watch will be available in early 2015. You can read BI's wall-to-wall coverage of Apple's announcements over at SAI.     FREE AppDownload
AppleApple Pay.Shares of eBay, Fossil, Movado, and GT Advanced Technologies are all lower after Apple announced various products that either compete with these companies or that did not include some of their components. eBay shares were down as much as 2.2% in afternoon trade on Tuesday after Apple announced Apple Pay, a new credit card payment system that is likely to compete with eBay's PayPal unit. Fossil shares were down more than 3%, while Movado shares were off 1.5%, after Apple announced Apple Watch. GT Advanced Technologies, which makes sapphire displays, was down as much as 11% after Apple announced that sapphire displays would be in Apple Watch, but not the company's newest iPhones: iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Shares of Apple, meanwhile, have been volatile on Tuesday, having gained as much as 4.5%. SAI has full live coverage of Apple's announcements here. This chart from Yahoo Finance shows the movement of each of these stocks against each other on Tuesday. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Tim Cook just invoked "one more thing." He has unveiled the Apple Watch.  Produced by Matthew Stuart. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Both iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus announced today have a new payment feature, Apple Pay, that aims to make plastic credit cards obsolete. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Via Wikimedia CommonsThe University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business was once again named the best undergraduate business program in America by U.S. News &amp; World Report. U.S. News' rankings are based on a peer survey of deans and senior faculty at each undergraduate business program accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. According to U.S. News, "Participants were asked to rate the quality of all programs they were familiar with on a scale from 1 (marginal) to 5 (distinguished)." As undergraduate business education website Poets &amp; Quants for Undergrads noted in a breakdown of b-school rankings, Wharton tends to dominate the U.S. News list. "Wharton’s clear win is not surprising. The school boasts one of the most respected, and selective, undergraduate business programs in the country," they write. In U.S. News' overall lists for national universities and liberal arts colleges, Princeton University was named the best university, and Williams College was named the best college. Here are the undergraduate business programs that U.S. News rated in the top 10 for 2015: 1. University of Pennsylvania 2. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2. University of California, Berkeley 4. University of Michigan — Ann Arbor 5. New York University 5. University of North Carolina — Chapel Hill 6. University of Virginia 8. Carnegie Mellon University 8. Indiana University — Bloomington 8. University of Texas — Austin FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVBob Janjuah.Nomura's bearish strategist Bob Janjuah believes the stock market could continue to rally to new highs given current market conditions.  "As I have said for at least a year now, until and unless we see a weekly close (ideally consecutive weekly closes) in the VIX index below 10, then I judge risk-on has more to go," Janjuah wrote in his latest note to clients. Janjuah is referring to the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), a measure of options traders' expectations for future market volatility. "We got close in June/early July, but we did not get there. I would expect that, if I am right about the next quarter or two, then VIX should hit this target during this timeframe." Janjuah, who has long been one of the biggest bears on Wall Street, said he expects a short period of weakness in risk assets (read: stocks) over the next three or four weeks, but he is mildly bullish on this asset class over the next three to four months.  Janjuah added that: "On a three- to four-month horizon I expect more euro weakness, and a lot more JPY weakness vs the USD. I also really like peripheral eurozone bond spreads (to Bunds) on a three- to four-month and three- to four-year basis. I see break-up risk as unlikely for the foreseeable future... and I would continue to focus my equity exposure to those big caps where stock buy-back programmes remain open, again particularly in Europe." Janjuah's call on more weakness in the Japanese yen comes alongside a similar call from DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach, who said in an interview on CNBC on Tuesday that the yen could fall to 200 against the U.S. dollar in three to five years.  Currently, the yen is at about 106 against the dollar. Here's a chart of the VIX over the last two years. The VIX has been historically low, but hasn't closed below Janjuah's magic 10 level. Yet. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
NetflixToday's women are CEO's of tech companies; they are starring in their own TV shows; and they are managing directors at investment banks. That means they need some help organizing and simplifying their daily lives. So Business Insider decided to come up with a list of apps that will give a modern lady a hand or two. These apps cover everything from planning a night out to tracking your sleep. You can learn new skills, cook a meal, and track workouts. Enjoy. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderTim Cook Apple just wrapped up one of its biggest events ever. It announced two new models of the iPhone — the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. It announced a new payment system for the iPhone called Apple Pay. It also announced a smart watch called the Apple Watch.  The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch screen, and the iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch screen. The current iPhone 5S is a 4-inch model. Android phones for years have had larger screens, so Apple is catching up here. However, the phone looks great and is certain to be a blockbuster. Apple's payment system, Apple Pay looks pretty slick, too. If you have an iPhone 6, you will be able to simple tap your phone at a register, use your fingerprint and pay for things.  The Apple Watch is less certain. It looks a lot like an iPod slapped on your wrist. It can track your motion. It can do apps, and send messages.  Below are our notes on the event.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP Andy BuchananA pro-independence supporter holds a "Yes" flag as Scottish MP Jim Murphy addresses pro-union "Better Together" campaign supporters in Edinburgh on September 8, 2014London (AFP) - With polls ahead of Scotland's independence referendum now showing the two sides neck and neck, Britain is starting to seriously consider the implications of a "Yes" victory.  A pro-independence vote would be a worldwide sensation but would change little immediately, except perhaps boost calls for the resignation of British Prime Minister David Cameron. It would however sound the starting gun for complex talks between the British and Scottish governments on separating two deeply interlinked economies and political systems after three centuries of shared history, leading up to full independence. The Scottish National Party (SNP) has already set the date of March 24, 2016 — the 309th anniversary of the Acts of Union between England and Scotland — for a formal division that would cut the United Kingdom's landmass by a third. Scotland would be the first independent state created in Europe since the bloody disintegration of Yugoslavia and experts say the separation is most comparable to the peacefully negotiated one of Singapore from Malaysia in 1965. Much of what happens between a "Yes" vote and 2016 is uncertain, as is the question of whether Scotland could continue to be a member of the European Union as an independent entity or would have to start again and re-apply. The Scottish government has said the first step taken "soon after a vote for independence" would be to seek a formal transfer of powers to the Scottish parliament to establish "the constitutional platform for an independent Scotland". It said it would also start pre-independence talks with the EU "to settle the terms of an independent Scotland's continuing membership" — even though European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso has warned this would be "extremely difficult". The date of Britain's general election — currently planned for May 2015 — could be put back if there is an independence vote as lawmakers from Scotland could only sit in parliament for the relatively short time before full independence. The consensus among analysts is that the election would not be delayed but that newly-elected Scottish MPs would not be allowed to vote on any laws concerning England and Wales. REUTERS/Russell CheyneBritain's Queen Elizabeth (C) and Prince Charles (R) watch the sack race at the annual Braemar Highland Gathering in Braemar, Scotland September 6, 2014. Here are the main practical steps that could lead up to the break away of Scotland: — Oil and gas: Scotland's treasure, the North Sea offshore fields, would likely be divided up geographically and the government in Edinburgh would want to move quickly to assert control. Eighty-five percent of known reserves in the area are in what would be Scottish territory and the sector would make up around 15 percent of the new Scotland's economy.  — Sharing debt, currency?: A key economic question will be how to share out Britain's £1.4 billion (1.8 billion euros, $2.3 billion) debt. The Scottish government has said this could be divided on the basis of population share or of Scotland's historic contribution to Britain's public finances. Scotland would continue using the pound in the coming months but what happens after full independence is in doubt as the British government has excluded sharing the currency. The most likely option currently seems to be that Scotland would use the pound without a formal agreement with Britain — like Panama using the US dollar or Kosovo using the euro.  — A constitution: The Scottish government has also said it wants a convention bringing together businesses, civil society and trade unions to come up with a written constitution along European lines — something that Britain lacks. It has said this should include a constitutional ban on nuclear weapons being based in Scotland and wants take steps to order out the Trident nuclear submarines currently based at the Faslane naval base near Glasgow by 2020. — Border: The pro-independence camp have said the existing border would remain only on paper under but the issue is a complex one as Scotland's plan to ease immigration rules might prompt the rest of Britain to set up barriers and checks. The SNP also says that no passports would be required for visitors from the rest of the UK to Scotland and vice versa — much like the current arrangement with Ireland — although that will depend on whether Scotland is in the European Union. — Keep the queen: The Scottish National Party (SNP) has said it wants the new Scotland to be a constitutional monarchy with Queen Elizabeth II as its sovereign — much like Australia or Canada — and has said it would join the Commonwealth. The queen herself is staying neutral in the debate and can rest assured there would be no change in the status of her beloved summer residence of Balmoral in northeast Scotland, which is a private estate owned by the royal family. FREE AppDownload
Dilbert, the well-known comic strip by cartoonist Scott Adams about the office everyman and his crew of incompetent colleagues, was the first syndicated comic that focused primarily on the workplace when it launched in 1989. Five years later, it had become so successful that Adams quit his corporate career to work on it full-time.   It wasn't a straight line to success. Early versions of the comic were rejected by several publications, including The New Yorker and Playboy. It wasn't until an editor at United Media saw it and recognized her own husband in the character that it finally got its start, says Adams in his upcoming book “How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big.”  Ever since, the comic has explored topics like the inefficiency of meetings, the uselessness of management, and the absurdity of office politics.  Exclusively for Business Insider, Adams looked through the archives and shared his 10 favorite Dilbert comics. Below, he explains why he chose each and counts them down to his absolute favorite of all-time. 10) Oct. 10, 2009: “Dream job” Courtesy of Scott Adams "This comic causes the reader to imagine a funny future in which Wally will only pretend to do the assignment. Humor sometimes works best when one suggests what is coming without showing it. People laugh harder when they need to use their imaginations to complete the joke.  "I also like comics in which characters are unusually happy about something trivial, evil, or selfish. That juxtaposition is always funny to me. "Another technique I often use involves characters saying things that should only be thought. That creates the inappropriateness that gives it an edge."   9) Sept. 24, 2009: “Opportunities” Courtesy of Scott Adams"Management-by-slogan usually comes across to employees as ridiculous and condescending. That, in part, is what makes the staff in this comic so uncaring about the boss’s house burning down. The ordinary evil of regular people is always funny to me. It’s easy to relate to it."    8) Nov. 12, 2009: “Roll a donut in front of the cave” Courtesy of Scott Adams "A common humor technique involves juxtaposing something of immense importance with something trivial. The pairing of things that don’t belong together makes your brain “sneeze” in the form of a laugh. In this comic, Wally is comparing his digestive system to Jesus rising from the dead. A dash of spiritual inappropriateness gives it some seasoning."   7) Dec. 3, 2009: “Reusable presentation” Courtesy of Scott Adams"As I mentioned, I enjoy humor that highlights the selfish nature of people. We all relate to it. If you have a job, you probably spend some part of each day trying to disguise your selfish motives as win-win scenarios. And your attempts are probably as transparent as Wally’s.  "I also like jokes that involve inappropriate solutions to problems. This one has both. When you can layer two humor triggers in the same comic it almost always works."   6) Dec. 9, 2009: “Catching up to competition” Courtesy of Scott Adams"This one works because you never see the pointy-haired boss’s reaction, but you can imagine it vividly.  "Keeping true to the major theme of Dilbert, this comic highlights the uselessness of management. If you’ve ever had a boss, this one probably hits home for you."  5) Jan. 7, 2010: “Synchronizing excuses” Courtesy of Scott Adams"I very much enjoy mocking common sayings. Often those little nuggets of wisdom make no sense whatsoever, but we’ve heard them so often they feel as if they do. Good things might come to those who wait, but so does starvation. "This comic is also an example of what I call an 'engineered solution.' Wally has cleverly synchronized his excuses to the thunderstorm. I find cleverness to be funny when it is in the service of selfishness."  4) April 13, 2010: “Asok’s snout” Courtesy of Scott Adams"Here I’m juxtaposing an ordinary workplace lunch with the ridiculousness of Asok having a dog snout. Dilbert and Wally take it in stride. That’s the first humor level, but it wouldn’t be enough to make it work.  "The second level is that we all know people who value form over function while being oblivious to how others view them. When you shine a light on irrational human behavior it usually triggers a laugh reflex."   3) Sept. 27, 2010: “Brain golfing” Courtesy of Scott Adams"If you attend meetings, you probably spend a lot of time thinking your own thoughts while your coworkers drone on. This comic is funny to me because the boss is revealing his selfish thoughts, and also because 'brain golfing' is a funny combination of words. I figured most golfers could relate. I doubt I’m the only person who brain golfs."   2) Dec. 2, 2010: “Old Johannsen” Courtesy of Scott Adams"Wally is the worst employee of all time, but he’s likeable in his own way, so we enjoy seeing him get a win at the expense of the pointy-haired boss. And I think everyone who has a boss also dreams of becoming indispensable. It’s easy to relate to Wally’s glee in the third panel."   1) Nov. 9, 1993: “Unix programmers” Courtesy of Scott Adams "This might be my all-time favorite Dilbert comic. When I was on the speaking circuit I always used it to end my talks to thunderous laughter. It’s naughty, clever, and it has a point of view. And it makes the reader imagine what happened before that moment shown in the comic and what might happen after. It’s rare to pack so many elements in one comic." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiShortly after the worst of the financial crisis was behind us, market participants started looking forward to the resurgence of mergers and acquisitions activity like kids waiting for Christmas Day. Now — thanks in large part to low interest rates and cheap financing — the M&amp;A surge is in full effect. But it looks different than anyone expected. As Goldman Sachs points out a note, leveraged buyouts are all but extinct in 2014. Why? Armed with cash, it's corporate buyers who are really driving this entire M&amp;A surge. Financial buyers — private equity and investment firms — are barely participating. Goldman writes: "2014 is likely to be a banner year for M&amp;A in the United States with YTD volumes up about 60% yoy and on track to exceed 2006’s peak by approximately 20%. However, sponsor- related M&amp;A has not kept pace (up just 6% yoy) and as a percentage of total volumes stands at 20%, the lowest percentage since 2002 outside the financial crisis. The absence of large public-to-private activity is even more pronounced; there has been just $3 bn of deals YTD -- a small fraction of the annual average of $75 bn or so over the past decade." In other words, companies are buying other companies. The stock market is, in a sense, buying itself. Barely anyone is taking companies private anymore. via Goldman Sachs Goldman suggests a few reasons why this could be happening. One is that market participants realize that incorporating the synergies companies can achieve by buying each other is the most  effective way to create real value right now. That prospect, along with ultra-low financing, makes corporates willing to pay more money for  the companies they acquire. On the other hand, the actions that financial firms can take when they acquire companies — layoffs and other expense cuts — don't create enough value to warrant making these purchases. Company valuations are too high and actual sales growth is too slow. Greenlight Capital CEO David Einhorn mentioned the strange character of M&amp;A activity in his most recent investor letter. His take on it was a bit more sinister than Goldman's. He noticed that some of companies in which Greenlight had a short position were being bought. Not a good sign. "Companies we are short often have serious problems of which boards and management are probably aware," said Einhorn's letter. "This makes them more eager than usual to sell at any sort of premium. The prospective buyers ought to discover these problems during due diligence, which should make them walk away. But in the current environment, debt financing is so inexpensive that buyers can pay premiums and have the deals be accretive to EPS, making them more willing to ignore any problems they discover." You can take Goldman's rosier picture, or go dark with David. Either way all this means that $450 billion is just sitting in global buyout firms waiting to be deployed. And likely it won't be unleashed until companies are cheaper. "As stated by Antony Ressler, Chairman &amp; CEO of Ares Management, 'we see the investment universe with blinking yellow lights; move slowly and carefully'. A pullback in the market appears to be the most likely catalyst to drive an increase in activity," says Goldman's note. In meantime, financial firms like KKR are looking for deals outside the United States or partnering with multiple, non-finance firm buyers (think: Silver Lake working with Michael Dell). It's not like Wall Street is just twiddling its thumbs — not entirely. FREE AppDownload
The geographic distribution of income and wealth in the U.S. is always a fascinating topic.  One of the many types of geography the Census Bureau tabulates figures for are "places." These are either legally incorporated cities or towns or Census-designated statistical equivalents. In this map, we consider places with at least 1,000 residents, according to the 2008-2012 American Community Survey. Using income estimates from the ACS, we found the place with the highest median household income in each state. The map shows where the affluent towns are, and the median income in each: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey Many of the affluent communities are wealthy suburbs of major cities such as Scarsdale, New York, and Darien, Connecticut, outside of New York City, and Chevy Chase, Maryland, and Great Falls, Virginia, near Washington, D.C. They all tend to be fairly small with populations ranging from about 1,000 (our chosen lower cutoff) to about 18,000. Here's a table with the 50 towns and their median incomes: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey   
REUTERS/Brian SnyderGundlach would cut ties with Apple.Speaking in an interview on CNBC, DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach reiterated his bearish view of Apple stock. "I would sell it," he said. Back in 2012, Gundlach was one of the few people who were bearish on the iPhone maker when the stock was trading near its all-time high of $700. His concern has been that innovation evaporated when Steve Jobs died. Gundlach mocked Apple's iPhone upgrade offerings, saying that they were more or less just new case colors like "tutty-fruity." On a split-adjusted basis, Apple recently made a new all-time high, and on Tuesday it is set to announce the latest version of its flagship iPhone device, as well as a new smartwatch. Gundlach said the new products were most likely priced-in to the stock, which is trading just below $100 right now, and Gundlach said shares looked like they did back in 2012.  On Monday, BI's Jay Yarow noted that Apple shares typically fall on the day a new iPhone is announced, then rally ahead of the device going on sale before falling again. In late morning trade on Tuesday, the stock was up about 0.8%. BI will have complete coverage of Apple's latest announcement on SAI all day Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiJeffrey Gundlach.Speaking in an interview with CNBC's David Faber, DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach said that the Japanese yen is going to 200 against the dollar. Gundlach said that over the long term, the yen's value will continue to erode as Japan continues to get slammed by long-term economic headwinds like an aging demographic and a need to import much of its energy. When asked for a timeframe, Gundlach said less than ten years, and maybe more like 3 to 5 years. On Monday, the yen fell in value against the dollar to more than 106, a move that Gundlach said, "almost looked manipulated." Here's a chart of the yen over the last year, showing the breakout the currency has seen in the last month as the dollar continues to gain against most major currencies.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Gregory PayanPrinceton University and Williams College are once again the best schools in America, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report's 2015 rankings. U.S. News divides schools into two major national lists — universities and liberal arts colleges — based on the degrees and research opportunities they offer. Princeton topped the university list for the second year in a row, while Williams has held the top college spot for the past 12 years, according to a U.S. News press release. Last year, U.S. News changed its methodology to emphasize "outcome-related measures" — such as graduation and retention rates — which now account for 30% of a school's ranking. As U.S. News noted last year, incorporating graduation rate performance data for all schools "improves the Best Colleges ranking methodology as it's an important outcome measure that focuses on the difference between each school's predicted graduation rate ... and its actual graduation rate." Here are the national universities that U.S. News rated in the top 10 for 2015: 1. Princeton University 2. Harvard University 3. Yale University 4. Columbia University 4. Stanford University 4. University of Chicago 7. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 8. Duke University 8. University of Pennsylvania 10. California Institute of Technology Here are the liberal arts colleges that U.S. News rated in the top 10 for 2015: 1. Williams College 2. Amherst College 3. Swarthmore College 4. Wellesley College 5. Bowdoin College 5. Pomona College 7. Middlebury College 7. Carlton College 8. Claremont McKenna College 8. Haverford College FREE AppDownload
Rebecca Cook/ReutersGM CEO Mary Barra reveals the 2015 GMC Canyon pickup truck at a media preview in Jan. 2014.Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, the Stanford Graduate School of Business is widely recognized as one of the top business schools in the world, regularly competing with Harvard Business School and UPenn's Wharton School for the No. 1 spot in most rankings. Today it's the most selective school in the U.S., with a 6.8% acceptance rate in 2013. Its elite academic programs have produced some of the most prominent and innovative figures in their respective industries. Here's a look at 25 of the most successful. FREE AppDownload
Rolf Maeder, Photography SedonaThere were 4.67 million job openings as of the end of July. The Bureau of Labor Statistics just released its latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS report, which showed 4.673 million job openings as of the end of July, down slightly from 4.675 million opening as of the end of June.  Expectations were for the report to show that there were 4.7 million job openings.  June's report marked a 13-year high for job openings.  Layoffs and discharges affected 1.2% of workers in July, the eighth straight month layoffs and discharges have been at this level.  Total hires in July were up slightly, to 4.9 million from 4.8 million in June. The JOLTS report has become a more closely watched economic indicator after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said it was one of her preferred economic indicators.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingCarson BlockFolks on Twitter are saying that famed short-seller Carson Block mentioned Chinese sports lottery site 500.com (ticker: WBAI) while speaking at a private conference yesterday. You could definitely see some action in 500.com's stock right before the close around the time Block was scheduled to speak. The stock fell 4% and the trading volume spiked.  Block, who runs Muddy Waters Research, named the company yesterday afternoon at the Value Investing Congress in New York City. This year's VIC is closed to press. According to a source who was at the conference, there were about 2 slides in Block's whole presentation that mentioned 500.com. The source told us that Block identified some "red flags," but nothing confirmed in terms of fraud.  Block told conference attendees there's no official report coming from Muddy Waters, so it's not like one of their deep-dive research projects. Block is famous for targeting Chinese companies he believes are frauds. He's probably best known for his takedown of Sino-Forest that ultimately caused hedge fund billionaire John Paulson to lose millions and eventually sell out of the stock. Sino-Forest, which Block said was overstating its timber holdings, eventually ended up filing for bankruptcy. Now check out 500.com's action from yesterday:  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
Capital spending is back at pre-recession levels.  On Tuesday morning, the NFIB published its latest small business optimism index, which showed that optimism in August rose to 96.1, the second-highest reading since October 2007.  The report's internals also had a piece of good news regarding one long-missing piece of the recovery: capital spending. According to NFIB's report, 58% of survey respondents reported capital outlays, up 3 points from July and the second best reading since January 2008.  And the outlook for capital spending was even better, as the percent of owners planning capital outlays in the next 3 to 6 months rose to 27%, the best reading since December 2007. That was the last month of the last economic expansion. In late August, we highlighted the increase in business investment seen with the second estimate for Q2 GDP, which showed investment rose 8.4%.  NFIB's report on Tuesday is yet another example that companies may have found the missing piece of the recovery puzzle.  NFIB FREE AppDownload
BarclaysBarclays is done keeping track of the recovery.  Sort of. In a note to clients on Monday, economists at Barclays announced that they published their final "Chartbook of U.S. Economic Indicators." These charts have been particularly illuminating as they compared the recent recovery of key indicators with the other post-WWII recoveries. Barclays wrote that: "Writing 22 quarters from the NBER-dated end of the recession makes comparisons against previous cycles less informative. We believe it unlikely that additional data will alter the conclusion that recoveries following severe financial crises are likely to be subdued and characterized by modest growth in output, investment, personal income, consumption, and employment. That said, the recovery in US manufacturing and industrial production has been stronger and in line with past US recoveries, and other labor market indicators have shown steady improvement." Looking through the final chartbook, here are five charts that aptly capture the subdued post-recession recovery we've seen: Real GDP growth hasn't been great. Barclays People haven't had as much money to spend. Barclays Consumer sentiment is lagging. Barclays Job growth hasn't been good. Barclays Existing home sales have been a drag. Barclays Thanks guys, it's been real. FREE AppDownload
We all want what we want, but it's always difficult to figure out how to get it. Psychology has some answers for us, though. Research has unlocked a few words that, when used, can have a big influence on people.
Thomson ReutersPeople walk by a Barnes & Noble bookstore in Pasadena(Reuters) - Barnes &amp; Noble Inc &lt;bks.n&gt; said quarterly revenue fell 7 percent, hurt by lower sales of Nook products and weak performance at its online stores. The company's net loss narrowed to $28.4 million, or 56 cents per share, in the first quarter ended Aug. 2, from $87 million, or $1.56 per share, a year earlier. Revenue fell to $1.23 billion from $1.33 billion. Comparable-store sales fell 5.1 percent.   (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoA man looks at an electronic board displaying Japan's Nikkei average (top C) and the stock price indexes of various countries outside a brokerage in Tokyo September 4, 2014.I spent a total of about three years in Japan, including a recent stint in Tokyo. As such, I think I’m in a position to offer some comments about the reality of life there, beyond the stereotype of bullet trains, neon signs, girls in weird clothes and workaholic ‘salarymen’. Here’s an honest take on the place. Japan faces two monumental problems. First, the country will, sooner or later, find itself in the grip of an economic crisis. Its debt level is staggering, dwarfing that of supposed economic basket cases like Greece or Portugal. Indeed, it is the world’s biggest debtor, its public debt reaching 226 percent of GDP in 2013, according to the CIA. So far as I can see, there is no realistic way that this money can be paid off. Even worse, the debt mountain is just going to keep expanding. This is due to the shrinking and ageing Japanese population, a deep-rooted suspicion of immigrants, and Japan’s vulnerability to natural disasters. Second, as is well-known, the country’s relations with its neighbours are dire. This, it now seems to me, is largely the fault of the Japanese government, which has shown a consistent unwillingness to face up to the ugly side of the nation’s history. There is a school of thought concerning Japan’s imperialist past which effectively views the country as blameless. Such sentiments inform the displays in the obnoxious war museum situated beside the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, where the souls of Japan’s war dead (Class A War Criminals included) are enshrined. Here the visitor is subjected to a distorted and offensive version of history. A case in point is the museum’s treatment of the notorious 1937 ‘Rape of Nanking’, in which tens of thousands of Chinese were murdered and innumerable women raped by soldiers of the Imperial Japanese Army. In the museum, there is no mention of atrocities; we are instead told that the general in charge told his troops ‘to maintain strict military disciplines [sic] and that anyone committing unlawful acts would be severely punished’. Yuya Shino/ReutersMen dressed as Japanese Imperial army soldiers march in front of the gate of the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo August 15, 2014, to mark the 69th anniversary of Japan's surrender in World War Two.Japan’s relations with China and South Korea are unlikely to improve while nationalist politicians like Prime Minister Shinzo Abe run the country. They have called into question the truthfulness of the testimony of tens of thousands of ‘comfort women’, mostly Koreans, who were forced to serve as sex slaves for Japanese soldiers during the era of Japan’s imperial aggressions. Nationalists – apparently convinced that their knowledge of the matter exceeds that of the women themselves – argue that these women were in fact jobbing prostitutes. The Japanese government has never issued an official apology to the ‘comfort women’. This refusal to acknowledge past crimes is one of the unpalatable aspects of contemporary Japan. There are other realities that stick in the craw, such as the sexism that is ingrained in Japanese life. It’s difficult to credit, but there is no legal equality in Japan as regards the age at which people can get married: For boys, it is 18, for girls, 16. A mere 8 percent of representatives in Japan’s national parliament are female. It’s not exactly surprising, then, that on occasion male politicians let slip remarks of astonishing sexism. A few years ago, for instance, the country’s health minister referred to Japanese females as ‘baby-making machines’. A more recent example occurred in June when Ayaka Shiomura, a female member of the Tokyo Assembly, was heckled by sexist male representatives of the prime minister’s party while giving a speech. ‘Why don’t you get married soon?’ demanded one wit, while another shouted out ‘Are you not able to have a baby?’ Prime Minister Abe maintained an undignified silence on the matter for nearly a week, before at last issuing a weak apology to the head of Shiomura’s party (a man), but not to Shiomura herself. Japan is also a racist society. In Tokyo’s notorious Kabukicho district there are establishments which display ‘Japanese only’ signs, as noted in a July report on Japan by the U.N. Human Rights Committee. This body also expressed ‘concern at the widespread racist discourse’ evident in the country, and ‘the high number of extremist demonstrations authorised’. Shin-Okubo, Tokyo’s ‘Koreatown’, is a particular target of extreme right-wing groups, which take advantage of Japan’s tolerance of hate speech. Anecdotally, during my time in Japan this year I witnessed an alarming anti-China protest in central Tokyo, during which the imperial flag of Japan was waved and a woman screaming into a megaphone whipped up the crowd. My instinct is that Japan gets rather a good press in the west: it’s a U.S. ally, a democracy (albeit one in which the same party is almost always in power), and pacifist. We like sushi and other cultural imports from Japan. I hope, however, to have shown that there’s another side to the picture; one that’s a lot less positive. Michael Walker has a Ph.D. in International Relations from the University of St. Andrews, Scotland.  FREE AppDownload
In his speech to the Trade Union Congress on Tuesday, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said the Great Recession had been a tale of two recoveries — the U.S. bounced back much faster, but Britain's job market is looking much healthier. Bank of EnglandU.K. unemployment rose by less than in the U.S. and has fallen more rapidly. Although unemployment has fallen sharply in the U.S. since the worst of the crisis, Carney pointed out that "the number of Americans in work has only just returned to where it was before Lehman failed, even though there are now 14 million more people of working age." By contrast, Britain now has over one million more people in employment than it had at the start of the crisis, and total hours worked have risen by 4% over that period. This impressive performance by the U.K., however, has come at the cost of wages, which in real terms have fallen some 10% since the start of the crisis — the worst falls in wages since the 1920s. Weakness in pay growth meant that employers were able to take on more staff despite the uncertain economic climate. Perhaps most interestingly, Carney notes that corporate profits in Britain have also been weak, in stark contrast to American companies, which have been able to increase their profits significantly as a share of national income. Bank of EnglandU.K. participation rate vs. 2007 expected levels. So why does he think this happened? In large part the answer is that a lot more people between the ages of 50 and 64 in Britain started to look for work. This was a response both to the destruction of wealth and falls in interest income over the crisis, as well as the requirement of many to work longer to pay off accumulated debt. So instead of losing an expected half a million workers to population aging, the U.K. was able to add 1.5 million to its workforce. That more people who wanted or needed to find work were able to do so is undoubtedly a positive. But the fact that older people felt compelled to re-enter or remain in the workforce may also raise some uncomfortable questions over the trade-offs of a flexible labor market. Encouraging firms to substitute labor for capital, or workers for investment, may in part explain why U.K. firms have experienced lower profits than their American counterparts. It may also raise concerns that it could lower potential growth in the future if a lack of investment in new technology or equipment causes a loss of competitiveness relative to their peers. Carney, however, says that Britain has had the better of the two recoveries and in particular suggests that hysteresis effects, whereby workers become deskilled or demotivated by the lack of employment, could have had a greater impact on potential growth than underinvestment: For the economy, maintaining workforce attachment is the best way to ensure that cyclical downturns in aggregate demand for goods and services do not translate into permanent reductions in our economy’s potential to supply them. If he's right, then the outlook for the U.K. over the next few years should be much rosier than thought. After all, if the hit to Britain's trend growth is less severe than for the U.S., we might expect the current period of catch-up growth to continue for some time yet. And, as it does, wages should start to make up some of their recent falls too. Yet the main message from Carney's analysis is that no one would want to trade places with the eurozone right now. As he puts it: Euro-area countries have needed to make similar — if larger — adjustments to restore competitiveness but with less flexible labour markets and without a flexible currency ... The results have been dire. Euro-area unemployment has risen sharply over two successive recessions to its current rate of over 11%. It stands at over 14% in Portugal, 20% in Spain, and 25% in Greece. Though we can debate who provides the best example of how to manage a crisis on the scale of the Great Recession, the eurozone has comfortably won the prize for how not to. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipCustomers at a McDonald's outlet, the first one that opened in China in 1990, at the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen neighboring Hong Kong on March 18, 2013.McDonald's global sales at stores open at least 13 months declined 3.7% in August.  That the worst same-store sales decline that the fast-food giant has reported since March 2003, when global sales also fell 3.7%. It also marks the fourth straight month of comparable sales declines in the U.S., which accounts for about 32% of McDonald's revenue.  Same-store sales in the U.S. were down 2.8%, and in the Asia/Pacific, Middle East, and Africa region they dropped 14.5%. "During August, McDonald's global business faced several headwinds that impacted sales performance," McDonald's President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson said in a statement. "We are diligently working to effectively navigate the current market conditions to regain momentum. For the long term, we remain focused on strengthening the key foundational elements of our service, operations and marketing to maximize the impact of our strategic growth priorities for our customers and our business." The company cited weak performance in Russia and ongoing fallout from a health scandal that affected one of its food suppliers in China as key factors affecting its sales. Domestic same-store sales dropped 3.2% in July and 3.5% in June. FREE AppDownload
Societe Generale is out with its latest quarterly chart of "swan" risks. "Black swans" characterize unforeseen and unlikely events that have the potential to rock the economy and financial markets. While the sharp slowdown in Europe has dominated the economic headlines lately, SocGen believes that we should be most worried about China. "The most significant downside risks to the global economy in this short-term setting aside geopolitical risks remains a hard landing of the Chinese economy," the analysts said. "As highlighted on a previous occasion, the fact that China is now the world’s second largest economy means that a scenario in which China experiences a hard landing knocking an initial 2pp off GDP as investment collapses would cost the global economy 1pp in lost GDP the first year after the shock." Europe, however, could actually offer some serious upside. Here's what they think: A political agreement on what is tantamount to fiscal union in the euro area presents the most substantial upside risk to our central economic scenario. If euro area governments agree to a plan of (1) launching a large scale government-backed EU investment programme (project bond initiative), (2) setting in motion deep structural reforms, (3) back loading fiscal austerity and (4) allowing the ECB to further support these actions with a large scale government bond asset programme we see potential to add as much as 1.5pp per annum to the euro area growth outlook over the coming decade. In our baseline, we have factored in a lift of 0.5pp from reforms as J-curve effects fade, euro area investment projects, wins from European Banking Union and ECB policy easing. Fast track easing of the Ukraine crisis would be an additional positive. In the US, faster than expected recovery in investment, jobs and wages offers upside potential. For investors and traders, SocGen thinks the big risk lands on the evolving outlook for monetary policy. "In terms of markets, the Fed’s exit marks a critical moment and there is a risk of potential destabilising corrections. Finally, much as euro area policymakers have potential to deliver upside surprises, there is also risk for further disappointment and, with the region already dangerously close to a lowflation trap, this risk scenario comes with a high probability." Check it out. Societe Generale
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesTrump Entertainment Resorts Inc &lt;TRMY.PK&gt;, which operates two casinos in Atlantic City, joined the list of casino operators in New Jersey that have filed for bankruptcy. Trump Entertainment operates the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort and the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City. The company, founded by Donald Trump, listed assets and liabilities of between $100 million and $500 million in its bankruptcy petition in a Delaware court. The case is In Re: Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware, No:14-12103. (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
NBC via YouTube screengrabGeorge Costanza and his notorious double-dip.Mario Draghi surprised us again. Just months after unprecedented easing measures including the introduction of negative interest rates, the European Central Bank announced last week that it would cut rates even further while also launching fresh programs to make open-market purchases of asset-backed securities and bonds. The plan isn’t as aggressive as the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing program, but it was still more far-reaching than anticipated. Clearly, the ECB is willing to try anything it can to fight low inflation and stimulate lending. The only problem? Nothing they’ve done to this point has had a lasting effect. After several quarters of mild recovery from the 2011-12 recession, the Eurozone economy registered zero growth last quarter. Germany, long considered the continent’s most reliable growth engine, saw its economy shrink 0.2 percent, while France flat-lined and Italy shrank as well. Not surprisingly, inflation fell to 0.4 percent in July, the lowest level in more than four years and a far cry from the bank’s target of 2 percent. Draghi admitted during a September 4 news conference that the medium-term inflation outlook was worsening and August data showed the recovery was losing momentum. So has the Europe-in-recovery play run its course? No it hasn’t, says Credit Suisse. For starters, even if the headline data doesn’t look too good, it’s not bad enough to push Europe into a triple-dip recession. A key reason is that the current weak economic data is more a function of a drop off in external demand than homegrown weakness. A higher sales tax in Japan, for example, hurt global goods demand in the second quarter, which impacted European exports. The conflict in the Ukraine and Russia has impacted Europe too, since exports to Russia represent 0.9 percent of euro area GDP. These factors will help keep Europe’s economy weak in the third quarter, but they shouldn’t hold back growth so much in the fourth quarter or next year. Why? Because languishing demand from some corners of the globe is likely offset by the U.S., where consumer confidence is the highest since 2007 and unemployment dropped to 6.1 percent in August. The U.S. purchases 12 percent of euro zone exports, far more than any other non-European Union country. But it’s not just the U.S. that promises to be a better customer to Europe: Global growth is expected to accelerate in 2015—from 3.1 percent this year to 3.5 percent next—and the situation in Ukraine may improve after the country signed a cease-fire with pro-Russia separatists on September 5. All told, Europe will grow 0.8 percent this year and 1.3 percent next year, according to Credit Suisse forecasts. “We still expect economic activity to slowly improve towards the end of the year,” says Björn Eberhardt, head of global macro research at Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division. Indeed, domestic demand remains in good shape despite all the woeful news. Retail sales in the euro area increased 0.8 percent in July from a year earlier. Car sales in Western Europe rose 1.2 percent in August, the 12th straight monthly increase, according to LMC Automotive figures. The euro zone’s Purchasing Managers’ Index indicated higher manufacturing and services output for the 14th straight month in August. And while the bloc’s unemployment rate remains much higher than in the U.S., it fell to 11.5 percent in June from 12 percent the same month last year. “Overall, the labor market is  improving, which supports consumption going forward,” Eberhardt says. Another positive for the region’s economy has been the weakening of the euro, which has fallen 7 percent versus the dollar over the past four months, a decline fueled in large part by the ECB’s loose monetary policy. That should help European exporters, and the central bank’s latest measures should help keep the currency headed in the same direction. And if the most recent measures prove ineffective as well? Draghi has left the door open to further stimulus. No surprise there. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFormer Presidents Bill Clinton, left, and George W. Bush at the Presidential Leadership Scholars Program Launch on Monday at The Newseum in Washington.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Here Comes Apple. Apple is expected to unveil new products on Tuesday including the iPhone 6, a smartwatch, and a new payments system. "Apple hasn't released a new product in 2014, save for some minor refreshes to a few of its MacBook models," reported BI's Steve Kovach. "Instead, it's packing all its announcements into the fall. And it all starts Tuesday." Click here for a complete preview of Tuesday's Apple event. The Stakes Are High For Tim Cook. BI's Jim Edwards has characterized Apple CEO Tim Cook's speech as the most important speech of his life. "The world Apple lives in is moving faster than it ever has before," Edwards said. "Apple now has rivals that are more nimble than its old enemy, Microsoft ... To a surprising extent, Apple is playing catch-up." UK Industrial Production Surprises. Industrial output in the U.K. increased 0.5% in July, the biggest jump in five months. This was better than the 0.2% expected by economists. "Industrial production growth was boosted by electricity and gas production, which may prove temporary as it is volatile," noted Bloomberg economists Jamie Murray and Niraj Shah. "The underlying picture is one of slow manufacturing growth (which accounts for the bulk of production)." Carney Signals A Spring Rate Hike. "Our latest forecasts show that, if interest rates were to follow the path expected by markets — that is, beginning to increase by the spring and thereafter rising very gradually — inflation would settle at around 2% by the end of the forecast and a further 1.2 million jobs would have been created," Bank of England Mark Carney said at the Trade Union Congress in Liverpool. The BoE is expected to be the first of the major central banks to tighten monetary policy. General Mills Makes A Move Into Organic Food. General Mills is buying organic cheese and shells maker Annie's for $820 million, or $46 per share. The price represents a 37% premium to Monday's closing price. "Powerful consumer shifts toward products with simple, organic, and natural ingredients from companies that share consumers' core values show no signs of letting up," Annie's CEO John Foraker said. "Partnering with a company of General Mills' scale and resources will strengthen our position at the forefront of this trend, enabling us to more rapidly and efficiently expand into new channels and product lines in a rapidly evolving industry environment." Markets Are Mixed. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is flat, France's CAC 40 is down 0.1%, Germany's DAX is down 0.1%, and Spain's IBEX is down by 0.5%. Asia closed mixed, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.2%. U.S. futures were up, with Dow futures up 11 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 0.6 point. Job Openings. At 10 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish its July Job Openings &amp; Labor Turnover Survey. Economists estimate the JOLTS report will reveal 4.7 million U.S. job openings in July. "JOLTS (Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey) has garnered more attention lately as Fed Chair Yellen often cites the survey when assessing the state of the labor market," Credit Suisse economists said. "In June, JOLTS job openings continued to strengthen, rising to 4.7M and job vacancies per unemployed worker increased to 0.49, the highest level since May 2008. The ratio of vacancies to unemployed workers has risen much faster than its post-crisis trend for three months in a row, providing further confirmation that the U.S. labor market has indeed shifted to a period of stronger growth. However, the rate of hiring rose only slightly and quits were unchanged in June, remaining well below pre-crisis levels." Home Depot Confirms Data Breach. "Home improvement retailer Home Depot on Monday confirmed its payment systems were breached, potentially impacting customers using payment cards at its U.S. and Canadian stores," reported Reuters' Shailaja Sharma. "While the full scope of the breach was yet to be determined, there was no evidence that debit PIN numbers were compromised, Home Depot said in a statement." Trump To File For Bankruptcy. "Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc., the company founded by Donald Trump, will file for bankruptcy again this week, people with knowledge of the situation said, putting a fifth Atlantic City casino in danger of closing," reported Bloomberg's Christopher Palmeri, Elise Young, and Michael Bathon. "The company owns two properties in the struggling New Jersey resort town. Trump Plaza is set to cease operations on Sept. 16, and the Trump Taj Mahal may also shut in November, the people said. Three other casinos have closed in the city this year, including Caesars Entertainment Corp.’s Showboat and the Revel Casino Hotel last week." Insider Trader Gets 9 Years. "Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at billionaire Steven A. Cohen's SAC Capital Advisors LP hedge fund, was sentenced on Monday to nine years in prison for engaging in what authorities called the most lucrative insider trading scheme in U.S. history," reported Reuters' Nate Raymond. "U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in New York also ordered Martoma, 40, to forfeit $9.3 million." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Peter MacdiarmidMark Carney, Governor of the Bank of EnglandBank of England Governor Mark Carney signaled a U.K. interest rate hike could come in early 2015. "Our latest forecasts show that, if interest rates were to follow the path expected by markets – that is, beginning to increase by the spring and thereafter rising very gradually – inflation would settle at around 2% by the end of the forecast and a further 1.2 million jobs would have been created," Carney said at the Trade Union Congress in Liverpool. Thanks to a respectable economic recovery, the U.K. stands to be the first of the major developed economies to experience tighter monetary policy in the post-financial crisis era. Like many countries, the U.K. faces low inflation highlighted by low wage growth. One of the big concerns in monetary policy is that central bankers will pull dovish policy before wages are on a sustainable growth path. "As employment approaches its new higher level, wage pressures should increase and capital investment should continue to recover," Carney added. "Productivity growth should pick up bringing the higher, sustainable pay rises that British workers deserve. "By the end of our forecast, we see 4% nominal pay growth on average across the economy. This is consistent with our inflation target and the economy’s potential." Read Carney's whole speech at the Bank of England's website. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonUnemployment line in South Korea. The world is facing a global jobs crisis that is hurting the chances of reigniting economic growth, and there is no magic bullet to solve the problem, the World Bank warned on Tuesday. In a study released at a G20 Labour and Employment Ministerial Meeting in Australia, the Bank said an extra 600 million jobs needed to be created worldwide by 2030 just to cope with the expanding population. "There's little doubt there is a global jobs crisis," said the World Bank's senior director for jobs, Nigel Twose. "As this report makes clear, there is a shortage of jobs — and quality jobs. "And equally disturbingly, we're also seeing wage and income inequality widening within many G20 countries, although progress has been made in a few emerging economies, like Brazil and South Africa." He said that overall emerging market economies had done better than advanced G20 countries in job creation, driven primarily by countries like China and Brazil, but the outlook was bleak. "Current projections are dim. Challenging times loom large," Twose said. The report, compiled with the OECD and International Labour Organisation, said more than 100 million people were unemployed in G20 economies and 447 million were considered "working poor," living on less than US$2 a day. It said despite a modest economic recovery in 2013-14, global growth was expected to remain below trend with downside risks in the foreseeable future, while weak labor markets were constraining consumption and investment.  The persistent slow growth would continue to dampen employment prospects, it said, and warned that real wages had stagnated across many advanced G20 nations and even fallen in some. "There is no magic bullet to solve this jobs crisis, in emerging markets or advanced economies," Twose said. "We do know we need to create an extra 600 million jobs worldwide by the year 2030 just to cope with the expanding population. "That requires not just the leadership of ministries of labor but their active collaboration with all other ministries — a whole of government approach cutting across different ministries, and of course the direct and sustained involvement of the private sector." In the face of below trend growth, Group of 20 leaders, who meet in Brisbane in November, have called for each member country to develop growth strategies and employment action plans.  They emphasized the need for coordinated and integrated public policies, along with resilient social protection systems, sustainable public finance, and well-regulated financial systems.  "Coordinated policies in these areas are seen as the foundation for sustainable, job-creating economic growth," the report said.  Earlier this year, G20 finance ministers and central bank governors meeting in Sydney agreed to work toward lifting their collective gross domestic product by more than 2 percentage points over the next five years. However, an IMF report in July warned that the pledge could be wiped out by rising interest rates and weakening emerging economies. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTrader Richard Deviccaro of Morgan Stanley works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange October 31, 2011. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley &lt;ms.n&gt; has agreed to pay $95 million to resolve a lawsuit accusing the Wall Street bank of misleading investors in mortgage-backed securities in the run up to the 2008 financial crisis. The settlement, disclosed in court papers filed Monday in New York federal court, follows years of litigation by investors over allegedly false and misleading statements over the soured securities. The deal stemmed from a lawsuit pursued by the Public Employees' Retirement System of Mississippi (MissPERS) and the West Virginia Investment Management Board. The plaintiffs accused Morgan Stanley of violating U.S. securities law in packaging and selling mortgage backed securities in 13 offerings in 2006 and 16 offerings in 2007. In the years since the litigation began in 2008, the plaintiffs were dealt a series of setbacks by U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain who dismissed various claims due to standing and timeliness. After a ruling in May that dismissed claims brought by some of the plaintiffs, Morgan Stanley said MissPERS had become the lone named plaintiff to have purchased securities in the only remaining offering at issue in the case. A motion to grant class certification status allowing the investors to sue as a group was pending when the parties first informed the court in July of a deal. Financial terms were not disclosed until Monday. Representatives for Morgan Stanley did not respond to a request for comment. David Stickney, a lawyer for the plaintiffs at Bernstein Litowitz Berger &amp; Grossmann, declined comment. In court papers, lawyers for the plaintiffs said they expected investors would on average receive a distribution of $2.63 per $1,000 in original face value offered. Lawyers for the plaintiffs said they would also seek approval of a fee award of 17 percent of the settlement, or $16.2 million, plus up to $2 million in expense reimbursements. The settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest, who took over the case in May. The case is In re Morgan Stanley Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates Litigation, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 09-02137.   (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonWhat will the new iPhone look like? Good morning! Here's what people will chatting about on Tuesday.  1. Apple is expected to unveil the iPhone 6 and other new products in a mega-event on Tuesday. Haven't heard about the iPhone 6? Read all about it here.  2. The Dutch Safety Board will publish a preliminary report on the investigation into the crash of flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine in July. According to the safety board website: "The investigation team collected information from various sources, such as the cockpit voice recorder, the flight data recorder, satellite and other images, and radar information." 3. The pound has taken a huge hit following a surge in support for Scottish independence.  4. Speaking of Scottish independence, former British prime minister Gordon Brown has entered the political arena again as part of a speaking tour to gain support for the No vote, in what many see as a last-minute attempt to save the union.  5. Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice was suspended indefinitely by the NFL on Monday after video released by TMZ showed Rice knocking his then-fiancee (now wife) unconscious in an elevator.  6. The World Health Organization warned on Monday that thousands of new cases of Ebola were expected in Liberia over the next three weeks. "The number of new cases is moving far faster than the capacity to manage them in Ebola-specific treatment centers," WHO said in a statement. 7. The European Union agreed on a plan to place new economic sanctions on Russia, but leaders are waiting to see whether a cease-fire agreement between Ukraine and Russia holds before putting the measures into effect. 8. An Australian man was killed Tuesday in a suspected shark attack. Although sharks are common in Australian waters, fatal attacks are rare.  9. A highly contagious respiratory illness is hospitalizing hundreds of children around the U.S. 10. Kate Middleton is pregnant with her second child. The Telegraph speculates that the Duchess of Cambridge could be as little as five weeks pregnant, meaning that royal baby No. 2 would be born around April or May.  And finally... Did you catch the super harvest moon on Monday night? If you weren't able to see the event in person, here's a pretty picture of the harvest moon rising above thunder clouds in California Monday evening: REUTERS/Mike BlakeA full moon, also a harvest moon, rises past thunder clouds near Encinitas, California, on Monday.   FREE AppDownload
