In this OECD chart of life expectancy vs. per-capita healthcare spending (tweeted by Conrad Hackett), one nation is clearly different than all the rest: The United States. The U.S. has by far the highest per-capita healthcare spending... and one of the lowest life expectancies of any of the world's richest countries. Life expectancy vs per-capita healthcare spending. pic.twitter.com/6Q6woGm7iT FREE AppDownload
REUTERSPedestrians pass shuttered buildings in Ward 8 of Washington D.C. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama is making income inequality an issue in midterm elections, and proof of the gap between rich and poor is close at hand right outside the White House. The booming District of Columbia features the wealthiest high-income strata among big U.S. cities and more poor people than the national average, leading analysts to call it a microcosm of the larger U.S. economy. Middle-class jobs hollowed out by the 2007-2009 recession have failed to come back. A flood of mostly young, educated newcomers has helped revitalize once-blighted neighborhoods, but is wiping out low-cost housing within sight of the Capitol. The red-lettered "Come Unto Me" sign on the former Central Union Mission still overlooks 14th Street less than two miles north of the White House. But construction workers have gutted the onetime shelter for homeless men to convert it into tony shops and boutique condos, part of the makeover of 14th Street in recent years from a rundown retail strip to an urban playground of upscale restaurants, bars and apartments. "We're a city that has very healthy upper-income residents, and then a very healthy lower-income population, and not a good in-between," said Phil Mendelson, chairman of the city council. Ed Lazere, executive director of the DC Fiscal Policy Institute, a think tank, said wages were stagnant or falling for the bottom of Washington's workforce and rising for highly educated top earners. That mirrors the U.S. pattern, he said. "For people who don't have an advanced degree, just the chances of participating in D.C.'s economy are really grim and have only gotten worse over the last 20 years," Lazere said. Washington had the third-widest gap between wealthy and poor among the 50 biggest U.S. cities, trailing Boston and Atlanta, according to a 2012 Fiscal Policy Institute analysis. The top 5 percent of households had average incomes of $473,000, highest among the biggest 50 U.S. cities, while the poorest fifth averaged less than $10,000, the analysis said. At 18.2 percent, the District of Columbia's poverty rate is more than 2 percentage points above the U.S. average, 2012 Census Bureau figures show. BIKE LANES, WINE BARS Rising federal spending, bicycle lanes and public transport and a U.S. revival in city living have helped draw 1,000 new residents a month to the capital since 2008, bringing its population to almost 650,000. At Kafe Bohem, a coffee house in northwest Washington where wine bars and condos are replacing auto repair shops and cheap housing, general manager Lenora Yerkes said the city was becoming whiter, richer and harder to afford. "There is less and less room for people who work in a support capacity," she said as patrons huddled over computer screens or admired a photo display of neighborhood buildings being torn down or rebuilt as part of gentrification. Even as whites move into neighborhoods that have long been mostly black, such as the Seventh Street corridor, the fault lines are forming over income, not race. A Washington Post poll in January showed that 52 percent of District residents felt the city was mainly divided by income. Just 12 percent cited race. "It's not a black or white thing. It's a money thing. Either you can afford it or you can't," Keith Larry, 40, a barber at Seventh Street's Ordinary People barber shop, who is black, said of the gap between rich and poor. The impact of new money is clear in housing, where rent increases have outpaced inflation by 50 percent since 2000, according to another 2012 Fiscal Policy Institute study. The number of low-rent apartments costing $750 a month or less halved from 2000 to 2012, while the stock of those renting for $1,500 or more tripled, the report said. The result is that poor people are forced to move out of neighborhoods where rents are rising, or leave the city. "It's the wheel of the haves and the have-nots," said laborer Tyrone Queen, 43. "There is a kind of underlying movement to get them out." MIND THE GAP To mitigate the wealth gap, Mayor Vincent Gray has pledged to create or preserve 10,000 affordable housing units by 2020. The District is gradually raising the minimum wage to $11.50 an hour, well above the federal minimum of $7.25. City officials also are seeking tax adjustments, such as making the real estate tax more progressive, to help poorer residents. Obama has called income disparity "the defining challenge of our time." Democrats are making it a major campaign issue in the run-up to House and Senate elections in November. Some of Obama's key policy objectives are to push for Congress to raise the minimum wage, strengthen U.S. manufacturing and improve education and job training. Outlining U.S. inequality, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said in December that the top fifth of households saw their share of pretax income rise to more than 50 percent in 2010 from 43 percent in 1979. Most of the gain went to the top 1 percent, whose share increased from 9 percent to 15 percent. Households in the bottom 40 percent saw their share of income drop. (Reporting by Ian Simpson; Editing by Scott Malone and Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
 AP Photo/Andrew Lubimov A man in unmarked uniform looks from atop of a military vehicle while standing guard as troops taking control the the Coast Guard offices in Balaklava, outskirts of Sevastopol, Ukraine, Saturday, March 1, 2014. WASHINGTON (AP) — Despite blunt warnings about costs and consequences, President Barack Obama and European leaders have limited options for retaliating against Russia's military intervention in Ukraine, the former Soviet republic now at the center of an emerging conflict between East and West. Russian President Vladimir Putin has so far dismissed the few specific threats from the United States, which include scrapping plans for Obama to attend an international summit in Russia this summer and cutting off trade talks sought by Moscow. Because Ukraine does not have full-member status in NATO, the U.S. and Europe have no obligation to come to its defense. And broader international action through the United Nations seems all but impossible, given Russia's veto power as a member of the Security Council. "There have been strong words from the U.S. and other counties and NATO," said Keir Giles, a Russian military analyst at the Chatham House think tank in London. "But these are empty threats. There is really not a great deal that can be done to influence the situation." As if to underscore that point, Putin on Saturday requested and was granted permission to use Russia's military not just in the pro-Russian region of Crimea, but also throughout Ukraine. Putin's request came one day after Obama warned that any violation of Ukraine's "sovereignty and territorial integrity would be deeply destabilizing." Saturday's developments follow three months of political upheaval in Ukraine following President Viktor Yanukovych's rejection of a partnership agreement with the European Union in favor of historical ties with Moscow. Yanukovych fled Kiev, Ukraine's capital, last week and now is in Russia. Putin's moves are sure to deepen tensions in his already troubled relationship with Obama, who has struggled to find a formula for getting the Russian leader to change his calculus on a myriad of issues. American efforts to punish Russia on Ukraine and other matters have been complicated by the White House's need for Russian cooperation on stopping Syria's civil war, negotiating a nuclear accord with Iran, and transporting American troops and equipment out of Afghanistan through Russian supply routes. "We face a difficult choice of punishing Russia by effectively punishing ourselves," said Andrew Kuchins, the director of the Russia program at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies. Obama has tried to use his travel plans to Russia as a bargaining chip before, in the hopes that Putin might bend under the threat of a diplomatic embarrassment. Last summer, the White House dangled the prospect of canceling a bilateral summit between Obama and Putin as it pressed Russia to return National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden to the United States. When Russia instead granted Snowden temporary asylum, Obama canceled his one-on-one meeting with Putin. Obama did attend an international meeting in St. Petersburg. U.S. officials say they are in discussions now with European officials about Obama and other leaders possibly skipping the Group of Eight economic summit scheduled for June in Sochi, the site of the just-concluded Winter Olympics. Obama's top advisers gathered at the White House Saturday to discuss other options. The White House appears to be giving no serious consideration to American military involvement in Ukraine. In his carefully worded statement Friday, Obama avoided saying that a destabilized Ukraine would be a national security concern for the U.S. Instead, he said only that it was "not in the interest of Ukraine, Russia or Europe." In Europe, officials expressed concern about the Russian military escalation, but offered few specific options for stopping or punishing Putin. The European Union, dealing with its own internal problems, has appeared reluctant to fully embrace troubled Ukraine or risk the economic consequences of confronting Russia, one of its largest trading partners. "The world is on the verge of a conflict the outcome of which cannot be perceived yet," said Polish Prime Minster Donald Tusk, whose country shares a border with Ukraine. Tusk appealed for Europe to send a "very clear signal" that it will not tolerate acts of aggression, but he did not outline specific steps. Czech Foreign Minister Lubomir Zaoralek said Russia's attempts to "escalate the situation in Ukraine" reminded him of the 1968 Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia, which crushed liberal reforms and ended an era known as the Prague Spring. "We don't solve and can't solve disagreements in Europe by force," Zaoralek said. The U.N. Security Council was holding a closed-door meeting on Ukraine Saturday, its second in two days. But there's virtually no chance of getting even a resolution condemning Russian intervention given Russian veto power at the U.N. ___ Associated Press writers Monika Scislowska in Warsaw, Poland, Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin, Jan Olsen in Copenhagen, Denmark, Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey, Karel Janicek in Prague and Greg Katz in London contributed to this report. ___ EDITOR'S NOTE — Julie Pace has covered the White House for The Associated Press since 2009. Follow Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettBurberry CEO Angela Ahrendts.The most successful people in the world didn't make it on their own. That's why LinkedIn asked over 90 leaders across a variety of industries to share the best advice they've ever received and continue using to this day. Many recalled something that their parents, teachers, or career mentors taught them that has never left their hearts and minds. These bits of wisdom inspired them to stay focused, compassionate, and driven, and continue to motivate them.  Scroll down to read the most influential advice used by some of the business world's top minds. FREE AppDownload
"Thirty-six Views Of Mount Fuji," no. 33 on WikipediaThe collapse of Mt. Gox, once the leading Bitcoin exchange, has been widely covered and documented already. It appears that only now have many people woken up and realized that Bitcoin rests entirely on software, with all that that entails. Yes, most of the money that we have also depends on software. Your bank, for example, keeps track of the value of your account on a computer. But your money doesn't depend entirely on software. It's also backed by a trail of transaction information (backed up in multiple places), by the law, by the Federal Reserve, and by the U.S. government, which would not tolerate the sudden evaporation of every American's bank account. The fact that Bitcoin is software all the way down is, in fact, the thing its boosters are so excited about. This is Marc Andreessen, just a month ago: "Bitcoin gives us, for the first time, a way for one Internet user to transfer a unique piece of digital property to another Internet user, such that the transfer is guaranteed to be safe and secure, everyone knows that the transfer has taken place, and nobody can challenge the legitimacy of the transfer. The consequences of this breakthrough are hard to overstate." This all may be true in some theoretical sense. I don't know. I'm not a computer scientist. But all software design requires implementation. All implementation requires human beings. And human beings make mistakes. In this case, Mt. Gox was an online exchange for Magic trading cards before it was an online exchange for bitcoins, and it would be surprising if it had been built by the kinds of programmers and security specialists you would want for the future currency of the world. So now Andreesen and Co. are clinging to the idea that Mt. Gox was just a bad implementation, and the rest of the Bitcoin infrastructure is sound. That may be true. But there are two problems with this argument. First, the rest of the Bitcoin infrastructure was also built by, you know, people who make also mistakes and design imperfect code that can fail or be hacked by other people. Second, how do you know it is sound? This is only a rough analogy, but in the banking world we rely on the FDIC and the U.S. government. If a bank has FDIC insurance, we assume the FDIC is guaranteeing it, up to $250,000. And we know that if the FDIC made a mistake and the insurance fund runs out of money, the government will step in to bail us all out. How are people supposed to verify the soundness of the Bitcoin infrastructure they are using without some trusted third party? Alan Greenspan would say that the market can police itself, but who wants to be the person to lose her life's savings so that everyone else knows to stay away from some bad operator? Andreesen himself said that Mt. Gox was to Bitcoin as MF Global is to dollars, but that's hardly comforting. What that implies is that Bitcoin needs regulators, statutory liability, and insurance funds, which is not what its advocates want. Part of the underlying problem is an unwritten law of software competition: Security, performance, and reliability all cost money, but features are cheap and popular. So in the short term, it's a rational strategy to race ahead with feature development, skimp on security, and hope that you don't get caught with your pants down. This is why it's hard to expect high quality software when you're in the middle of a technological land grab, which is exactly what's going on with Bitcoin. This is especially true when the customers you're trying to attract are unsophisticated individuals sucked into the excitement of a speculative bubble. All the other Bitcoin exchanges may be safe as Ft. Knox—but that would be a surprise, given the incentives involved. Instead, we should expect shoddy development to be the norm. More generally, there is no such thing as a technological utopia. No matter how perfect a technological concept is, when it enters the world of human beings, it becomes imperfect. Bitcoin is no exception. In addition to everything else, apparently Mt. Gox's problems are due in part to a Bitcoin vulnerability that has been around since 2011—but that humans didn't get around to fixing. This is why we have laws, and regulators, and insurance, all of which would make Bitcoin more like ordinary money. Bitcoin may yet become a lasting part of our financial infrastructure, in part because it offers the promise of lower transaction costs. (As far as anonymity goes—well, look what the U.S. government is doing to Swiss banks.) But it will not usher in some kind of libertarian paradise. FREE AppDownload
tom.arthur via flickr creative commons Over the course of my time as Slate’s Moneybox correspondent, I’ve frequently had occasion to write about the fast-food sector. Chipotle, especially, but also Chopt and Taco Bell and KFC. To some, this has become an object of fun. Why is this guy writing so much about fast food when there are so many real economic issues in the world? The answer is simple. Fast food is an important issue. If you want an image of the future, imagine a burrito stomping on a human face—forever. Think about it. You, of course, can assemble burritos in a sweatshop in Cambodia, freeze them, put them on boats and trucks and then reheat them. But microwaved frozen burritos, though delightful when pulling an all-nighter in college, are fundamentally pretty gross. While I wouldn’t exactly say that you can’t replace burrito-making humans with burrito-making machines, I’m not sure anyone’s going to bother any time soon. From an engineering standpoint, making a burrito-rolling robot is a hard problem. Mechanization works best for tasks that require either enormous physical strength or none at all. For example, while algorithms can’t yet do good journalism, companies such as Narrative Sciences have succeeded in automating not-so-good journalism; with that foot in the door, they will presumably iterate and improve. Conversely, if you need to crush a car into a little cube of metal, using a machine rather than a whole team of human workers is a great idea. But a burrito is a physical object that requires little strength but a great deal of dexterity to fold without smushing. For a human being, this doesn’t count as a highly skilled occupation. For a robot, it’s extremely difficult. Last but by no means least, a huge challenge to robot burrito-making is that the inputs are poorly structured. The last time I went to Chipotle, I ordered a burrito with “uh, some carnitas I guess, but not too much—just a bit—yeah, that’s great, thanks.” This perhaps annoyed the woman whose job it was to scoop the protein into the burrito, but she understood it perfectly well. Later, when asked if I wanted anything to drink, I said “no, thank you,” but then remembered that my wife strongly prefers fountain soda to cans, so I reversed myself and said “a Diet Coke, actually no, make that two,” since I wanted one too! The cashier not only parsed that double flip-flop but cruised past the irrelevance of my stated soda-brand preference and just handed me two cups. Chipotle expects customers to fill their own cups, thus saving on labor costs and letting the customers decide exactly how much ice they want. Long story short, the fast-casual burrito dining experience is a difficult automation challenge. But it’s also not a particularly high priority, because food service industry workers don’t cost much to hire. The robots are going to come after truck drivers, accountants, Internet writers, and other mid-skill workers before they hit the lower-skill sector. That’s why even though total employment still remains slightly below its pre-recession peak, employment in food service establishments is 10 percent higher than it’s ever been. The Obama administration likes to tout a “manufacturing renaissance,” but the long-term trend toward the disappearance of factory work continues unabated. All of which is to say that covering the fast-food industry isn’t just about silly waffle taco videos. It is, to a substantial extent, about covering the future of the American economy and especially the future of working-class employment. Trends in the industry matter, as does the fact that, like any other industry, it has its incumbents and its entrants, its product innovations and its process innovations. On a policy level, we need to ask ourselves what the answers are for a world where a large and growing segment of the population is going to be working in the food service industry. The Republican platform’s focus on regressive tax cuts is just staggeringly unresponsive to big-picture social trends in an era when globalization, automation, assortative mating, and other social trends are disproportionately enriching the already-privileged. At the same time, while the recent Democratic Party push for a minimum-wage hike can do some good in this sphere even if it costs a few jobs, liberals ought to recognize that there’s a serious tradeoff here. Food service is a reliable source of job growth precisely because it’s a low-wage sector. Higher pay pushes employers toward automation, and it pushes consumers toward less labor-intensive forms of prepared foods or even—gasp—cooking for themselves. The real trick is to raise living standards without raising the cost structure for working-class employment. By reducing the power of the doctors’ cartel, for example, we raise real wages for everyone who needs medical care. Serious patent reform—by which I mean granting many fewer patent monopolies if we grant any at all, not just tackling “trolls”—would have the same effect. We need to crack down on the broadband trusts, and stop showering money on the most exclusionary colleges in America. All of which is to say that real wages and living standards have both a numerator and a denominator. The most sustainable way to tackle the problem of stagnating or falling working-class incomes is to work on the denominator—on the various regulatory privileges used by the wealthy and powerful to entrench their income and raise costs for everyone else. Snob zoning laws that keep mobile homes out of neighborhoods where land is cheap—and that dense apartment buildings and rooming houses out of places where it’s expensive—are a huge part of the problem. So are rules that make it harder to open new bars and restaurants, raising prices by reducing competition while also reducing job opportunities. Of course, taxing the rich to give everyone free money is also a great idea with a solid historical track record. The point is that despite a grim economic situation over the past several years, a much brighter future is within our grasp. To build it takes courage and tough political calls. It also takes clear thinking about the evolving economy and business landscape. And that means giving food service in general, and fast food in particular, its due. FREE AppDownload
People often ask me what MY personal style rules are. This is hard – as what they are really asking is: Antonio – can you tell me exactly what to do so I don’t have to think about it.  Unfortunately it’s not that easy. Situation, environments, culture……all this goes into our personal style. What I wear to a presentation in Las Vegas during the summer is very different from what I wear around town here in Wisconsin during the cold winters as I taxi my kids to school! BUT….if I had to layout the rules I follow……it would go something like what I have laid out in this detailed article. Again, these are the “general rules” that guide my personal style, and my writing on style for others. It’s not the only way to think about style. But it’s the way I’ve found best after years of experimentation, and it’s certainly a good starting place. It all starts here. If you don’t care how you look, you’re never going to look good. You can put on the best clothes in the world and you’ll still look like a kid dressing up for a school play. Attitude is everything, in style and in life. I start my personal style journey every day by giving a damn about who I am and what I represent — my business, my family, and my values. Caring about those things strongly makes me care strongly about how I present myself. I give a damn. I dress like I give a damn. It all starts here. And without this rule, no one’s ever going to get much of anywhere — in improving his wardrobe, or in anything else. This is an important rule for anyone who wants to really understand his clothes, as opposed to just trusting experts to tell him what to wear. You need to have a little understanding of (and respect for) where modern styles came from. That’s both a philosophical and a practical consideration. If you just try to memorize “do and don’t” rules, it gets overwhelming. There’s too much to handle. You could, for example, memorize the “rule” that trouser cuffs are informal, and that business suits should always be hemmed without a cuff. Or you could understand the history of the trouser cuff — as a working man’s protection against fraying and mud, especially when working with horses and carriages — and know that its associations are with labor, not with business. At that point you don’t have a rule to remember. Instead, you have an understanding of what your clothes mean, which in turn tells you when they would or would not be appropriate. So with all of my outfits, I strive for an understanding of the style’s history. Where our clothes came from matters, and it still influences the messages they send today — whether the people receiving the message understand why or not. I always tell my readers and my clients that they can’t be afraid to be the best-dressed guy in the room. Because I’ll tell you what — if you take the time to care about your appearance, it’s going to happen. And that’s not a bad thing. It takes getting used to. You may initially feel “overdressed,” particularly when you’re the only man wearing a jacket or a suit as opposed to a shirt or sweater. Learn to embrace it. People may treat you differently — but the differences will be overwhelmingly positive. Turns out that most regular people assume a man in a sharp jacket or suit is someone important, and treat him accordingly. That’s a good thing. It’ll open doors for you. But you do have to accept and embrace your new role as someone people look to as a leader, especially if you’ve never thought of yourself as one before. This is a lot like my rule about knowing your history. Fashion doesn’t have a lot of fixed yes-or-no rules. And the few that it does have can be broken stylishly (and have been). But you need to know what you’re doing, and why. Otherwise you just end up looking silly. I think “fedora guys” are a great example of why this rule is important. You probably know them — guys who own one black fedora, and wear it with everything. They look out of place when worn like this. Sorry, guys, if you’ve ever done it, but there it is. That’s because fedoras are dress hats. They’re deeply associated in our minds with suits. Wearing one with a T-shirt doesn’t make you look like an innovator — it makes you look confusing and a little off-putting to people’s habits of thought. And wearing one all the time tells people that you don’t understand any other headgear options. It’s not that you have to follow the rules all the time. It’s that you have to understand how the rules work in people’s minds, and what they’ll see if you break them. No one gets to rewrite style overnight. Even celebrities and designers get mocked if they push too far, too fast. Have some respect for the existing traditions. They’re there for a reason. This is my first rule for actually buying clothing, and I’ve said it many, many times here on this site and elsewhere: the fit of your clothing is its most important feature. Not everyone wants to hear that. It’s not the most glamorous aspect of fashion. There are lots of numbers and measurement, and it can seem kind of boring. But trust me on this one — the most expensive suit in the world isn’t going to look good on you unless it fits your body right. If you don’t have the right fit, everything else is wasted effort. Plain and simple. A good fit should flatter your body. It will draw attention to the parts of you that you want to highlight (usually the face, chest, and shoulders), and it can also minimize aspects you’re not as fond of (a large midsection, for example). Take the time to get to know your body, and have a tailor help you get accurate measurements. Learn to say “no” to clothes with a style you like, but a fit that can’t be adjusted to suit you. It really does matter. I like to focus on a “timeless style,” both in my personal life and in my advice to other men. Certain looks are always going to be dependable. Men might not wear suits as much  today as they did in our grandfathers’ time, but the suits our grandfathers wore would still mostly pass muster today. That’s a goal worth striving for: having clothing that your grandchildren could wear fifty years from now without looking out of place. I always urge men to focus on pieces that are both classic and associated specifically with men: suits, blazers, sports jackets, and trousers, both dress and casual. Steer clear of exaggerated trends and “this year’s hot looks.” Think about some of the trends that defined earlier eras: huge lapels, ultra-skinny ties, padded shoulders, and so on. You wouldn’t want to wear those today. They’d look dated and awful. So why wear this year’s equivalent? It’ll be just as outdated in a few years. Keep your look timeless and classic, both for your sake and your budget’s. Treat your clothing like an investment. Look for a good return on your money. It’s better to buy one item that lasts ten years than ten that last one.A serious wardrobe requires serious budgeting. You don’t have to be rich, you just have to be realistic. That said, I do always stress the idea of buying the best clothing you can afford. Not everyone needs luxury tailoring! Realistically, if you aren’t drawing the kind of salary that would cover $5000 bespoke suits, you’re probably not working in an environment that expects them, either. There’s nothing wrong with wearing made-to-measure, or even off-the-rack clothing adjusted by a tailor. Spend the money you need to. If you’re traveling in high-powered circles, that’s going to be more money. If you’re upgrading a social wardrobe for hanging with your friends, it’s going to be less. Be sensible — but be willing to make at least a little bit of an investment. A clever shopper can look like a high-powered exec in nothing but thrift-store castoffs and ready-to-wear retail clothes. It just takes time — and adjustments by a skilled tailor! Remember, the fit is everything. The average guy doesn’t have a lot of ready-made excuses to wear a suit and tie. Unless you’re a lawyer or a banker, that’s an outfit that’s mostly reserved for special occasions. Get in the habit of wearing your best clothes as a matter of routine, and it’ll take a lot of the mystery (and the mental resistance) out of dressing well. It’s easy to get into a mental paralysis with good wool jackets and slacks. They’re expensive, they’re a little harder to maintain than cotton shirts and jeans, and they make us feel more out of place. Try to teach yourself that they’re just clothes — clothes that look good on you. If you don’t have business occasions to wear anything fancy, dress up for a social occasion. If you belong to a church, Sunday morning services are always an appropriate time to wear a suit and tie (even if most of the congregation dresses to a more relaxed standard). Evenings at the theater or sit-down musical concerts (not rock concerts!) are similarly good occasions to break out your best. Even day to day errands like running to the grocery store can be done in wool slacks and a blazer, rather than jeans and a sweatshirt. There’s no law against being well-dressed at the supermarket. People will just assume you’re coming from some important meeting or other — and probably treat you with a little more respect without even realizing that they’re doing it. Different situations call for different clothes. I love my worsted wool suits, but they’re not the right choice every time! A good dresser keeps his environment in mind — both the physical and the social aspects of it. Physically, you want to be comfortable. That means lighter clothes in warm weather, thicker layers in cold, and a good fit all the time. Changing your wardrobe seasonally adds a little expense when you’re first building it, but over time you’ll end up saving wear and tear (and sweat damage) as you spread your usage out over more weather-appropriate options. Socially, you want to look respectable at all times, without inviting trouble. And yes — wearing an expensive business suit to a dive bar in a bad part of town is inviting trouble! Make the effort to fit in while looking sharp. That means jeans and even T-shirts, when jeans and T-shirts are appropriate. Just make sure they’re nice jeans and T-shirts: well-fitted, in good repair, and flattering to your body. If you’re always wearing the same basic outfit, rethink your strategy. Odds are you need a little variation, in one direction or the other. The more of your existing wardrobe a new item goes well with, the more use you’re going to get out of it. That’s a principle that’s guided my style (and my style advice) for years. I try to stay away from anything that’s completely single-purpose, with one or two unavoidable exceptions like tuxedos. Apart from those very purpose-specific outfits, everything I own is as interchangeable as possible. That way I can mix and match to get more mileage out of individual pieces. A dark blazer that goes with gray wool trousers is great. If the same blazer alsolooks good with jeans, so much the better! This is very easy to achieve if you stick to simple, solid colors for most of your base pieces. There’s nothing wrong with a little pattern and texture here and there, but if you make sure that most of your big items aren’t overwhelming on their own, you’re free to liven them up with smaller accents when you want to make the look unique. I think of it this way: if everything involved is interchangeable, then three jackets, three pairs of trousers, and five shirts gives me forty-five unique outfits (3 x 3 x 5 = 45). And that’s before I take belts, shoes, neckties, and other small items into account! It never works out quite that perfectly, of course. There are always some matches that just don’t quite work. But if your items are interchangeable, every new one has a multiplicative effect on your wardrobe instead of an additive one. There you have it — my rules for dressing well! I hope they help you on your own style journey.   This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldIn his just-released annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders, Warren Buffett updates us on his merger and acquisition activity. "While Charlie and I search for elephants, our many subsidiaries are regularly making bolt-on acquisitions," he said. "Last year, we contracted for 25 of these, scheduled to cost $3.1 billion in aggregate. These transactions ranged from $1.9 million to $1.1 billion in size." There are obviously big opportunities to buy companies around the world. Many look to emerging markets like China where growth is hot. But Buffett has his eyes domestic. "Our subsidiaries spent a record $11 billion on plant and equipment during 2013, roughly twice our depreciation charge," he said. "About 89% of that money was spent in the United States. Though we invest abroad as well, the mother lode of opportunity resides in America." FREE AppDownload
Fortune.com, Berkshire Hathaway, Business InsiderThe page on the left comes from Fortune.com. The page on the right comes from Berkshire Hathaway. Earlier this week, Warren Buffett gave Fortune Magazine an exclusive clip of his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. The excerpt included "fundamentals of investing" that Buffett had identified. Fortune had these five bullets (emphasis added): Oddly, that same excerpt was formatted slightly differently in the full letter, which was released earlier today. Specifically, the Buffett's actual letter has the paragraph following the fifth bullet bulleted itself. Fortune did not have it bulleted (see the screengrabs above). We're probably overthinking this. But bear with us. Here's the bullet: Not bulleted, this comment from Buffett can be seen as some extra context for the investments he was discussing. Bulleted, however, it effectively comes off as a sixth fundamental of investing. "What the economy, interest rates, or the stock market might do in the years immediately following – 1987 and 1994 – was of no importance to me in making those investments," he said. "I can’t remember what the headlines or pundits were saying at the time." As a "fundamental," Buffett may be telling us that near-term moves in economic growth, rates, and stocks will mean little in the long-run. We'll update you if we hear back from Buffett or Fortune. FREE AppDownload
Federal Reserve, Sam RoThe U.S. recovery from the Great Recession is still one of the worst recoveries in history (see red line at right). Why is the recovery so slow and weak? One of the main reasons is that average American consumers, who account for the vast majority of the spending in the economy, are still strapped. Five years after the recovery began, unemployment remains high. And the Americans who are lucky enough to be working are getting paid less as a percent of the economy than they ever have in history. Meanwhile, America's corporations and their owners have never had it better. Corporate profits just hit another all-time high, both in absolute dollars and as a percent of the economy. And U.S. stocks just hit yet another record. Many people seem confused by this juxtaposition. If corporations and shareholders are making such gargantuan piles of money, why is the economy so crappy? The answer is that one company's employees are other company's customers. Americans save almost nothing, so every dollar your employees earn in wages gets spent on other companies' products and services (including, in some cases, yours). The less American companies pay their workers, the less American consumers have to spend. And the less American consumers have to spend, the worse the economy is. This isn't a complex concept. We're all in this together. There's also no "law of capitalism" that says that companies have to pay their employees as little as possible or "maximize profits" to please their owners. That's just a story that the owners made up to justify taking as much of the company's wealth as possible for themselves. And the longer American corporations and shareholders insist on taking an ever-greater share of the country's wealth for themselves, instead of sharing it with the people who create it (employees), the longer our economy will suffer. Let's go to the charts ... 1) Corporate profit margins just hit another all-time high. Companies are making more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. (Some people are still blaming economic weakness on "too much regulation" and "too many taxes." That's a bunch of crap. Maybe little companies are getting smothered by regulation and taxes, but big ones certainly aren't. What they're suffering from is a myopic obsession with short-term profits at the expense of long-term value creation.) Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP.2) Wages as a percent of the economy just hit another all-time low. Why are corporate profits so high? One reason is that companies are paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. And that, in turn, is one reason the economy is so weak: Those "wages" represent spending power for consumers. And consumer spending is "revenue" for other companies. So the profit obsession is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis FedWages and salaries as a percent of GDP. In short, the main reason our economy is still weak is that our obsession with "maximizing profits" is creating a country of a few million overlords and 300+ million serfs. Don't believe it? FREE AppDownload
HannahWebb / FlickrWarren Buffett just published his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. This is always a must-read, not just for Berkshire investors but for anyone who invests in anything. In an unusual move, Buffett is already hyping up the letter he'll publish a year from now. Here's the last two sentences of 23-page letter: Next year’s letter will review our 50 years at Berkshire and speculate a bit about the next 50. In the meantime, come to Omaha on May 3rd and enjoy our Woodstock for Capitalists. We can't wait. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway CEO Warren BuffettWarren Buffett's most important comments of late are tucked away in three paragraphs on page 21 of his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. It's a warning about public pension plans: Local and state financial problems are accelerating, in large part because public entities promised pensions they couldn’t afford. Citizens and public officials typically under-appreciated the gigantic financial tapeworm that was born when promises were made that conflicted with a willingness to fund them. Unfortunately, pension mathematics today remain a mystery to most Americans. Investment policies, as well, play an important role in these problems. In 1975, I wrote a memo to Katharine Graham, then chairman of The Washington Post Company, about the pitfalls of pension promises and the importance of investment policy. That memo is reproduced on pages 118 - 136. During the next decade, you will read a lot of news – bad news – about public pension plans. I hope my memo is helpful to you in understanding the necessity for prompt remedial action where problems exist. Pensions are formally referred to as defined-benefit plans. They differ from defined-contribution plans like 401ks in that the employer guarantees a certain retirement benefit. 401k plans, on the other hand, include no such promise; if the employees' 401k plan investment go sour, they're in trouble. The financial crisis came with crashing asset prices and many pension plans fell deep into underfunded status. Many corporate pension funds, however, rode the stock market rally back to funded status. Unfortunately, the public pension funds appear to be in much more trouble. FREE AppDownload
NFM.comRose BlumkinUnaudited financial statements can be scary things. But that didn't stop Warren Buffett from buying one tiny furniture company in 1983. Buffett shared the sweet success story in his new annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders: I can’t resist, however, giving you an update on Nebraska Furniture Mart’s expansion into Texas. I’m not covering this event because of its economic importance to Berkshire – it takes more than a new store to move the needle on Berkshire’s $225 billion equity base. But I’ve now worked 30 years with the marvelous Blumkin family, and I’m excited about the remarkable store – truly Texas-sized – it is building at The Colony, in the northern part of the Dallas metropolitan area. When the store is completed next year, NFM will have – under one roof, and on a 433-acre site – 1.8 million square feet of retail and supporting warehouse space. View the project’s progress at www.nfm.com/texas. NFM already owns the two highest-volume home furnishings stores in the country (in Omaha and Kansas City, Kansas), each doing about $450 million annually. I predict the Texas store will blow these records away. If you live anywhere near Dallas, come check us out. NFM.comWarren Buffett and Rose BlumkinI think back to August 30, 1983 – my birthday – when I went to see Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin), carrying a 11/4-page purchase proposal for NFM that I had drafted. (It’s reproduced on pages 114 - 115.) Mrs. B accepted my offer without changing a word, and we completed the deal without the involvement of investment bankers or lawyers (an experience that can only be described as heavenly). Though the company’s financial statements were unaudited, I had no worries. Mrs. B simply told me what was what, and her word was good enough for me. Mrs. B was 89 at the time and worked until 103 – definitely my kind of woman. Take a look at NFM’s financial statements from 1946 on pages 116 - 117. Everything NFM now owns comes from (a) that $72,264 of net worth and $50 – no zeros omitted – of cash the company then possessed, and (b) the incredible talents of Mrs. B, her son, Louie, and his sons Ron and Irv. The punch line to this story is that Mrs. B never spent a day in school. Moreover, she emigrated from Russia to America knowing not a word of English. But she loved her adopted country: At Mrs. B’s request, the family always sang God Bless America at its gatherings. Aspiring business managers should look hard at the plain, but rare, attributes that produced Mrs. B’s incredible success. Students from 40 universities visit me every year, and I have them start the day with a visit to NFM. If they absorb Mrs. B’s lessons, they need none from me.  You can't beat good management and the instinct to identify them. FREE AppDownload
Berkshire Hathaway Not much is said about the folks who work at Berkshire Hathaway's corporate offices. But Warren Buffett is changing that. At the closing of his annual letter to shareholders, he includes this message and photo: For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. They are truly All- Stars, who run their businesses as if they were the only asset owned by their families. I believe the mindset of our managers to be as shareholder-oriented as can be found in the universe of large publicly-owned companies. Most have no financial need to work; the joy of hitting business “home runs” means as much to them as their paycheck. Equally important, however, are the 24 men and women who work with me at our corporate office. This group efficiently deals with a multitude of SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 23,000-page Federal income tax return as well as state and foreign returns, responds to countless shareholder and media inquiries, gets out the annual report, prepares for the country’s largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board’s activities – and the list goes on and on. They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life easy and pleasant. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: Last year they dealt with the 40 universities (selected from 200 applicants) who sent students to Omaha for a Q&amp;A day with me. They also handle all kinds of requests that I receive, arrange my travel, and even get me hamburgers and French fries (smothered in ketchup, of course) for lunch. No CEO has it better; I truly do feel like tap dancing to work every day. In closing, I think it’s become appropriate to ignore our “no pictures” policy and let you view our remarkable home-office crew. Below is a photo from our Christmas lunch. Two people couldn’t make it; otherwise you are looking at all of those who staff Berkshire’s headquarters. They are truly miracle-workers. They sound like a good crew. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldIn his just-released annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders, Warren Buffett updates us on his merger and acquisition activity. "While Charlie and I search for elephants, our many subsidiaries are regularly making bolt-on acquisitions," he said. "Last year, we contracted for 25 of these, scheduled to cost $3.1 billion in aggregate. These transactions ranged from $1.9 million to $1.1 billion in size." There are obviously big opportunities to buy companies around the world. Many look to emerging markets like China where growth is hot. But Buffett has his eyes domestic. "Our subsidiaries spent a record $11 billion on plant and equipment during 2013, roughly twice our depreciation charge," he said. "About 89% of that money was spent in the United States. Though we invest abroad as well, the mother lode of opportunity resides in America." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWarren BuffettLike all of us, Warren Buffett has been getting older. This has had investors increasingly asking about succession planning at Berkshire Hathaway. Importantly, everyone's wondering if Berkshire will have people who are able deliver impressive returns through savvy stock market investments. Buffett's top stock pickers, Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, appear to be doing a decent job. "In a year in which most equity managers found it impossible to outperform the S&amp;P 500, both Todd Combs and Ted Weschler handily did so," said Buffett in his annual letter to shareholders. "Each now runs a portfolio exceeding $7 billion. They’ve earned it." "I must again confess that their investments outperformed mine. (Charlie says I should add “by a lot.”) If such humiliating comparisons continue, I’ll have no choice but to cease talking about them." "Todd and Ted have also created significant value for you in several matters unrelated to their portfolio activities," continued Buffett. "Their contributions are just beginning: Both men have Berkshire blood in their veins." All this should shore up confidence among Berkshire's shareholders. FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama / Getty ImagesWarren Buffett's 2013 annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders is out. Here's a quick rundown of what everyone will be talking about: Earlier this week, Buffett gave Fortune Magazine an exclusive excerpt from the letter. In it, he discusses two past property investment he had made. The first was a 400-acre farm in Nebraska, which he paid $280,000 for in 1986. The second was retail property near New York University in 1993. Both investment were made after prices collapsed. "Income from both the farm and the NYU real estate will probably increase in decades to come," he said. "Though the gains won't be dramatic, the two investments will be solid and satisfactory holdings for my lifetime and, subsequently, for my children and grandchildren." Buffett bulleted five fundamentals of investing, which we paraphrase: Buffett opened this excerpt with this quote from his mentor Columbia University finance professor Ben Graham: "Investment is most intelligent when it is most businesslike." FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Nabil al-JuraniBAGHDAD (AP) — A senior Iraqi official says daily oil exports have shot up in February to 2.8 million barrels from nearly 2.3 million barrels in the previous month, thanks to a small group of international oil companies developing oil fields and export infrastructure. Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister for energy, Hussain al-Shahristani, also said Saturday in the southern oil-rich city of Basra that average production, including the exports, exceeded 3.5 million barrels per day last month. Al-Shahristani described the figures as "unprecedented." Iraq's daily oil production and exports have climbed steadily since 2011, nearly two years after Iraq awarded rights to develop its major oil fields to international oil companies. It holds the world's fourth largest oil reserves, some 143.1 billion barrels, and oil revenues make up nearly 95 percent of its budget. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves Herman Russian President Vladimir Putin.The prospect of a full-scale Russian military intervention in Ukraine's Crimean peninsula mounted on Saturday, as the region's new prime minister asked for Vladimir Putin's assistance and a Kremlin source said it would "not leave unnoticed" the request. The pro-Russian prime minister of the region asked for Moscow's assistance in keeping the peace and claimed he had control of all military, police and other security services. The call by Sergei Aksenov came after armed men described as Russian troops took control of key airports and a communications centre in Crimea on Friday, and Ukraine accused Russia of a "military invasion and occupation". In the reply the Russian foreign ministry said it was "extremely concerned" about the recent developments in Crimea, which it said confirmed the desire of Kiev's politicians to destabilise the situation on the peninsula. The foreign ministry also accused pro-Kiev gunmen of attempting to take over the interior ministry headquarters in the region, claiming several injuries had occurred. "In Russia, we are extremely concerned about the recent developments in Crimea," the foreign ministry said in a statement. "We believe it is extremely irresponsible to further pressure the already tense situation in the Crimea." In the escalating war of words between Kiev and Moscow, Ukraine's defence minister, Ihor Tenyukh, accused Russia of having "recently" brought 6,000 additional personnel into Ukraine and that the Ukrainian military were on high alert in the Crimea region. The Crimean peninsula is home to a key Russian strategic naval base for the Black Sea fleet which it leases from Ukraine under an agreement. Russian officials claimed on Friday that military movements in the region were covered by that agreement – a claim denied by Kiev. The latest statements from both sides in the crisis follow mounting concern in the west, which on Friday prompted a statement from the US president, Barack Obama. Obama warned Moscow on Friday "there will be costs" if it intervenes militarily. His comments came after the British foreign secretary, William Hague, announced he would travel to Kiev on Sunday for talks with the new government there. The latest escalation of tension in Ukraine, where Viktor Yunukovych was deposed as president a week ago following mass demonstrations in whicvh more than 80 people died, came after armed men described as Russian troops took control of key airports and a communications centre in Crimea on Friday. Ukraine's population is divided in loyalties between Russia and the west, with much of western Ukraine advocating closer ties with the European Union while eastern and southern regions look to Russia for support. Crimea, a south-eastern peninsula of Ukraine that has semi-autonomous status, was seized by Russian forces in the 18th century under Catherine the Great. It became part of Ukraine in 1954 when Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev transferred jurisdiction from Russia, a move that was a mere formality until the 1991 Soviet collapse meant Crimea landed in an independent Ukraine. Moscow has taken a confrontational stance toward its southern neighbour after pro-Russian Yanukovych fled the country. Aksenov, the head of the main pro-Russia party on the peninsula, said in his statement that he appealed to Putin "for assistance in guaranteeing peace and calmness on the territory of the autonomous republic of Crimea." Aksenov was appointed by the Crimean parliament on Thursday after pro-Russian gunmen seized the building and as tensions soared over Crimea's resistance to the new authorities in Kiev, who took power last week. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSchwarzman, chairman and CEO of the Blackstone Group, gives a speech at a news conference for the launch of the Schwarzman Scholars at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing(Reuters) - Blackstone Group LP &lt;BX.N&gt; Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman's earnings from dividends and pay soared by 75 percent to $374.5 million in 2013, underpinning his firm's strong profits in real estate, private equity, credit and hedge funds, the company's annual report showed on Friday. The jump came as Blackstone's distributable earnings increased by 66 percent to $1.9 billion in 2013, thanks to favorable capital markets that allowed it to sell more assets at a higher valuation. Most of Schwarzman's profit came from the roughly one-fifth ownership stake he holds in Blackstone. He received $352.5 million in dividends and $22 million in executive compensation. The vast majority of the compensation comes from so-called carried interest -- Blackstone's cut of the investment profits of its funds. Schwarzman, 67, whose net worth is pegged by Forbes at $7.7 billion, co-founded Blackstone in 1985 with Peter Peterson; in 2002 he brought in veteran investment banker Tony James as his right-hand man. Together, they took Blackstone public in 2007. Real estate was the biggest driver of Blackstone's earnings in 2013, which was reflected in the earnings of Jonathan Gray, who heads that business. The 44-year-old, one of the candidates to eventually succeed Schwarzman, took home $114.7 million from dividends and pay in 2013, up 57 percent from a year ago. James, 63, took home $99 million from dividends and compensation as Blackstone's president and chief operating officer, up 50 percent from a year ago. Peer Carlyle Group LP &lt;CG.O&gt; disclosed on Thursday that its founders -- David Rubenstein, William Conway and Daniel D'Aniello -- each received $92.9 million in dividends and salaries in 2013, up from $57.6 million in 2012. KKR &amp; Co LP &lt;KKR.N&gt; revealed on Monday that founders Henry Kravis and George Roberts received $161.4 million and $165.5 million, respectively, in cash dividends and executive pay in 2013, up by more than 17 percent from 2012. Blackstone also revealed that Schwarzman and James received $78.2 million and $15.7 million, respectively, as a result of their personal investments in Blackstone's funds. It did not disclose how much of that money was profit versus capital returned. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
(from my colleague Dr. Win Thin) A little history lesson about Ukraine and Crimea may help put recent developments into better perspective. What emerges is a very clear understanding of why both Russia and Ukraine feel that they each have historical precedent to support their positions: Russia believes Ukraine is part of Russia, while Ukraine (or at least parts of Ukraine) believes it to be independent with a brighter future in Europe. Both can lay claim to Crimea. Given such a long and convoluted history, one should not expect a quick and easy solution to tensions in that region. The Crimean peninsula has been the center of many past conflicts, repeatedly colonized and occupied over the centuries. The Russian Empire annexed Crimea in 1783, after numerous wars with the Ottoman Empire.  The Crimean War of 1853-56 (which some historians regard as the first truly world war) saw France, Britain, and the Ottomans pitted against Russia. While most of the fighting was on the peninsula, the Crimean War was an attempt to push back against perceived Russian hegemony in Europe. Crimea was devastated, but remained part of Russia. After the 1917 Russian revolution, Crimea became part of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, the largest in the USSR. In 1944, Stalin deported the entire Crimean Tatar population to Siberia and Central Asia as punishment for alleged collaboration with the Nazis. In 1954, a controversial move by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev (himself an ethnic Ukrainian) transferred Crimea from the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, carving it out of the larger Russian territory. Ukraine has had a long and prosperous history of its own. Kiev was at one time (in the Middle Ages) the largest city-state in Europe, situated on several important trade routes. Much of what is now Ukraine came under the control of Poland and Lithuania, but then became part of the Russian empire after the partition of Poland in 1793. Ukraine declared independence in 1918 after the Russian revolution. In 1921, however, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was established after the nation was conquered by the Russian Red Army. Ukraine was subject to many reprisals and hardships under Stalin. When the USSR crumbled, Ukraine became a sovereign nation in 1991. There was much debate then about the fate of Crimea. When all was said and done, Crimea was granted special status as a so-called Autonomous Republic within Ukraine. This gives it a larger say over local issues, but it remains governed by Ukraine. Today, ethnic Russians make up nearly 60% of the Crimean population, with ethnic Ukrainians (25%) and Tatars (12%) the other major groups. The exiled Tatars began returning to Crimea after the fall of the USSR. Ethnic Russians in Crimea reportedly want a return to the constitution of 1992, under which Crimea briefly had its own president and independent foreign policy. Clearly, Ukraine will not be at all sympathetic to this. Adding to the conflict is the status of Sevastopol. This is not only the largest Crimean city, but it also has special strategic and military significance dating back centuries. In 1948, Sevastopol was separated from the surrounding region of Crimea and made directly subordinate to Moscow. This was amended in 1978, when Sevastopol was put back under Ukraine’s jurisdiction. In the 1990s, the status of Sevastopol again became the subject of debate between Russia and Ukraine following the breakup of the USSR. Following protracted negotiations, the city and the surrounding territories was granted a special “state significance” status that kept it under Ukrainian rule. However, the city’s Russian majority and many Russian politicians still consider Sevastopol to be a part of Russia. It is no wonder then that recent pro-Russian protest movements were centered in this city. Sevastopol serves to this day as an important Russian naval base under a 20-year lease first signed back in 1997. Then-President Yanukovych signed an agreement with then-President Medvedev in 2010 to extend the lease (as part of the natural gas deal) another 25 years to 2042, with an option to extend again to 2047. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
