AP PhotoThe Chinese yuan continued its decline against the dollar, hitting 6.1259 yuan for a dollar on Wednesday.  The People's Bank of China (PBoC) fixed the yuan at 6.1192 per dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. After rising 3% against the U.S. dollar in 2013, the onshore yuan (CNY) weakened against the greenback last week. The offshore yuan (CNH) has also  weakened. This comes on the back of efforts by China's central bank, the People's Bank of China (PBoC), to curb yuan appreciation, forcing many investors out of bets that the currency will continue to rise. Societe Generale's Wei Yao pointed out the yuan has the two key qualities of a carry trade 1. High interest rates onshore; 2. A trend of steady appreciation. While the former may have been driven by the Federal Reserve's monetary policy, she points out that the appreciation is something the PBoC has a handle over. She also doesn't think the yuan will depreciate too much further, especially if the offshore yuan (CNH) continues to hover below the CNY, as that would be a sign of outflows. In this case she thinks the central bank "will most likely choose to stabilize the yuan again." Yao also points out that even as the yuan appreciated, China has continued to add Forex reserves even as it has publicly said that it has enough reserves. "These seemingly contradictory messages and signs, in our view, suggest that the PBoC never really wants too much yuan appreciation, especially if it is driven by short-term speculative capital inflows." For actual reform, "the PBoC should move from daily to weekly (or even monthly) setting of the reference rate, while at the same time widening the currency band," Yao writes. For now the yuan can trade in a 1% band, but some expect that to be widened to 2% as Beijing moves to internationalize the renminbi. UBS' Tao Wang has previously said that "the era of steady CNY appreciation may be drawing to a close," and that she thinks this "is likely government-guided and may signal a change in China's exchange rate policy." Here's a one-week chart of the USDCNY from XE.com that shows the the USD rising against the CNY: XE.com FREE AppDownload
BloombergMt. Gox CEO Mark KarpelesMtGox has been subpoenaed by the U.S. Attorney's office in New York, the Wall Street Journal's Christopher M. Matthews reports. An unnamed source tells him simply that federal prosecutors sent the subpoena this month. A spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's office in New York decline to comment to BI. MtGox shut trading operations last night over what it says were "recent news reports and the potential repercussions on MtGox's operations and the market." Soon after the WSJ broke the story, Reuters reported that Japanese authorities were also looking into the Tokyo-based exchange. "At this stage the relevant financial authorities, the police, the Finance Ministry and others are gathering information on the case," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said in a news conference, according to Reuters. MtGox has effectively been blackballed within the Bitcoin community. Six of the largest Bitcoin firms published a statement last night denouncing Gox's violation of users' trust, and Gox resigned its position on the Bitcoin Foundation this past weekend. Meanwhile, Fox News Business' Kathryn Glass says she has obtained a chat transcript conducted by a consultant named Jon Fisher with MtGox CEO Mark Karpeles in which Karpeles claims he is still working to save the firm. Karpeles also says a leaked report indicating a massive, ongoing theft at MtGox, was "more or less legit" but that the document itself had not been produced by Gox. Business Insider has unsuccessfully tried to reach out to Karpeles, although the Mt. Gox CEO did respond to Reuters via email. "We should have an official announcement ready soon-ish," he wrote, without providing more details or revealing his location. "We are currently at a turning point for the business. I can't tell much more for now as this also involves other parties." Bitcoin prices were at $556 as of 9:20 p.m. Eastern. FREE AppDownload
Switzerland's second largest bank, Credit Suisse, used elaborate measures to find wealthy clients and help them evade US tax authorities, a scathing report from a Senate inquiry said Tuesday. The report contains the results of a two-year Senate investigation and comes a day before the heavily-anticipated questioning of Credit Suisse chief Brady Dougan and other top bank figures before the panel. "The investigation found that, as of 2006, Credit Suisse had over 22,000 US customers with Swiss accounts whose assets, at their peak, exceeded 12 billion Swiss francs ($13.5 billion)," the report said. "Although Credit Suisse has not determined or estimated how many of those accounts were hidden from US authorities, the data suggests the vast majority were undeclared," it added. Among the bank's cloak-and-dagger practices, Swiss bankers were sent to the United States to secretly find clients, leaving no paper trail, at events sponsored by the bank -- such as at golf tournaments in Florida. The bank also helped its clients find "intermediaries" who could help them create offshore shell companies to hide the money trail from the Internal Revenue Service. "One former customer described how, on one occasion, a Credit Suisse banker travelled to the United States to meet with the customer at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel and, over breakfast, handed the customer the bank statements hidden in a Sports Illustrated magazine," wrote the investigators. Third-party companies were also engaged by the bank to provide credit cards permitting clients to secretly use their hidden funds. By 2008, the report says, there were more than 1,800 Credit Suisse bankers employed to manage US client accounts, many of which were never declared to the IRS, and whose transactions were structured to avoid US tax reporting requirements. From 2008 to 2011, after the break of a tax evasion scandal at fellow Swiss bank UBS, Credit Suisse starting putting an end to its evasive practices, asking clients to close their accounts or declare them. In total, by the end of 2013, the number of Swiss accounts held by US clients at Credit Suisse fell by 85 percent, the report said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Joi ItoMarc Andreessen is one of Bitcoin's biggest supporters, having invested some $50 million in firms dealing in the digital currency. He also recently published an op-ed in the New York Times on how Bitcoin will change finance. So it's not too surprising that he remains completely undeterred by what by most accounts is the massive failure of Bitcoin exchange MtGox.  In a statement obtained by CNBC's Becky Quick, Andreessen compared MtGox's troubles to MF Global — which is to say, tragic for customers but not systemic to the overall Bitcoin ecosystem.  MF Global is the former brokerage run by former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine that in 2011 filed for bankruptcy after experiencing a massive cash shortfall. The exact reasons for why MtGox has apparently shut down remain unknown, although there is a growing consensus that a kind of slow-drip theft by hackers exploiting a vulnerability in Gox's wallet software ultimately drained the company of millions of dollars' worth of Bitcoin. This may have required the use of customer funds to shore up liquidity.    Here's Andreessen's full comment to Quick: Legendary entrepreneur Marc Andreessen @pmarca tells @beckyquick why he is defending #bitcoin pic.twitter.com/hDcQQVqoj5 Market price of BTC (Bitcoin) dropped going into MtGox shutdown, and then has risen since. This is exactly what one would predict for a normally functioning financial market without systemic risk. MtGox had to die for Bitcoin to thrive. Its former role from early Bitcoin days has been supplanted by better, stronger entities. People learning about or trading Bitcoin should deal with reputable, well-run, well-backed companies such as Coinbase (our choice). Important to know that Bitcoin protocol &amp; transaction network doing just fine in wake of MtGox shutdown --&gt; no substantive technical issue. Every important new technology has birthing pains. PC did, Web did, Bitcoin does. Our enthusiasm and commitment unchanged. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Summit Entertainment/IMDBGlobal equities are notching new highs, valuations are elevated and talk of market bubbles is increasingly common. Yet, by our measure, the potential for outperformance in value stocks has rarely been better. How can that be?We’d chalk it up to the market’s residual crisis reflexes. Investors no longer fear systemic disaster, but they remain guarded about the future amid shifting rich-world monetary policies and a wobbly global economic recovery. So, though valuations climbed across the board last year, most of the action went to already popular, richly valued stocks (typically companies offering the fastest or the most reliable, immediate profit growth), while low-multiple, controversial stocks were left standing by the side of the dance floor.In the aftermath of last year’s market party, the most expensive quintile of global stocks now trades at 8.1 times book value, or almost four times higher than the global stock market as a whole—the second-highest premium since 1971 (Display 1). Earnings multiples are similarly hefty. Meanwhile, the cheapest quintile sells at 0.9 times book value, a 57% discount to the market and around its historical average in both absolute and relative terms. The AllianceBernstein Blog In the past, differences of this magnitude between the valuations of cheap and expensive stocks have heralded outsized value outperformance. Eventually, either the controversies that caused the disparity resolved themselves or cheap stocks simply became too enticing to resist.The last time value stocks lagged expensive ones by this much in a bull market was during the late 1990s, when red-hot technology and telecom stocks left almost everything else in the dust. After that bubble popped, value stocks reclaimed the lead, scoring hefty relative gains that more than made up for previous underperformance. Since spreads are so wide today, we see large payoff potential over time for strategies that concentrate on inexpensive stocks and avoid expensive ones.Substantial portions of the consumer-cyclicals, consumer-staples, medical and technology sectors rank among the priciest of global equities (Display 2). While many of these stocks owe their premiums to their well-deserved reputations as safe havens, this expensive group also includes a number of massively large-cap, high-growth Internet stocks, notably Amazon, Facebook and Netflix. Cheap stocks are dominated by financials and other interest-rate-sensitive sectors, namely housing-related and utilities stocks, which each lagged the market by about 20% in 2013. The AllianceBernstein Blog The average market capitalization of the priciest quintile is $17.5 billion, nearly twice the size of the cheapest quintile. Half of the global market’s capitalization is now in the two most expensive quintiles.These trends have stark implications for passive cap-weighted-index tracking strategies, which by their nature will be blindly tethered to these risky concentrations. In contrast, environments like today’s are ready-made for stock pickers. Indeed, our research is uncovering widespread value opportunities, with lingering anxieties pushing cheap stocks to some of their deepest discounts versus pricey stocks in more than 40 years—across all sectors of the market. Though it may take time for others to come around, we think the potential in wallflower value stocks today makes it well worth taking the chance to ask them for a dance. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The housing market was crumbling, and a smart value investor I idolized began purchasing shares in a small, battered specialty lender. I didn't know anything about the company, but I followed him anyway, buying shares myself. It became my largest holding -- which was unfortunate when the company went bankrupt less than a year later. Only later did I learn the full story. As part of his investment, the guru I followed also controlled a large portion of the company's debt and and preferred stock, purchased at special terms that effectively gave him control over its assets when it went out of business. The company's stock also made up one-fifth the weighting in his portfolio as it did in mine. I lost everything. He made a decent investment. The silver lining is that I learned my lesson. I will never make this mistake again. Experiencing it made me a better investor. But so many other investors made this mistake before I did. There is a graveyard of investors like me who got burned by blindly following legendary investors without knowing why those legends invested in the first place. Wouldn't it have been great if I learned from their errors, rather than experiencing the loss myself? I made this mistake in my early 20s. Every dollar I lost is a dollar that won't compound for the rest of my life. By the time I retire, this blunder may easily cost me $1 million. Capitalism is all about making, and learning from, mistakes. Jeff Stibel, CEO of Dunn and Bradstreet, made this point well in Megan McArdle's new book, The Up Side of Down. "The brain is a failure machine," he said. "When you're born, you have about all the neurons you'll ever have. When you're four, you have pretty much all the connections between those neurons you'll ever have. Then the brain starts pruning. The brain starts shrinking. You're actually learning by failure." But there's no rule that says you have to learn by failing yourself. It is far better to learn vicariously from other people's mistakes than suffer through them on your own. At a conference years ago, a young teen asked Charlie Munger how to succeed in life. "Don't do cocaine, don't race trains to the track, and avoid all AIDS situations," Munger said. Which is to say: Success is less about making great decisions and more about avoiding really bad ones. I think this is especially true in investing, where luck plays a larger role than most of us think. You are more likely to learn valuable lessons from failed investors than successful ones, because successful (especially very successful) investors likely experienced some degree of luck, while failed investors likely made bad decisions in situations that you yourself will someday face. If it were up to me, I would replace every book called How to Invest Like Warren Buffett with a one called How to Not Invest Like Lehman Brothers, Long-Term Capital Management, and Jesse Livermore. There are so many lessons to learn from these failed investors about situations most of us will face, like how quickly debt can ruin you. I'm a fan of learning from Buffett, but the truth is most of us can't devote as much time to investing as he can. The biggest risk you face as an investor isn't that you'll fail to be Warren Buffett; it's that you'll end up as Lehman Brothers. So why wouldn't you try to learn more from the latter?  Focusing on failed investors over the years has taught me a few valuable lessons. 1. The overwhelming majority of financial problems are caused by debt, impatience, and insecurity.People want to fit in and impress other people, and they want it right now. So they borrow money to live a lifestyle they can't afford. Then they hit the inevitable speed bump, and they find themselves over their heads and out of control. That simple story sums up most financial problems in the world. Stop trying to impress people who don't care about you anyways, spend less than you earn, and invest the rest for the long run. You'll beat 99% of people financially. 2. Complexity kills.You can make a lot of money in finance, so the industry attracted some really brilliant people. Those brilliant people naturally tried to make finance more like their native fields of physics, math, and engineering, so finance has grown exponentially more complex in the last two decades. For most, that's been a disservice. I think the evidence is overwhelming that simple investments like index funds and common stocks will demolish complicated ones like derivatives and leveraged ETFs. There are two big stories in the news this morning: One is about how the University of California system is losing more than $100 million on a complicated interest rate swap trade. The other is about how Warren Buffett quintupled his money buying a farm in Nebraska. Simple investments usually win. 3. So does panic.In his book Deep Survival, Laurence Gonzalez chronicles how some people managed to survive plane crashes, getting stranded on boats, and being stuck in blizzards while their peers perished. The common denominator is simple: The survivors didn't panic. It's the same in investing. I've seen people make a lifetime of good financial decisions only to blow it all during a market panic like we saw in 2008. Any financial decision you make with an elevated heart rate is probably going to be one you'll regret. Napoleon's definition of a military genius was "the man who can do the average thing when all those around him are going crazy." It's the same in investing. Mark Twain once said that, "If you hold a cat by the tail, you learn things you cannot learn any other way." I disagree. Watch someone hold a cat by the tail and learn from their mistake vicariously. It's so much easier. Check back every Tuesday and Friday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics.  FREE AppDownload
Beijing is going through another bout of mega smog. The level has been raised to "Orange" which signals that the air is currently hazardous for health. If you're not in Beijing, you should be very happy. And if you're not convinced, check out these Instagrams. This top one, btw, was taken from the 72nd floor of a Beijing hotel.      FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsA demonstrator wears a homemade gas mask as they confront police during a protest against the government of President Nicolas Maduro in Caracas, February 22, 2014."Inspired by Kiev, protesters in Caracas intensify street protests," says UBS strategist Julius Walker. Protestors and police continue to clash — and even members of the media have been attacked. In many ways, what's happening in Venezuela feels a lot like what's happening in Ukraine. Of course, there are more differences than similarities. One important difference for investors: oil. Walker discusses this in his new note: Venezuela is the world's 13th-largest oil producer. Venezuelan total oil output averaged 2.7 mb/d in 2013, of which 2.5 mb/d was crude and 0.2 mb/d NGLs, making it the world's 13th-largest oil producer. Venezuela is thus a significant supplier of crude to world markets, including the US and China, with around 800 kb/d and 300 kb/d heading to those two countries respectively. It also has a sizeable downstream sector, supplying much of the Caribbean region and the US with refined petroleum products. Any production outage would cause a significant price spike. Any production shut-ins as a result of political unrest would almost certainly result in sharp price spikes, and a total production shortfall would severely strain global oil markets. Even modest curbs to oil production would add to the 3 mb/d or so of crude production currently shut-in in Libya, Iran, South Sudan, Syria and elsewhere. IEA estimates that global effective spare production capacity was 3.15 mb/d at the end of January, with the majority of this (83%) held by Saudi Arabia. A severe strain on global oil markets is the last thing the world needs. "In addition, after years of underinvestment, due to significant shares of the national oil company PdVSA's revenues being diverted for the regime's political purposes, the country's oil infrastructure is at best creaky," Walker says. "This suggests even low-level unrest or sabotage could have a significant impact on output. Then again, political unrest would not necessarily result in oil production shut-ins, as much of the country's oil infrastructure is far removed from urban centres." Hopefully things won't escalate to that level. FREE AppDownload
Most economists are big fans of the manufacturing surveys, both national (e.g. ISM, Markit) and regional (e.g. Philly Fed, Chicago PMI, etc.). However, all of these surveys are conducted during varying, very short periods each month, which makes it even more difficult to draw any sweeping conclusions about the economy. Considering the harsh and volatile winter weather this year, survey timing is an important consideration for anyone who takes this data seriously. Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey charted the rough survey periods and release dates of all of the widely followed U.S. manufacturing indices. "The timeliest reports on activity are the Empire manufacturing survey (covering New York State), the Philly Fed index, and the preliminary Markit PMI, all typically released by the middle of the survey’s reference month," said Dawsey. "The ISM manufacturing index and final Markit PMI include more complete coverage of the month, but are released at the start of the next month. These surveys differ along many dimensions, including (1) regional coverage, (2) available time series history, (3) the survey period within the month, (4) whether the headline series is an aggregate of the subcomponents or derived independently, and (5) the reporting convention (i.e. unchanged activity is represented by a value of 50 vs. a value of 0)." Goldman SachsA handy guide for you econ nerds. FREE AppDownload
SoftPediaBitcoin suddenly finds itself in a battle for survival, caught in a worst-nightmare scenario of technical snafus that threaten not only billions of investor dollars but also overall integrity. The struggles raise questions about whether this is the point where the cryptocurrency fades into cybernerd hobbyist oblivion, as many of its detractors have long suggested, or goes forward as a true alternative to global currencies. Currency experts say this doesn't have to be a death knell, but it will be up to bitcoin's brightest brains to rebuild the infrastructure so confidence can return. "This is a threat to bitcoin and digital currencies on the whole because it is something that could erode the trust in the overall idea," said Chris Vecchio, currency analyst at DailyFX. "There's no liquidity in the bitcoin market. There's no more trading activity. Quite frankly, it speaks to a problem with this whole idea of bitcoin as a unit of wealth." Bitcoin's nightmare began a week ago with word that its most prominent exchange, Mt.Gox, which formerly served as a trading platform for playing cards in Magic: The Online Game, had experienced a technical problem and wasn't allowing customers to cash in their bitcoins. Since then, negative headlines have piled up, with Tuesday bringing statements from Mt.Gox reaffirming that it wasn't conducting further transactions. The exchange noted negative publicity and "potential repercussions" but offered no further clues as to the nature of the disruption and when or if business would resume. Reports swirled that the exchange was on the brink and couldn't meet its obligations. (Read more: Mt.Gox: All transactions closed 'for the time being') At the very least, bitcoin faces a huge credibility gap which it must try to bridge. Indeed, bitcoin supporters likely were circling the wagons in trying to figure a way out of the crisis. "Everybody who runs an exchange is huddled in a corner with security people reviewing everything from top to bottom," said Nick Colas, who has watched bitcoin developments closely as chief market strategist for ConverGex. "What happened at Gox is very opaque, and nobody wants to be the next Mt.Gox." (Read more: Mt.Gox CEO: Bitcoin exchange at 'turning point') Surprisingly, the cryptocurrency's price held up fairly well considering the circumstances. According to the newly launched Winkdex—an aggregation of prices hosted by bitcoin supporters Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss—the price Tuesday afternoon was $515. That was a nearly 8 percent drop, but fairly typical of the undulations bitcoin has seen since rising to prominence over the past year or so. Some backers went on the offensive, contending that governments and others in the currency establishment were out to get bitcoin. "The currency wars are becoming fierce and bloody," Shai Heffetz, managing director at InterTrader, a currency trading platform, said in a statement. "Bitcoin and other alternative currencies are beginning to be perceived as viable alternatives to fiat currencies. As bitcoin cannot be manipulated by any government, global powers are starting to show their concern and beginning a crackdown." Whether bitcoin can overcome its myriad obstacles, though, became even murkier with the Mt.Gox debacle. "Eventually, the so-called cryptocurrencies—electronic tokens that pass irretrievably from buyers to seller—will become extinct," said Jessica Einhorn, resident senior advisor at Rock Creek Group, a Washington.-based hedge fund, writing in Tuesday's Financial Times. "But for now they serve a real public purpose as an instrument of reform." (Read more: Mt.Gox goes offline - Is bankruptcy next?) That reform could help trigger changes in the vast and expensive system of global payments, but bitcoin will need more to survive. If it wants to avoid extinction, the system will have to show it can be trusted and is not easily susceptible to the hackers who would love to get their hands on the $6.3 billion or so of dollar wealth tied up in bitcoins. "The good news is there are still a lot of bitcoin multi-multi-millionaires out there. They understand the need to invest in the system," Colas said. "Now, collectively, the bitcoin community must realize that now is the time to invest to build a robust system. You can't keep having these problems." —By CNBC's Jeff Cox. Follow him on Twitter @JeffCoxCNBCcom. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, the largest U.S. bank, announced thousands of job cuts on Tuesday as the mortgage lending business slows, and said it was lowering its profitability target. The company said it expected total headcount to fall by 5,000 to 260,000 in 2014. Around 6,000 full-time and contractor jobs in JPMorgan's home loans unit and 2,000 jobs in its branch and credit-card network will be cut. At the same time, the bank expects to add 3,000 new jobs in its control function, including areas like compliance. Speaking at the bank's annual conference with investors, Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said the bank could post higher profit, possibly up to $27 billion a year, once short-term interest rates rise. The bank reported $18 billion net income in 2013, but Lake said excluding significant and one-time items its core performance was $23 billion. But because the bank cannot fund as many of its assets with debt, a measure of the profit it generates from equity will likely be lower. In particular, return on tangible common equity will likely be somewhere between 15 percent and 16 percent, down from the bank's prior estimate of 16 percent, Lake said. Even with this lower rate of profitability, Lake said the company believes its shares are now trading at a 20 percent discount to their "theoretical value." She also said the company believes it will generate enough excess capital to operate without an additional buffer capital over regulatory requirements. Chief Executive Jamie Dimon told reporters before the conference that the job cuts are part of the adjustments the company has to make continually as its business changes. "You're always trimming the sails. That's business," Dimon said. "Obviously headcount is coming down in some of the businesses. That is life." Shares of JPMorgan closed down 1.7 percent at $57.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. MORE WEAKNESS IN MORTGAGE, SALES AND TRADING The newly announced job cuts in mortgage banking raise the total number of mortgage cuts the company originally called for by year-end 2014 to 17,000. Many big banks, including Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt; and Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt;, have been laying off mortgage workers as higher interest rates in the second half of 2013 made refinancing less attractive to homeowners. Mortgage lending at JPMorgan fell 8 percent in 2013 to $166 billion, but refinancing fell three times as much. Weakness in that business would persist into this year. Mortgage banking Chief Executive Kevin Watters said at the conference the pretax income of JPMorgan's mortgage production business would be negative in 2014. Sales and trading was another business where JPMorgan executives expected weakness in the near-term. Daniel Pinto, co-chief executive of JPMorgan's corporate and investment bank, said that markets revenues since the start of the year were down 15 percent compared with the same period of 2013. The first quarter is generally the strongest for banks' sales and trading units, and executives did not attribute the lower levels to any specific development. "We don't know exactly why," Dimon said, adding that the drop-off in activity did not worry him. The job cuts in the branches and in the credit card network were also up from the 4,000 announced in 2013. Gordon Smith, the head of JPMorgan's consumer bank, said at the conference he expected the number of employees who work in the bank's branches will have declined 20 percent in 2015 from 2011. (Reporting by David Henry and Peter Rudegeair in New York; editing by Lisa Von Ahn, Sofina Mirza-Reid, Chris Reese and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Here’s my point: we place waaaay too much emphasis on a security’s external appearance – its asset class or sector – in making our portfolio decisions. We place waaaay too much emphasis on a manager’s external appearance – his style box – in making our portfolio decisions. Do we need this sort of simplifying classification or modeling as part of our investment evaluation process? Sure. But to define the diversification qualities of an investment in terms of its phenotype rather than its genotype…well, that’s a mistake. I think that there is enormous room for improvement in constructing smart portfolios if we can stop staring at surface appearances and start focusing on the investment DNA of securities and strategies. Of course, there’s no such thing as a genetic sequencing assay for an investment or a strategy, so what does this mean in practice, that we should focus on the investment DNA of a security or strategy? If we’re not going to measure the diversification of a portfolio by externally visible characteristics such as asset class or style box, then what are we supposed to do? I think the answer is to look at the externally visible attribute that is most closely linked to the diversity of the human haplogroup: language. I’ve written about this at length, so won’t repeat all that here. The basic idea, though, is that just as linguistic evolution maps almost perfectly to human adaptive radiation and the way our species spread into new environments out of Southern Africa, so, too, are there investment languages and grammars that map to the underlying “DNA” of a security or strategy. The ancient investment languages are Value (together with its grammar, Reversion to the Mean) and Growth (together with its grammar, Extrapolation), and the relative mix of these languages in the description and practice of securities and strategies reveals an enormous amount about their hidden “genotype”. From this Epsilon Theory perspective, a portfolio comprised of various large-cap US industrial and banking stocks (almost all of which speak a strong Value dialect) would receive much less diversification benefit than a traditional perspective would suggest from an allocation to a macro hedge fund that used various reversion-to-the-mean strategies for currency trades. Conversely, I suspect that a portfolio holding Microsoft (Value-speaking) could receive a significant diversification benefit from adding Salesforce.com (Growth-speaking), even though they are both large-cap tech stocks. I think that there are dozens of ways to put this focus on investment language, investment grammar, and by extension – investment genotype – into practical use for the construction of better-diversified portfolios, and I’ll be spending a lot of time in the coming months testing these applications. To be sure, this isn’t the first time in the history of the world that someone has suggested looking through surface characteristics such as asset class to find more useful dimensions of portfolio diversification. For years, Ray Dalio and Bridgewater have been advocating something very similar to this notion with their argument concerning the weakness of asset class correlations in determining optimal portfolio allocations. Dalio’s point – which is the theoretical foundation of Bridgewater’s All-Weather risk parity strategy – is that the correlation of returns between asset classes like stocks and bonds is neither constant nor random. The correlation waxes and wanes over time, with long periods of negative correlation and long periods of positive correlation that must reflect some underlying force. Dalio calls this underlying force the macroeconomic “machine”, which at any given point in time reflects what other people call a “regime”…some combination of inflation and growth characteristics within a context of debt cyclicality to which stocks and bonds respond in predictable ways. Depending on the current regime (which tends to change slowly), stocks and bonds will have either a strong or weak, positive or negative correlation to each other, but there’s nothing meaningful about that correlation. What’s meaningful is the relationship or correlation between stocks and bonds to the macro regime. If you can measure the inflation/growth regime accurately and you know the performance relationship of asset classes to this underlying force, then voilà…you can construct a portfolio of stocks and bonds (and other assets, like commodities) that should perform as well as it is possible to perform within the given regime, where good performance is defined as the most reward for the least volatility. Or so the argument goes. I think it’s a good argument. Dalio’s theory of why a risk-balanced portfolio works is not the skin-deep perspective embedded in most portfolio construction efforts. Dalio is saying that there’s nothing special about this asset class or that asset class in determining a risk-balanced portfolio, no magical ratio, 60/40 or otherwise, of stocks to bonds. The Bridgewater approach isn’t focused on “balancing” asset classes at all, because there’s really nothing of importance to balance here, no meaning in asset classes per se. Securities are simply instruments that reflect an underlying economic regime with their performance characteristics, and a portfolio should be constructed on the basis of combining these securities in the best possible risk/reward configuration given the underlying regime, period. Sometimes this will mean a lot of stocks and a few bonds; more typically this will mean a lot of bonds and a few stocks. Either way, the Bridgewater approach looks beneath the asset class skin of a security, and that’s a good start. But it’s only a start. I want to suggest an alternative conceptual basis for risk-balanced portfolio construction, one that doesn’t rely on a deterministic model of the economy. Epsilon TheoryMoving from an asset class conception of correlation and risk to an inflation/growth regime conception of correlation and risk is not really a fundamental change in perspective. We’re still talking about external characteristics, only now we’re talking about the economy as a whole rather than asset classes or individual securities. It’s like a Hindu mystic saying that it’s wrong to conceive of the world being supported by four elephants, but that what you really need to look for is the turtle that supports the elephants. The problem, of course, is that once you accept this concept, you have to ask what the turtle is standing on. The Bridgewater answer is that the macroeconomic turtle-machine is the first mover, the Aristotelian primum mobile, the bedrock on which everything else rests. The only acceptable complement to the beta portfolio in Bridgewater’s turtle-machine framework has to be confined to the realm of “alpha” or skill-based returns that cannot be modeled as a systematic or identifiable phenomenon. The relationships between assets and the macroeconomic machine are “timeless and universal” to quote Bridgewater co-CIO Bob Prince, which means that it’s difficult for their model to account for a regime of regimes, a long and unpredictable game by which political and social forces shape and transform the investment meaning and return correlation of a security to the macroeconomic characteristics of inflation and growth. We believe that these political and social forces are both detectable and actionable and would be more appropriately identified as components of epsilon rather than alpha. Why is this a problem? Because as the story goes, it’s not nothing beneath that first turtle, but rather more and more turtles…all the way down in an infinite expanse of turtle-dom. In this Epsilon Theory scenario, below the economic turtle-machine is a political turtle-machine, and below that is a social turtle-machine, and below that is a human animal turtle-machine, etc. etc. The lower the turtle, the more slow-moving it is, and the more likely you can ignore its existence for the sake of expedient model prediction at any given point in time. But if you are unfortunate enough to be investing on the basis of your economic turtle-machine when one of the lower turtles lurches forward…you’re in for a nasty surprise. What might this look like? Consider that for most of the past 2,000 years it has been illegal to accept interest payments for a loan to a company, much less to securitize that sort of loan into a bond. Read The Merchant Of Venice again if you need a refresher course in the scope and power of usury laws. Or for a more recent example, consider that private residential mortgage-backed securities hardly existed prior to 2001, were a $4 trillion asset class by the end of 2007, and are now totally moribund, simply running off into oblivion. I just don’t think it’s crazy to imagine large and unpredictable shifts in the economic machine borne out of political and social change. In fact, I think it’s crazy not to expect these shifts, even if the timing and focus of the lurch is impossible to predict. There are two ways out of the infinite turtles problem. The first, which is what I imagine the Bridgewater Elect are doing, is to expand the macroeconomic machine to include political and social sub-machines. If you’ve ever read Isaac Asimov’s Foundation Trilogy, you can easily imagine Ray Dalio as Hari Seldon, with a legion of psychohistorians figuring out more and more equations to incorporate into a massive econometric model of human society and mass behavior. The second way out (which I favor for precisely the reasons that Seldon’s model failed) is to reject the notion of ANY mechanistic model of how the world works in favor of a profound agnosticism about what the future holds. The only constants I’m willing to accept, particularly in a period of global deleveraging and ferocious political fragmentation within and between countries, are the constants of human nature. My predictions for the markets in 2014 are that fear and greed will still reign supreme, that investors will still speak ancient languages of Value and Growth, and that emergent behaviors like the Common Knowledge Game will drive short to medium-term price levels in many securities. I believe that a risk-balanced portfolio – if it explicitly includes both the grammar of Reversion-to-the-Mean and the grammar of Extrapolation – can be as responsive and adaptive to changing patterns and market-moving forces as you want it to be, whether or not you have the right model to explain why those patterns are shifting. As recently as 10 years ago a simplifying macroeconomic model was an absolute necessity for making sense of all the signals that the world throws at us minute after minute. A model, by definition, will ignore certain signals. It’s what models DO. They simplify the world and occasionally miss important signals so that we are not drowned by the sheer flood of less important signals. It’s a trade-off that used to be necessary…but it’s not anymore. We are in the midst of an information processing revolution – a quantum leap forward in inductive reasoning and inference colloquially named Big Data – that is every bit as important for portfolio management as the economic theory developed by Markowitz et al in the 1950’s. Today we can measure the market world – all of it – and infer the likelihood function of any given pattern or outcome. We know what the past patterns have been and we have the tools to sound an alarm if those patterns start to change, for whatever reason. We no longer have to model the economic world and intentionally cut ourselves off from potentially useful signals because they don’t fit our preconceptions. We no longer have to be the ladies and gentlemen that Steinbeck described, unable to understand Lee if he spoke anything other than pidgin English, because otherwise he would not fit their model of who Lee was. We can be like Samuel, one of the rare people able to separate our observations from our preconceptions. You cannot do that if you approach the world constrained by a model. Sorry, but you can’t. The tyranny of models is rampant in almost every aspect of our investment lives, from every central bank in the world to every giant asset manager in the world to the largest hedge funds in the world. There are very good reasons why we live in a model-driven world, and there are very good reasons why model-driven institutions tend to dominate their non-modeling competitors. The use of models is wonderfully comforting to the human animal because it’s what we do in our own minds and our own groups and tribes all the time. We can’t help ourselves from applying simplifying models in our lives because we are evolved and trained to do just that. But models are most useful in normal times, where the inherent informational trade-off between modeling power and modeling comprehensiveness isn’t a big concern and where historical patterns don’t break. Unfortunately we are living in decidedly abnormal times, a time where simplifications can blind us to structural change and where models create a risk that cannot be resolved by more or better modeling! It’s not a matter of using a different model or improving the model that we have. It’s the risk that ALL economic models pose when a bedrock assumption about politics or society shifts. If you’re not prepared to look past your model…if you’re not prepared, as Steinbeck wrote, to separate your observations from your preconceptions…then you have a big invisible risk in your portfolio. I know it’s hard to embrace what I’m describing as a profound agnosticism about the mechanics of how the world works. I know it goes against our biological grain to reject the comfort and succor of a deterministic model and an Answer. In many respects, deep agnosticism is the ultimate Other. It is a non-human perspective on how to think about the world – a Rakshasa – and I’m not expecting it to receive a warm or trusting welcome, particularly when it has the skin of some familiar investment product. But I think it’s the right way to look at a world wracked by political fragmentation, saddled with enormous debts, and engaged in the greatest monetary policy experiments ever devised by man. I think it’s the right way to look at a world of massive uncertainty, as opposed to a world of merely substantial risk, and it’s the perspective I’ll continue to take with Epsilon Theory. [Editor's Note: This article is excerpted from Ben Hunt's investment note on diversification.] This article originally appeared at Epsilon Theory.  Copyright 2014. Follow Epsilon Theory on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
We look at the housing demand/supply balance two ways: Weighing Supply and Demand When a homeowner sells their home and buys another home in the same market, they don't impact supply, since they add 1 and subtract 1 from the market. Detailed analysis may show that they are adding and subtracting supply from different price points and types of homes, but we won't get that detailed in this analysis. What matters to the overall market are the many groups who are: We identified six primary buyers-only categories and eight sellers-only categories. Categories 1 through 6 relate to each other, while categories 7 and 8 (banks and builders) are the big outliers that can cause supply to significantly outweigh demand. Since price appreciation historically exceeds inflation, the 6 buyer categories usually total more than the 8 seller categories. The categories that are currently lower than usual are red, and the categories that are currently higher than usual are blue. John Burns Real Estate ConsultingBuyers Only Sellers Only Let's look at the imbalances of each category:  How It Worked Recently In 2011 through early 2013, prices rose because of: This imbalance tipped the scales back toward more buyers than sellers, and homes began appreciating again. Months of supply (MOS) plunged from 12 to 4.5. When MOS crossed 7 in late 2011, prices shifted from falling to rising.  Last year, rising prices, rising mortgage rates, and reduced confidence all contributed to a reversal in the direction of months of supply, slowing the rate of price appreciation. Looking Forward To project price appreciation, we weigh all the factors described above to form a conclusion. We try to be scientific with our economic growth, housing supply, affordability, and bank sales estimates, but we also have to make qualitative assessments on factors such as investor activity and mortgage rates.  Right now, we believe more buyers than sellers will result in another year of price appreciation in most markets. However, we see huge differences by market. We are carefully monitoring supply in Texas and affordability in California and projecting very different years in each market and submarket. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim Wimborne The Chinese yuan has had it’s biggest fall in three years recently in what appears to be a subtle shift in sentiment toward the Chinese economy from global investors. Chinese shares, commodities and mining shares have also fallen recently. The move of around 1% in the yuan is not large by any stretch of the imagination but it is enough to take pressure off the currency’s multi-year appreciation and allow the People’s Bank of China to encourage a bit more weakness and volatility. The ANZ said in a note yesterday that, “In FX markets a 1% move in a currency is not considered particularly material but the yuan is not just any currency. Volatility is low and accordingly speculative positions tend to be very large,”  Business Insider Australia So the re-convergence between onshore and offshore rates for the Chinese currency has been “material…as the PBoC has deliberately lead the way by weakening the official daily fix to its softest against the USD in over two months”. The key here is that the PBOC is weakening the yuan into a period of USD weakness and euro strength, so it is a real weakening on China-specific events. So the question is what is going on, what does it mean for Australia and perhaps why is the Aussie dollar not paying any attention? The continued appreciation of the yuan over the best part of the last 5 years has put exporters under pressure and their complaints have been loud recently. The ANZ noted that these complaints have some merit:  “According to the BIS the real effective exchange rate has risen by over 20% in the past three years. Notably, two thirds of that rise has occurred in the last fifteen months.”  Business Insider Australia But the recent fall in the Chinese data flow, which has been most highlighted by the HSBC Chinese PMI’s, into negative territory is telling even the China bulls that the economy is slowing relative to expectations. Indeed the ANZ said that a “distinct element of macro market risk has entered the equation”. Copper in Shanghai has been under pressure, according to the ANZ, which says that prices are back to their July 2013 level. Yesterday the Shanghai Metals Market, the world’s biggest copper market by volume, wrote in their daily commentary that “On Tuesday, holders of imported copper were in a rush to sell given tight cash flow by month’s end and weakening RMB, causing spot discounts in copper market to fall. The influx of hedged goods exacerbated oversupply pressure in the market”. This saw miners on the FTSE under pressure, with Rio Tinto losing 2.8% overnight, BHP Billiton down 1.6% and Anglo American falling 2.2%.  Business Insider Australia The Shanghai Stock Exchange has also been under pressure, falling almost 5% over the past few days. All this is a warning to Australia and global markets, according to the ANZ, which ended its piece with a warning: In China what we are seeing is a classic risk-off move in the world’s second largest economy. FX, equities, commodities and market interest rates are sharply lower. So far, the reaction of other global markets has been remarkably relaxed, if not perverse. It is questionable how long this can persist. At the very least the economic message that asset markets are currently sending is not pleasant and more precautionary pricing is warranted, even if things ease up. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Warner Bros/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The U.S. Is Lagging On The Retirement Front And This Poses An Opportunity For Advisors (Natixis Global Asset Management) Switzerland tops the 2014 Natixis Global Retirement Index, wresting the spot from Norway. The U.S. trails in the 19th position, unchanged from a year ago. "The responsibility for financial security in retirement is falling even more heavily on individuals than ever before and this trend is likely to continue as government resources in countries around the world become scarcer," according to the report.  This provides advisors with a crucial opportunity and challenge. The report suggests that advisors steer towards investing strategies that center on an investor's goal instead of trying outperform a certain benchmark. One Advisor Explains Why He Sold His Firm (Advisor Perspectives)  Jim Whiddon sold JWA Financial, his independent registered investment advisor (RIA) in 2012, after thirty years. In an Advisor Perspectives column he explains that this was because it "gave me the opportunity to liquefy and diversify my assets by merging into a larger firm." But he was also concerned about his succession plan. The generational shift coming to the financial industry is huge concern.  So when he did make the decision it was because he realized the landscape for his RIA firm would only get more competitive. It was also because "as a fiduciary, the primary concern was to make sure a partner firm shared our investment and wealth-management philosophy." Finally, Whiddon writes it's because he wanted to bring in other areas of expertise like tax planning. Investors Shouldn't Ignore Today's Value Opportunities (The AllianceBernstein Blog) "In the aftermath of last year’s market party, the most expensive quintile of global stocks now trades at 8.1 times book value, or almost four times higher than the global stock market as a whole—the second-highest premium since 1971," writes Chris Marx, senior portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein. "Meanwhile, the cheapest quintile sells at 0.9 times book value, a 57% discount to the market and around its historical average in both absolute and relative terms."  We last saw such a difference between the two groups in the lets 90s. But even after the tech bubble burst, value stocks came out on top. "Indeed, our research is uncovering widespread value opportunities, with lingering anxieties pushing cheap stocks to some of their deepest discounts versus pricey stocks in more than 40 years—across all sectors of the market," Marx writes. "Though it may take time for others to come around, we think the potential in wallflower value stocks today makes it well worth taking the chance to ask them for a dance." A Full Round-Up Of Wall Street's Targets For The S&amp;P 500 (Mebane Faber Research)  After the S&amp;P closed at 1,848 and returned over 30% last year, many are wondering which direction it's headed. Here's a table of all of Wall Street's year-end S&amp;P 500 targets. Meb Faber How Advisors Can Prepare For Teacher Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Dave Grant writes in a new WSJ column that he left a firm with $250 in assets under management (AUM), to found a boutique firm called Finance for Teachers. This followed on concerns stemming within his own family that has a few educators that were worried about their finances as states began to cut pensions and benefits to employees.  Advisors need to keep a few things in mind if they're about to approach teachers or have teachers approach them. "Advisers need to be prepared to provide a lot of education, without any jargon, to develop a level of trust with these clients," Grant writes. "Once advisers earn that trust, then they need to help prepare their teachers clients for their new retirement reality. Most of my clients are over the age of 50 and have done no planning; they have to start saving immediately to account for these changes." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyNew Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's budget proposal for the fiscal year beginning July 1 includes a required $2.25 billion pension payment that the administration called the largest single-year payment in state history. The overall spending proposed in the budget — $34.4 billion — also ties for the largest in state history. Much of the increase in spending, the Christie administration said, comes from the pension payment and state workers' health benefits, while leaving little new funds for priorities. It's not yet clear if the funding will satisfy Democrats, some of whom had threatened a government shutdown if the pension payment was not fully funded at a $2.4 billion level set under a state law passed in 2011. Still, the proposed payment is more than a $650 million increase from last year. Christie has made pension reform a cornerstone of his administration. In 2011, he signed into law a bill that required workers to pay more into their benefits, while the state would up its pension payments for seven years. During a budget address in Trenton on Tuesday, Christie said ballooning pension costs should prompt further reform. Nine out of every 10 dollars in the budget, he said, were consumed by pensions, health benefits and debt obligations. It's the result, he said, of too many past administration to ignore the pension obligations. "That's the decisions that were made by previous leaders in this town who paid little or nothing into the system," Christie said. "We, all of us, are paying today for the sins of the past. So, let’s pause a second, let’s take a deep breath, and let’s pledge to each other not to repeat those sins for political purposes." The Christie administration also distributed a fact sheet that outlined some key facts of the pension payment and argued for further reform in the coming years.  Some highlights: FREE AppDownload
Here's an excerpt from Darmon Richter's epic tour of a Chinese ghost city: Built for over a million people, the city of Ordos was designed to be the crowning glory of Inner Mongolia. Doomed to incompletion, this futuristic metropolis now rises empty out of the deserts of northern China. Only 2% of its buildings were ever filled; the rest has largely been left to decay, abandoned mid-construction, earning Ordos the title of China's Ghost City. The more I read about Ordos, the more I wanted to know what lay beyond these hastily fitted doors and windows; to actually see inside, and under the skin of a city that never came to be. Last year I travelled to Inner Mongolia for myself, to get a closer look at the bizarre ghost metropolis. I teamed up with Gareth from Young Pioneer Tours – a man just about crazy enough to share my fascination for this otherworldly ghost metropolis. Here's what it was like arriving there and setting eyes on it for the first time. The city of Ordos is served by the newly-built Eerduosi Airport. From the moment we got off our plane, it was apparent that someone, sometime, had made grand plans for this city.Darmon Richter The futuristically sculpted terminal building is decked out with fountains and hanging baskets, chic coffee shops and sub-lit escalators glowing in shades of green and blue. While the population of Ordos is now just 10% Mongolian to 90% Chinese, nevertheless the airport was resplendent with proud icons of a Mongolian heritage; effigies of horses and minstrels gaze down across the central concourse, while the departure hall features a vast mural, a ring of painted scenes depicting the life of Genghis Khan. For all this opulence though, the airport was close to empty. Darmon Richter Darmon RichterWe took the second of two daily flights from Beijing to Eerduosi; departing from the smaller, former military airfield in the suburbs of the capital. It brought us to Inner Mongolia after dark, and we hopped onto the transfer coach headed towards Ordos city centre. We were on this luxurious coach for around half an hour, enthroned in soft reclining seats replete with cup holders, leg rests and a movie channel ... all the while, half-seen hulks of concrete and metal sped past our windows, distant, shadowy shapes appearing and disappearing out of the gloom. I felt hemmed in on all sides by invisible construction sites. It was hard to make out much of our surroundings, given the bright interior lighting on the coach. On the final stretch into Ordos however, we passed by the shell of a stadium-to-be; the vast, skeletal seating areas rose up in a ring around a central playing field, lit by industrial spotlights and the regular, telltale flares of several hundred welding guns. Never in my life have I seen anything so closely resembling the second Death Star. Darmon Richter Now read the complete tour of this bizarre and alarming city » This article originally appeared at The Bohemian Blog.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Bohemian Blog on Twitter.
As the global population grows past seven billion, our cities continue to expand, increasing the need for natural resources while simultaneously decreasing the supply. Google's Earth Engine team created these time-lapse maps to illustrate a few of the trends reshaping the world right now. Google Earth Engine The above image shows development spreading out rapidly in Las Vegas, one of five cities in the U.S. to grow by more than 40% in population from 2000 to 2010. This occurred as a consequence of migration to America's Southwest as well as part of the global movement from rural areas into cities. As of 2010, more than half of all people on earth lived in an urban area. By 2030, six out of every 10 will live in a city, and by 2050, the ratio will increase to seven out of 10 people, according to the World Health Organization. In terms of sheer numbers, the amount of people living in cities will almost double by 2050, increasing from approximately 3.4 billion in 2009 to 6.4 billion — 5.2 billion of whom will live in developing countries. As cities expand, they face problems rounding up enough non-renewable resources like fresh water to support their population. Desert-based Vegas has continually struggled to find enough water, which the city has handled so far through extensive pipelines diverting water from the Colorado River, providing almost 90% of the city's supply. Google Earth Engine Above, you'll see Dubai's coastal region explode in the early part of the 21st century with famous artificial islands, Palm Islands and The World. The Gulf States overall have seen rapid urbanization, fueled by massive oil and gas supplies. The Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar, and Kuwait, saw the population of its member countries more than double from 1990 to 2011, now at 46 million. From 1995 to 2011, their combined GDP per capita more than tripled. And currently, they export about 20 million barrels of oil every day, constituting 24% of total global production, according to the Al-Monitor. But this unprecedented pace of development has lead to problems as well, with fear of financial bubbles and vulnerability to food and water shortages. And then there are the political concerns. "[Gulf States] have some institutions like elected parliaments, semi-elected or nominated advisory councils, local assemblies, municipal councils, political associations, and private media. Yet in no case do any of these institutions shape significant national policies, and when they become too feisty they are usually shut down for a while," writes Rami Khouri, a senior fellow at Harvard's Belfer Center. Google Earth Engine Considered "one of the planet's worst environmental disasters," Kazakhstan's Aral Sea, formerly one of the world's four largest lakes, lost most of its volume by 2012. In the early 1900s, Soviet policymakers decided to irrigate the area, diverting freshwater supply from the lake. That, coupled with local climate changes, drove the problem. While the Aral Sea doesn't provide drinking water, its drying is a staggering example of a much larger problem. Currently, one third of the world's rivers — groundwater for about 3 billion people — are going or gone, according to the World Preservation Foundation. Already, water scarcity hounds 2.7 billion people — nearly 40% of the world's population — for at least one month every year, whether they don't have access to clean water or can't afford it, according to the Water Footprint Network. And one billion, about one-sixth of the world's population, face daily shortages, according to the foundation. By 2025, however, 1.8 billion people will live in countries or regions, mostly in the Middle East and North Africa, with absolute water scarcity, according to the International Water Management Institute. These areas won't have enough water irrigate their fields (threatening their food supply) or for other domestic, industrial, and environmental purposes. Aside from the human toll, the drying of lakes and rivers releases the greenhouse gases carbon dioxide and methane into the air, potentially exacerbating climate change. Because of the water cycle, the world will also face more drought, upping the chances of wildfires, as well. Google Earth Engine From 1984 to 2012, deforestation spread in Brazil at an epic rate. In fact, over the course of the last 50 years, 17% of Amazonian forests have disappeared, mostly due to conversion for cattle ranching, according to the World Wildlife Fund. Forests cover 31% of the planet, and are home to more than 80% of the world's known species . They also provide 1.6 billion people with food, fresh water, clothing, and traditional medicine. But 46 to 58 thousand square miles of forest are lost each year — about the equivalent to 36 football fields every minute, according to the fund. The climate will suffer from these losses, too. Trees suck up the greenhouse gases that coal burning puts out. Burning trees emits greenhouses gasses, too, contributing to about 15% of the global total. Without trees, soil erodes, potentially causing landslides and other catastrophes. The decline of forests, which help to balance the amount of water in the atmosphere with water on land, also alters the water cycle. Google Earth Engine The above GIF shows the proliferation of irrigation in Saudi Arabia. The green circles represent patches of new farming land. While irrigation has been a major global trend, recently, the flow of water stagnating, especially in countries with the most need. With population growing but water availability and undeveloped land for farming decreasing, the productivity of crops will become even more crucial. Since the 80s, increased irrigation has continually lowered the global food price index, according to the International Water Management Institute. In 2005, about 300,000 hectares of land were irrigated. But in Asia, the practice has leveled-off and remains nearly absent in Africa, two areas that desperately need higher crop yields now and in the future. Asia, which houses 70% of the world's irrigated land, could meet one-third of future food requirements by upping irrigation systems and modernizing existing ones. And Africa, with the greatest number of people suffering from water scarcity and hunger, has only 5% of farming land irrigated — the lowest ratio of any country, according to the institute. Google Earth Engine This GIF shows the Columbia Glacier in Alaska melting. Although the glacier advances and retreats, it has lost half of its total thickness and volume since the 1980s, according to NASA. Researchers measure glacial deficits using mass balance, or the difference between the accumulated snow during winter and the subsequent melting in warmer temperatures. A glacier losing more ice during summer than it gained in the winter is considered negative gain. Twenty of the largest glaciers worldwide, from Alaska to the tip of South America to central Europe, are melting, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Between 1980 and 2011, glaciers around the world lost the water equivalent of 15.7 meters. That translates to slicing a roughly 17-meter-thick slab off the top of the average glacier and repeating that exercise worldwide, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association. All of this water has to go somewhere and it often causes flooding, as seen recently in Alaska. The data continues to show increasing ice loss, often considered absolute proof of global warming. Melting in these proportions also causes increases in sea level and flooding of low level areas. These glaciers also release greenhouse gasses that had been trapped in their ice and their loss causes changes to the local and global climate. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Sayyid AzimFirst Solar shares are down 11% after a Q4 earnings and revenues miss, along with a warning of lower Q1 profits. Q4 earnings came in $0.89 per share, which was lower than the $1.03 expected by analysts. Revenues were at $768 million vs. $969.4 million.  The company now sees first quarter earnings of $0.50-$0.60/share versus expectations for $0.81/share. The company cited lower commercial installation revenues for the big miss.  Here's the full release: First Solar, Inc. (FSLR) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended Dec. 31, 2013. Net sales were $768 million in the quarter, a decrease of $497 million from the third quarter of 2013. The sequential decrease in net sales is primarily attributable to lower systems business project revenues as initial revenue recognition for Desert Sunlight and sale of the ABW projects were both achieved in the third quarter of 2013. The Company reported fourth quarter GAAP net income per fully diluted share of $0.64, compared to $1.94 in the third quarter of 2013. The fourth quarter of 2013 was impacted by pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $24.9 million primarily related to an additional write-down, due to a change in marketing strategy, in the value of our idle Vietnam facility. Excluding the impact of the restructuring and asset impairment charges, Non-GAAP net income per fully diluted share was $0.89. The company reported a full year GAAP net income per fully diluted share of $3.70 for 2013, including the impact of pre-tax charges of $86.9 million related to previously announced restructuring activities, the sale of our Mesa, Arizona facility and the write-down of our Vietnam facility. Non-GAAP net income per fully diluted share for the full-year 2013 was $4.35. Cash and Marketable Securities at the end of the fourth quarter were approximately $1.8 billion, an increase of approximately $232 million compared to the end of the third quarter of 2013. Cash flows from operations were $192 million in the fourth quarter and $856 million for the full-year 2013. The Company also provided guidance for the first quarter of 2014 as follows: “The fourth quarter and full-year 2013 shows our Company’s continued progress in achieving the strategic objectives we outlined during our Analyst Day event in April,” said Jim Hughes, CEO of First Solar. “For the year completed we delivered on several key objectives, including additional bookings of approximately 1.7GWdc, significant reductions to our module manufacturing cost, and a strong financial performance. As we move into 2014 the company remains focused on continuing to achieve our strategic objectives to ensure future success.” First Solar achieved several milestones over the past year:   FREE AppDownload
Step 1: White CrossYou should be able to complete this step just by playing around with the cube.  Make sure that the edges of the cross match the center squares on the adjacent sides.  Step 2: Finish First Layer Step 3: Middle LayerYou may need to move some middle layer edge pieces from the top layer.  Follow the patterns below to get these pieces in the right places.   Business Insider Step 4: Top CornersTo get the corners in the right place you can use this pattern to swap corners until all 4 corners are in the right location.  At this stage they do not need to be facing the right way.  Business Insider To orient corners use a combination of the patterns below.  The first will turn the faces of three corners clockwise.  The next will turn the faces of three faces counter-clockwise.  Business Insider Step 5: Top Layer Edges In The Right PlaceMake sure all the edges are in the right location.  Do not worry if they are facing the wrong way.  Use a combination of the patterns below to move these edge pieces. Business Insider  Step 6: Top Layer Edges Facing The Right WayUse either of the patterns below or a combination to orient these edge pieces correctly. Business Insider
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderHigh above the gambling floor at the Borgata Hotel Casino &amp; Spa in Atlantic City are a few select enclaves, the likes of which most visitors will never see. To stay in one of the Borgata's two exclusive Residences, a guest must not only possess a high net worth, he or she must also have a predilection for gambling at high stakes. The comped suites are a luxury reserved for the casino's "whales," the types of gamblers that can take a slow month of revenue on the casino floor and thrust the casino's bottom line from red to black. Not even headlining talent is offered a stay in the Residences — only gamblers — and the casino pulls out all the stops to draw them in, as the following photos reveal.
REUTERS/Regis DuvignauA man holds up a pack of macaroons containing dehydrated insects at the Micronutris plant in Saint Orens de Gameville, southwestern France, February 24, 2014.Once again, the stock market wasn't able to break through its all-time closing high of 1,850. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
One day after seeing their biggest fall in six years, natgas futures climbed down another 8%, signaling the imminent end of the February rally.  Contracts for April delivery fell about 7% to close under $5/mmBtu for the first time in more than a week. Yesterday the National Weather Service’s Global Forecast System model boosted its temperature forecastfor the Midwest from March 6 to March 10, Bloomberg reported. "As the more medium-to-long term picture of an oversupplied market is still intact, it shouldn't be entirely surprising that a sharp and volatile giveback has manifested out of a near doubling of prices since early November 2013," TD Securities' Mark Dragosits said in a note.  Chart: FinViz FREE AppDownload
The problems at Mt. Gox are not isolated; they are systemic to the Bitcoin industry.  The lesson here is that without A-team management, high standards, strong controls and tight regulation, consumers can and will be abused.  Over the past two weeks Mt. Gox held investors hostage, snubbing their concerns and denying them access to their funds.  Then it moved offices and shut down their website.  Bankruptcy is fait accompli and such a high-profile collapse could trigger a Lehman Brothers-type chain reaction throughout the Bitcoin market.  Mt. Gox cannot be contained because its customer base and reach is wide.  The level of reputational damage is immense.  What was the industry’s largest exchange with over 1 million customers only months ago is now the fallen tower of toxic sludge.  In its wake are numerous investors holding significant financial losses, broken trust and little recourse.  Some daring speculators used this uncertain time to load up on Mt. Gox Jail coins, betting against bankruptcy.  Investors that sold Mt. Gox at $100 or more at least have limited some of their losses.   All scenarios now look grim.  It’s never a good sign when a firm that has your funds goes silent.  Since the "transaction malleability” attacks a fortnight ago, it is not clear how many e-coins were actually absconded before the breach was closed. Did cyber-robbers have free roam for minutes, hours or days? Are investors exposed for as much as $300 to $400 million? Given that most client assets are warehoused at these unregulated exchanges, they appear more like boiler-room brokers with lax controls, than conscientious customer-focused agents. The other two largest remaining exchanges, BTCe and Bitstamp require that customers wire hard currency to places like Bulgaria or Solvenia or Cyprus with a promise that they will honor their word.  Mt. Gox has put into question this bond of trust.  For many customers, the challenge is in exchange trade execution and settlement.  Sometimes this can take even days.  Mt. Gox proved it could be weeks (and maybe never).  When the cyber hackers struck earlier this month, a total of three exchanges -- over 70 percent of trading -- were impacted.  The lauded anti-fragile network quickly became fragile as an egg shell.  Customers learned about illiquidity--- Hotel California Risk---first hand and prices have plummeted ever since.  Unfortunately, the Mt. Gox tale is not unusual in Bitcoin World.  In October 2013, GLB, a China-based boiler-room exchange with about 1,000 customers suddenly closed down leaving investors with $4 to $5 million in losses.  As the value of Bitcoin increased so did the desire to defraud customers.  Adding to these woes is the fact that there is no watchdog.  The Bitcoin Foundation, the supposed face of the industry, is more beholden to early adopters than to ensuring protocol security and enforcing high standards.  The fact that the rogue CEO of Mt. Gox was a prominent member on the Foundation board is unacceptable.  This is besides the fact that the Foundation’s vice chairman was indicted last month for money laundering.  A Foundation of “B” players has no business claiming it is a protector of a system that remains vulnerable and untrustworthy.  Meantime, virtual currencies remain in regulatory limbo as most nations have not stepped up to adequately protect investors. Mt Gox is not a speed bump, it is a disaster that cannot be self-contained. The implications are industry-wide and not simply a case of one bad apple.  Mt. Gox is the poster child of why self-regulation does not work.  It also raises questions of what controls are in place to insure investors that BTCe and Bitstamp are any better.  Exchanges are now challenged on how to build trust. Prices on the BTCe have dropped as low as $430 today, below the important $500 price floor set last year before the hyper-bubble peaked at $1,200. As prices fall, investors that have historically been hoarders will have greater incentive to sell, pushing prices down still more.  Remaining exchanges will be hard pressed to handle increased sell volume, putting stops on trading and delaying execution and settlement.  This will only add to investor anxiety and encourage more selling. Once large sell orders outnumber buy orders, market illiquidity will become even more apparent. As experienced during the flash crash on November 12th on the BTCe exchange, it only took a single 6,000 block trade to knock Bitcoin prices down to $102.  It was an 80-percent drop in a matter of seconds before moving back up to about $600.  Yet the customer who sold that block did not receive timely and fair trade execution. They got hosed.      In December 2013 it appeared that Bitcoin had promise.  But in the past two months market forces have exposed several critical flaws, putting into question soundness of infrastructure and its viability as a currency -- let alone as a speculative commodity, which it is. If Bitcoin is to have a chance for real-world adoption, much reform will need to happen at the very top of this emerging industry -- including the sincere embrace of regulation, stronger leadership, tighter controls, higher standards and important consumer protection.  A good place to start reform is at the Bitcoin Foundation.  (Williams, a risk-management expert and ex-Federal Reserve Bank examiner and former commodities trading floor senior executive, teaches finance in the Boston University School of Management.) FREE AppDownload
CNBCMtGox, once Bitcoin's largest trading site, has shut down.  The company said the move came "in light of recent news reports and the potential repercussions on MtGox's operations and the market." Though some argue that it is insolvent.  Dennis Gartman, editor and publisher of The Gartman Letter writes that this reminds us that "there is never just one cockroach."  In some pretty strong rhetoric, he says Mt Gox's failure is "a pox upon the entire enterprise." Gartman also writes that those engaging in Bitcoin speculation will draw the attention of the IRS and it would be wise for people to avoid Bitcoin at all costs. From Gartman: "We have never been fans of Bitcoin, believing it to be nothing more than a scam of the first order and a breeding ground for drug dealing and tax evasion. We have pled with our clients around the world not to become involved with Bitcoin in any form or fashion, but even we are stunned by the announcement that the Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox, has gone bankrupt... or soon will... in the past twenty four hours, proving once again our old adage that "There is never just one cockroach.” "Mt.Gox had delayed paying out trading profits and/or holdings of cash or of Bitcoins themselves in recent weeks, blaming problems on technical circumstances... upon “server” problems... or upon other technical irregularities. Now it is being reported that Mt. Gox has suffered the theft of several hundred thousand of its deposited Bitcoins and that the theft took place a year or more ago and is only now coming to light.  "Others are already trying to fill the void left by Mt.Gox’ demise, but we shall again urge caution and in most instances shall counsel utter and complete avoidance of all things Bitcoin related. We fear that even if these other “exchanges” can take the place of Mt.Gox, the damage done by this company’s failure shall be a pox upon the entire enterprise. Avoid Bitcoin if you can, for even if these other exchanges succeed, we can only suspect that participation in Bitcoin speculation shall eventually call the IRS attention upon those involved even in a modest way, and no one needs that attention. A word to the hopefully wise!" Bitcoin believers however are arguing that for Bitcoin to survive, MtGox has to go away. FREE AppDownload
Twitter.com/TheDominoPIMCO's Bill Gross called into CNBC to react to an unflattering Wall Street Journal article about his personality clashes with Mohammed El-Erian.  Last month, El-Erian, the co-CIO, unexpectedly announced that he was resigning from PIMCO. "The conflict between Mohammed and myself is overblown," Gross told CNBC. CNBC anchor Brian Sullivan asked Gross if there were any factual errors in the article. Gross didn't give a clear answer.  "I don't want to quarrel with Greg Zuckerman and his story," Gross said. In case you missed the WSJ article, it basically made Gross sound like a jerk. According to the Journal, Gross had a major clash with El-Erian in front of the other employees.  From the WSJ:  "I have a 41-year track record of investing excellence," Mr. Gross told Mr. El-Erian, according to the two witnesses. "What do you have?" "I'm tired of cleaning up your s—," Mr. El-Erian responded, referring to conduct by Mr. Gross that he felt was hurting Pimco, these two people recall. Sources also told the Journal that Gross later referred to himself as "Secretariat," the undefeated racehorse. From the WSJ:   Late last year, in front of a number of traders, Mr. Gross said, "if only Mohamed would let me, I could run all the $2 trillion myself…I'm Secretariat," referring to the famed thoroughbred. "Why would you bet on anyone other than Secretariat?" The article also said that Gross doesn't let his traders make eye contact with him or speak to him in the morning.  From the WSJ:  On the trading floor, Mr. Gross doesn't like employees speaking with him or making eye contact, especially in the morning, current and former employees say. He prefers silence and at times reprimands those who break it, even if they're discussing investments, these people say. In response to that, Gross admitted that he's "not a morning person." He told CNBC that he instituted a time at 8 a.m. where employees "could play their own rock songs." He said he also instituted "a congo line to let employees know it's OK to scream and shout and let it all out." "Yeah, I thought that was very unfair." CNBC Anchor Brian Sullivan asked him if he's friends with El-Erian. "He's always been a good friend," Gross said, explaining that they are both involved in philanthropy with their wives. It was difficult to understand Gross who was calling  into CNBC. Sullivan asked him about it.  "I'm on my wife's cellphone. We have a medical situation."  "Now I feel like a jerk," Sullivan responded.  FREE AppDownload
APFor a long time, Bank of America call centers had a tough time retaining employees. That's probably not surprising if you think about the day-to-day of the job. Already irritated people call in, suffer through long hold periods, become even more annoyed, and then take that frustration out on the employee that eventually ends up on the call's receiving end. At times, turnover rates in U.S. call centers were as high as 40% a year. Bank of America knew something had to change. So it turned to analytics to figure out just what was causing employees to flee their posts. In "The Decoded Company: Know Your Talent Better Than You Know Your Customers," entrepreneurs Leerom Segal, Aaron Goldstein, Jay Goldman, and Rahaf Harfoush examine how Bank of America and numerous other companies used the power of big data to rethink management and increase performance and satisfaction among employees. "The key to sustainable competitive advantage is in creating a data-driven, talent-centric company culture," the authors contend. In the case of Bank of America, the company began to address its turnover problem by looking at performance metrics from different call centers. It noticed there was significant variation, and decided the culture of each call center must be affecting the performance and happiness of its employees. On closer inspection, Bank of America realized one thing in particular was contributing to the success or failure of call center employees: inter-office collaboration. "They found out that the biggest predictor for performance was looking at who you talked to among your colleagues," says Ben Waber, author of "People Analytics" and a visiting scientist at the MIT Media Lab. "That single metric was six times more predictive than any other." Why weren't people collaborating enough? Well, Bank of America had traditionally asked call center employees to take breaks that didn't coincide with anyone else's. People would overlap lunches by just 15 minutes or so, which was when 80% of interactions took place. So Bank of America decided to try something new. They allowed teams to take breaks at the same time. After three months, they saw that people were handling calls 23% faster, and cohesion was up by 18%. That alone translated to $15 million extra for the company. All it took was paying attention to the data and changing the break policy. FREE AppDownload
flickr / Mike KalasnikStruggling retailer J.C. Penney (NYSE: JCP), which George Soros's hedge fund recently exited, is scheduled to report its fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year results Wednesday, February 26, after the closing bell. Among other things, investors will have an eye on the company's liquidity and its profit margins. The former is likely J.C. Penney's largest problem right now, and the latter has to improve if efforts to turn the company around are having any effect. See also: Brian Sozzi's Retail Roundup: J.C. Penney Expectations Analysts on average predict that J.C. Penney will say its revenue for the quarter fell slightly year-over-year to $3.86 billion. A net loss of $0.82 per share is also in the consensus forecast. That would compare to net losses of $1.85 per share in the previous period and $1.95 per share in the same period of last year. Note that the consensus estimate was for a net loss $0.66 just 60 days ago. Also note that J.C. Penney reported greater-than-expected net losses in the previous four quarters, though the miss in the third quarter was by less than five percent. In the third-quarter report, management patted itself on the back for reconnecting with its customers. The results were a disappointment, but investors liked the improved forecast. The share price was almost seven percent higher a week after the third-quarter report. The analysts' consensus full-year forecast calls for a net loss of $6.11 per share on revenue of $11.93 billion. That compares with a net loss of $3.50 per share and $12.98 billion in sales in the previous year. Just 60 days ago, the analysts on average had the net loss pegged at $6.01 per share. The Company J.C. Penney operates approximately 1,100 department stores. Its wares include apparel and footwear, accessories, fine and fashion jewelry, beauty products, as well as home furnishings. It also offers various services, such as styling salon, optical, portrait photography and custom decorating. This former iconic catalog retailer was founded in 1902, and its headquarters are in Plano, Texas. It currently has a market capitalization near $1.6 billion. Myron E. Ullman has been chief executive officer of the company since April 8, 2013, though he was also CEO from December 2004 to February 2012. Competitors include Kohl's (NASDAQ: KSS) and Macy's (NYSE: M). The former is expected to post declines in EPS and sales, relative to a year ago, when it next reports Thursday. The latter is expected to show EPS growth but slightly smaller revenues in its Tuesday report. During the three months that ended in January, J.C. Penney reported strong November sales, said it would focus on private label brands in 2014, announced 33 store closings, released its 2013 sustainability report and amended its shareholder rights plan to protect tax benefits. See also: Retailers On The Ropes: 7 Companies Expected To Have A Difficult 2014 Performance J.C. Penney's return on equity and operating margin are both in negative territory. It has no long-term earnings growth forecast; it is not expected to be profitable this year, though analysts do predict some revenue growth. The company also does not offer a dividend. The number of J.C. Penney shares sold short, as of the most recent settlement date, represents about 40 percent of the total float. That was the highest level of short interest in the past year. It would take more than four days to close out all of the short positions. For the past three months, the consensus recommendation of the analysts surveyed by Thomson/First Call who follow the stock has been to hold shares. Yet the analysts' mean price target, or where they expect the stock to go, is more than 33 percent higher than the current share price. The share price is down more than 36 percent year to date, after hitting a multiyear low in the first week of February. It is currently below the 50-day and 200-day moving averages. Over the past six months, the stock has underperformed not only the competitors mentioned above, but also the broader markets. At the time of this writing, the author had no position in the mentioned equities. FREE AppDownload
Like many things, optimism about a country's course varies widely around the world. In some countries, an overwhelming majority of citizens feel like their country is on track, and in others, an equally overwhelming majority believe the opposite. To see this, below is a map based on data from the 2013 Pew Research Global Attitudes Project. It shows the percentage of the populations in the surveyed countries that were satisfied with their country's direction. The citizens of China and Malaysia appear to be very satisfied with their countries' directions, with 85% and 83% of their respective populations answering positively. The bottom of the list consists of countries in the troubled Southern European periphery — Spain (5% satisfied), Italy (3%), and Greece (2%). With enduring high unemployment and political turmoil, it is not surprising that huge majorities find their countries headed in the wrong direction. The United States falls near the middle of the surveyed countries, with 31% of respondents saying they were satisfied with the country's direction. Pew Global Research Here is a list of the countries, adapted from Pew Research's summary data: Pew Research
Council on Foreign RelationsClick map to see interactive version.Several of the 2014 geopolitical risks that could affect the U.S. that the Council on Foreign Relations warned about in December are already happening. Political unrest in Ukraine, rated moderate likelihood, moderate impact, has erupted into "civil violence and protracted political instability." A political crisis in Venezuela, rated low likelihood, low impact, is starting to look a lot more likely, with protesters warning they have reached the point of no return. The CFR report and accompanying map (click for interactive version) is based on the assessment of approximately 1,200 government officials, foreign policy experts, and academics. Risk events are rated for likelihood and impact, with high impact events directly threatening the U.S. homeland, likely to trigger U.S. military involvement, or threatening the supply of critical U.S. strategic resources. Below are the top ten threats threats, starting with the worst, with links to CFR's analysis for more information: Strengthening of al-Qaeda in the Arabian PeninsulaHigh likelihood; moderate impact.The Arabian Peninsula is considered the "most dangerous al-Qaeda affiliate" to U.S. national security with more than two dozen U.S. diplomatic facilities in the area have shut down because of terrorist threats. In response, the United States will continue to escalate its drone counterterrorism campaign. Political Instability in JordanHigh likelihood; moderate impact.Jordan’s political stability and economy is severely threatened by the influx of Syrian and Palestinian refugees. The United Nations has estimated that Jordan will need $5.3 billion by the end of 2014 for its refugee crisis.  Sectarian Violence in IraqHigh likelihood; moderate impact.According to the CFR, if sectarian violence continues, Iraq may plunge into a "deeper state of chaos" and potentially into civil war.  Rising Security Threats in Pakistan High likelihood; moderate impact.The withdrawal of U.S. and allied forces from Afghanistan after 2014 could increase instability by allowing anti-state militants from Pakistan to establish a terrorist safe haven in Afghanistan.  Increased Violence and Instability in Afghanistan High likelihood; moderate impact.Failure to sign a security pact could undermine U.S. and allied forces efforts to improve the security environment of Afghanistan. The reestablishment of al-Qaeda groups throughout Afghanistan is one possibility if agreements are not met. Terrorist Attack on the U.S. HomelandModerate likelihood; high impact.Another attack on the scale of 9/11 is "plausible," according to CFR, with the White House warning that al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula "poses the greatest potential threat." Iranian Nuclear CrisisModerate likelihood; high impact.The prospects for a breakthrough in the nuclear standoff with Iran have recently improved. A lasting settlement of the dispute is still uncertain and even "the possibility of military strikes cannot be discounted," according to the CFR. North Korean CrisisModerate likelihood; high impact.The risk of conflict on the Korean peninsula remains high since there are  continuous efforts by North Korea to develop nuclear weapons and long range missiles against UN Security Council resolutions. The execution of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s uncle following charges of treason has increased the potential for political instability and unrest in the country. Civil War in Syria Moderate likelihood; high impact.According to the CFR, ongoing civil strife threatens the stability of U.S. allies, particularly Turkey and Jordan. Increased regional instability could create another safe haven for extremist groups active in Syria, like al-Qaeda affiliates, Islamic State of Iraq, and Hezbollah. Cyberattack on U.S. Infrastructure Moderate likelihood; high impact.Due to the increasingly sophisticated nature of cyberattacks, such an attack on critical infrastructure could be significantly disruptive or potentially devastating. Energy is the most vulnerable industry, and therefore a large-scale attack could temporarily halt the supply of water, electricity, gas, transportation, communication, and financial institutions. And 23 more threats: Violence in the Central African Republic High likelihood; low impact. Internal Violence in South Sudan High likelihood; low impact. Escalation of Drug-Related Violence in Mexico Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Political Instability in Libya Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Increased Violence in Egypt Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Indo-Pakistani Military Confrontation Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Continuing Conflict in Somalia with Al-Shabab Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Sectarian Violence in Lebanon Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Political Unrest in Ukraine Moderate likelihood; moderate impact.  South China Sea Armed Confrontation Low likelihood; high impact. Increasing Sectarian Violence in Nigeria Low likelihood; high impact. East China Sea Armed Confrontation Low likelihood; high impact.  Political Crisis in Venezuela Low likelihood; low impact.  Violence in Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Sectarian Violence in Myanmar Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Internal Instability in Sudan Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Sino-Indian Clash Low likelihood; moderate impact. Sudan-South Sudan Military Conflict Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Conflict Between Armenia and Azerbaijan Low likelihood; low impact. Violence in Bangladesh Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Growing Instability in Thailand Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Conflict in Kurdish-Dominated Regions Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Destabilization of Mali Low likelihood; moderate impact. FREE AppDownload
Ben SalterFor Bitcoin to live, MtGox has to die. That is the consensus emerging in the Bitcoin community in the wake of the apparent demise of MtGox, the once dominant bitcoin trading site. It is still not entirely clear what has happened to what was once the world's largest bitcoin exchange, which went offline overnight. The company said in a statement on its site that it had halted trading "in light of recent news reports and the potential repercussions on MtGox's operations and the market." But as we've detailed, MtGox has been regarded for nearly a year as something of a basket case in the Bitcoin community, with complaints from customers about lengthy delays in taking money and bitcoin out of their wallets, and a general lack of responsiveness. As SecondMarket's Barry Silbert told us this morning, "The sooner that MtGox goes away, the better." Erik Voorhees, who earlier published his state of mind upon realizing his $285,000 in bitcoins were likely gone forever, told us in a follow-up interview that while he is not thrilled about his financial losses, he looks forward to the Bitcoin community putting what he called the "cancer" of MtGox drama behind it. "I think among those of us who are really involved in the Bitcoin community, this is unquestionably great," he said. "In the longterm for Bitcoin, Gox needed to go away. It was dying a slow death, and now it's been severed." There are unconfirmed reports that customer wallets run by MtGox were compromised, and that a massive amount of bitcoins were stolen. The focus within the Bitcoin community is thus now turning to how to beef up wallet security. Recent wallet theft outside the exchange has only added to concerns. "The reason that many people stored coins on MtGox is not that they all were active traders, but because MtGox was a convenient 'wallet' or 'deposit box' for them," Oleg Andreev, a software designer and digital security expert, told us by email. "Unfortunately, we don't yet have very safe and easy-to-use wallets to store your bitcoins on your personal computers." Andreev envisions a three-key back-up plan where one key would be owned by you, one by the custodian and one by a separate service that holds the key in "cold storage," or in physical form. This would avoid most of the problems Gox users suffered. "You will be able to withdraw your coins instantly. If the server is compromised, the company does not lose even their 'hot wallet' funds. And if you forget your password, technical support will take their encrypted 'cold' key and help you move your coins where you want." The moment may prove most profound for bitcoin regulation. Jeremy Liew, a leading bitcoin investor at Lightspeed Venture Partners, had previously gone on record at last month's New York Bitcoin hearings as opposing rigorous regulation. But in the wake of MtGox, he now thinks it's necessary for mainstream adoption. Here's what he tweeted earlier: Now more than ever we need a US domiciled regulatory compliant #bitcoin exchange. @BenLawsky could this be expedited? I think a regulatory solution would do more to increase ordinary consumer confidence in Bitcoin and its institutions than one that is purely market driven or industry led. I am well aware of all the challenges that regulatory solutions have, but if Bitcoin is to become a mass market product, then it will require measures to lift confidence from those who will not understand a technology solution that their BTC is safe.I advocated against new BTC specific regulation at Lawsky’s hearings last month, but I now think that some sort of regulation covering customer funds security may make sense if there is going to be a BitLicence. New York Department of Financial Services Superintendent Ben Lawsky agreed regulations are needed to shephered Bitcoin into the mainstream. Earlier, he released a statement saying in part, "These developments underscore that smart, tailored regulation could play an important role in protecting consumers and the security of the money that they entrust to virtual currency firms." For now, Voorhees says, the market reaction is overdone, since few of the largest and most important businesses had funds stored on MtGox. While he did not rule out that another Gox announcement could yet complicate the Bitcoin landscape, he pointed out that few major Bitcoin businesses had their funds stored "It's more just a huge PR hit, and just a huge tragic loss for the users." Prices were at $512 on Coindesk as of 1:30 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Jorge SilvaA woman walks past an empty section where toilet paper should be on display in a super market in Caracas May 17, 2013. Venezuela President Nicolás Maduro has only exacerbated problems inherited from predecessor and mentor Hugo Chavez and holds primary responsibility for protests throughout the country, says Duke Professor Patrick Duddy, the former US ambassador to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela from 2007 to 2010. It all comes down to economics, including a paradox involving the combination of price controls and currency controls, as Duddy explained (emphasis ours): What we can see from the statistics is that things have gotten worse in the last 9 months … Last year, inflation was about 25%. This year, inflation is at 56% … The Scarcity Index is often well over 20%. Food prices have gone up much higher than the overall inflation rate.   Prior to the legislative elections in December, the government not only railed against the private sector and high prices for consumer goods, but they essentially mandated that prices be lowered as a concession to the public, thus essentially emptying the shelves in the stores that did have some stock. But how were they going to replace that stock when these items are not manufactured in the country and the government is restricting access to dollars?    The economic circumstances have become worse and the government has become increasingly defensive, as the circumstances in the country have generated predictable criticism and concern. And that's why you have Venezuelans fighting over chickens in a grocery store, as food stables are increasingly unavailable. Since 2003, access to dollars has been limited to those in state-run companies and certain important business sectors. The effect is that bolivares are valued at far less than the official exchange rate. While the official rate is 6.3 bolivares to the dollar, it actually trades for 10x that on the black market.  Maduro added to the chaos, with his administration announcing in January that Venezuelans traveling abroad could only obtain foreign currency at a rate higher than the official rate, determined by a weekly currency auction. In addition, Maduro enacted the Fair Price Law, which set maximum profit margins at 30 percent for companies and requires them to obtain “fair price certificates” to access dollars. The law carries prison sentences for those convicted of hoarding or “destabilizing the economy.” Similarly, last year, the government took over an electronics retailer accused of overpricing its products. Maduro promised the effort would reduce consumer prices by 5 percent. Instead, prices rose 4.8 percent.  “Their efforts at converting what was a market-oriented economy into a socialist economy have eviscerated much of what was a fairly productive private sector,” said Duddy. While Maduro’s policies have worsened the economy in Venezuela, his inability to lead has also been a problem, according to Duddy, who says his default response to conflict is to distract and blame. During the current protests, Maduro has refused to acknowledge the grievances of the protesting public, and has instead taken to accusing the political opposition and the protesters of being "fascists" that seek to destabilize the government. Duddy calls the claims "preposterous." “That is a part of their effort to vilify their opposition and rally their own base,” explains Duddy. “… [It is] part of a campaign to distract attention from the desperate circumstances inside the country and which are a consequence of their own policies.”  Maduro has blamed the current protests on the United States, saying that they helped organize student protesters in order to “create youth groups that generate violence.” That accusation has led Maduro to throw out eight U.S. diplomats in the last year, including three vice-consuls, for conducting standard diplomatic activities, says Duddy. “This is a pretty transparent attempt to suggest that other countries,  the United States in particular, are responsible for their problems,” said Duddy. This strategy isn’t an isolated incident. Last year, Maduro blamed the United States for “giving cancer” to President Chavez. In December, he blamed a power outage in Caracas on a conspiracy by the Opposition.   Perhaps the most egregious example of the blame game is Maduro blaming the deaths of six protesters on “fascist groups” associated with the protesters and the opposition, rather than pro-Chavista militant groups that most people agree were to blame. While Duddy says it's far too early speculate whether the protests could lead to a resignation by Maduro or other elements of the Chavista government, he was adamant that the future success of the government will be determined by whether it can stop running from problems and start addressing policy issues like how to develop one of the largest reserves of fossil fuels in the world.   “[The Chavista government] has been in power for 15 years and it's no longer plausible for them to blame anyone else for their problems, certainly not the United States,” said Duddy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Noah Berger Elon Musk's upstart automaker has been on a roll today: Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas raised his price target to $320, from $153, sending the stock skyrocketing. And now, Consumer Reports has named the Tesla Model S the best overall car of 2014, it announced this afternoon. Here's why: Sure, you can talk about this electric luxury car’s blistering acceleration, razor-sharp handling, compliant ride, and versatile cabin, which can fit a small third-row seat. But that just scratches the surface of this technological tour de force. The Tesla is brimming with innovation. Its massive, easy-to-use 17-inch touch screen controls most functions. And with its totally keyless operation, full Internet access, and ultra-quiet, zero-emission driving experience, the Tesla is a glimpse into a future where cars and computers coexist in seamless harmony. Its 225-mile driving range and 5-hour charges, using Tesla’s special connector, also make it the easiest, most practical, albeit pricey, electric car to live with. Price as tested: $89,650 The win for the Model S, picked from more than 260 cars tested by Consumer Reports, is no shock: In May 2013, the magazine gave the Model S a 99/100, its best score ever. Here are the rest of the year's winners for each category, with the price as tested. Japanese brands dominated: Small SUV: Subaru Forester ($26,814) Midsized sedan: Honda Accord ($23,270) Compact car: Subaru Impreza (sedan $21,345; hatchback $$22,345) Midsized SUV: Hyundai Santa Fe ($36,290) Green car: Toyota Prius ($26,750) Pickup truck: Ram 1500 ($42,810) Luxury car: Audi A6 ($56,295) Sports sedan: BMW 328i ($43,195) Minivan: Honda Odyssey ($36,830) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartSome of Bitcoin enthusiast Mike Caldwell's coins and paper vouchers, often called "paper wallets", are pictured at his office in this photo illustration in Sandy, Utah, January 31, 2014. Editor's note: Erik Voorhees runs Coinapult.com. This post originally appeared on reddit, and we thank the author for allowing us to republish it here. Follow him at @erikvoorhees. Hello friends, MtGox is gone. So let's prepare ourselves. On Tuesday, and for the rest of the week, all hell will break lose in the media. It will be blamed on MtGox, it will be blamed on Bitcoin, it will be blamed on the "bug," and it will, more than anything, be blamed on the "lack of regulation." Pundits and "experts" of all types will weigh in on the calamity. It will be world news in a matter of hours. Get ready, because it will be an ugly week. For all of you who lost money, my heart goes out to you. Some people lost a little, some lost a fortune. It will make people sick, and depressed, and full of grief. Personally, I had over 550 BTC in Gox. I will never get any of that back. If misery loves company, then we'll be enjoying a grand feast today. I should have known better, of course. I take responsibility for leaving those funds with an entity that had proven incompetence repeatedly. I chose to ignore even my own warnings, for nothing more than the sake of convenience. Gox is still at fault, to be sure, but I have learned the lesson. I hope it is not such an expensive lesson for others. And for all you observers, please take a moment to consider it as well. Be mindful, however, that the wrong lessons are not learned, for that would be the true tragedy, indeed. Let me suggest that the lesson is not that Bitcoin is broken. Bitcoin is fine. Similarly, the lesson is not that security is impossible. Those who know what they are doing, can achieve it and help others to do so. The lesson is not that nobody can be trusted. There are countless good men and women in this community who are worthy of trust, and some of the very best people I've ever met. And finally, the lesson is not that we ought to seek out "regulation" to save us from the evils and incompetence of man. For the regulators are men too, and wield the very same evil and incompetence, only enshrined in an authority from which it can wreak amplified and far more insidious destruction. Let us not retreat from our rising platform only to cower back underneath the deranged machinations of Leviathan. The proper lesson, if I may suggest, is this: We are building a new financial order, and those of us building it, investing in it, and growing it, will pay the price of bringing it to the world. This is the harsh truth. We are building the channels, the bridges, and the towers of tomorrow's finance, and we put ourselves at risk in doing so. We are at risk from accidents. We are at risk from fraud, from corruption, and from evil. We are at risk from journalists seeking headlines and from politicians seeking power and glory. We are at risk from the very market we are trying to build - a market which cares not about our portfolio, our ambitions, or our delicate sympathies. For all these risks, devastation will befall us repeatedly. Some of us will be discouraged. Some will be ridiculed and insulted. Some will be tricked, or swindled. Some of us will be crushed or caged. We will be set upon by all manner of antagonists, repeatedly, for a long time. So why do we do it? Why do we build these towers that fall down upon us? Why do we toil and strain and risk our precious time, which is the only real wealth we possess? Because the world needs what we're building. It needs it desperately. If that matters to you, as it does to me, then hold to that thought. You will see through the smoke, and your wounds will heal. So shake it off, brothers, for this won't be the last calamity endured before the win. Tonight, my heart is with you all. Tomorrow, my head is down. My eyes are open. And I am building. Toward peace and freedom, -Erik Voorhees   FREE AppDownload
Peter MacDiarmid/Getty ImagesWhen the European Commission passed a law capping top banker bonuses, banks sat down to figure out how to make sure their people could get paid. Goldman decided to do something called "role-based pay" — a monthly or yearly dividend that can change over time (but don't call it a bonus!). Enter HSBC, which recently revealed its plan to sidestep the European Commission's ruling. From the Financial Times: The bank’s top three executives will receive fixed “allowances” worth about 130 per cent of their salaries this year, the bank said on Monday. Stuart Gulliver, chief executive, will be given a £1.7m ($2.8m) fixed allowance on top of his £1.25m ($2.1m) salary. The changes, which will affect 665 staff, are intended to cope with new EU rules that limit bonuses to no more than 200 per cent of salary from this year. Other global banks, including Barclays, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs, are also drawing up plans to award so-called allowances for their European staff. Most if not all banks are expected to follow HSBC and seek shareholder approval to double the new EU bonus cap for top executives from 100 per cent of salary to 200 per cent. Read the full report at the FT » FREE AppDownload
Just 25.4% of Americans spent time as volunteers in 2013, reported the Bureau of Labor Statistics today. This is less than in any other year in the last decade. "The volunteer rates for both men and women (22.2 percent and 28.4 percent, respectively) declined the year ending in September 2013," the BLS said in its report. "Women continued to volunteer at a higher rate than did men across all age groups, educational levels, and other major demographic characteristics." Every year since 2002, the BLS has published statistics on various aspects of volunteering. Each September, the Bureau asks respondents to the Current Population Survey about their volunteer activities. 26.5% of Americans spent at least some time volunteering in 2012. Recent levels are quite a bit lower than the 28.8% rate from 2003-2005. Here is the overall volunteer rate among all Americans: Business Insider, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesGreenwich, Conn. has some of the most exclusive neighborhoods in America.Much like the rest of the country, America's richest neighborhoods continue to evolve in terms of racial diversity. In his latest Higley 1000, a list of the highest-income neighborhoods in the U.S., Stephen Higley, a professor emeritus of urban social geography at the University of Montevallo, found that the top neighborhoods are home to more Asian and Latino residents than ever before.  Higley ranked the most expensive neighborhoods in America based on American Community Survey 2006 - 2010 data. He aggregated contiguous block groups (subdivisions of Census tracts) with a mean income over $200,000. You can read his complete methodology here. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
    We all lead incredibly busy lives, and sometimes it can be really hard to think about fitness. Especially since it might seem like you have to be in the office all the time. We visited Crossfit South Brooklyn to help solve that problem for you and discovered this awesome 4-minute workout that you can do right at your desk. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tony GentilePope Francis gives a blessing during the prayer to celebrate the Immaculate Conception in Piazza di Spagna (Spain's Square) in downtown Rome December 8, 2013. VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - Pope Francis on Monday revolutionized the Vatican's scandal-plagued finances, inviting outside experts into a world often seen as murky and secretive and saying the church must use its wealth to help the poor. Francis, elected nearly a year ago with a mandate for reform, used a document known as a Motu Proprio - Latin for "by his own initiative" - to implement immediate changes including appointing an auditor-general. The document says the Church must see its possessions and financial assets in the "light of its mission to evangelize, with particular concern for the most needy". A new Secretariat for the Economy will report directly to the pope and will be headed by Australian Cardinal George Pell, 72, currently the Archbishop of Sydney and a key proponent of financial transparency in a committee that advised the pope. A Church source said Pell would move to Rome. The auditor-general will have wide oversight powers "to conduct audits of any agency of the Holy See and Vatican City State at any time," a statement said. The Secretariat, effectively a new ministry, will be headed by Pell and guided in policy making by a new 15-member Council for the Economy made up of eight prelates and seven lay financial experts "with strong professional financial experience" from around the world, according to the statement. The Motu Proprio's title is "Faithful and Prudent Administrator". A Vatican statement said the changes "will enable more formal involvement of senior and experienced experts in financial administration, planning and reporting and will ensure better use of resources, improving the support available for various program, particularly our works with the poor and marginalized". IMMEDIATE EFFECT Francis decreed that the changes have "immediate, full and stable effect," abrogating any existing rules not compatible with them. An existing economic department known as the Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See (APSA), which manages financial holdings and real estate, will formally assume the role of the Vatican's central bank and have "all the obligations and responsibilities of similar institutions around the world," the statement said. The role and structure of the separate Vatican bank, formally known as the Institute for Works of Religion (IOR), will not change for the time being, a spokesman said. There was no mention of the IOR in Monday's statements. Francis has not ruled out closing the bank, which primarily handles funds for religious orders and Vatican employees. Both the IOR and APSA have been at the center of scandals. Italian magistrates are investigating the IOR on allegations of money laundering. The Vatican dismisses the charges. Monsignor Nunzio Scarano, who worked as a senior accountant at APSA for 22 years and who had close ties to the IOR, is currently on trial accused of plotting to smuggle millions of dollars into Italy from Switzerland to help rich friends avoid taxes. Scarano has also been indicted on separate charges of laundering millions of euros through the IOR. He says the money in his accounts at the IOR were from donations. Italian magistrates contest this and the IOR carried out its own investigation of Scarano and shared its findings with the Italians. In the past year under the leadership of its German president, Ernst von Freyberg, the IOR has closed hundreds of accounts, instituted strict anti-money laundering regulations and launched several investigations into suspicious activities. (Reporting by Philip Pullella; Editing by Andrew Heavens/Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
You bring your iPhone along everywhere you go. Follow these quick steps so that you know exactly what to do the next time you lose your coveted device. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
    Gaming company King.com made news when it filed for a $500 million IPO earlier this week. The driving force behind King's success is Candy Crush Saga — the hugely addictive puzzle game that all of your friends are playing on Facebook or their iPhones or Android phones. The game is so addictive, in fact, that our very own Megan Rose Dickey spent $127 playing Candy Crush in just one (lonely) week. Dickey opens up about her Candy Crush addiction in this candid video. Produced by Will Wei FREE AppDownload
These three Excel formulas will let you analyze specific data within a larger data set. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
The Monty Hall Problem is a famous probability problem named for the original host of “Let’s Make A Deal." The controversy began in 1990 when Marilyn vos Savant posed the question in her column. The Monty Hall Problem: A contestant on a game show is asked to choose between three doors, behind one of which is a brand new car. Then the host, who knows where the car is hidden, opens one of the other doors where there is no car. The host then asks the contestant if they would like to stay with their original door or switch to the other unopened door. Should the contestant stay or switch? Marilyn vos Savant said that the contestant should always switch doors to increase their odds of winning. This counterintuitive solution created a massive debate. Vos Savant received about 10,000 letters from readers, including many Ph.D.s, telling her she was mistaken. Many argued that after the host opens one of the doors each remaining door has a 1/2 chance of hiding the car, in which case it should not matter if you switch or stay. But vos Savant was right. When the host opens one of the doors he provides additional information. The door that he opens changes based on where the car is and which door the contestant chooses. Contestants who switch doors increase their chances of winning from 1/3 to 2/3. See the step-by-step explanation in the video. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
If you're thinking about canceling your cable subscription, you might want to think again. Companies like Time Warner Cable are willing to negotiate the price of your monthly bill. All you have to do is ask...Produced by Graham Flanagan. Additional Camera by Will Wei. FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
Introducing the GAYTM — the most stylish way to withdraw cash. Australian bank ANZ added rhinestones, glitter, and rainbows to their usually workaday ATMs for the duration of Sydney's Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras. The bank has partnered with the event for eight consecutive years, according to the Sunshine Coast Daily.  "This association is all about encouraging an environment where everyone feels comfortable being themselves at work," Chair of ANZ Australia's Diversity Council Mark Hand told the paper. "You don't get the benefits of a diverse workforce if some people are expending vast amounts of energy pretending to be something they are not and trying to conform." And the GAYTMs are lighting up social media. Check it out (via Felix Salmon):   Gotta love a #gaytm . . @anz_us getting their @SydneyMardiGras face on. What a way to dispense Mardi Gras mullah :) pic.twitter.com/ibeIty3ao2 Cash out and proud. How the blinged-up @ANZ_AU #GAYTM is creating a fabulous stir. http://t.co/oeUdSdCGfQ @MattYoung pic.twitter.com/rRi4fhIdfa Best @ANZ_Media presser I've ever been to! #GAYTM pic.twitter.com/gXJMhH2156 FREE AppDownload
To reduce costs and succeed in a new world of regulation, JP Morgan's going to focus on the businesses it's good at in all of its sectors — retail, corporate and investment banking. It's called optimizing, and you should pay attention. JPM is the biggest bank on Wall Street, and its actions could be a huge clue as to what the future of banking will look like. In its investment bank, JPM is going to get rid of things like pre-paid cards and physical commodities. Full rundown in the slide below: JP Morgan At the same time, it's going to boost businesses that are making the bank serious money like prime brokerage (serving hedge funds) and electronic trading. JP Morgan FREE AppDownload
We just learned that Case-Shiller home prices were up 0.75% month-over-month in December, and up 13.42% on the year in December. But this is much better than the median data from the National Association of Realtors (NAR), points out Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "This seems to be a reflection of the failure of the Case-Shiller data to properly account for the impact of the declining proportion of foreclosure sales last year," according to Shepherdson. "Distressed property sells for lower prices than non-distressed homes, other things equal, so the fall in foreclosure sales as a proportion of all transactions boosts reported prices." Shepherdson expects that we will see this in the Spring data where month-over-month data will be "much lower" and there will be a "sharp drop" in the year-over-year rate. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"The Smoke Signal," 1905MtGox has a statement on its website about the sudden closure of its exchange after weeks of issues. From MtGox: Dear MtGox Customers, In the event of recent news reports and the potential repercussions on MtGox's operations and the market, a decision was taken to close all transactions for the time being in order to protect the site and our users. We will be closely monitoring the situation and will react accordingly. Best regards,MtGox Team Last night, MtGox halted trading activity. Read more about the closure here. FREE AppDownload
It's JP Morgan's investor day and there's been a huge focus on cost cutting and creating a business that can deal with new regulation cutting into the firm's profit. JPM is confident that it can win in this new environment, and has upped its yearly profit target from $24 billion to $27 billion. Part of how CFO Maryann Lake explained the bank would achieve these ends is by optimizing its retail banks. In other words, fewer humans, more machines. These two slides from the presentation show the decline of basic human skills. JP Morgan   JP Morgan All this probably means there are more job cuts to come on top of the 2,000 in mortgage banking JPM announced this morning. Those jobs, though, will be on the low-skilled side of the labor force. JPM hired 7,000 people in risk management last year, which shows that on the higher-skilled side of the labor force, demand is there. FREE AppDownload
Instagram/epmcgarityWhen you're training for a marathon, you don't start by going for a 26-mile jog. Why should paying off your debt be any different? That's the argument Michelle Singletary makes in a recent column for The Washington Post. While conventional wisdom says to tackle debt with the highest interest rates, Singletary says that in her experience, people have a hard time sticking to the plan. "It makes good math sense," she writes. "But in practice, people don’t do what makes sense — otherwise they wouldn’t be in financial trouble." The problem is a lack of motivation: paying off large amounts of debt takes time, and it's easy to feel as if your small contributions each month aren't making a significant dent. One solution, Singletary says, is to throw out the conventional wisdom and focus on those amounts you can take care of quickly in order to build up momentum.  "Write your list. From top to bottom, start with the lowest balance," she says. Then make only the minimum payments on the other debts. "Once you’ve paid off the first debt, take the extra money and now apply it to the next one on your list." It might not be the fastest way to pay off debt, but Singletary points to a study by researchers at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management that found that having an achievable goal enhanced the likelihood of participants settling a debt.  If you're at the bottom of a mountain of debt, take Singletary's suggestion and start small to build momentum. Once you've gotten a few cards paid off, shift your attention to the big ones with high interest rates and chip away dollar by dollar. Here are a few other simple ways to tackle debt without cashing out your savings: FREE AppDownload
Michael SetoThe first U.S.-based Bitcoin exchange network is now in the works, hours after MtGox, once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, vanished.  SecondMarket, the alternative asset management firm currently overseeing the world's largest Bitcion investment vehicle, plans to spin off its Bitcoin desk into a brand new company that would become a fully regulated Bitcoin trading hub. Using London's Intercontinental Exchange commodities market as a model, SecondMarket CEO Barry Silbert said he envisions as a hub and spoke arrangement, with his firm serving as a "meta-exchange" through which certified member exchanges and market-makers could trade with one another.  The organization would serve three roles: price discovery, central clearing, and, most ambitiously, as a self-regulatory organization, like FINRA. SecondMarket would front $20 million in cash and Bitcoin assets.  "We have half a dozen conversations ongoing with global banks, a high level of interest and early support from global banks to be part of this," he told BI by phone Tuesday. "We've spent a fair amount of time with regulators, they're very aware of what we're doing." SecondMarket is also hoping to expand its offering of products for investing in digital currencies. This is not the first time Silbert has stepped in to provide support to the Bitcoin industry as MtGox has teetered: Two weeks ago, as the exchange first announced it was suspending withdrawals, Silbert announced it would begin serving as a market-maker for Bitcoin holders. The final format for the exchange is still under reconsideration. Silbert said Bitcoin's current 24-hour trading has exacerbated Bitcoin's volatility, and that his network is potentially considering mimicking the gold market, where a single new baseline price would be set each day, off of which the marketplace would trade. The network could also help set the stage for the advent of Bitcoin derivatives products, the lack of which many Bitcoin users say has also contributed to Bitcoin's instability.  As for the end of MtGox, Silbert said the end of MtGox may prove a boon in the longrun to Bitcoin. "The sooner that MtGox goes away, the better."  Silbert said he hopes to put together the network's founding members by the end of next month. The decision must first be approved by SecondMarket's board.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonTesla is on a major tear this morning, up 14% to $248.27. This comes after Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas raised his price target to $320, from $153. Jonas cited several huge opportunities for growth in Tesla.  "Tesla’s quest to disrupt a trillion $ car industry offers an adjacent opportunity to disrupt a trillion $ electric utility industry," he wrote in a new note to clients. "If it can be a leader in commercializing battery packs, investors may never look at Tesla the same way again." In the past couple of weeks, the stock got a boost from speculation that Apple was in talks to buy Tesla, which was later discredited. It also got a boost after the green auto maker announced 2014 sales forecasts and beat Q4 earnings expectations. We're also keeping our eyes peeled for Tesla's announcement on its Gigafactory this week. The stock is up 64% year-to-date. Here's a look at the jump: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotBEIJING (Reuters) - Authorities in China's restive far western region of Xinjiang have charged a prominent ethnic Uighur professor with separatism, his wife and lawyer said on Tuesday, in a case which has attracted concern in the United States and Europe. Police in Beijing last month detained Ilham Tohti, a well-known economist who has championed the rights of the Muslim Uighur community, who come from Xinjiang. He was subsequently taken to Xinjiang's regional capital Urumqi. Tohti's wife, Guzailai Nu'er, said she had received a notice that his arrest had been formally approved and he was being charged with separatism. "This is ridiculous. He's never done anything like this. He is a teacher," she told Reuters by telephone from her house in Beijing. Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, said that he would try and see his client on Wednesday, but he had so far not been given access. "We'll see how things go in the morning," Li said from Urumqi where Tohti is being held in a detention center. Reuters was unable to reach the Xinjiang government for comment. The case against Tohti is the latest sign of the government's hardening stance on dissent in Xinjiang, where unrest in the past year has killed more than 100, including several police, according to state media. Rights activists say Tohti has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs, including what China says was its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, involving militants from Xinjiang, by pointing out inconsistencies in the official accounts. Tohti, an economics professor at Beijing's Minzu University which specializes in ethnic minority studies, told Reuters in November that state security agents had physically threatened him for speaking to foreign reporters. Many Uighurs chafe at restrictions on their culture and religion, although the Chinese government insists it grants them broad freedoms. China has blamed some of the violence on Islamist militants and separatists who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan. But rights groups and exiles say China exaggerates the threat to justify its firm grip on energy-rich Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. (Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
MtGox(Reuters) - Mt. Gox, once the world's largest bitcoin exchange, is "at a turning point," CEO Mark Karpeles told Reuters in an email, as the trading website remained down on Tuesday after halting withdrawals earlier in February. In an emailed response to a question of whether the Tokyo-based exchange was dead, Karpeles said: "We should have an official announcement ready soon-ish. We are currently at a turning point for the business. I can't tell much more for now as this also involves other parties." The digital marketplace operator said earlier this month that it had detected "unusual activity" and its office in Tokyo was empty on Tuesday, barring a handful of protesters saying they had lost money in the virtual currency. Six leading bitcoin exchanges distanced themselves from Mt. Gox in a statement, calling the exchange's activities a "tragic violation of the trust of users of Mt. Gox." (Reporting by Brett Wolf of the Compliance Complete service of Thomson Reuters Accelus; Editing by David Gaffen and Tiffany Wu) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)The Conference Board's "labor differential" (lhs) is a leading indicator for the unemployment rate (rhs, inverted).The results of the Conference Board's monthly Consumer Confidence Survey are out. The report's headline index fell to 78.1 from January's downward-revised 79.4 reading. The consensus estimate of market economists polled by Bloomberg was that the report's headline index would tick down to 80.0 from January's initially-reported 80.7 reading. "It is worth noting that the survey period for this index ends mid-month, with the measure not capturing some of the improvement in consumer sentiment in the latter half of February," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "In fact, the decline in the index was solely caused by a fall in the expectations component of the survey, which declined to 75.7 from 80.8 as current conditions rebounded to a cycle high of 81.7 from 77.3. We look for the removal of debt ceiling uncertainty and a recovery in equity prices to help support the expectations component of the index in future months, with confidence continuing to show modest improvement." The labor differential (a measure of survey respondents reporting that jobs are plentiful less those reporting that jobs hard to get) provided some better news, continuing to improve to another post-crisis high in February, rising to -18.6 from January's -19.9 reading. "This ongoing tightening of labor market conditions will increase the pressure on the Fed to adjust their forward guidance, likely in a more qualitative direction," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro. "After all, even though attitudes over the labor market improved, income expectations are only marginally positive." Below is the full text of the Conference Board release. ------------------ The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index®, which had increased in January, fell moderately in February. The Index now stands at 78.1 (1985=100), down from 79.4 in January. The decline was driven by the Expectations Index, which dropped to 75.7 from 80.8. The Present Situation Index, by contrast, climbed from 77.3 to 81.7. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey®, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was February 13.  “Consumer confidence declined moderately in February, on concern over the short-term outlook for business conditions, jobs, and earnings,” said Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board. “While expectations have fluctuated over recent months, current conditions have continued to trend upward and the Present Situation Index is now at its highest level in almost six years (April 2008, 81.9).  This suggests that consumers believe the economy has improved, but they do not foresee it gaining considerable momentum in the months ahead.” Consumers’ appraisal of current conditions improved for the fourth consecutive month. Those claiming business conditions are “good” increased to 21.5 percent from 20.8 percent, while those claiming business conditions are “bad” declined to 22.6 percent from 23.4 percent. Consumers’ assessment of the labor market also improved. Those claiming jobs are “plentiful” increased to 13.9 percent from 12.5 percent, while those saying jobs are “hard to get” decreased slightly to 32.5 percent from 32.7 percent. Consumers’ expectations, which had been improving over the past two months, retreated in February. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months decreased to 16.3 percent from 17.0 percent, while those anticipating business conditions to worsen increased to 13.3 percent from 12.2 percent. Consumers’ outlook for the labor market was also more pessimistic. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead declined to 13.3 percent from 15.1 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs increased to 20.6 percent from 19.0 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase declined from 16.6 percent to 15.4 percent, but those anticipating a decrease in their incomes also declined, from 13.9 percent to 13.1 percent. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Akhtar SoomroA computer screen is reflected in the glass window of a booth where a broker monitors the market.Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi, says that in recent conversations with clients, four big "uncertainties in asset markets" stand out. In an emailed note, Englander offers some color surrounding each debate: How much slack in the U.S. economy? — This subject continues to come up in client discussions, with many investors remaining skeptical that the slack that Fed Chair Yellen sees in labor markets exists in reality. The impact of last week's minutes was so powerful because it was the first indication that Fed officials might be wavering in their commitment. Fed Chair Yellen's testimony on Thursday will be a focal point. We think early innings will go to the Fed doves, but that the dovish view will be harder to maintain as time goes on. Weather — Everyone talks about the weather but does nothing about it. In financial markets, investors are staying on the sidelines until the impact is resolved. We think that weather effects are likely above 50% of the perceived slowing. The impact is most visible on housing, but housing data were weak through most of the 2013, so while housing may be most affected by the weather, it may not be indicative of the overall impact on the economy. China — Davos-like China optimism coming out of G20 and surprisingly good January data are paling against concerns that commodity stockpiles are out of line with production prospects. There is also considerable skepticism that the credit surge will continue. It makes commodity currencies look increasingly vulnerable, with AUD high on this list. EUR — The mystery wrapped in an enigma. Surprising encounters with non-leveraged clients, who are very EUR positive. The argument is that both sides of the current account identity are now EUR positive. The current account surplus is there, and the EUR-positive camp argues that the relevant asset prices for the financial account are those of euro zone banks — up 22% since end-September, +8% year YTD — and Spanish and Italian yields, which offer the highest yield for the lowest risk (the worm has turned). This is hardly a majority view, but the novelty is that it is well-argued view. The counterargument is that euro zone inflation is far below target in core as well as peripheral countries, so the ECB will act to make euro zone assets less attractive, but the counter-counter argument is that the pros are the bird in the hand and the cons are deeply in the bush. All of these debates are likely to dominate for a while, as the weather issue likely won't be resolved until April, when March economic data are released. The labor market picture will probably be obscured until then as well. In China, the big question is how long the sell-off in the Chinese yuan — which appears to be engineered by the PBoC in order to shake leveraged investors out of carry trades — will continue. In the euro zone, the advance estimate of February inflation out on Friday is the next piece of the puzzle. Evidence of stabilization may keep the ECB from moving to ease further for now. FREE AppDownload
People who scream "bubble" at every sign of bullishness are the worst scoundrels. I've described what a REAL bubble looks like before, and it's nothing like now. It's not just that asset prices are inflated, but rather there's an overwhelming sense of optimism about everything; at least that's how it was in 1999. 1999 wasn't just about the dotcom stocks, it was about fuel cells, people transporters (The Segway), cures for diseases, and a general belief that everyone would be great. And so when I see analyst notes talking about Tesla revolutionizing the electricity market, and charts that set a date on the upcoming "utopia" I'm reminded of the bright old days. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas cranked up his price target on Tesla to $320 from $153. "Tesla’s quest to disrupt a trillion $ car industry offers an adjacent opportunity to disrupt a trillion $ electric utility industry," he wrote in a new note to clients. "If it can be a leader in commercializing battery packs, investors may never look at Tesla the same way again." If Tesla figures out how to cheaply store green energy, that's a game-changer. But if Tesla masters the self-driving car, then here comes utopia. "Beyond the practical benefits, we estimate autonomous cars can contribute $1.3 trillion in annual savings to the US economy alone, with global savings over $5.6 trillion," wrote Jonas. "There will undoubtedly be bumps in the road as well, including the issues of liability, infrastructure, and consumer acceptance. However, none of these issues appears insurmountable." Jonas' chart suggests we could reach this "utopia" by 2026. "Not every day you see a chart like this in a street research piece," tweeted New River Investments' Conor Sen who alerted us to it. Hopefully, he's is right. Unfortunately, these types of comments from Wall Street are often signs that we are closer to the top of the market than the bottom. FREE AppDownload
Terren in Virginia via FlickrThe Case-Shiller 20-City home price index was up 0.75% month-over-month in December, and up 13.42% year-over-year in December. This compares with expectations for a 0.6% MoM and 13.4% YoY rise. "The S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index ended its best year since 2005," David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said in a press release. "However, gains are slowing from month-to-month and the strongest part of the recovery in home values may be over. Year-over-year values for the two monthly Composites weakened and the quarterly National Index barely improved. The seasonally adjusted data also exhibit some softness and loss of momentum." Recent housing data suggests "a bleaker picture for housing," he said. We've seen a decline in homebuilder confidence, existing home sales tumbled, housing starts missed expectations. Here's a look at the trajectory of home prices as measured by Case-Shiller: Case-Shiller Meanwhile, FHFA home prices were up 0.8% in December, beating expectations for a 0.3% rise. Home prices were up 1.2% in Q4, compared with expectations for a 1% rise.  FHFA's November numbers were revised down to show a 0.1% MoM fall, compared with a 0.1% rise previously. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelA dancer from Romania's northeastern region of Moldova performs the "bear" dance, a ritual for good luck in the New Year, during a traditional parade in Comanesti, 300 km northeast of Bucharest, December 30, 2013.I wrote the following in a Macro Wrap post on Sept. 17, 2013: The S&amp;P 500 index makes a new high. Numerous divergences exist. The market continues higher, rendering those divergences meaningless. Eventually, there is a short-lived correction. The S&amp;P 500 retests its prior high on a bounce. There are more cross-market and internal divergences. The market continues higher, rendering those divergences meaningless. Rinse, repeat. That’s been the story of 2013 for U.S. stocks. So I’m more than a bit wary to present more divergences as the S&amp;P 500 retests its early August highs. Sounds a lot like today, doesn’t it? The post was titled, Divergences be Damned! We have seen this movie many times over the past couple years. Divergences are numerous once again, even as the S&amp;P 500 reached a new all-time high yesterday. Whether it’s cross-market indicators (like price action in riskier currencies, credit spreads, or lower yields in the bond market), internal stock market measures such as breadth or sector-specific strength, or geographic differences (the U.S. was the only major market to reach a new all-time high), many financial market measures suggest a less favorable environment than the major stock indices. But throughout late 2012 and all of 2013, U.S. stocks have ignored warning signs from other markets, and powered higher on each subsequent advance. The real question is whether 2014 entails a different market environment, or more of the same of the past 2 years. One crucial difference so far in the new year is that the S&amp;P 500 is still only flat on the year. The entirety of 2014 has been spent in the red for the flagship U.S. stock market index. As a result, portfolio managers have less of an incentive to chase performance on the upside. If the S&amp;P 500 can hold above 1850 for an extended period of time (rather than just a few hours, like yesterday), then the calculus for fund managers might change. Another major difference has been the sector performance so far in 2014. The best performing sectors in 2014 are health care and utilities, both up more than 6% year-to-date. Both of those sectors have historically been defensive (though parts of health care are much more growth oriented these days). Tech is the only other major sector that is positive on the year, up around 1% after yesterday’s gains. Perhaps more concerning in the short-term is the price performance on the recent roundtrip in the indices from 1850 to 1750 and back to 1850. Bespoke had a nice graphic yesterday illustrating the sector performance since January 15th: Utilities’ outperformance has really come in the past month, which is not exactly a bullish sign for overall risk appetite. Nevertheless, years of head fakes among traders paying attention to such divergences makes one skeptical of relying too much on bearish evidence. That might be precisely when it matters the most, of course, but we’ll only know that in hindsight. For now, the winner of the short-term battle for the 1850 level in the S&amp;P 500 is likely the best indication of whether bulls or bears will rule price action in the weeks to come. This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas sees huge opportunities for growth in Tesla. "Tesla’s quest to disrupt a trillion $ car industry offers an adjacent opportunity to disrupt a trillion $ electric utility industry," he wrote in a new note to clients. "If it can be a leader in commercializing battery packs, investors may never look at Tesla the same way again." Jonas raised his target on Tesla to $320 from $153. The stock closed at $217 Monday, and it's up 6% in pre-market trading. Jonas' thesis isn't too crazy. One of the big hurdles in the green energy space is the inability to store energy cheaply. Tesla could come out front here, which would be a total game changer. "Tesla says it will team up with partners to build the world’s largest Li-ion battery pack facility in the US," wrote Jonas. "We reflect the potential for lower battery costs through higher sales volume nearly doubling Tesla’s share of the global car market to 90bps by 2028, driving our target increase. If Tesla can become the world’s low-cost producer in energy storage, we see significant optionality for Tesla to disrupt adjacent industries." "Very shortly, we will be ready to share more information about the Tesla Gigafactory," said Tesla CEO Elon Musk in the company's Q4 earnings announcement. Here's Jonas' crude diagram of the Tesla future. It also includes the massive opportunity for self-driving cars. Morgan Stanley   FREE AppDownload
Last night Andrew Ross Sorkin revealed the true identity of the man behind the meme, Goldman Sachs Elevator. He's a 34-year-old former bond executive named John Lefevre who lives in Texas, and he never worked at Goldman but he did work at Citigroup. And for his purposes, that distinction doesn't matter. His aim was to capture the spirit of a culture that he felt deserved an honest (satirical) treatment. Anyway, here's a photo of Lefevre that we've obtained. He has a book coming out soon, so you'll probably see this face a lot in the coming months. Anonymous   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro GarafaloI've got a place to do the London Ride 100 in the summer. I've never cycled 100 miles before, and I'm not in great shape. How much training do you think I need to do before the day? Any tips for cycling long distances? Daryl Hi Daryl, Firstly good work on getting a place. I did the ride last year and it’s a huge luxury not only to be able to ride with thousands of other people but to do so on closed roads for a 100 miles. One of the real pleasures was to be able to slipstream other riders when I needed a breather - it's not something you experience often cycling around cities. In fact, my first bit of advice would be to cycle in a group where you take it in turns to lead and slipstream. At 20mph, 80pc of your energy is spent overcoming wind resistance, so getting a ‘tow’ will make the miles tick by that bit faster. Aside from tagging onto a group here are my tips for riding long distances: 1. Get a bike that is the right size, and get it set up in an ergonomic and comfortable position. This will ensure you can stay on it for longer and your riding is more efficient i.e. every bit of power you put down propels you forward. 2. Don’t do all your training at the pace you'll aim for on the day. Mix up long rides with interval training and hill work, and try to cycle/train with friends. The variety will make the training easier and will mean that you’ll enjoy the 100 miles that bit more. 3. Get a turbo trainer, set of rollers or static bike so you can fit training in easily around work and life. 4. Test and develop a nutritional strategy that works for you. The rough rule of thumb to ensure a steady delivery of energy to the muscles throughout the 100 miles is to eat 1g of carbohydrate a minute. 5. Don't skimp on bib shorts and chamois cream. Your undercarriage is just as important as the muscles that power your pedal strokes! Finally, no matter how bad it gets on your way round, remember that there's a genuine treat awaiting you at the 95 mile mark. Cycling into London and passing by its famous landmarks along The Embankment when it’s closed to all other vehicles is genuinely an awesome experience. The more you train the more you’ll enjoy it - good luck. James Have a question for James? Email askcracknell@telegraph.co.uk and we'll put it to him next week  FREE AppDownload
At least, that’s what everyone thinks: HT Advisory Perspective &amp; Sundarden  Meb Faber Meb Faber FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andy MettlerGood morning! Here's what you need to know. Bitcoin exchange MtGox has gone offline after a string of issues. Bitcoin prices had cratered on the exchange, down as much as 14% to $465. Gox halted withdrawals for more than two weeks, citing software issues. "We are shocked to learn about Mt. Gox’s alleged insolvency," The Bitcoin Foundation told Business Insider's Rob Wile. "While we are unable to comment on whether or not Mt. Gox's business operations employed operational best practices and reasonable accounting procedures, we can assure the public that the Bitcoin protocol is functioning properly." Now there are also concerns that hundreds of millions of dollars worth of theft has hit the site through the years. Tension at PIMCO. The Wall Street Journal has a big story about the shakeup at the world's largest bond firm. Gregory Zuckerman and Kirsten Grind report that tensions between PIMCO's Bill Gross and Mohamed El-Erian mounted as the bond market struggled over the summer and clients yanked their money. "I have a 41-year track record of investing excellence," Gross reportedly told El-Erian "What do you have?" "I'm tired of cleaning up your s—," El-Erian responded, the Journal reports. Last month, El-Erian unexpectedly announced he will be leaving PIMCO in mid March. More job cuts at JP Morgan. The bank will slash "several thousand" more positions in its mortgage business on top of the 15,000 positions already due to be cut as demand for home loans further decreases, reports the FT's Tom Braithwaite. "Rising interest rates have stifled demand, causing the biggest banks to cut tens of thousands of positions over the past two years," the FT reports. "The additional cuts at JPMorgan are expected to number more than 2,000, evidence of the steep decline in demand even in the past 12 months." Italy's new PM calls for radical change. Italy's 39-year-old Prime Minister Matteo Renzi called for "radical and immediate change" in the country in an "energetic and impassioned" speech to Parliament, the AFP reports. "If we lose this challenge the fault will be mine alone. No-one has an alibi anymore," he said. The ex-mayor of Florence and leader of the Democratic Party took over from former PM Enrico Letta in a party vote last week. An update on U.S. home prices. It's a busy morning of economic data. At 9:00 a.m. ET, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index was released. The index was up 0.75% month-over-month in December and 13.42% year-over-year, right in line with expectations. FHFA home prices were also up 0.8% in December, beating consensus expectations for a 0.3% rise. A pulse check on the consumer. At 10:00 a.m., the Conference Board will release its Consumer Confidence Index. Economists are looking for the sentiment measure to drop from 80.0 from 80.7 in January. "In February, Washington should not have posed a major concern to consumer confidence," noted Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists. "The US House agreed to suspend the debt ceiling, and the FOMC emphasized the pursuit of status quo policy. The consumer, however, may pick up on the trend of weak data such as vehicle sales, payrolls, initial jobless claims, retail sales, and the NAHB index." How weather hit the east coast. Also at 10:00 a.m., we'll get the Richmond Fed Manufacturing Index. Economists predict the regional activity index fell to 3 from 12 in January. The big story lately is whether this winter's bad weather is to blame for lousy economic data, particularly manufacturing data. Asian markets were mixed. The Shanghai Composite was the big loser, shedding 2.04% as the Renminbi fell. Japan's Nikkei closed 1.44% higher and Korea's KOSPI edged up 0.81%. U.S. futures were pointing south. European markets were also lower. Home Depot whiffs. Home Depot missed analyst expectations in earnings this morning. Comparable store sales climbed by just 4.4% during the quarter when analysts expected 4.6%. Earnings came in at $0.67 per share, falling shy of estimates for $0.71. Goldman Sachs Elevator revealed. The identity of the popular @GSElevator parody Twitter account has been exposed in a new report from Dealbook's Andrew Ross Sorkin. John Lefevre — a 34-year-old former bond executive behind the account — never worked at Goldman Sachs. His pithy tweeting has amassed a 600,000+ following and bugged the bank in the past. Lefevre recently got a book deal and told Sorkin that he knew he'd be outed eventually. FREE AppDownload
Simple Portland, Ore.'s Simple is a retail banking startup that effectively replaces your bank, providing you with a debit card, free access to thousands of ATMs, and a really sharp smartphone app to help manage your money. The company earned rave reviews (including one from Business Insider), and was repeatedly hailed as the future of banking after it was founded in 2009. But Simple made headlines last week when it sold for $117 million to Spanish banking company BBVA, which maintains the second-largest bank in Spain. In a world of multi-billion-dollar tech acquisitions, this one seemed underwhelming. Digital payments, in particular, are a white-hot area right now in startup valuations. Square, for instance, is valued at $5 billion. Simple is potentially bigger than Square because there are more people in need of personal banking than there are those who run small businesses. And yet the company bowed out for just under eight times what its investors had plowed into it — $15 million. What happened? Why did it sell before it made any serious waves? Simple CEO Josh Reich explained it to us over the phone: "We had an investor presentation in June or July of 2010. My co-founder Shamir went to San Francisco to give his usual speech on what we're up to. In the audience was Francisco Gonzales, Chairman of BBVA. He asked Shamir some pointed questions about financial technology and must have liked the answers, because later he sent Shamir a handwritten letter asking to stay in touch." Very early in Simple's existence, the two companies were already aware of each other. Reich says that BBVA and Simple shared very similar outlooks on the banking industry — BBVA has "a top-down mandate to transform banking" and Simple uses technology to tackle problems of consumer money management and bank-related customer service. At that point, Reich says the companies "began a long conversation that's been going on for two years on investment versus partnership." Things came to fruition "in the past six months" — BBVA would acquire Simple with a $117 million cash transaction, but would leave the company largely independent and unchanged. BBVA would also be "injecting a significant amount of cash into the business, which lets [Simple] do some really awesome things." Reich says the sale wasn't motivated by red numbers — "[Simple is] in a really good spot. There were some pieces that came out that said we were hurting financially, but this month will be our largest month in history." Matt Harris is a Simple customer and early investor in the company who serves on its board of directors and will remain there after the sale. He says the sale makes sense and the companies are a fit for each other: I’ve known the innovation team at BBVA for maybe three years. They came to visit me at my office in Union Square when I was at Village Ventures … They were impressive right off the bat … very senior support for doing stuff differently, very creative, huge global footprint, lots of capital. Since then I’ve seen them get involved with many/most of the leading companies in one way or another, though I think this is their first major acquisition since then. They seem earnest about their intention to keep Simple separate; as an example of that, they’ve asked me to stay on the board of directors. I’m optimistic. As for any potential disappointment at the sale, Harris says, "I can tell you that I’m not disappointed. Anytime you can invest at a seven-figure valuation and sell at a nine-figure valuation without raising a lot of capital in between, it’s a good day ... The likelihood that Simple will have a global impact sooner as part of BBVA is much higher." Dave Birch, a payments expert for Consult Hyperion, suggested three years ago that "a good strategy for banks would be to develop 'near-banks' (like Simple) to specific sectors ... I think the Simple guys built something great (disclosure: I have a Simple account) and it was inevitable that it would be acquired." Birch says he wouldn't be "at all surprised to see the bigger banks develop portfolios of Simple-like propositions. Simple and [comparable banking solution] Moven target similar demographics, but there are plenty of others: the unbanked, prepaid card users, travelers, students, etc." BBVA seems serious about its decision to let Simple run under its own steam after the healthy push from this sale. We asked Reich if that seemed weird, and he said, "I don't think they're nuts to let us keep doing our own thing. Our special brand of 'nuts' is a breath of fresh air in this industry." It was "an easy decision" to sell, said Reich. "In my role as CEO, I'm responsible for a few core stakeholders, our employees, and our customers. Starting a bank was a crazy idea three or four years ago. What attracted customers was our vision. if we start chipping away at that, we're done." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserMohamed El-ErianLast month, PIMCO and its parent company Allianz unexpectedly announced that CEO and Co-CIO Mohamed El-Erian would be resigning. It was unclear what triggered the decision. Some speculated fatigue. Some speculated political interests. Others speculated tension in the C-suite, which leads us to today's report from the WSJ's Greg Zuckerman and Kirsten Grind, who cited PIMCO sources. An excerpt: "I have a 41-year track record of investing excellence," Mr. Gross told Mr. El-Erian, according to the two witnesses. "What do you have?" "I'm tired of cleaning up your s—," Mr. El-Erian responded, referring to conduct by Mr. Gross that he felt was hurting Pimco, these two people recall. Business Insider obtained a copy of El-Erian's internal resignation memo to PIMCO employees. And reading between the lines, we're willing to speculate that El-Erian was basically going directly after Gross's reported "I" and "you" attitude. "But the significance of the 'I' pales when compared to the 'we' and 'you,'" he said. Those were the only three words that were bold, underlined and italicized in El-Erian's memo. Here's the excerpt: I was so fortunate back in April 1999 to join such an exceptional firm. I vividly remember how I immediately felt at home in a culture that always puts the client first, that is determined to excel, and that values thought leadership as a foundation for continued success. During my wonderful time at PIMCO, I worked with amazing colleagues who taught and inspired me. I grew professionally and personally. I made lasting friendships. And I had great fun. But the significance of the “I” pales when compared to the “we” and “you.” Collectively as a firm, we have achieved amazing things for our clients around the world. It is hard to believe when you see today’s PIMCO but, back then, I joined in 1999 a firm that had some $150 billion in assets under management, serving essentially US clients. We offered primarily core fixed income U.S. products. And we were around 500 colleagues working in 4 offices. Today we are around 2,500 in 13 offices around the world. Our truly global client base has entrusted us with some $2 trillion in assets to manage. And we provide them with a much more diversified set of investment products whose performance continues to excel – once again, over 90 percent of our assets under management are out-performing their benchmarks for the last 5-year period (as of December 31, 2013, before fees). Yes, collectively, we have been on a meaningful and amazing journey – of serving well more clients, in more places, and with an expanding set of investment solutions to help them meet their objectives. As you can imagine, the last six years have been particularly exciting and significant as we have helped our clients navigate a global financial crisis and its aftermath. Together, we have worked very hard to safeguard and grow their retirement funds, pensions, investments and savings. And because PIMCO delivered, they have rewarded the firm’s hard and effective work by almost tripling our assets under management during this six year period. Or, from another perspective, it took PIMCO 39 years to reach the first $1 trillion mark and just over 3 years to reach the $2 trillion mark. It has been a period of amazing growth in other meaningful ways too. We are a much stronger and more diversified firm. Our increasing revenues achieved yet another new record in 2013, as did the level of PIMCO’s profits. Our assets under management are more diversified with the share of non-traditional (non-core fixed income) assets, which stood at 56 percent of our business in December 2007 when I rejoined as CEO and co-CIO, now at 66 percent – and this is despite that fact that PIMCO’s traditional business continued to grow strongly over this period. We are also a much more global firm, and getting more so by the day. In the last six years alone, the share of our non-US business has risen to over 30 percent, and again notwithstanding solid growth in our U.S.-based business. Together, we have done more than successfully expand and diversify PIMCO – we have also successfully grown and made significant strides in diversifying our people. Our expanding Inclusion and Diversity programs have become an integral part of our talent management and, already, are an important contributor to our success. That, together with our closely-related collective emphasis on promoting and engendering cognitive diversity, puts PIMCO in an even better position to deliver more for our clients in the future. Because of the way we have done all this – namely, by never losing sight of our mission to deliver to clients superior long-term investment performance, world class client servicing, innovative products, and the right mix of business resilience and agility – PIMCO’s success has been recognized worldwide; and not just by the multiple awards (including last week’s Morningstar award for Alfred Murata and Dan Ivascyn, joining Bill Gross and Mark Kiesel as past winners) but also, most importantly, by the very high level of client satisfaction. You are extremely talented, dedicated, and hard working in serving clients. You provide a level of investment excellence, intellectual stimulation and operational efficiency that also allow others to grow and shine. You interact in a way that make the whole much bigger than the sum of the parts. You find a way to maintain your composure and effectiveness regardless of the volatility of markets. And, somehow, you do all this again and again! What is really impressive about you is not limited to what you consistently deliver to our clients and how you do so; it is also about how you find the time and energy to also give back to our local communities... We've read our fair share of resignation letters and memos. Few are quite as long as El-Erian's. We certainly can't recall any that were quite as thoughtful. Whether or not El-Erian was making a veiled statement about Gross in this letter is unclear. Regardless, it is clear that El-Erian was one to give credit where credit was due. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayA Qantas Airlines Boeing 737 plane sits next to a Virgin Australia Boeing 737 plane at the Port Hedland airport in the Pilbara region of western Australia December 3, 2013. Struggling Australian carrier Qantas on Tuesday said it was committed to slashing costs by Aus$2 billion (US$1.8 billion) but refused to confirm or deny a report that it will axe 5,000 jobs. The airline has been battling record fuel costs and fierce competition from subsidized rivals and in December said 1,000 jobs would go while warning it faced a half-year loss of up to Aus$300 million. Its interim result is due on Thursday and the Sydney Daily Telegraph, citing a Qantas source, said the job losses would be much worse as the airline restructures its finances to convince the government it deserves a debt guarantee. As well as sacking 5,000 staff, the newspaper said Qantas may sell some of its terminals, while The Australian reported it would accelerate the retirement of older planes and defer new orders. The airline refused to go into details. "There is fresh speculation about what things we will or won't announce on Thursday as part of our half-year results. We are not in a position to comment on that speculation," the flag carrier said in a statement. "We have said that we will be making some tough decisions in order to achieve $2 billion in cost savings over the next three years, which is a consequence of an unprecedented set of market conditions now facing Qantas." - Unease over 'mass sackings' - Transport Workers Union national secretary Tony Sheldon said Qantas must come clean on its restructuring plans with staff on edge over potential mass sackings. "Another day, another rumor of massive job cuts and the sale of planes and terminals," he said. "Each baggage handler, check-in staff and ramp worker generates a $205,000 return to Qantas above the cost of their employment. Sacking them is like a tradesman selling his tools to pay a one-off bill." Qantas has said it faces "immense" challenges and has been lobbying the government to ease limits in foreign investment or provide state intervention to help shore up its bottom line. Canberra has made clear there will be no taxpayer handouts but has flagged support for a relaxation of the Qantas Sale Act, which limits foreign ownership in the airline to 49 percent, or a possible debt facility. Qantas chief Alan Joyce argues that the cap is hurting Qantas's ability to compete by restricting access to capital, particularly against domestic rival Virgin Australia, which is majority-owned by state-backed Singapore Airlines, Air New Zealand and Etihad. Transport Minister Warren Truss on Tuesday said the conservative government was drafting laws to allow Qantas to be majority foreign-controlled while allowing a single foreign shareholder to own more than 25 percent. "The government is philosophically attracted to leveling the playing field," he said, although Labor and the Greens have vowed to block any legislation in the upper house Senate. They are against allowing majority overseas ownership, but open to the government providing an assistance package. Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the government accepted the carrier was having to compete with the "ball and chain" of the Qantas Act. "But in the end Qantas do have to get their own house in order," he said. Following the profit warning in December, Moody's and S&amp;P both downgraded Qantas' credit rating to "junk" status, increasing the cost of financing for the carrier and restricting access for investors that do not put their money in lower-rated companies. The carrier pledged to press ahead with cost cutting regardless of whether the government decides to help. "We've said that we must take steps to reduce our costs regardless of whether the federal government acts on the uneven playing field in the Australian aviation market," it said in the statement. Qantas shares closed 0.40 percent lower at Aus$1.23.5. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo Casilli Italy's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi speaks during a confidence vote at the Senate in Rome February 24, 2014.Prime Minister Matteo Renzi called for a "radical and immediate change" in recession-hit Italy as he outlined his new government's reform agenda before winning a crucial confidence vote in the Senate early Tuesday. In an energetic and impassioned speech to parliament, Italy's youngest-ever premier reiterated plans for rapidly overhauling the tax system, jobs market and public administration in a bid to tackle the country's ailing economy. "If we lose this challenge the fault will be mine alone. No-one has an alibi anymore," the 39-year-old said as his fiery speech prompted jeers and insults from opposition benches. "This is an Italy of possibilities, an Italy of fundamental change," he said, stressing the "urgency" of implementing reforms in "a rusty country... gripped by anxiety". Renzi, who grasped power after helping oust his predecessor Enrico Letta over failures to do enough to boost a flagging economy, later won the vote of confidence, with 169 votes in favour and 139 against, according to Senate speaker Pietro Grasso. In his speech, he pledged to review unemployment benefits, establish a guarantee fund for small companies and comprehensively reform the justice system. He also promised to cut the tax burden by a double-digit figure within months and pay off public administration debts. The initial reaction from investors appeared positive, with Milan's FTSE stock market closing up 0.48 percent after Renzi's speech. But small business association Confartigianato wondered where the prime minister hoped to find the money for the reforms, with its head Giorgio Merletti saying "a couple of quick sums show that there is 100 billion euros ($137 billion) to find immediately". - 'A worrying vagueness' - The former mayor of Florence had been expected to win the confidence vote based on the support of his own centre-left Democratic Party (PD) and his coalition partners -- the centrists and the New Centre Right (NCD) party. He must now face a confidence vote in the lower house of parliament late Tuesday. Political analysts will however be paying close attention to the size of the majority he manages to secure, as an indication as to whether the new government has a chance of living out its mandate until 2018 or whether the country will end up back at the polls. "We are not afraid of going to the polls," Renzi said. Former premier Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia (FI) party is in opposition, although it has agreed to support key decrees on a case by case basis. Party members seemed less than enthused by the government programme. "It couldn't get any worse than this. I hope for Italy's sake that Renzi is better than he seems," said Maurizio Gasparri, an FI senator, while FI deputy Daniele Capezzone said there were "no desirable objectives, just a worrying vagueness". The anti-establishment Five Star movement -- Italy's other main opposition party -- has slammed Renzi for stealing the top job and called for immediate elections, and some political watchers say Renzi's failure could significantly boost their numbers. The movement's senator Paola Taverna slammed "the posturing, the little smiles, the arrogance in front of a country which wanted to hear a speech of change". A bold-faced Renzi stared down critics hollering insults from among the movement's benches and spoke out against populism and for Europe. He said Italy must tackle its towering public debt -- equivalent to 130 percent of total economic output -- not because German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called for it, but because "it is our duty to, for our children's sake". He spoke of the need for greater transparency -- making public spending receipts available online -- and of the need to attract foreign investors and shake off the image of Italy "as just a great holiday destination". Renzi's insistence on speed has impressed some analysts, who say it may help him avoid getting stifled under the weight of Italian bureaucracy. "By keeping up the momentum, Renzi is increasing the chances of these important reforms going through despite likely resistance from various camps," Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg, said in a note. But Chiara Corsa and Loredana Federico from Unicredit asked "whether the Renzi government is strong enough or sufficiently 'revolutionary' to implement the reform agenda". US President Barack Obama spoke to Renzi on Monday, the White House said, adding that the two leaders would meet in March in Rome. Obama expressed support for "Renzi's leadership on creating economic growth and jobs, and he looks forward to continued close US-Italian partnership on Afghanistan, Libya, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, and security and defense cooperation," the White House said in a statement. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Dru Bloomfield via FlickrNOTE: Earlier, we had said Home Deport earned $0.67 per share. That has been corrected to $0.73 per share. Home Depot has just released its Q4 financial results, and at first glance the numbers are disappointing. Comparable store sales climbed by just 4.4% during the quarter, which was weaker than the 4.6% expected by analysts. Earnings, however, came in at $0.73 per share, just beating estimates for $0.71. In recent months, housing market data has come up short of expectations. Poor weather, mortgage rate volatility, and construction labor issues have all been a drag. For fiscal 2014, management expects comparable store sales growth of around 4.6%.  They expect their operating profit margin to expand by 70 basis points. On top of all that, management expects to complete approximately $5 billion worth of share repurchases that would ultimately send EPS growth up 16.5% year-over-year to $4.38 per share. Unfortunately, this was lower than analysts' expectation for $4.43 per share. FREE AppDownload
APBARCELONA (Reuters) - BlackBerry Ltd unveiled a new, cheaper smartphone on Tuesday as it tries to stem losses and win back customers in emerging economies where customers are gravitating toward devices powered by Google's Android operating system. The device is being built under a partnership deal with FIH Mobile Ltd - the Hong Kong-listed unit of Taiwanese electronics giant Foxconn. The device, codenamed Jakarta, will first go on sale in Indonesia in April for under $200, said John Chen, BlackBerry's new chief executive, who took the reins at the company late last year. (Reporting by Paul Sandle and Euan Rocha; editing by Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Umit BektasTurkey's Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan addresses members of his ruling AK Party (AKP) during a meeting in Ankara November 29, 2013.ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan's office described as a dirty immoral fabrication voice recordings purporting to reveal Erdogan telling his son to dispose of large sums of money on the day police raided houses in a graft inquiry into his government. The recording posted on YouTube, whose authenticity Reuters could not verify, marked a sharp escalation in a graft crisis Erdogan's government says has been concocted by a U.S.-based cleric seeking to undermine his 11-year rule by using influence in the police and judiciary. The growing political uncertainty hit Turkish markets amid broader weakness in emerging markets. They appear a day after Erdogan aides said thousands of people, including senior politicians, had had their telephones illegally tapped over three years with the aim to blackmail and fabricate criminal cases. The recordings are purportedly of Erdogan and his son Bilal discussing how to reduce the funds to "zero" by distributing them among several businessmen. At one point, the voice supposedly of Bilal says some 30 million euros ($40 million) remain to be disposed of. Erdogan was elected to power in 2002 and remains far and away Turkey's most popular politician. But the apparent power struggle with cleric Fethullah Gulen, who has built up what the prime minister calls a "parallel state" has cast a shadow over what Western powers long vaunted as a prime example of an effective Islamic democracy. Gulen, who controls a vast network of schools, businesses and media groups in Turkey and across the world, denies any involvement in the scandal and denies acting in an undemocratic manner. The recordings appeared two days after Erdogan's AK Party officially began campaigning for local elections at the end of March that will be a key test of his enduring popularity. "The recordings, which were released via the Internet this evening, accompanied with the allegation that they were a telephone conversation between our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his son, are completely untrue and the product of an immoral montage," Erdogan's office said in a statement. "Those who created this dirty conspiracy targeting the prime minister of the Republic of Turkey will be brought to account within the law," it said. Erdogan held an emergency meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, Interior Minister Ekfan Ala and intelligence chief Hakan Fidan after the recordings appeared, senior Turkish officials said. He was scheduled to address a regular meeting of his party in parliament on Tuesday morning. The leadership of the main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) also met and party spokesman Haluk Koc called on the government to resign. "Turkey cannot continue on its path with this dirt, this burden," Koc told reporters. Erdogan's supporters say the graft investigation, which blew up on December 17 with the detention of businessmen close to Erdogan and three ministers' sons, was contrived by U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen. He has denied involvement. The government has responded by dismissing or reassigning thousands of police officers, tightening its control over the appointment of judges and prosecutors, and pushing through a new law that allows the authorities to block access to websites within hours without a prior court order. The growing political uncertainty hit financial markets. The lira weakened sharply against the dollar after the new voice recordings emerged and traded at 2.2150 at 0850 GMT, slipping from 2.1750 on Monday. Shares dropped three percent. Timothy Ash, head of emerging markets research at Standard Bank, said Erdogan was likely to go further on the offensive against those he deems responsible for producing and leaking these tapes. "This seems to be a battle to the end/death. The Gulenists seem to want to wound Erdogan below the waterline to undermine the AK party's poll performance in March," Ash wrote in a note. Social media and video-sharing sites have been awash with leaked recordings presented as evidence of wrongdoing. As with the latest recordings, Reuters has been unable to verify their authenticity. ($1 = 0.7285 euros) (Reporting by Orhan Coskun and Parisa Hafezi; Additional reporting by Edwin Chan and Ece Toksabay; Writing by Nick Tattersall and Daren Butler; Editing by Toni Reinhold and Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedWilliam Gross, Manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. (PIMCO) participates in the Obama administration's Conference on the Future of Housing Finance in the Cash Room of the Treasury Building in Washington, August 17, 2010.In January, PIMCO Co-CEO Mohamed El-Erian abruptly left the company that he managed along with legendary bond trader Bill Gross. There was all kinds of speculation as to why, ranging from the garden variety desire to do something else to it having something to do with PIMCO's mediocre performance, or perhaps even personality clashes with Bill Gross. Now we know that it was indeed the clashes, and frankly they're embarrassing for Gross. Greg Zuckerman and Kirsten Grind report at the WSJ that one day last summer, Gross and El-Erian clashed in front of several people: "I have a 41-year track record of investing excellence," Mr. Gross told Mr. El-Erian, according to the two witnesses. "What do you have?" "I'm tired of cleaning up your s—," Mr. El-Erian responded, referring to conduct by Mr. Gross that he felt was hurting Pimco, these two people recall. At another point, Zuckerman and Grind report, Gross referred to himself as "Secretariat" (the name of the famous race horse) and said he could run the entire fund without El-Erian. Felix Salmon argues that after this article, Gross will never be seen the same way again, and that it's time for him to retire. Perhaps, though it's not that weird for egos and tensions to run hot from time to time at this level. Still it's embarrassing, and after a period of poor performance, hearing Gross refer to himself in such exalted terms is not confidence inspiring.   FREE AppDownload
www.flickr.comHONG KONG (Reuters) - Sina Corp has hired Credit Suisse AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc for a U.S. initial public offering of its Sina Weibo microblogging service worth about $500 million, a source familiar with the plans said on Monday. Sina Weibo, one of several Chinese Twitter-like short messaging blogs, plans a listing in the second quarter, added the source, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. (Reporting by Elzio Barreto; Editing by Michael Flaherty and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Margin CallWelcome to another day of arguing how much the economy has been hurt by the weather! Here's what's coming up on the US docket in terms of data, via Calculated Risk: • At 9:00 AM ET, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for December. Although this is the December report, it is really a 3 month average of October, November and December. The consensus is for a 13.3% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for December. The Zillow forecast is for the Composite 20 to increase 13.5% year-over-year, and for prices to increase 0.7% month-to-month seasonally adjusted.• Also at 9:00 AM, the FHFA House Price Index for December 2013. This was original a GSE only repeat sales, however there is also an expanded index. The consensus is for a 0.4% increase.• At 10:00 AM, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for February. The consensus is for the index to decrease to 80.0 from 80.7.• Also at 10:00 AM, the Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for February FREE AppDownload
The big news in the Bitcoin world today is that the website Mt. Gox — which at one point was the pre-eminent place to trade bitcoin — has now gone offline. It's just up and disappeared. This comes a day after the company withdrew from the Bitcoin Foundation, and amid weeks of withdrawals being halted. Bitcoin advocates are passing around the embedded document, which claims hundreds of millions of dollars worth of theft has hit the site over the years. Here's the key part: For several weeks MtGox customers have been affected by bitcoin withdrawal issues that compounded on themselves. Publicly, MtGox declared that “transaction malleability” caused the system to be subject to theft, and that something needed to be done by the core devs to fix it. Gox’s own workaround solution was criticized, and eventually a fix was provided by Blockchain.info. The truth, it turns out, is that the damage had already been done. At this point 744,408 BTC are missing due to malleability-related theft which went unnoticed for several years. The cold storage has been wiped out due to a leak in the hot wallet. At current prices, these bitcoins are worth over $300 million. And here's the full document: MtGox Situation: Crisis Strategy Draft by twobitidiot  FREE AppDownload
This is definitely one of the hottest stories in financial markets right now. The Chinese currency, the Renminbi used to be a one-way bet: it went up. There were little zigs and zags there, but basically it was uni-directional. Not lately. The Renminbi is on a real losing streak, and last night it fell again. Here's a one week chart, via XE.com, of USDCNY, showing the dollar's steady march higher. XE Meanwhile last night, the Shanghai Composite fell another 2%. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/bookemspookyGood morning! After touching record highs yesterday, US futures are a lower in overnight action. European stocks are down as well. Germany is off 0.4%. Italy is down 0.3%. France is off 0.5%. French Business Confidence came out and slightly missed expectations. The big loser of the day is China, as the Shanghai Composite shed another 2%, and the Chinese Yuan continued to reverse from its traditional course of only going higher. Today in the US we get the Case-Shiller housing market index. FREE AppDownload
