Set-top box maker Roku has started laying out plans to make an initial public offering this year, according a Bloomberg report that cites unnamed sources familiar with the matter. Roku produces a line of low-cost set-top boxes that allow you to access streaming media services from your TV. Roku’s platform has hundreds of apps from a wide range of streaming services, including Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon Prime, Pandora, Spotify, YouTube, and more. The company also recently forged partnerships with TCL and Hisense to integrate its software platform into a new line of smart TVs. An exact date for Roku’s IPO hasn’t been determined, nor has the company selected a lead banker to handle the offering. However, Roku has apparently reached out to some banks with its plans, according to Bloomberg’s sources. Roku spokesperson Tricia Mifsud declined to comment to VentureBeat on the company’s future plans to go public. It makes sense that Roku would be plotting an IPO for many reasons — with one of the biggest likely coming down to competition. Both Amazon and Appleare rumored to be debuting new set-top boxes in the near future, while Microsoft and Sony have already launched their next-gen consoles with expanded streaming media features. A public offering could supply Roku with the necessary capital to beef up its own devices while also creating new sources of revenue, such as a Roku-branded digital media store or expanding its software platform for gaming. VentureBeat has reached out to Roku for comment on its IPO plans, and will update this post with any additional information we learn. The Saratoga, Calif.-based company has raised a total of $127 million in funding to date. This article originally appeared at VentureBeat.  Copyright 2014. Follow VentureBeat on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Emerging Market Rout Has Created A Buying Opportunity Among Consumer Staples (Morningstar) Consumer staple stocks have come under pressure this year and that a lot to do with the rout in emerging markets, says Josh Peters--editor of Morningstar DividendInvestor. He also thinks that this is a buying opportunity, and that "these issues are going to be temporary." "What we've seen here in the last couple of months is some turmoil in countries like, say Turkey, and now more recently Ukraine. We've seen currency issues, falling emerging-markets currencies. Venezuela could devalue its currency; it's already practically a black market situation there. Argentina has been a problem. You can say any one of these countries shouldn't have a big impact on a giant company like a Unilever or a Philip Morris International, but when a lot of them are going south at the same time, you're getting some pretty stiff headwinds here for near-term revenue and earnings-per-share growth." Here Are 2 Financial Crisis-Era Charts That Haunt Wall Street's Nightmares (Business Insider) The Federal Reserve today released transcripts from its 2008 meetings. In it were two charts that New York Fed president William Dudley brought to the meeting that show the blow to stocks of the big investment banks. The other shows bank credit-default swap (CDS) spreads surging which happens when the risk of default rises. Federal Reserve UBS Pulls $2.6 Million Team From Merrill Lynch (Investment News) Mark Grueninger and Ben Sauer have joined UBS' Beverly Hills office, from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. The two generated $2.6 million in revenue at Merrill Lynch. Grueninger started at UBS before moving to Banc of America Investment Services in 2003. Meanwhile, Sauer started at Bank of America Investment Services. Screening For S&amp;P 500 Stocks With Pricing Power Trends (BMO Capital Markets) "Meaningful trends in the CPI are an important part of our fundamental process for analyzing the US stock market," writes Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets. "We found that many strong relationships exist between the pricing power and relative price and earnings performance of a particular sector or industry." While inflation has stayed subdued some have managed to pass on costs to consumers. Areas like delivery services, education, air fare, restaurants, appliances and computers have seen improved pricing power. These include stocks like SanDisk Corp, QEP Resources. Meanwhile, areas like jewelry, furnishings, furniture, audio and video equipment, toys, new cars, and prescription drugs have all seen deteriorating pricing power. These include stocks like Marathon Oil and eBay. Here Are The Asset Classes Hedge Funds Are Loving And Hating Right Now (Business Insider) The CFTC just released weekly Commitments of Traders data. It has details on how many standard deviations away hedge funds are from a particular asset class as of February 18, compared to the average position size over the last two years. Based on that hedge funds seem to be long coffee, live cattle, crude oil and they seem to be short eurodollars, the Mexican peso, and E-mini S&amp;P 500 futures. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
We recently posted Reddit user Alexandr Trubetskoy's map showing that half of all U.S. GDP comes from just 23 metropolitan areas. Trubetskoy went a step further and broke all American economic activity down into quartiles in this map: Alexandr Trubetskoy The top seven metro areas, together responsible for a quarter of U.S. economic activity, are not overly surprising: Bureau of Economic Analysis Here is the second quartile:  Bureau of Economic Analysis  Together, these groups account for about half of U.S. overall GDP. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesNot the baby in the case.A former New York City investment banker allegedly tried to support his child with money made from insider trading, according to an SEC complaint. Frank Perkins Hixon Jr., known as "Perk" — a one-time senior managing director at Evercore Partners — was arrested for insider trading Friday and was also hit with a separate civil complaint from the Securities and Exchange (SEC). The SEC complaint says Hixon made illegal trades to support a child he had with a woman who's known as Destiny or Nicole Robinson, with whom he had a relationship from 2005 to 2008. Robinson became pregnant in 2008 and moved to Austin, Texas. About three years later, Hixon Jr. allegedly began making trades through Robinson's and his father's brokerage accounts based on material, nonpublic information he'd received while working at Evercore — a practice known as insider trading.  Text messages show the trades were made in part to support Perkins Jr.'s child with Robinson, according to the SEC. Hixon Jr. allegedly accessed Robinson's account from all over the world, including London and Japan, to realize the trades, which were mostly centered on mining and metal companies.  The allegedly illicit trades were stopped in 2013 after Hixon Jr. was confronted by Evercore about his knowledge of his father's trading. According to the text messages, Robinson then became upset that she'd lost her source of child support. She allegedly even threatened to sue Hixon Jr. Hixon Jr. allegedly tried to play dumb when Evercore confronted him about the trades. From the complaint: When Hixon Jr.’s employer asked him in 2013 whether he knew anything about suspicious trading in accounts belonging to Destiny Robinson and his father Frank P. Hixon Sr., who lives in suburban Atlanta, Hixon Jr. denied recognizing either name.  When later confronted with information that he did in fact know these individuals, Hixon Jr. continued his false claims, saying he didn’t know Robinson as 'Destiny' and asserting in a sworn declaration that when approached he didn’t recognize the name of the city where his father lived for more than 25 years. Evercore reportedly fired Hixon Jr. in January. Hixon Sr. and Robinson have been named relief defendants for the purposes of recovering money from their accounts. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Standard deviation of latest speculative positioning from the average over the last two years.The CFTC just released weekly Commitments of Traders data, which break down positioning in the futures markets for various asset classes as of February 18. The chart shows how hedge funds are positioned in these various markets. For each asset class, it measures how many standard deviations away hedge funds are from the average position size over the last two years. Speculative positioning in coffee futures is 4.31 standard deviations above the two-year average, whereas speculative positioning in E-mini Dow Jones Industrial Average futures is 1.99 standard deviations below the two-year average. By this measure, hedge funds are also particularly long cattle, crude oil, milk, and natural gas. On the flip side, they are also particularly short eurodollars, the Mexican peso, the Canadian dollar, and E-mini S&amp;P 500 futures. FREE AppDownload
Having thrown in his bearish towel in December, the self-proclaimed "last bear standing" has had a tough January. His plan, to "just be long pretty much anything" appears to have back-fired (for now) as Eclectica reports a 3.6% loss in January - the worst month since the Fund's inception.      His largest loss was on a long Japan theme (leveraged) and that was somewhat offset by gains in his short emerging markets and short China themes.    It appears nothing hs changed from Hendry's December perspective of the inexorable melt-up in developed markets thanks to central bank largesse (247% of NAV exposed to stocks) though he does note "renewed turmoil" which, we suppose, merely supports his thesis longer term.   Via Eclectica, January witnessed renewed turmoil in emerging market equities and currencies. The Fund profited from positions within our Short Emerging Markets and Short China themes (+0.9%). FX positions within these themes generated a positive return of +0.3% as our “good versus bad EM” FX basket posted gains, largely driven by shorts against the Turkish lira and the Russian ruble. Equities provided an additional +1.4%, led by short exposure to Chinese and EM indices. These gains were partially offset by losses on curve steepeners in Australia and Korea, which were closed out during the month. Developed market equities suffered sharp sell-offs over the course of the month as emerging market woes spilled over into global risk assets. The Fund’s core Long Developed Markets theme suffered as a result (-2.0%). Developed market equities cost the fund -1.7%, led by weakness in internet and robotic stocks. Additional call option exposure to US and European indices cost a further -1.3%. Equity losses were partially offset by gains in front-end rates in the Euribor and Short Sterling curves, generating a positive contribution of +0.8%. The largest detractor to performance came from our Long Japan theme (-3.0%). Losses on Nikkei call options were the single biggest drag on performance during January (-2.2%), as the underlying index fell -8.5%. Cash equity positions in Japanese brokers and property shares cost a further -0.8%.      From Hendry's December letter... Last bear standing? Not any more... I know what you are thinking. You are thinking that the last bear is capitulating. It isn't a good sign. Maybe it is that simple. But I think it is a little more complicated. We, and I accept we aren't the first here, sense that US monetary officials may now be willing to subordinate the demands of their own economy to the perils confronting emerging market economies. If that is the case, the great peril is not that the Fed finally tightens monetary policy and US stock prices suddenly tumble from what are very obviously overpriced levels. Would that it were – our curmudgeonly portfolio structure (think dynamic volatility targeting and stop losses) works well with big stock market reversals. Instead the greater peril is that the current backdrop will turn out to mark a rapid acceleration in the ongoing move to the upside. A hint that this might be the case comes from looking back through the 113 years of price data for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. We have done this (so you don't have to), searching along the way for the comparable periods that fit most tightly to the last 500 trading days. What is clear is that periods of trading similar to the one we have seen over the last two years don't often seem to end quietly: they boom big time or they crash. Which is it to be this time? Looking at the markets of 1928, 1982 or even 1998, all of which have scarily similar looking historical charts to today's, we wonder if it won't be both. Starting with the boom bit.  Let's look at what happened in 1998. All sorts of market moving events were shifting the sands. There was the fall out from the Asian Tiger crisis. There was Russia's local currency default. And there were the event risks of the collapse of LTCM and the Y2K scare. Together these things ensured that US monetary policy was set far too loose for the US economy itself. And the result? A parabolic trend to the upside in equities that destroyed anyone who chose to stand in its way. This is what I fear most today: being bearish and so continuing to not make any money even as the monetary authorities shower us with the ill thought-out generosity of their stance and markets melt up. Our resistance of Fed generosity has been pretty costly for all of us so far. To keep resisting could end up being unforgivably costly.   As a reminder, here is Hendry's conclusion from his December letter: Just be long. Pretty much anything.   So here's how I understand things now that I am no longer the last bear standing. You should buy equities if you believe many European banks and their sovereign paymasters are insolvent. You should buy shares if you put a higher probability than your peers on the odds of a European democracy rejecting the euro over the course of the next few years. You should be long risk assets if you believe China will have lowered its growth rate from 7% to nearer 5% over the course of the next two years. You should be long US equities if you are worried about the failure of Washington to address its fiscal deficits. And you should buy Japanese assets if you fear that Abenomics will fail to restore the fortunes of Japan (which it probably won't). Hey this is easy...   And then it crashed   I have not completely lost my senses of course.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt was a pretty quiet Friday. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChest X-ray showing bilateral breast implants.While the economy was teetering on the edge of catastrophe in 2008, then-San Francisco Federal Reserve President Janet Yellen warned the rest of the FOMC that citizens in her area were postponing plastic surgery appointments — a sure sign of a struggling economy. The Federal Reserve has published the transcripts from its 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings, and now we get to see what our new Fed chair was thinking during the recession. Here's Yellen getting some chuckles from the FOMC during the September 2008 meeting: My contacts report that cutbacks in spending are widespread, especially for discretionary items. For example, East Bay plastic surgeons and dentists note that patients are deferring elective procedures. [Laughter] Reservations are no longer necessary at many high-end restaurants. And the Silicon Valley Country Club, with a $250,000 entrance fee and seven-to-eight-year waiting list, has seen the number of would-be new members shrink to a mere thirteen. [Laughter] In other meetings, Yellen would warn that the country was near, or beyond, the brink of recession. FREE AppDownload
Today, the Federal Reserve released transcripts from the 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings. The transcripts offer a striking account of the FOMC's deliberations (and inaction) at a time when the economy had already fallen into recession. By December 2007, the U.S. economy had fallen into recession, according to ex-post dating of the business cycle by the National Bureau of Economic Research. This was not yet apparent in January 2008, and a FOMC conference call that month illustrated why it's so difficult to predict recessions before they happen. "Our forecast isn't just some sort of 'push a button on a linear model and here is the result'," said then-FOMC chief economist David Stockton on the call. "But I do think the current situation illustrates to me why it is, in fact, so hard for us and why we don't forecast recessions very often. As I indicated, I think there is a configuration of a number of indicators that make it easy for me to imagine you looking back on next June and saying, 'Indeed, what you saw back there in December—in terms of the jump in the unemployment rate, the drop in the manufacturing ISM, and the uptick in initial claims—were all precursors of a recession.' The point of my remarks is that I am pretty darn worried about that possibility. But it is hard at this point to make that call—we are coming off the data in the fourth quarter, which have exceeded our expectations considerably." The chart below, taken from a survey of 222 fund managers responsible for a collective $591 billion in assets under management conducted by BofA Merrill Lynch between Feb. 7 and Feb. 13, 2014, shows where investors think we are in the global economic cycle right now. It also shows where survey respondents thought the global economy was in January 2008. At the time, more people thought the global economy was either in a mid-cycle or a late-cycle stage, and very few thought we were in a recession. Now? "With respect to the economic cycle, 60% of investors think the global economy is currently in mid-cycle," says Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch. "Only 1% thinks we are in recession." BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsEven with stock market climbing to record highs, traders continue to target stocks to short. Especially the traders at Wall Street's big hedge funds. Goldman Sachs' new Hedge Fund Monitor report, which looks at 783 funds with nearly $2 trillion in gross equity positions, lists the 50 favorite short positions among the world's largest fund managers. Near the top of the list are companies that have been around forever like General Electric and Coca-Cola. The big tech companies are among the stocks traders are betting will go down. We've ranked the top 23 by overall dollar value of short interest. Check it out. FREE AppDownload
One of the beautiful things about New York City is that hotels aren't just hotels, they're adult playgrounds. And like playgrounds they've got jungle gyms (world-famous clubs) and hot dog stands (killer restaurants). But unlike playgrounds, they're constantly competing for (your) attention. Without question The Dream Downtown, home of rooftop nightclub PH-D, has Wall Street's fullest. Soon so will its new restaurant, Bodega Negra. We'll keep this short and sweet. Bodega Negra looks like a sexy Mexican Cantina right in the middle of West 16th Street. Instead of hombres with mustaches in the corner, though, it's probably Kristen Ritter or Orlando Bloom munching on Soft-Shell Crab Tacos and drinking Blood and Fire cocktails. Also there's a giant gold disco ball in one of the dining rooms. Cantinas normally don't have those. The night Business Insider dropped by a few weeks ago (and ate about 7 slices of Quesadilla Rustica, a Mexican pizza type thing), the raging started early. Bottles were getting popped by about 9:30 pm. But that was a party. Then again, it's the Dream Downtown is a party. Expect nothing less. Bodega Negra dinner menu below:   BN -Dinner 11.75x12.5 2.4.14 by Linette Lopez  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Thayer We recently explained why we think last week's Bitcoin hacks, and the return of price volatility that followed, was a major setback to mainstream adoption of the digital currency.  The attacks came as New York State Department of Financial Services Superintendent Ben Lawsky considers how to regulate Bitcoin. So we wanted to know whether the hacks had changed how Lawsky would think about new Bitcoin statutes.  In an interview with BI late Thursday, Lawsky said that while regulations won't necessarily be able to account for these kinds of incidents, they can help dissipate the uncertainty that continues to build around digital currencies.  "One side effect of regulation will have is separating the wheat from the chaff," he said. "You'll hopefully see firms who want to do right, innovating the best, coming up with all the new interesting powerful products that can be built on top of different platforms." That notion jibes with the dominant theme that came out of the hearings Lawsky convened last month of a rift emerging in the Bitcoin community. While firms with the most to lose told Lawsky they would embrace clearer regulations, others seemed to hold fast to Bitcoin's liberterian ethos.   The most recent attacks came in two flavors. The first affected most major Bitcoin exchanges: an unknown entity took advantage of an unusual feature of Bitcoin's code to scramble transaction confirmations, causing exchanges that had not properly coded their wallets around the issue to halt withdrawals. That coincided with seemingly more profound issues at MtGox, the one-time leading Bitcoin exchange. Bitcoin prices have declined nearly 30% since Gox first halted withdrawals. Lawsky acknowledged that the incidents show Bitcoin, and everyone's full knowledge of its capabilities, remains in its infancy.  "I don't think I'd say it's too early to regulate, but regulation has to be smart, and regulators need to understand what they don't understand and what they don't know yet," he said. Crimes have already occurred, and his overarching responsibility remains to stop them, he said. "We do have an obligation to deal with money transmission firms, an obligation to make sure there are efforts to mitigate money laundering" he said. The other hack was directed at a group generally accepted as the successor to The Silk Road. All Bitcoins stored by users at the site were stolen. You could of course argue this was karma. But it did provide an example of the potential for people to lose large Bitcoin holdings in a single stroke. In comments made in Washington recently, Lawsky raised the prospect of building in capital controls for large Bitcoin firms to provide a hedge in case of such losses. He elaborated on those remarks to us: "It's something we worry about with the largest banks, it's no different," he said, adding that those firms spend "hundreds of million to prevent cyber attics — something that's harder for smaller banks, and services in the virtual currency industry, question is, how do we help ensure that there's enough protections in place to prevent these massive attics, something we'll have to work at."  Lawsky has said he hopes to formalize the regulations in the coming months. FREE AppDownload
Household vs. establishment surveys If you just look at the headline non-farm payroll changes over the past two months (75k and 113k, a slowdown from 273k published in November), you could conclude that the labor market is slowing once again. Reality is more nuanced, and there is additional trouble in developing conclusions based on data that are highly revised multiple times up to a year after the initial publication (and long after most people actually care). Regardless, those are the data we have now, so let’s analyze the data at face value. There are in fact two measurements taken by the BLS (US Bureau of Labor Statistics) every month on the size and change in employment: the establishment survey, typically quoted as the “headline number,” which samples about 145,000 businesses per month about their employees, and the household survey, which samples about 60,000 households about their employment. BLS publishes a great guide to its methodology. CFAFigure 1: Last 3 months of Establishment Survey (blue) and Household Survey (red) estimates of m/m payroll change (k)The household survey (see Figure 1 above, red) has been more emphatic in the job growth picture than the establishment survey (blue). This is actually not abnormal. On a month-to-month basis, the correlation between both surveys is only 47%. The household survey is historically much more (37%) volatile, but over a full year, the two surveys converge with a correlation of 92% (see Figure 2 below). CFAFigure 2: Scatter-plot of m/m and y/y change in payrolls from establishment and household surveysPerhaps most importantly, the household survey has led when the economy has been accelerating during an economic turning point in the past four recoveries (see Figure 3 below). CFAFigure 3: Household (black) and establishment (orange) survey y/y change in payrolls (k) from the past 4 recoveriesThe establishment survey leads the household survey down before recessions, but the enormity of evidence against a downturn (leading indicators, fixed investment, asset prices) makes that explanation highly unlikely. It could thus be assumed that the establishment survey may play catch-up to the household survey. What are households saying? Although most of the focus on the employment situation is the headline numbers, unemployment rate and change in payrolls, it is composed of thousands of different series, covering employment, unemployment, race, age, gender, educational attainment, sectors/industries, hours, and pay. Change in these series that is not reflected in the headline numbers is often referred to as the internals of the report. They serve to tell us how the composition of the labor market is changing. CFAFigure 4: Select measures from The Employment Situation from the household surveyThe internals are consistent with the household survey, which has averaged 580k payrolls per month over the past three months. Starting with the most common criticism of employment data, the labor force actually grew by 523k, and the long-derided participation rate increased by 0.3%. The unemployment rate dropped across all education levels, but the most significant improvement happened for those holding high school diplomas, where the unemployment rate dropped a staggering –0.6% to 6.5%, an improvement bested only three times in the history of that series. [1] Perhaps the biggest cause for optimism is the sharp drop in persons employed part-time for economic reasons. This category includes both “slack work or business conditions” as well as “could only find part-time work.” The number of people in this category dropped a staggering 514k. This improvement is in the top 96% of all readings going back to the series start in 1955. [2] “U6,” the broadest measurement of unemployment and underemployment, dove 0.4% to 12.7%. The only major internals that did not improve were race related. The white unemployment rate dropped 0.2% to 5.7%, whereas for blacks or African Americans, it edged up the same measure to 12.1%. Asians, who have had the lowest unemployment rate of all races, saw a jump of 0.7% to 4.8%. The long-term trend of unemployment in all these groups is down, so it is likely that this is month-to-month noise that will resolve itself positively. [3] All these numbers are subject to large month-to-month variation. What is clear is that the establishment survey payroll number is not consistent with much of the meat of the much broader Employment Situation report. The leading nature of the household survey in expansions provides some indication that the good news it contains will spread to the establishment survey. Is job growth keeping up with population growth? Many have noted that actual recovery must exceed population growth to represent real recovery, and once the output gap is closed, true growth must keep up with population growth. This is not precisely true. Although population is slated to grow by somewhere around 22 million over the next decade, which would represent 183k per month, most of this won’t be in the working-age population. Furthermore, the largest age group of workers (Baby Boomers) will be aging out of the labor force. From 2012 to 2024, the BLS estimates that the labor force will grow 10 million, less than half of the population growth. Consequently, it is more appropriate to use labor force growth as the break-even measurement of employment, and it works out to 67k per month. [4] CFAFigure 5: BLS projections for population and labor force growthAlthough unemployment is above the natural rate, we need more than population growth to close the gap, and we are getting it. Once the gap is closed, however, the rate of job increases will be much smaller than it has been in the past purely on the basis of demographics. How tight is the labor market? The natural rate of unemployment is typically defined as its theoretical level if the economy were running at full potential output. That doesn’t mean that there is no unemployment. Too little unemployment would mean inadequate liquidity in the labor markets, which would increase frictions to organizing people in jobs in the optimal manner for output. The sibling to the natural rate is the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU), which is the estimate of the lowest unemployment rate that would not be consistent with an accelerated rate of inflation. It seems likely at this juncture that the natural rate is lower than the non-accelerating rate. The consequence of this is that we could achieve higher real growth rates with higher inflation rates. When we discuss unemployment in the context of labor market tightness, there is both a normative (moral judgment of what should be) as well as a positive (study of what is) aspect. The Federal Reserve has seemingly explicitly adopted the inflation target as a higher priority than the unemployment rate by stating that it will keep rates exceptionally low to support a labor recovery as long as inflation remains below objective: [5] The Committee reaffirmed its expectation that the current exceptionally low target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4 percent will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than half a percentage point above the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. As a consequence, NAIRU is the most relevant measure of labor market “tightness.” The CBO (US  Congressional Budget Office) presently estimates NAIRU to be 5.2%. [6] A relevant concept is the Beveridge curve, which plots the relationship between job openings and the unemployment rate. [7] These two measures generally move in tandem. When the unemployment rate is higher than what the openings rate would be consistent with, it can be assumed that there is structural unemployment; that is, the unemployed do not meet the criteria to get hired by employers. A simple regression equation to calculate what the unemployment rate should be with a given openings rate follows: UERsupposed = 15.7355 + –3.4623 × openings Using the last openings rate (2.8%), this leaves us with an estimated unemployment rate of 6.04% net of structural mismatch, which is 0.6% below the headline level. CFAFigure 6: Unemployment, and the unemployment rate net of structural mismatches as estimated by the Beveridge CurveIf structural unemployment is higher than estimated, employers will have to start raising wages sooner, and the marginal hire will be marginally less productive, leading to more accelerating inflation as the unemployment rate drops. With the Beveridge curve’s estimate, it’s possible to conclude that NAIRU may make the 80 bp gap between the actual unemployment rate closer than we suspect and that accelerating inflation may materialize in less than a year. At the current pace of 10 bps of improvement in the unemployment rate per month, it would take just eight months to reach the CBO’s 5.2% estimate. The labor market is most certainly not tight, but it is very possible that — at least positively, even if not normatively — it will be considered tight by the end of this year. Evidence of this can already be observed in wages, whose seasonally unadjusted values are up 2.25% y/y and whose adjusted value grew at a compound annualized pace of more than 3.5%. [8] Why does the participation rate or employment-to-population ratio look so bad? CFAFigure 7: Employment:Population Ratio and Activity Rate for ages 15-64Most everyone has seen a chart like Figure 7, illustrating the great decline in the participation or employment rate. It is true. But it is not a valid measurement of the labor market or unemployment. Both of these measurements embody the demography, culture, and shift in preferences. Children cannot work, young adults have attained increasingly higher levels of education, young women (predominantly) leave the workforce for rearing children, and the elderly retire. If you feel compelled to use an employment rate for a labor market indicator, a better measurement is the rate for ages 25–54. We can solve for the equivalent unemployment rate with this simple fitted linear equation: SupposedUnemploymentRate = 25–54ParticipationRate × –0.4817 + 43.8938 which looks like Figure 8 below: CFAFigure 8: Unemployment rate approximated by 25-54 participation rate (blue) and the actual unemployment rateThis demonstrates that the unemployment rate is largely consistent with the 25–54 participation rate and was in fact recently even higher than the activity rate would have suggested. The employment situation actually removes the need to guess at the quantity of people not in the labor force voluntarily. We can combine the quantity of unemployed and those not in the labor force who want a job now, shown in Figure 9: CFAFigure 9: Unemployed + Not in Labor Force, Want Job Now (blue), Unemployment Rate – Natural Rate of Unemployment (red), Unemployment Rate at the Natural Rate (green)The last time the labor market was considered at full employment (the unemployment rate was at the natural rate), the quantity of those unemployed and those not in the labor force who want a job now were roughly 13 million. CFAFigure 10: [Unemployed + Involuntarily Not In Labor Force] / [Labor Force + Involuntarily Not In Labor Force] (blue), Unemployment Rate – Natural Rate (red)Full employment coincides with the “extended unemployment fraction” (Figure 10 above, blue) at 0.08, or 13 million. We henceforth use 13 million (Unemployed + Involuntarily not in labor force) as our estimate for full employment.   Whether that is morally justified is a different discussion, but that rate would be consistent with the definition of full employment that is both historically consistent as well as likely acceptable by most of the political and social classes. The quantity is 16.59 million now, leaving a shortfall of 3.59 million jobs below full employment. Including a further 67k a month in natural labor force growth, with the rate of the past year’s payroll growth, gives us 2.5 years until full employment. If employment growth is closer to 250k, it falls closer to a year and a half. The impact of policy Policy has had a negative impact on employment. The federal government incurred large deficits but did not directly support the labor market. In fact, it contracted payrolls. Had the growth of government payrolls simply grown at its historical rate (Figure 12) and all other things were equal, the employment gap would be just 1.2 million, or we would be just 10 months to full employment. CFAFigure 12: Government payrolls vs Trend (top), Government Payrolls as % of Employment (bottom) Lest this lead to the conclusion that this would expand government employment at an outsized rate, this would have put the government payrolls as a percentage of employment almost exactly in line with the 50-year average of 17%. Fiscal policy isn’t the only thing that holds back employment. Although the Fed now has a zero interest rate policy and is engaging in quantitative easing, it has consistently traded lower inflation for higher unemployment starting with the Volcker chairmanship in 1979. CFAFigure 13: Employment Gap (Unemployment Rate – NAIRU) pre- and Volcker-onBefore 1980, it was abnormal to run below full employment. After, it has been abnormal to run at or above full employment. Conclusion Using the pessimistic assumption of 2.5 years, the United States will have been below full employment for a total of 8.25 years (ending in mid-2016). Presently, this is the third longest duration the country has experienced a labor gap. The longest was the eight years between mid-1979 and early 1988. If the gap closes in the 2.5-year projection, it will narrowly become the longest in post-war history (Figure 11). CFAFigure 14: Cumulative quarters of unemployment gapStill, the labor market, including both the unemployed and those not in the work force but wanting jobs now, has approximately half recovered. CFAFigure 15: Employment Gap vs Wage Growth, 1984-currentThe smaller the employment gap gets, the more upward pressure there will be on wages. Higher wages will beget higher inflation. Higher inflation and wages will both facilitate and feed off of an accelerating household formation pace. All of this is consistent with the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) consensus for policy tightening starting in 2015 [9] — and probably early in the year — and the eurodollar market projecting a complete normalization of monetary policy in 2019. [10] In summary, this will likely be the longest period of time between full employment, narrowly edging out 1979–1988, but the labor market has substantially improved and full employment is solidly in sight. FREE AppDownload
Two pieces of business news announced this week provide a convenient frame through which to view our dysfunctional and distorted economy.  The first (which has attracted tremendous attention), is Facebook's blockbuster $19 billion acquisition of instant messaging provider WhatsApp. The second (which few have noticed) is the horrific earnings report issued by Texas-based retail chain Conn's. While these two developments don't seem to have much in common, together they shed some very unflattering light on where we stand economically. Given the size and extravagance of the Facebook deal, it may go down as one of those transactions that define an era (think AOL and Time Warner). Facebook paid $19 billion for a company with just 55 employees, little name recognition, negligible revenues, and little prospects to earn much in the future. For the same money the company could have bought American Airlines and Dunkin' Donuts, and still have had $2 billion left over for R&amp;D. Alternatively they could have used the money to lock in more than $1 billion in annual revenue through an acquisition of any one of the numerous large cap oil producing partnerships. Instead they chose a company that is in the business of giving away a valuable service for free. Come again? Mark Zuckerberg, the owner of Facebook, is not your typical corporate CEO. Through a combination of technological smarts, timing, luck, and questionable business ethics, he became a billionaire before most of us bought our first cars. And in the years since social media became the buzzword of the business world, Wall Street has been falling over backward to funnel money into the hot sector. As a result, it may be that Zuckerberg looks at real money the way the rest of us look at Monopoly money. It also helps that a large portion of the acquisition is made with Facebook stock, which is also of dubious value. But even given this highly distorted perspective, it's still hard to figure out why Facebook would pay the highest price ever paid for a company per employee - $345 million (more than four  times the old record of $77 million per employee, set last year when Facebook bought Instagram). The popular talking point is that the WhatsApp has gained users (450 million) faster than any other social media site in history, faster even than Facebook itself. Based on its rate of growth, the $42 per user acquisition cost does not seem so outrageous. But WhatsApp gained its users by giving away a service (text messaging) for which cellular carriers charge up to $10 or $20 per month. It's very easy to get customers when you don't charge them, it's much harder to keep them when you do. Boosters of the deal expect that WhatsApp will be able to charge customers after the initial 12-month free trial period ends (it now charges 99 cents per year after the first year). Based on this model, the firm had revenues of $20 million last year. But what happens if another provider comes in and offers it for free? After all, the technology does not seem to be that hard to replicate. Google has developed a similar application. More importantly, no one seems to be projecting what the cellular carriers may do to protect their texting cash cows. WhatsApp gives away what AT&amp;T and Verizon offer as an a la carte texting service. As these carriers continue to lose this business we can expect they will simply no longer offer texting as an a la carte option. Instead it will likely be bundled with voice and data at a price that recoups their lost profits. If texting comes free with cell service, a company giving it away will no longer have value. People will still need cellular service to send mobile texts, so unless Facebook acquires its own telecom provider, it can easily be sidelined from any revenue the service may generate. Some say that texting revenue is unimportant, and that the real value comes from the new user base.  But how many of the 450 million users it just acquired don't already have Facebook accounts? And besides, Facebook itself hasn't really figured out how to fully monetize the users it already has. In other words, it is very difficult to see how this mammoth investment will be profitable. From my perspective, the transaction reflects the inflated nature of our financial bubble. The Fed has been pumping money into the financial sector through its continuous QE programs. The money has pushed up the value of speculative stocks, even while the real economy has stagnated. With few real investments to fund, the money is plowed right back into the speculative mill. We are simply witnessing a replay of the dot com bubble of the late 1990's. But this time it isn't different. In another replay of that spectacular crash fourteen years ago, the appliance and furniture retailer Conn's has just showed the limits of a business built on vendor financing. In the late 1990's telecom equipment companies almost went bankrupt after selling gear to dot com start-ups on credit. For a while, these "sales" made growth and profits look great, but when the dot coms went bust, the equipment makers bled. Conn's makes its money by selling TVs and couches on credit to Americans who have difficulty scraping up funds for cash purchases. For a while, this approach can juice sales. Not surprisingly, Conn's stock soared more than 1500% between the beginning of 2011 and the end of 2013. These financing options are part of the reason why Conn's was able to keep up the appearance of health even while rivals like Best Buy faltered in 2013. But if people stop paying, the losses mount. This is what is happening to Conn's. The low and middle-income American consumers that form the company's customer base just don't have the ability to pay off their debt. The disappointing repayment data in the earnings report sent the stock down 43% in one day. In essence, Conn's customers are just stand-ins for the country at large. In just about every way imaginable, America has borrowed beyond its ability to repay. Meanwhile our foreign creditors continue to provide vendor financing so that we can buy what we can't really afford. So thanks for the metaphors Wall Street. Too bad most economists can't read the tea-leaves. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital » FREE AppDownload
Shares of Groupon are down 20%. Adjusted for nonrecurring items, the company earned $0.04 per share, the company said in its Thursday afternoon Q4 earnings announcement. This was stronger than the $0.02 expected by analysts. Revenue of $768.4 million smashed expectations for $718.0 million. Management's guidance was mixed. It forecasts Q1 revenue of $710-$760 million, which is much higher than the $685.4 million estimated by analysts. However, that's expected to come with an adjusted net loss of $0.02-$0.04 cents per share. Morgan Stanley's Scott Devitt wasn't too discouraged by the report. "[T]here are positives which suggest Groupon remains on a promising path - local billings and customer growth improved in EMEA (15% vs. 13% in Q3), units remained strong at 12%, deal count expanded (80,000 in NA and 60,000 internationally), mobile penetration increased (50% worldwide in December), and the company decided to exit the China market to focus on more core markets." said Devitt in a research note today. Devitt has a $14 price target on the stock. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vito LeeThe big news out of China right now is the fall in the value of the yuan. This week, yuan traded in offshore markets (CNH) staged its biggest drop against the U.S. dollar since September 2011. Over the same period, yuan traded domestically in China (CNY) fell 0.5% against the dollar, marking its biggest weekly decline in nearly three years. This comes on the back of efforts by China's central bank, the People's Bank of China (PBoC), to curb yuan appreciation, forcing many investors out of bets that the currency will continue to rise. "The gap between onshore and offshore yuan spot is quickly narrowing — probably a result of Beijing trying to close the arbitrage window and deter capital inflows," says Robert Savage of Track Research. In settling trade in renminbi, many companies accept CNY payments from Chinese importers and change that into dollars at the more attractive offshore rate. And borrowing costs are much cheaper in the CNH bond market than in mainland China. "Fervent demand for renminbi from international investors has driven down rates in Hong Kong and thereby created incentives for companies considering using the renminbi for trade or financing," explains Financial Times correspondent Robert Cookson. "Foreign exporters have cottoned on to the fact that the renminbi-dollar exchange rate is at a premium in Hong Kong compared with the mainland. To arbitrage the two markets, these companies accept renminbi as payment from Chinese importers, then swap the cash into dollars at the more attractive offshore exchange rate." The expectation that the yuan will continue to appreciate has been a key factor driving demand for CNH. What is offshore renminbi and how does it work? All of this can get fairly confusing, especially as China presses forward with efforts to internationalize the renminbi. Here are a few things to remember about the how the offshore market came to exist and the key differences between the onshore and offshore market. As China began to open up its economy, it wanted its currency to be used in the international market to settle trade and financial transactions, but without fully opening up its capital account. Hong Kong, which has served as an international hub for mainland China, naturally happened to be a great place for an offshore renminbi market. Singapore, Taiwan, and London have since developed their own offshore renminbi markets. It began with the development of the personal renminbi banking business in 2004, when renminbi deposits were allowed in Hong Kong, according to Vanessa Rossi and William Jackson at Chatham House. Bank of China (Hong Kong) was designated as the sole offshore renminbi clearing bank sometime in 2004. Renminbi deposits continued to climb, especially once the bond market was established in 2007, explain Rossi and Jackson. Bonds issued in renminbi outside the mainland were dubbed dim sum bonds. In 2010, McDonald's became the first foreign (non-financial) company to issue a dim sum bond. Renminbi deposits continued to pick up with the launch of the trade settlement scheme in 2009–2010. This chart from Morgan Stanley shows the relationship between the onshore and the offshore markets: Morgan Stanley The crucial thing to understand about the offshore market is that the yuan floats freely and doesn't fluctuate within a tight band like in the onshore market, and is free of Beijing's control in that regard. This allows for different prices on a single currency and creates those arbitrage opportunities that the PBoC is now trying to squelch. "Given the convertibility under the current account and gradual liberalization of convertibility under the capital account, there are flows that pressure CNY and CNH spot to converge," explains Kewei Yang, head of Asia Pacific interest rate strategy at Morgan Stanley. In a note to clients, he writes: In short, corporates, financial institutions, global macro investors, and arbitragers have a significant impact on the spread between CNY and CNH. On the one hand, structured flows from financial institutions have grown into a significant driver of the market, causing divergence between CNY and CNH spot. On the other hand, corporates and arbitragers are also ready to converge the spread, when the impact of the structured flows declines. Global macro investors could amplify the convergence or divergence based on their views on the Chinese economy. Furthermore, as a precautionary measure against a liquidity crunch, the PBoC has set up swap lines with the offshore centers. The PBoC has bilateral swap lines of RMB 400 billion with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, RMB 150 billion with the Monetary Authority of Singapore and RMB 200 billion with the Bank of England (along with authorities in 17 other countries). This gives foreign central banks access to direct RMB liquidity from the onshore market to replenish liquidity in times of need. The offshore renminbi has helped position China in the global market. And it allows Beijing to experiment with its currency without throwing open its capital account all at once and insulating its economy from the rest of the world. FREE AppDownload
Photo courtesy of Sara EisenStar reporter Sara Eisen joined CNBC from Bloomberg TV late last year. She's been crushing it since moving there. Eisen is well-known for her coverage of the foreign exchange. At CNBC, she's a correspondent focusing on the global consumer. She's still really into forex, though. We asked Eisen to take us through her typical day at CNBC. She showed us her routine of what she does when she wakes up and how she gets her hair and make up done.  She even showed us what she does before she goes to bed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsThe Federal Reserve has published the transcripts from its 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings, the time when the economy began to really hurt. At that first January meeting — which, according to NBER, was right at the beginning of what would become the Great Recession — some FOMC members recognized the future onslaught more than others. Dallas Fed President Fisher, for example, invoked a Woody Allen quote and downplayed the possibility of a recession. But Janet Yellen, who now chairs the Federal Reserve, was more on point. And it's part of the reason she has ascended to her current position. From the January 2008 transcript: I broadly agree with the Greenbook forecast for economic growth this year and with the assessment that the downside risks to that forecast are considerable. The severe and prolonged housing downturn and financial shock have put the economy at, if not beyond, the brink of recession. My forecast incorporates fiscal stimulus of the same magnitude as the Greenbook and monetary stimulus that is somewhat larger. I have assumed a 50 basis point cut at this meeting and an additional 25 basis point cut during the first half. My forecast shows growth of 1½ percent in 2008, like the Greenbook, but it has a more pronounced acceleration in 2009 as the monetary and fiscal stimulus kickstarts the economy. Credit where credit is due. Yellen correctly suggested that we might have been "beyond the brink of recession." But her unemployment targets were way off. She continues: The unemployment rate edges up this year to 5¼ percent before dropping gradually next year toward the natural rate of 4¾. I am especially concerned about the outlook for consumer spending. The combined hits to equity and housing wealth will extract a considerable toll, and consumer spending will be further depressed by slower growth in disposable income due to weaker employment growth. Delinquencies and charge-offs on most forms of consumer debt have already risen, and slower job growth seems likely to exacerbate this trend, prompting financial institutions to further tighten credit standards and terms. In my forecast, such developments reverberate back negatively onto economic activity. Check out our full round-up here »  FREE AppDownload
Whether you know it or not, right now Wall Street is in the midst of a hedge fund data dump, as everyone from banks to research firms release their 2013 reports on the industry. For the most part, things don't change — despite a fairly dismal average returns in 2013 (9.8%) investors will continue to increase or maintain their allocations to hedge funds, according to a report by research firm Preqin. They're comfortable with the fee structure, and they plan on sticking to strategies that worked through 2013, like activist and long/short. That's pretty standard stuff, but their report also pointed out something very different. Prequin's report showed that investors are more willing to allocate their capital to firms with between $1-$5 billion assets under management (AUM) or $100-$499 million under management. What that means is, ladies and gentleman, the little guys could get a shot. Business Insider has reported time and time again that the bar to start a hedge fund has been raised over the last decade. It's hard to go to investors with less than $50 million assets under management and attract sticky money from institutional investors like pension funds.So when we're talking about funds with $100 to $499 million AUM, we're talking about funds that could be relatively new to the game. The names that we hear on financial TV over and over again have way more that $5 billion AUM. Think: Bill Ackman has around $12 billion under management at Pershing Square, Carl Icahn has almost $7 billion in his investment funds, and then of course there's Ray Dalio and Bridgewater  with $127 billion AUM. They are the kings, and their size and reputation helps to keep them on the throne. It seems, though, that investors are willing to take a chance on something different in 2014. In fact, they think that large size could actually be a bad thing. The market is going to be choppier — we've already seen that — and according to Prequin's respondents, most investors that are looking for smaller funds that are able to deal with the market's curveballs. Plus they're cheaper. "These managers are often better placed to take advantage of a wider opportunity set due to their smaller position sizes and more than half (52%) of investors targeting smaller managers cited their nimbleness as a key characteristic," said the report. "One UK-based investment company stated “smaller managers on the whole tend to be more nimble and less concerned with accumulating management fees than the larger managers”, and, overall, 19% of investors said they prefer investing with smaller managers due to these firms offering more attractive fund terms." Of course, there's still something to be said for reputation and experience, as you'll see in the chart below, breaking down why investors look prefer larger or smaller hedge funds. All that said, if you're a smaller fund, now's the time to get the word out about what you're doing right. You may catch some big clients that could put you in the big leagues. If that's where you want to be now, of course. Check out Prequin's data in the chart below: Prequin     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueAs the subprime mortgage crisis began heating up in 2007 and 2008, nobody really knew to what extent it would bludgeon the rest of the economy. Now that Federal Reserve has published the transcripts from its 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings, we know that monetary policymakers were also "puzzled" by the linkages between the subprime market, the stock market, and the economy at large. We took a look again at the transcripts from 2007. Here's then-Chairman Ben Bernanke speaking at the March 2007 FOMC meeting: I had been puzzled about the quantitative relationship between the subprime problems and the stock market. I think that the actual money at risk is on the order of $50 billion from defaults on subprimes, which is very small compared with the capitalization of the stock market. It looks as though a lot of the problem is coming from bad underwriting as opposed to some fundamentals in the economy. So I guess I’m a bit puzzled about whether it’s a signal about fundamentals or how it’s linked to the stock market. Well, now we know. (Update: This post originally said the comment was from 2008. It's from 2007). FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTimothy Geithner may have helped guide the country through the financial crisis, but in January 2008 — right as the U.S. economy entered a recession — the former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman (and later Treasury Secretary) was still very optimistic. The Federal Reserve has published the transcripts from its 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings, and this is what Geithner had to say at the January meeting (which, according to NBER, was the very beginning of what would become the Great Recession). Here's Geithner: You know, we have the implausible kind of Goldilocks view of the world, which is it’s going to be a little slower, taking some of the edge off inflation risk, without being so slow that it’s going to amplify downside risks to growth in the United States. That may be too optimistic, but the world still is looking pretty good. Central banks in a lot of places are starting to soften their link to the dollar so that they can get more freedom to direct monetary policy to respond to inflation pressure. That’s a good thing. U.S. external imbalances are adjusting at a pace well ahead of expectations. That’s all good, I think. As many people pointed out, the fact that we don’t have a lot of imbalances outside of housing coming into this slowdown is helpful. There’s a little sign of incipient optimism on the productivity outlook or maybe a little less pessimism that we’re in a much slower structural productivity growth outlook than before. The market is building an expectation for housing prices that is very, very steep. That could be a source of darkness or strength, but some people are starting to call the bottom ahead, and that’s the first time. It has been a long time since we’ve seen any sense that maybe the turn is ahead. It seems unlikely, but maybe they’re right. In the financial markets, I think it is true that there is some sign that the process of repair is starting. "Having said that, though, I think it is quite dark still out there," Geithner conceded. "Like everyone else, we have revised down our growth forecast. We expect very little growth, if any, in the first half of the year before policy starts to bring growth back up to potential." It was much darker than Geithner originally predicted. FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve released the transcripts from its 2008 FOMC meetings. The document release also came with accompanying presentation materials. For the September FOMC meeting, which was right at the height of the financial crisis, the New York Fed's Bill Dudley brought a stack of charts. And the first two were horrific. The first chart shows investment bank stock prices, which crumbled on fears of insolvency as capital levels contracted. Similarly, the second chart shows surging bank credit-default swap (CDS) spreads. CDS is basically insurance against a default. For the banks that walked away from the crisis, prices came back CDS spreads crumbled. Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderRichard FisherThe Federal Reserve has just published the transcripts from its 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings — right as the economy began to tumble. The transcripts paint a better picture of how the Fed was processing souring economic data. According to NBER, December 2007 marked a peak in economic activity, and after that, we went into recession. That makes the transcripts from the January 2008 meeting particularly interesting. Here's Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher getting things a bit wrong, complete with a Woody Allen reference. From the transcript: I am delighted to hear all this anecdotal evidence. We were talking, Governor Mishkin and I, about Woody Allen earlier. If I remember correctly, he had a wonderful quip—that he cheated on his metaphysics exam by looking into another boy’s soul. [Laughter] Basically, what we are doing at this time of transition is almost cheating on the data by looking at the anecdotal evidence. My broader CEO soundings indicate pretty much the same as what we are seeing in our District and what others have mentioned—shipping, rail, express delivery, manufacturing, and other activities are much slower. Retail sales are soft. As President Poole and others pointed out, truckers are suffering. Receivables are being stretched out. Delinquencies are rising. I could bore you with specifics company by company, as I am tempted to do, but I will not unless you wish me to. The point is that, while there are tales of woe, none of the 30 CEOs to whom I talked, outside of housing, see the economy trending into negative territory. They see slower growth. Some of them see much slower growth. None of them at this juncture—the cover of Newsweek notwithstanding, a great contra-indicator, which by the way shows “the road to recession” on the issue that is about to come out—see us going into recession. I will just give you two indicators there. If you look at MasterCard and dig into their data, their December retail sales ex-auto, ex-gas, were up 5 percent and in January to date were up 4 percent. President Poole mentioned UPS, and President Lockhart has the incoming CEO of UPS on his board. Year over year to January, they are up 2 percent. So it is anemic. It is not negative. The expectation is not to be negative. My CEO soundings indicate pretty much what we have forecast as a group—much slower growth, not necessarily a recession. Some of Fisher's colleagues — including current Fed Chair Janet Yellen — were already using the "R" word by January. But many at the Fed didn't see what was coming. We'll pulling out more nuggets from the report. FREE AppDownload
U.S. Army / Sgt. Michael J. MacLeodThe Federal Reserve just released transcripts from the 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings. The FOMC held a regularly-scheduled meeting on Sep. 16, 2008 — the day after Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, an event that sparked turmoil in global markets. At the outset of the meeting, then-chairman Ben Bernanke called for the establishment of dollar swap lines with G-10 central banks in order to ease funding strains in global markets. "I would like to put on the table a request for authorization for swap lines," said Bernanke, according to the transcript. "I prefer not to put a limit on it, so I know I've got my own bazooka here." After Lehman went down, funding costs began to rise in wholesale interbank lending markets. As the transcripts make clear, the FOMC was concerned that it would be harder for other banks to secure funding, causing the crisis to spread. During the meeting, New York Fed president Bill Dudley explained the risk: Now, the Lehman filing has also intensified the pressure on Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs in a number of respects. The Lehman failure means that investors now view the debt of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs as having much more risk than it did on Sunday. This means that these firms need bigger liquidity buffers than they had before, and it does have implications for long-term profitability. As a consequence, their share prices fell very sharply yesterday. Morgan Stanley was down about $5 a share, to $32, and Goldman Sachs’s stock was off 18 points, to $135. Morgan Stanley experienced a modest, but not insignificant, pulling back of their counterparties and ate into their liquidity buffer by a measurable degree. The Lehman problems also were evident in some other areas. This is very incomplete, but the ones that came to my attention were money market funds—especially, the Reserve Fund that had large withdrawals, and they encountered a significant liquidity problem. I am actually not sure how that was resolved, but I think that State Street was in the situation of having to cover a very large shortfall of the Reserve Fund last night. The risk here, of course, is that, if AIG were to fail, money funds have even a broader exposure to them than to Lehman, and so breaking the buck on the money market funds is a real risk. The capital resources of the entities that are associated with the money market funds often are quite modest, so their ability to top up the money funds and keep them whole is quite limited. Thus the money market funds are definitely one important issue in how this contagion could be broader. Bernanke got his bazooka. On the same day, Primary Reserve Fund — the country's oldest money-market fund, broke the buck. And, of course, funding costs continued to rise, the crisis spread, and the government ended up having to bail out AIG. FREE AppDownload
Grocery shopping has been no easy task in Venezuela for the last several years, but things reached a breaking point in January when the Central Bank of Venezuela announced that a staple scarcity index hit a record 26.2%. Many see routine shortages as just another example of how extreme government ineptitude and deceased-President Chavez's (and now President Maduro's) socialist policies have destroyed the oil-rich country's economy. When those basic goods do arrive, consumers mob the stores to get a hold of the scarce product. Check out what happens when a Venezuelan grocery store finally receives a shipment of chicken: Youtube  Youtube While January's staple scarcity was exceptionally high, the percentage has hovered around 20% for the last several months. What that means is that in any given store in Venezuela, 20 out of every 100 staple products, like sugar, flour, beef, toilet paper, rice, coffee, and chicken is unavailable. That level of scarcity, according to Venezuela’s own economists, is equivalent to countries in a state of civil war.  Asdrubal Oliveros, an economist at Venezuela-based Econanalitica, told the Guardian back in September that the root cause of the shortages lies with a combination of Venezuela’s over-reliance on imports, price controls on goods, and a lack of funds to purchase goods. "Other than oil, we produce close to nothing, and even oil production has decreased. There is a lack of hard currency, and, in a country that imports everything, this becomes more evident with food scarcity," Oliveros said. President Nicolas Maduro, always ready to shift the blame, has said that the food shortages are artificially induced by the opposition and are part of a larger plot by the CIA to destabilize the government. Here's the full video, which is from a similar (though less severe shortage) in 2013:   FREE AppDownload
The Fed's 2008 FOMC transcripts are out along with accompanying presentation materials. Most will remember September 2008, which was when the credit crisis got really ugly as Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and interest rates surged. You would think that would've been good time for the Fed to cut rates. But it didn't. It kept its benchmark interest rate at 2%. For that September 16 meeting, the Fed had prepared three drafts for three scenarios including a rate hike. Federal Reserve Here's what they ultimately went with: The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 2 percent. Strains in financial markets have increased significantly and labor markets have weakened further. Economic growth appears to have slowed recently, partly reflecting a softening of household spending. Tight credit conditions, the ongoing housing contraction, and some slowing in export growth are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters. Over time, the substantial easing of monetary policy, combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate economic growth. Inflation has been high, spurred by the earlier increases in the prices of energy and some other commodities. The Committee expects inflation to moderate later this year and next year, but the inflation outlook remains highly uncertain. The downside risks to growth and the upside risks to inflation are both of significant concern to the Committee. The Committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Christine M. Cumming; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. Ms. Cumming voted as the alternate for Timothy F. Geithner.
One Madison PenthouseBillionaire media mogul Rupert Murdoch is in contract to buy the triplex penthouse at One Madison, the Wall Street Journal reports.  Murdoch will also purchase the unit on the floor below, the report said. That's four floors in the swanky condo building for the newly divorced 82-year-old.   He's paying a total of $57.25 million for the two units, the report said. The penthouse triplex was listed for $50 million, while the apartment below had been listed for $16.5 million. It's definitely a dreamy condo building, and now we're going to take a tour.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Tim ChongThe Federal Reserve has published the transcripts from its 2008 Federal Open Market Committee meetings. The economy, which had just slipped into recession, rapidly deteriorated as oil prices surged and stock prices tumbled. Troubled subprime mortgages brought down Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers and credit seized up. The transcripts offer a unique and more informal look into the Fed that you can't get from the FOMC statements or minutes. For instance here's Bernanke regarding the languag of the FOMC statement: "So we are changing the last part of that sentence. We are striking the word “market” and changing “closely” to “carefully.” Any other comments or thoughts on the substance, sizzle, or marketing? Or as Rick would say, “moychandising”— but he’s not here. [Laughter] All right. If not, Ms. Danker." We're thumbing through them now. Here are some highlights: Download the transcripts here: http://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomchistorical2008.htm FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The value of Chinese yuan traded in offshore markets fell 1.3% against the U.S. dollar this week, marking the currency's biggest weekly decline since 2011. A large portion of the move came on Friday, following the People's Bank of China's decision to set a lower fixing against the dollar in onshore markets for the fourth straight session. The PBoC sets a daily reference rate from which the spot value of the yuan in onshore markets is not allowed to deviate more than 1% in either direction. Yuan traded in offshore markets are not subject to this trading band, and the popularity of the long-China carry trade among investors looking for continued appreciation of the yuan against the dollar has caused offshore yuan to trade at a premium to onshore yuan. This week, however, the PBoC appears to be squeezing traders out of these positions, causing the offshore yuan to plunge as carry trades unwind, thereby erasing the premium in the offshore market. According to Sacha Tihanyi, a senior currency strategist at Scotiabank, today's swift decline in the value of offshore yuan is indicative of a "panicked unwind" of the carry trade, as violent price action fed on itself throughout the session. Dollar-yuan options trades accounted for 72% of total volume today, according to DTCC — three times the currency pair's average over the last five sessions — as traders scrambled to hedge their long-yuan positions. Ju Wang, a senior FX strategist at HSBC, says the PBoC has been setting weaker fixings following the Lunar New Year holiday despite the dollar's weakness against other global currencies, suggesting it wants to take advantage of relative calm in market to reduce yuan appreciation expectations. However, given the disappearance of the premium in the offshore yuan market, the squeeze may be coming to an end. Mirza Baig, head of foreign exchange and interest rates strategy at BNP Paribas, points out that the PBoC is has been buying dollars in recent sessions as the yuan has declined, and suggests that when the PBOC turns around and starts selling dollars, it would be a signal that they are done squeezing the market. Nonetheless, traders are watching this market carefully. "Protracted yuan weakness would have potentially profound implications for developed markets, in particular because China would be exporting disinflation," says Vincent Chaigneau, global head of rates and FX strategy at Société Générale. "That would undermine our fundamentally bearish bond views. Stay tuned." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExisting home sales fell 5.1% month-over-month in January to an annualized pace of 4.62 million units. This was worse than expectations for a 4.1% fall to an annualized pace of 4.67 million units. December existing home sales were revised down to reflect a 0.8% rise. This compares with a 1% rise in December to an annualized pace of 4.87 million units. The median existing-home price was up 10.7% on the year to $188,900. Meanwhile, total housing inventory was up 2.2% to 1.90 million, which represents a 4.9 month supply at the current sales pace. Here's a look at the regional breakdown: "Disruptive and prolonged winter weather patterns across the country are impacting a wide range of economic activity, and housing is no exception," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release.   "Some housing activity will be delayed until spring. At the same time, we can’t ignore the ongoing headwinds of tight credit, limited inventory, higher prices and higher mortgage interest rates. These issues will hinder home sales activity until the positive factors of job growth and new supply from higher housing starts begin to make an impact." Pending home sales, considered a leading indicator for future existing home sales, have been falling sharply. This suggests that existing home sales will be ticking lower. "The bad news now is that the plunge in the Dec pending home sales index suggests completed sales have further to fall, and  could drop as low as 4.3M in Feb, down some 20% from their summer 2013 peak," Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in a note to clients. Pantheon MacroEconomics FREE AppDownload
PulitzerSteven Pearlstein (right), accepting a 2008 Pulitzer PrizeCharlie Rose was kind enough to have me on last night to talk about Facebook/WhatsApp. In the "green room" for the show, I met another guest, the Washington Post columnist and George Mason University professor Steven Pearlstein.  Pearlstein was on to discuss a far more important topic than Facebook/WhatsApp: The fact that U.S. capitalism has now become so obsessed with "maximizing shareholder value" that we've lost sight of all the other forms of value great companies can create (value for customers, employees, and society, for example, not just shareholders). Pearlstein pointed out that there's no law of capitalism that company managers have to "maximize profit" — that that's just a story told by greedy investors who want to take home as much money as possible for themselves. Our economy would be much healthier, Pearlstein argued, if we better balanced the interests of customers, employees, society, and shareholders. Pearlstein is right. One of the big reasons our economy is so crappy these days is that the labor/capital pendulum has swung so far toward capital that almost all the value our companies create now goes right into the pockets of shareholders (instead of, for example, being shared with the people who create it — the employees). And this "shareholder value maximization" mantra has been repeated so often and for so long that even normal Americans have come to believe that there's some law of capitalism that says companies have to be managed this way. They don't. And it's too bad people think they do. Because it is hurting average Americans and our economy. But anyway, in Charlie Rose's green room (where you wait before going on air), Professor Pearlstein said something else that was interesting. He said he thinks the Facebook/WhatsApp deal will mark the top of the market. Every big boom has its iconic market-top event, Pearlstein says. And he thinks the $19 billion that Facebook is shelling out for a company with $20 million of revenue, combined with the market's immediate and startling celebration of this move (remarkably, Facebook's stock went up on the news), will mark the top of this latest five-year bull market. Will Pearlstein be right? We'll see. I, personally, think the WhatsApp deal made sense for Facebook. WhatsApp has a good shot at becoming "the next Facebook," and if you want to own "the next Facebook," you can't wait until you have proof that a company will be "the next Facebook," because, by then, it will be too expensive to buy. But, that said, even I was taken aback by how quick the market was to enthusiastically rubber-stamp the deal. And I'm already nervous about Facebook's valuation (25-times revenue after WhatsApp) and the broader market's valuation (50% overvalued by most historically valid measures). So I do think there's a chance that Professor Pearlstein might end up being right. SEE ALSO: Yes, I Still Think There's A Decent Chance The Market Will Crash FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing The "Grand Bargain" — the mythical agreement between Democrats and Republicans to cut entitlement spending — has died. The cuts to Social Security that were included in President Barack Obama's budget last year were viewed as a necessary olive branch to Republicans at the time. Many Democrats in Washington, including the president, thought it should be on the table to strike a deal — the elusive "grand bargain" on the budget. A year later, the paradigm has completely swung. Obama will drop the proposal from his budget this year. Led by Sens. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), many Democrats now not only oppose the cuts, but also favor an expansion of Social Security benefits.  "It is really amazing how much the conversation has shifted," one Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider. Key members of both the House and Senate Democratic caucuses — including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi — applauded Obama on Thursday for removing the proposal from his budget.  A lot of the credit, people on and off the hill say, goes to outside progressive groups who began the momentum against the "chained CPI" cost-of-living adjustment, which cuts Social Security benefits by recalculating the growth of benefits with an index that doesn't rise as quickly as inflation.  Though many Democrats in Washington were willing to sacrifice the cuts in the name of the "grand bargain," progressive groups never thought they should be on the chopping block. In turn, it took much of Washington until Thursday to realize that the elusive grand bargain was finally dead after a four-year run. The progressive groups say that they were bolstered by the dose of reality outside Washington, and by vast opposition to the cuts from Americans.  Becky Bond, the vice president and political director of the progressive group CREDO, is hard-pressed to remember a quicker shift on an important — and often divisive — issue. "This is an issue where Republicans and Democrats agreed, but it was separated in some sense," Bond, CREDO's political director, told Business Insider. "Inside the beltway, Democrats and Republicans in the White House and on the hill agreed we should cut Social Security benefits to cut a deal. But outside the beltway, Democrats and Republicans agreed, too — but they agreed on the opposite." CREDO delivered more than 1.3 million petition signatures and 51,000 calls to the White House and members of Congress pushing against the possibility of Social Security cuts. Democracy for America, the group founded by former presidential candidate Howard Dean, delivered 2.3 million signatures soon after Obama included the proposal in his budget last year.  AP PhotoThe Progressive Change Campaign Committee was one group that put the Social Security cuts at the forefront of its advocacy. And in July, it led a big strategic shift that would keep swinging the conversation — it decided to "stop playing defense" and go on offense, leading the push to expand Social Security benefits. It rallied in support of bills to strengthen Social Security benefits. One such proposal was a bill from the liberal Sens. Harkin and Brown, which would increase benefits by undoing the cap on payroll taxes at $113,700. The middle of November served as a turning point for the shift. On Nov. 17, Warren announced her support of Social Security expansion in a speech on the Senate floor. With Warren's name and a bigger push, more media outlets began taking notice. In the lead-up to the release of Obama's budget, Rep. Allyson Schwartz (D-Pa.), who is running for governor in Pennsylvania, spearheaded an effort in the House against the Social Security cuts. She led 117 members of the House in sending a letter to Obama, urging him to not use seniors as a "bargaining chip." "This is a huge progressive victory — and greatly increases Democratic chances of taking back the House and keeping the Senate," PCCC co-founder Stephanie Taylor said after Obama announced he was dropping the cuts from his budget on Thursday. "Now, the White House should join Elizabeth Warren and others in pushing to expand Social Security benefits to keep up with the rising cost of living." Indeed, the final nail in the coffin of the grand bargain may have surprised some in Washington. But the people who realized it long ago are already looking ahead. "We have changed the conversation in Washington," Neil Sroka, the communications director for Democracy for America, told Business Insider.  "To the point where, these 'Very Serious People' know that it is just not an acceptable view in the Democratic Party today to be talking about cutting earned-benefit programs that people have been contributing to their entire lives. ... So, let's start talking about what Americans actually want — which is expanding these programs." FREE AppDownload
Screenshot from AEI Hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who runs $14 billion Third Point LLC, was on a panel yesterday with His Holiness the Dalai Lama at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. Loeb explained to His Holiness how financial markets make the world a better place. He also spoke extensively about his experience studying yoga and how that helps him be a better investor.   Loeb started Third Point LLC in June of 1995 with $3 million under management. He began practicing Ashtanga yoga just a few months before that. Five months later after starting Third Point, Loeb's yoga instructor, Eddie Stern, convinced him to go to India to study yoga with Ashtanga yoga master, Pattabhi Jois. He said that was an "unusual decision." A friend/competitor of Loeb called him up and told him it wasn't a good idea, "Don't do that. That's a huge mistake. Everyone's going to think you're a flake for leaving your business, going to India and studying yoga for a month."  Back then, Loeb explained, there wasn't internet access readily available or cell phone service, so the other fund manager's concerns weren't completely unwarranted.   Loeb went to India anyway. He said that month-long experience was what launched him into a "life long passion for spirituality, for contemplation, meditation." "Contemplation, meditation—It's not for monks and hermits," Loeb said, adding, "I think they can really improve all of our lives and they can really improve us as business people as well."  Basically, Loeb believes that contemplation makes people better decision-makers. Through the practice of yoga, Loeb said he's received three lessons that are crucial for being a better investor and decision-maker. He applies them to his work at Third Point, and we've paraphrased them below:  Loeb said that there are three types of decisions that people make.  The first, he said, are the foundational decisions. These are the easy ones, such as the decision to be honest, not to hurt people and treat people fairly, he explained.  The second kind of decisions are the ones where you turn to a framework.  Loeb used skiing as an example. He said if you're going down a hill, you know how to bend your legs and distribute your weight in a certain way. "In business, you may have things you've seen time and time again and you can make decisions consistent with that pattern," he said. The third type of decisions are the ones we all encounter in our own world.  For Loeb, they're trading decisions. He said that some trading decisions might fall in a consistent pattern, while a lot of the time, "it's all new territory." "That's where this practice that enables us to be more creative, to be intuitive to make these better decisions is really important." It's working for him.  FREE AppDownload
I can’t say for sure how the political situation in Thailand will ultimately play out, but I do believe there will be some changes, and I also believe the fundamental direction of the Thai economy should be able to remain on a growth track. Regardless of the macroeconomic or political climate, we are bottom-up stockpickers and continue to look for opportunities to invest where we see potential on an individual-company level. Will Thailand’s Government Topple? In the past few months, protesters have attempted to topple the Thai government, triggering a slide in the Thai baht and its stock market, which posted negative performance in 2013 and was near flat year-to-date through late February.1 In December, my team and I were in Bangkok and were surprised to find little evidence that business and the busy shopping areas of the city were being interrupted by the political disturbances at that time. The main tourist areas were also largely unaffected. Our visit came just before King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s 86th birthday, so it is likely that the demonstrations were muted in respect for the king, who is held in high regard. Today, there is fear that continuing political demonstrations could begin to impact business, infrastructure projects and particularly the important tourism industry, which accounts for about 9% of the Thai economy.2 We have heard anecdotal evidence that some tourist bookings have been canceled as a result of the unrest.  If the past is any indication, the impact on tourism of the recent protests could prove relatively short-lived. When Ms. Yingluck Shinawatra’s brother Thaksin Shinawatra was ousted in 2006 in a military coup, there was little impact on tourism. And in 2013, Thailand welcomed a record number of visitors. So, if the demonstrations are having an impact, the overall picture doesn’t seem bleak at this time. MasterCard’s Global Destination Cities Index ranked Bangkok the world’s most-visited city in 2013, with nearly 16 million international visitors.3 Of course, if there is a great deal of violence there is no question that the impact will likely be felt this year. Nevertheless, our experience in Thailand through a great deal of political change and turmoil over the years indicates that the bedrock of Thai sensibility and practicality has eventually prevailed, and historically, when the turmoil has ended, it has generally been back to business as usual. The Thai stock market can be volatile (as all markets can be) but Thailand’s market has proven resilient during past trials and tribulations. While short-term volatility is likely to continue to impact Thailand’s market as news events unfold, we believe Thailand will eventually find a way out of this latest crisis. Fortunately, elections in early February, strongly opposed by the People’s Democratic Reform Committee (which has led many anti-government protests), didn’t result in heightened violence. However, voting was disrupted in some areas of the country and it may take several more months to complete the process and fill vacant parliamentary seats. Unfortunately, protests were continuing into mid-February, most recently involving rice farmers, distraught over the government’s failure to pay for rice bought under a subsidy scheme, one of Shinawatra’s signature policies. The subsidy program is threatening to destabilize the budget. Reasons for Optimism  The situation in Thailand certainly is testing the nerves of investors, but we would argue that a number of countervailing factors favor long-term investment prospects there. Political instability has been endemic in Thailand for many years, but it has not prevented an enviable level of economic growth. Between 2000 and 2012, Thailand’s gross domestic product grew an average 4.2% per annum with a per capita gain of 3.3% per annum4 in a period that included a devastating tsunami in 2004 and severe flooding in 2011. Unemployment in Thailand stood at less than 1% at the end of 2012.5 We believe that a number of factors could permit continued high levels of economic growth in the future. Thailand is a major center for outsourcing by Japanese companies, most notably in the production of automobiles. With Japanese Prime Minister Abe’s efforts to revive Japanese growth showing some signs of success, additional activity in Japan could transmit into increased orders in Thailand. While Thailand’s growth has been strong, it has also been somewhat uneven with incomes in Bangkok and its hinterland markedly higher than elsewhere. Recent government policy has been aimed at raising incomes and increasing development in the country’s north, and we believe that this process could drive substantial gains in consumer demand supplementing the contribution of a strong export sector. Franklin TempletonSoutheast Asia generally has seen a surge in middle-class buying power. Thailand’s neighbors, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam and most recently Myanmar, have begun increasingly to adopt market-based economic policies and look outward for economic growth. These developments could ease constraints on Thai growth from shortages of labor and natural resources. Moreover, Chinese-inspired moves to upgrade regional rail links could improve economic links both between Thailand and its neighbors and within the country itself. In November 2013, Thailand’s Senate approved a bill allowing the government to borrow US$69.5 million for a seven-year infrastructure spending project in Thailand that could see high-speed rails linking Bangkok with Laos, the manufacturing zone of Eastern Thailand, Malaysia and the city of Chang Mai to the north, as well as upgrading existing rail and port facilities and improving Bangkok’s mass transit system. The infrastructure proposals could also provide a major boost to ambitious—but so far unfulfilled—plans to develop a major industrial zone and trade terminal based in the southern Myanmarian port of Dawei. Once linked to Thailand and its railways, Dawei could provide an attractive alternative route for international freight currently forced to move through the difficult and congested Strait of Malacca. Financing for the government’s infrastructure plans is in limbo at present following a legal challenge, but both the government and opposition broadly support the measures. We can’t exclude the possibility that “this time it’s different” in Thailand; that the present bout of political instability could segue into economic weakness and corporate losses. However, in our opinion, the balance of probability is that positive economic drivers could once again override the short-term impact of Thailand’s political turbulence. And, we strongly believe Thailand’s people and economy will rise above the bickering of the country’s politicians. Read more about Thailand in my previous post, “Thailand, Land of Smiles.” Dr. Mobius’ comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or a recommendation to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. This material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.   All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets.      1. Source: © 2014 FactSet Research Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved. The information contained herein: (1) is proprietary to FactSet Research Systems Inc. and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or distributed; and (3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither FactSet Research Systems Inc. nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information. The SET Index is a capitalization-weighted index of stocks traded on the Stock Exchange of Thailand. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. An index is unmanaged and one cannot directly invest in an index. 2. Source: World Travel and Tourism Council, “Travel &amp; Tourism Thailand, Economic Impact 2013.” 3. Source: MasterCard Global Destination Cities Index, second quarter 2013. 4. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2013. Copyright © 2013 By International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. 5. Ibid. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 returned 32.4% in 2013, which proved a tough benchmark to beat. According to data from Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider, the average core large cap mutual fund came close returnin 31.6% in 2013.  But hedge funds only returned a measly 9.8% on average in 2013. Much of this underperformance can be blamed on short positions in these funds. In fact, a basket of hedge funds' "Very Important" long positions returned a whopping 41%. Check out the distribution of hedge fund performance from Goldman Sachs: Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Fannie Mae &lt;FNMA.OB&gt; said on Friday it would soon send the U.S. Treasury $7.2 billion, a profit-related dividend that makes taxpayers whole for the 2008 bailout of the mortgage-finance giant and its sibling company Freddie Mac &lt;FMCC.OB&gt;. But unlike other companies rescued by taxpayers during the financial crisis, the firms will remain under government control until Congress winds them down or replaces them. The bailout terms for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac force them to turn over their profits to the Treasury in the form of dividends on the controlling stake the government took when it bailed them out. They cannot repurchase the government's share. In announcing the payment, Fannie Mae said it posted net income of $6.5 billion for the three-month period that ended December 31. It was the company's eighth straight quarterly profit. For 2013 as a whole, its net income was a record $84.0 billion, helped by a recovery in the housing market and some tax-related windfalls. That compares to its previous record profit of $17.2 billion a year earlier. "While Fannie Mae expects to be profitable for the foreseeable future, the company does not expect to repeat its 2013 financial results," the company said in a press release. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac last year benefited from a recovering market that lifted home prices and kept a lid on loan defaults. Their return to profitability also allowed them to reverse write-downs of certain tax-related assets, which led to large one-time windfalls. The duo, which own or guarantee 60 percent of all U.S. home loans, were seized by the government as mortgage losses threatened their solvency. Officials felt they could not let the companies collapse because they played a role that was too important, providing liquidity to the mortgage market by buying loans from lenders and repackaging them as securities for investors. They also feared a failure to honor the guarantees the companies made on loans would lead to an even deeper crisis. Before returning to the black last year, Fannie Mae had suffered five years of losses totaling $164 billion, and it had drawn $116.1 billion in taxpayer aid. Freddie Mac, which lost $94 billion between 2007 and 2011 before it turned things around, was supported by $71.3 billion in bailout funds. While Freddie Mac has yet to report fourth quarter results, it has already paid $9 million more in dividends than it received in aid. The dividend payment to Treasury by Fannie Mae means that combined with Freddie Mac they will have more than repaid the government, paying dividends of about $192.5 billion compared to the $187.5 billion they have drawn for their 2008 bailouts. To avoid ever having to come to their rescue again, the Obama administration and lawmakers on Capitol Hill have vowed to revamp the housing finance system and do away with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as they are currently constituted. The Senate is working on a bipartisan bill that would ensure there will be a government backstop for the market in times of crisis, an approach favored by the White House. A Republican-backed bill in the U.S. House of Representatives would limit federal mortgage guarantees more sharply. Last year's dividend payments are not expected to be matched this year. However, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are likely to keep paying billions to the Treasury, unless there is a sudden downturn in the housing market, Congress shutters them or lawsuits challenging the dividend requirement are successful. (Reporting By Margaret Chadbourn; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisA man prays by a barricade near Independence Square in Kiev February 21, 2014.KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine opposition leaders signed an EU-mediated peace deal with President Viktor Yanukovich on Friday, aiming to end a violent standoff that has left dozens dead and opening the way for a early presidential election this year. Russian-backed Yanukovich - under pressure to quit from the mass demonstrations in Kiev - earlier offered a series of concessions to his pro-European opponents, including a national unity government and constitutional change to reduce his powers, as well as the presidential vote. German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said the deal provided for the creation of a national unity government and an early presidential election this year, although no date had been set. The vote had been due in March 2015. A Reuters correspondent at the signing in the presidential headquarters said Yanukovich did not smile during a ceremony lasting several minutes. One of the European Union mediators, Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski, described the agreement as a "good compromise for Ukraine". In a post on Twitter, he said it "gives peace a chance. Opens the way for reform and to Europe". With Ukraine caught in a geopolitical tug-of-war between Russia and the EU, at least 77 people have been killed this week in the worst violence since the independent country emerged from the wreckage of the Soviet Union in 1991.  "There are no steps that we should not take to restore peace in Ukraine," Yanukovich said when announcing his concessions before the deal was signed. "I announce that I am initiating early elections." Yanukovich said Ukraine would revert to a previous constitution under which parliament had greater control over the make-up of the government, including the prime minister.  "I am also starting the process of a return to the 2004 constitution with a rebalancing of powers towards a parliamentary republic," he said. "I call for the start of procedures for forming a government of national unity." Earlier, a Polish foreign ministry spokesman said a council of protesters occupying Kiev's Independence Square, which is also known as the Maidan, had backed the agreement. The civic council "has voted in favor of the three opposition leaders signing the agreement with President Yanukovich concerning resolving the conflict", the ministry's spokesman, Marcin Wojciechowski, said on Twitter. The German and Polish foreign ministers were in Kiev to promote the political compromise to end the bloodshed amid a stand-off between riot police and anti-government protesters who have occupied the central square for nearly three months. SCUFFLES IN PARLIAMENT Before the deal was signed, armed police briefly entered the parliament building while lawmakers were holding an emergency session but they were quickly ejected, opposition leader Arseny Yatsenyuk said. Members exchanged punches when speaker Volodymyr Rybak tried to adjourn proceedings. Opposition deputies were angered because it would mean delaying a possible vote on a resolution pressing for constitutional changes to restrict the president's powers. The speaker left the chamber and debate continued. The deal would be a setback for Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has made tying Ukraine into a Moscow-led Eurasian Union a cornerstone of his efforts to reunite as much as possible of the former Soviet Union. Putin appointed his own envoy to the talks at Yanukovich's request on Thursday but it was not clear what role, if any, Russian officials had in the negotiations. In another sign of the severity of the crisis, ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor's cut Ukraine's credit rating for the second time in three weeks on Friday, citing the increased risk of default. S&amp;P said latest developments in the crisis made it less likely that Ukraine would receive desperately needed Russian aid. Ukraine cancelled a planned issue of 5-year Eurobonds worth $2 billion, it told the Irish Stock Exchange where the debt would have been listed. Kiev had hoped Russia would buy the bonds to help it stave off bankruptcy. Russia's economy minister said Moscow was still undecided on the next $2 billion installment and was awaiting clarity on the government in Ukraine. On financial markets, Ukraine's dollar bonds and the hryvnia currency firmed against the dollar from record lows hit this week on hopes for a deal. However, RBS analyst Tatyana Orlova noted the country was still in dire financial straits. "This is not the end of the story. What I am reading is there is a deal but the devil is in the detail ... The urgent need is for a technocratic cabinet that could take steps to avert default," Orlova said. The health ministry said 77 people had been killed since Tuesday afternoon, which meant at least 47 died in Thursday's clashes. On Thursday, EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels imposed targeted sanctions on Ukraine and threatened more if the authorities failed to restore calm. (Additional reporting by Richard Balmforth, Alessandra Prentice, Vasily Fedosenko and Pavel Polityuk in Kiev, Sujata Rao in London, John Irish in Paris, Marcin Goettig and Adrian Krajewski in Warsaw, Alexandra Hudson in Berlin and Francesco Guarascio and Adrian Croft in Brussels; Writing by Paul Taylor and David Stamp; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
    If you think curling is one of those sports you don't need muscles for to win, you couldn't be more wrong. Olympic curlers work out constantly year-round so they can keep their edge on the ice. But what does it really take to make it as a curler, and how hard is it? We went to Ardsley Curling Club in Irvington, NY to find out just how tough it is to make it in curling. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange February 19, 2014. Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are slightly higher, with the E-Minis dancing near 1840 on this Expiry Friday as Sentiment improves over reports of a Ukraine deal – EU Markets are mixed in light trade, with the DAX adding small in volumes 35% below 20day averages.   EU Fins remain under pressure, as do Fins globally – they have been serial underperformers in February.   In Asia, the Yen’s drop brought another 3% Nikkei surge, Japan’s Topix posted the biggest weekly rally since November – Nikkei futures are holding those gains still.   Shanghai lost 1.2% on profittaking in some of the Oils that surged yesterday – while Miners jumped in Aussie, dragging the ASX to it’s highest close in 6 years.   Looking at EM, Ukraine’s FX is jumping higher, and CDS dropping – as reports of a deal outweigh the S&amp;P downgrade overnight.   Stay focused on Brazil, who’s equity market is one of the worst performers this week – as Brazil is the “last Line” in the sand between EM angst bleeding into Developed markets.    We are keeping an eye on the consumer names – and many are seeing a nice pre-opening pop:  WEN is up 5%, JCP 4%, and YELP, LULU and PCLN all adding 2%+.   The Loser of the overnight is GRPN, which is off 27% from last night’s earnings induced spike to $12. The 10YY is flat, after being rejected from 2.76% several times in the last 24 hours – but remains above the 100dma.   The DXY is stronger, making gains against both € and Yen – causing a headwind for commodities.   While Gasoline, Brent and WTI are all in the red – the Moonshot in Natty continues, with the commodity adding almost 3% overnight, bringing the week’s gains near 50%.    Coffee, however, continues to rally, adding 2% - and is now up almost 55% over the last 5 sessions as concerns mount on crops.   Gold is popping, and nearing week highs, after it neared a test of the 200dma after yesterday’s TIPs auction, which the sale of $9B in Inflation Protected securities drew the lowest demand in over 12 years.    We are getting G20 headlines ahead of the meet in Aussie this weekend – With heavy focus on EM repairing their balance sheets to weather the global tapering – and a large emphasis on encouraging global growth.    Scheduled Catalysts today include Existing Home Sales for January at 10, a Small POMO at 11 - Fed's Bullard Speaks on Economy in St. Louis at 1:10 – and we have Expiration on the opening and close.  At some point, we will get some EU ratings headlines - Fitch on Ireland, Moody’s on Spain.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerA priest stands next to anti-government protesters at a barricade in Kiev February 21, 2014. Violence flared again in Kiev on Friday as Ukraine's opposition politicians pondered a draft deal with Russian-backed President Viktor Yanukovich which EU foreign ministers brokered to resolve the country's political crisis. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — A deal may have been reached to allow elections in Ukraine, although some hardcore protesters still want President Viktor Yanukovych out now. "A senior EU diplomat said the president and opposition leaders were expected to sign the deal on Friday, even though the opposition still wanted some changes," Reuters reported. — But now Ukraine must deal with the fact that it is on the verge of defaulting, according to S&amp;P, which cut the country's credit rating to "CCC," noting the country lacks external funding to service its debt.  — Groupon shares fell as much as 11% in after-hours trading after the daily deals company forecast more losses for Q1. HP and Priceline shares climbed on solid earnings beats. — The Nikkei soared nearly 3% on thin volume. Australian stocks reached a 5.5-year high, led by miners and momentum from Wall Street, the FT notes. U.S. futures are higher. — RBS could cut up 30,000 jobs as the company dramatically scales down after absorbing heavy criticism in the wake of the financial crisis. The firm remains in state receivership. CEO Ross McEwan recently published an op-ed admitting the bank sold clients unwanted products in the run-up to the crisis. — Berkshire Hathaway announced it is ending direct access to Business Wire releases for high-frequency traders.   — It's a relatively quiet day in data, with existing housing sales out at 10 am ET. Fed presidents James Bullard and Richard Fisher speak today. There are no major earnings announcements today. — UK retail sales fell in January because of weather, of course. You may have seen the insane flooding photos we posted last week.  — Hot, dry weather in Brazil has caused coffee futures to surge 24% this week.  – Detroit is expected to file its plan for emerging from bankruptcy today. Freep's Matt Helms reports: "An earlier draft version of the plan of adjustment, obtained by the Free Press, showed the city proposing steeper cuts to banks and bondholders than it would seek from Detroit’s pensioners, in part because of a deal in the works in which charitable foundations, the state government and the Detroit Institute of Arts would cough up more than $800 million to make up for pension underfunding in exchange for spinning off the city-owned art museum as an independent charitable trust." FREE AppDownload
John Hempton of Bronte CapitalAt core I am an old-fashioned value investor. Maybe a growth-orientated one - but the valuation has to make sense on fairly modest assumptions before I get excited. I owned Facebook in the twenties. I could make the per-subscriber numbers work - and it was a mid-single digit times revenue and it seemed a fairly good bet that revenue would rise a lot and that margins on that revenue would be good. I am not averse to paying six times sales for businesses that are growing fast if the end-margins are likely to be good. At the time the (incorrect) consensus was that Facebook would not manage the transition to mobile. I sold my Facebook holding as it went up. Too early I regret - and at least in part unintentionally. I purchased the holding by writing put options perfectly happy to have the stock put to me. I sold by writing call options, modestly happy if it was called. I just had a buy-price and sell price in my head based on what I thought were sensible valuations and decided to pocket a little premium around them. [This is almost the only stock Bronte has ever acquired this way. We did it because the option premium was extraordinarily high and we figured the business was far less volatile than the stock.] These days I am no longer so in tune with valuation. Yesterday Facebook did an acquisition that makes no sense to me. I had previously - on Twitter - questioned the $900 million paid by Rakuten (in Japan) for Viber. But that price looks modest compared to the price paid for the (much better) WhatsApp.  Obviously this makes sense to somebody - and indeed to people who are far cleverer than me. I don't want to second-guess Mark Zuckerberg who has done things and built things and added more value in a week than I might in a lifetime.  But I would have laid a large bet that Facebook stock would finish down after that acquisition rather than up and I would have been wrong. I used to be an unremitting bull on the market (a position that is deeply uncomfortable for someone whose skills and inclination are on the short side). I am not bullish now - and have positioned far closer to neutral than any time in Bronte's history. But I am not comfortable with that position either. Clever people are doing things I don't understand and I am just feeling old and tired.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul Hackett People stand outside a Royal Bank of Scotland building in central London January 28, 2014. RBS is taking billions of pounds in extra charges to cover the cost of past misdeeds, sending it deep into the red and resulting in its top executives not receiving any bonuses for the past year. Shares in Royal Bank of Scotland gained on Friday as reports said the state-rescued bank will next week announce about 30,000 job cuts in a major cost-cutting exercise. RBS stock climbed 1.15 percent to 359.8 pence on London's benchmark FTSE 100 index, which was up 0.43 percent in early deals. Newspapers said the announcement of a jobs cull, which could total at least 30,000 according to the Financial Times following a shake-up of the lender's investment banking and international divisions, would be made alongside its annual earnings statement due on Thursday. Other reports said that tens of thousands of posts could go over the next five years. RBS, which employs about 137,000 staff, declined to comment on the reports. RBS was rescued with £45.5 billion (55 billion euros, $75 billion) of British taxpayer cash at the height of the 2008 global financial crisis under the then-Labour government, making it the world's biggest-ever banking bailout. Former chief executive Stephen Hester earned the respect of the business community by axing 41,000 jobs, selling non-core assets and transforming the balance sheet at RBS, during his time at the helm. However Hester left RBS last year, reportedly at the request of Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne who wanted a new face to help guide Royal Bank of Scotland's return to private ownership. New Zealander Ross McEwan has since become chief executive of RBS, which is 81-percent owned by the British taxpayer. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
This morning, Standard &amp; Poor's lowered Ukraine's long-term rating from 'CCC+' to 'CCC'. You need to register, but the full S&amp;P note can be found here.  Here are the four key bullets: In our view, the political situation in Ukraine has deteriorated substantially. We believe that this puts the government's capability to meet debt service at increasing risk, and raises uncertainty regarding the continued provision of Russian financial support over the course of 2014. We now believe it is likely that Ukraine will default in the absence of significantly favorable changes in circumstances, which we do not anticipate. We are therefore lowering our long-term foreign currency sovereign credit rating on Ukraine to 'CCC' from 'CCC+'. The negative outlook reflects our view that the Ukrainian government has yet to secure sufficient external funding to avoid a selective default or distressed exchange. And here's more from the announcement: In our view, the expected financial support from Russia is becoming increasingly uncertain and dependent on the outcome of the deteriorating political situation in Ukraine. The clashes between protesters and security forces that began on Feb. 18 lead us to conclude that a conciliatory end to the political stand-off is now out of reach. We consider that the future of the current Ukrainian leadership is now more uncertain than at any time since the protests began in November 2013. We believe that the Russian government's support for Ukraine is tied to the current leadership and its political orientation away from the EU and toward Russia. As a result of the intensifying political turmoil in Ukraine, we consider that continued Russian support up to the committed $15 billion is increasingly uncertain. Should Russian financial support fall short of Russia's commitments, we expect the government of Ukraine to default on its foreign-currency obligations. We estimate that the government, National Bank of Ukraine (NBU; the central bank), and state-owned gas company Naftogaz have about $13 billion in foreign currency debt service to make in 2014. Ukraine's international reserves fell to $17.8 billion in January 2014 from $20.4 billion in December 2013. At the same time, Ukraine's large current account deficit, at about 9% of GDP in 2013, and elevated household demand for foreign currency will also put pressure on Ukraine's foreign currency reserves. We had understood that the $15 billion of direct Russian financial support to Ukraine would be fully disbursed before the second half of 2014. This amount constitutes about 8% of Ukraine's 2014 GDP, and $3 billion has been disbursed to date. However, the deterioration in the political situation in Ukraine, resulting in the loss of at least 25 lives, suggests to us that opposition to the Ukrainian government's current financing arrangements--and to President Yanukovych remaining in power--could be sufficient to prevent Russia from providing the committed funding. In our view, this would result in the Ukrainian government being unable to meet its debt service in a timely manner. No alternative funding sources have yet been found.We note that Russia suspended the disbursement of $2 billion in January 2014, and has delayed disbursement of the same amount that was expected on Feb. 19, 2014, in light of political developments in Ukraine. Russia only announced the support package in December 2013.  We expect that alternative financial assistance from the U.S., EU, or IMF to be tied to likely conditions associated with a formal IMF lending program, including increased exchange rate flexibility, policies to strengthen the financial sector, fiscal consolidation, increases in domestic energy tariffs, and comprehensive structural reforms to improve the business climate and support growth. In our view, the incumbent Ukrainian government is disinclined to endorse this policy direction. Should the current leadership fall as a result of the political conflict engulfing the country, we have little visibility of what government might follow and what its policy priorities might be. The opposition and protestors appear to be less cohesive than the opposition movement during the Orange Revolution in 2004-2005, and so far no obvious leader with a similarly broad authority and credibility to the current leadership has emerged. FREE AppDownload
CELAYA, Mexico (AP) — Sayonara, Japan. Mexico is on track to replace the Asian automotive giant as the second-largest exporter of cars to the United States by the end of the year. An $800 million Honda plant opening Friday in the central state of Guanajuato will produce about 200,000 Fit hatchbacks a year, helping push total Mexican car exports to the U.S. to 1.7 million in 2014, roughly 200,000 more than Japan, consulting firm IHS Automotive says. And, with another big plant starting next week, Mexico is expected to surpass Canada for the top spot by the end of 2015. "It's a safe bet," said Eduardo Solis, president of the Mexican Automotive Industry Association. "Mexico is now one of the major global players in car manufacturing." Experts say Mexico's relatively low wages, closeness to the U.S. and free-trade deals with more than three dozen nations have made it one of the favorite locations for international automakers to invest since the 2008 global recession and rising energy and shipping prices forced companies to find ways to cut costs. Despite Mexico's surge, the vast majority of the cars and trucks made in North America, are still produced in the U.S. for domestic consumption and export to other countries. And many of the vehicles built in Mexico are assembled with parts that are produced in the United States and Canada and cross the border without tariffs under the North American Free Trade Agreement. "There was a realization that there were some structural issues that had to be resolved in the auto industry to make it more competitive again. Moving parts, not all of the production, to Mexico was a good way to deal with that," said Christopher Wilson, an expert in U.S.-Mexico economic relations for the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. When NAFTA was signed two decades ago, Mexico produced 6 percent of the cars built in North America. It now provides 19 percent. Total Mexican car production has risen 39 percent from 2007, to nearly 3 million cars a year. The total value of Mexico's car exports surged from $40 billion to $70.6 billion over that span. Mexico's government and the car industry say the automotive industry has become the primary source of foreign currency for Mexico, surpassing oil exports and remittances from immigrants in the United States. Each plant opening is lauded by businessmen and government officials eager to promote international investment in Mexico, which is struggling with stagnant economic growth and widespread, persistent poverty. President Enrique Pena Nieto plans to attend the opening of the plant in the town of Celaya along with the economy minister and top Honda executives. Some people in Mexico worry that the boost in car production is coming on the back of unfair conditions for the country's roughly 580,000 auto workers, whose numbers have risen by 100,000 since 2008. They are paid about $16 a day, which is about one-fifth of what U.S. autoworkers receive. More than half of all Mexican workers earn less than $15 a day, according to Mexico's census agency. Car factories in Mexico operate with pro-company captive unions and many workers have fought without success to form independent unions that could bargain for higher pay and better pensions, like the United Automobile Workers union that represents employees at U.S. factories owned by U.S. automakers. Foreign-owned car plants in the U.S. are largely non-union, including a Volkswagen factory in Tennessee where the workers last week narrowly voted against representation by the UAW. "It's one of the most modern industries that is generating the most money for the country," said Huberto Juarez, an auto industry expert at the Autonomous University of Puebla. "It's not right that these workers are making so little." Solis, the president of the auto industry association, says wages are low compared to the U.S. and Canada, but says the boom is creating a new generation of young engineers and funding automotive research in Mexico. "It's not only about lower salaries. That's short-sighted. It is a component of a larger equation that has to do with the expertise we are developing," Solis said. Much of the new production is by Japanese companies drawn by the ability to move parts into Mexico without tariffs. Local governments have been competing for new plants by offering tax exemptions, employee training and improved highways connecting the plants to the U.S. border and Mexican ports. Just 25 miles from the new Honda plant, Mazda is set to open a factory next week to produce 230,000 cars a year. Nissan is expected to turn out 175,000 cars annually at a $2 billion plant it opened late last year in the nearby state of Aguascalientes. And Audi will be producing luxury models at a plant in the state of Puebla that is slated to open in 2016. "We have gained momentum throughout the years," Economy Secretary Ildefonso Guajuardo said. "Now Mexico is attracting international attention because it has proven to have quality of production and a friendly investment climate." ___ Adriana Gomez Licon on Twitter: http://twitter.com/agomezlicon Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Three European foreign ministers appear to have hammered out a peace deal to end the bloody struggle between government and opposition forces that has claimed at least 75 lives since Tuesday. All night talks in which the foreign ministers of Poland, France and Germany shuttled between the presidential administration and Ukraine's main opposition leaders has resulted in "an agreement on settlement of the crisis", the presidency said in a statement on Friday morning. But neither the opposition nor the EU trio immediately confirmed the agreement, of which no detail was given. A tweet from Radoslaw Sikorski, the Polish foreign minister, on Friday morning made no mention of the reported deal, saying only: "After negotiations through the night, talks ended at 7.20". The German Foreign Office tweeted that after "very difficult negotiations throughout the night", the parties were taking a break "to continue talks later on". "Negotiations on the settlement of the political crisis in Ukraine between President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych, leaders of the opposition, EU and Russian representatives have finished," a statement posted on the presidential website announced. "The parties have agreed to initial the Agreement on the Settlement of Crisis. The signing of the document is expected at 12:00 in the Presidential Administration". Polish President Donald Tusk said on Thursday night that Mr Yanukovych had agreed to early presidential elections this year - a key demand of the protesters that he has previously resisted. But it is also unclear whether mainstream opposition leaders will be able to sell a deal to protesters on the street, many of whom say they will only be satisfied by Mr Yanukovych's immediate departure. The opposition camp in Kiev's independence square was largely peaceful on Friday morning, the quiet broken only by the intermittent bang of fireworks, a day after a gun battle in which dozens of people were killed by police snipers. On Thursday, riot police were captured on video shooting from a rooftop at demonstrators in the central plaza, also known as the Maidan. Protesters hurled petrol bombs and paving stones to drive the security forces off a corner of the square the police had captured in battles that began two days earlier. The health ministry said 75 people had been killed since Tuesday afternoon, which meant at least 47 died in Thursday's clashes. That was by far the worst violence since Ukraine emerged from the crumbling Soviet Union 22 years ago. Mr Yanukovych's position was looking increasingly difficult, especially after the resignation of Lieutenant-General Yuri Dumansky, deputy head of the armed forces general staff. "The armed forces of Ukraine are being drawn into a civil conflict. This could be the cause of a large number of deaths of civilians and servicemen," Lt-Gen Dumansky told Channel 5 television. "I have decided to tender my resignation to avoid an escalation and bloodshed."  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / zilverbat.Good morning! It was another huge day in Japan, where the Nikkei gained 2.88%. The index has had a few big days recently, as it goes from being one of the ugliest markets of the year to being a bit less so. Meanwhile, everything else is quiet. European stocks are a shade in the red while the US is a little bit in the green. After a fairly busy day for economic data, today will be quiet, with just existing home sales coming up on the docket for the US. Even then, all economic data right now seems to have an asterisk next to it, as everyone wonders whether it is weather related. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayThe National People's Congress (NPC), a meeting of China's top legislature, kicks off on March 5. This is the first NPC meeting to follow on the crucial third plenum back in November and will garner a lot of attention.  One of the key things markets will watch for in this meeting are macro targets. Bank of America's Ting Lu expects that Beijing will set a GDP target of 7.5% for the year, the same as 2013.  "The government might emphasize the role of “projection” of growth targeting and Premier Li’s growth floor could be different from the growth target in 2014," Ting writes. He anticipates a consumer price inflation target of 3.5% and M2 (a broad measure of money supply growth) at 13%. Remember, China is trying to curb credit growth, and for now there is some concern that the deleveraging that is under way could trigger a financial crisis.  In terms of reforms and initiatives put in place to bring about those reforms, much of the work was likely done during the closed-door economic work conference back in December.  That being said we can expect to hear more on two key things. 1. Beijing's efforts to rein in local government debt and 2. reforms of the powerful state owned enterprises (SOEs). Local government debt totaled 17.9 trillion renminbi (about $2.8 trillion), as of mid-2013, according to the latest audit by the National Audit Office. This is up from 10.7 trillion renminbi at the end of 2010. Unsurprisingly, dealing with local government debt is expected to be on top of the agenda. From Ting: "These reform measures include: (i) opening up of the municipal bond market to local governments; (ii) including local government debt in the budget-making process and tightening up local government bond issuance procedures; and (iii) making provincial governments responsible for the debts of lower-level local governments. At the provincial NPC meetings this year, normally seen as setting the tone of the national NPC, controlling local government debt risks was also mentioned by many delegates.   "We expect local governments will be legally allowed to run fiscal deficits to finance public projects and will be officially given the access to banks and capital markets during the NPC meeting. These measures will provide China’s local governments a new source of long-term financing which could help local governments to replace short-term bank and trust loans with longer-duration bonds. This should be one of the key ultimate solutions to China’s local government debt issues, in our view."  Environmental protection, with a special focus on smog, water and soil pollution is supposed to be another key priority for the government. "Less emphasis is put on GDP targets as an assessment for local government officials, while officials and local authorities will be held responsible directly for the pollution caused," writes Ting. Plans about SOE reform is another thing to watch for. Despite all the hooplah surrounding the announcement  that markets would now be allowed to play a more decisive role in the Chinese economy, following the third plenum, SOE reform was largely disappointing. More recently, some perceived Sinopec's move to sell a 30% stake in oil-retail unit as the beginning of SOE reform. But Laban Yu, a Jefferies analyst, said this seemed more "like stealth capital raising," reports Weiyi Lim at Bloomberg. Minxin Pei, professor of government at Claremont McKenna College, explained why such reform is harder now that it was 35 years ago, in a Project Syndicate column. "...Members of the ruling elite benefit directly and immensely from the state-dominated economy. Market-oriented reform, by leveling the competitive playing field, would hurt their interests and reduce their privileges, making fierce opposition likely. Only by mobilizing pressure outside the party-state can these insiders be forced to accept some of the decentralizing and liberalizing reforms that China’s economy needs. " So, what can we expect with regard to SOEs? Huang Shuhe, the Vice Chairman of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) has pointed out four types of SOEs "whose shareholding structure will be further optimized," writes Ting: The SASAC is also working on a plan to increase the SOE dividend payout ratio in 2014 which is currently in the 5-15% range. The 3rd Plenum Decision said it will require SOEs (centrally-administrated) to pay 30% dividend to government by 2020 to replenish public funding for social security. The NPC is expected to speed up tax reform, replacing business tax with value added tax (VAT). It is expected to carry on with government restructuring, specifically those that have to do with administrative approvals. We might hear details on rural land reforms. All that being said, Ting writes that this is not expected to have a huge impact on the market. But, "the NPC is still a unique event for markets to observe the macro targets, work focus and a bit more detailed reform agendas of the government." FREE AppDownload
