Thomson ReutersWilliams, president and chief executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, takes part in a panel discussion in Beverly HillsSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is finally moving back to "normal" monetary policy, a top Fed official said on Thursday, even as he warned of possible lurches along the way. Painting a largely upbeat picture of the economic outlook, San Francisco Fed President John Williams forecast 3 percent growth this year and next, a return to a normal U.S. job market by 2016, and a rise in inflation toward the Fed's 2 percent target over roughly the same period. Improvement in the economy over the last year or so has allowed the Fed to begin to cut back on its massive bond-buying program, with a view to ending it in October or December, he told reporters, saying he had no personal preference on the exact timing. Still, "A real tightening of policy, which would mean raising the fed funds rate, is still a good way off," Williams said. The fed funds rate, at which banks lend to each other overnight, has been held near zero since December 2008, and the Fed has said it will stay that way for a "considerable time" after bond-buying ends. "As we get closer to be in a position where we think it's time to raise interest rates, there will be hints of that and discussion of that in people's speeches, and you will definitely see that, I think, presumably, in the economic projections of (Fed policy-setting committee) participants," Williams told reporters. "As you get closer, hopefully we'll be better able to communicate what our thinking is about the appropriate time and pace of liftoff." But Williams warned that the Fed's super-easy monetary policy over the past five years has left financial markets vulnerable, making the road to normalcy a tricky one to navigate. "We have to be kind of careful and gradual about how we communicate and how we move our policies, recognizing that even though it seems like this should go smoothly, it may not," he said. "There's stuff going on that could lurch when we do our normalization of policy. Williams noted that the Fed has in the past overestimated its grasp of market psychology, most notably when the Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke last year hinted that the Fed could soon trim its bond-buying program. Shorthanding his own interpretation of the unexpected market swoon that ensued, Williams on Thursday said it seemed to him that "Ben Bernanke went out there and said something that (markets) already knew, and they freaked out." As for the running debate over whether short-term unemployment, which is near historical norms, better signals the health of the labor market than long-term unemployment, which is high, Williams said it is "an intellectually fascinating" issue. But no matter which side is right, wages, which have been flat, should begin to rise as the labor market tightens, he said. "The policy implications (of the debate) don't seem to be that big to me," he said. (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
HP CEO Meg Whitman didn't exactly explain what caused the company to release its quarterly earnings report early, while the stock market was still open. But she did clarify that it was a mistake. She told analysts on the company conference call: Before we go to questions, I'm sure you all noticed that earlier today, the HP press release with earnings went live before the appropriate time and we are sorry about that, and we'll make sure that that doesn't happen again. The earnings press release wasn't entirely good news. While HP met its expected earnings per share target, of 88 cents, it missed on revenues. The $27.3 billion it reported was a -1% year-over-year decline, and $110 million below what analysts were looking for, $27.41 billion. Investors saw the news and the stock price dropped about 2% during trading hours, to under $32. It had been trading as high as $33.36 today. That early press release wasn't complete. It didn't contain the full results for all the business units or the biggest news of the day: that HP was once again increasing its layoffs by another 11,000 to 16,000 jobs, bringing the potential total number of jobs cut to 50,000 during a two-year period. FREE AppDownload
We were asked how much time a value investor should spend on macro forecasting. Usually macro forecasting is frowned upon in the value investing community, and Berkshire CEO Warren Buffett has everything to do with that. He is famous for saying (and I am paraphrasing), “My decision making would not change even if I knew what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates next month.” There is sound logic behind this: Forecasting the economy is incredibly difficult in the short run. The economy is not unlike a black box with hundreds of gauges on it that in the near term give you conflicting readings about what’s inside it. For this reason macro forecasting was disapproved of by value investors, and for 20 years this attitude paid off. The economic climate was favorable, the stock market was in overdrive, price-earnings ratios were expanding. Macro did not matter — until the housing bubble and financial crisis. Value investors who had had their heads in the sand got annihilated. Things in life often swing pendulumlike, from one extreme to another. Right after a crisis every investor is a macro expert. It’s kind of hilarious: Investors who just a few years earlier didn’t even know the names of most economic indicators are now spitting them out in conversations as though they had absorbed them with their mother’s milk. So what should investors do — become macro experts or economic ignoramuses? Believe it or not, there is a logical and, more important, a practical answer to this question. As an investor you want to spend very little time on forecasting the weather... This article originally appeared at Institutional Investor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stoyan NenovFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Retirement Rules Of Thumb That Investors Should Banish (BlackRock Blog) Some retirement rules of thumb should just be benched for good, according to Chip Castille at BlackRock Blog. 1. Save 3% of your salary for retirement: Castille writes that the most frequent auto-deferral rate is 3% of pay because it maxes out how much the company will match, but this isn't adequate. "Our recent research suggests that 10 to 13% is more reasonable. If that sounds like a lot, think of it this way: paying your future self 13% of your current pay can buy you 30 years of retirement spending. It may actually be a bargain."2. Withdraw 4% in your first retirement and then increase it in keeping with inflation: Instead, Castille recommends "a dynamic amount, a percentage of your portfolio."3. The equity percentage in your portfolio should be 120% minus your current age: This doesn't work because if a healthy 70-year-old decided to retire at 75, they still have more years of wages than someone retiring earlier. "This idea of factoring future wage potential into the allocation is actually what some investment strategies do, and why a 30-year-old (with 35 years of wages ahead of him) has more equity exposure than a 60-year-old with only five years of human capital left." Some People Aren't Too Worried By Robo-Advisors (WealthManagement.com)  Robo-advisors, online firms that use algorithms to help investors create and manage their portfolios, have been creating a lot of buzz. But Raymond James’ Scott Curtis doesn't see them as a threat. "As fragmented as it is, it’s hard to believe that online providers are suddenly going to become the dominant players in our industry, I just don’t buy it," he told Megan Leonhardt at WealthManagement.com. He compared the current boom to that of discount brokerages in the early 1990s, and pointed out that the latter still account for a small share of the market.  "Until the online providers can replicate all of the advice that is provided by a competent advisor, they will grab only a portion of the market, and it’s [the portion] for people who are focused on and interested in an investment, sensitive to cost and don’t care if they interact with a person face to face, he says." The Current Stock Market Correction Is Unique From The Last Five Hair-Raisers (Dr. Ed's Blog) From 2010 to 2012 the stock market has seen five significant, 'hair-raising' corrections — the worst seen during the summer of 2012 when the S&amp;P 500 fell 19.4%. "All of these five corrections were triggered by macroeconomic events that threatened to precipitate a recession," writes Ed Yardeni in Dr. Ed's Blog. "When those threats dissipated, the bull market resumed. The anxiety attacks that caused the corrections were followed by relief rallies." The current stock market correction, however, is unique, he writes, with the S&amp;P 500 down 0.5% from its record high, while the Nasdaq is down 5.2% from its recent high. However, lots of stocks are down 10-20% since March. "I have characterized the recent selloff as an 'internal correction.' Scrambling to avoid giving back the fabulous gains from last year’s melt-up rally, institutional investors have been rebalancing their portfolios away from high-P/E to low-P/E stocks. They’ve moved some of their portfolios out of Growth into Value stocks. Stocks with predictable earnings are outperforming the more cyclical ones. Among the losers have been lots of 'innocent bystanders' that have been pummeled mostly because they are included in out-of-favor ETFs." SEC Chair Says Third-Party Examinations Of Advisors Is Creative (Investment News)  The chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mary Jo White, thinks hiring third-party contractors to review advisors' operations is "creative," reports Mark Schoeff Jr. at Investment News. SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher first made the suggestion to help beef-up advisor regulation. The SEC's resources mean it examines only about 9% of the 11,000 registered investment advisors. The SEC requested $1.7 billion from Congress for fiscal 2014; that's up $400 million from its current budget. Estimating Long-Term Market Returns Is Important (Charles Schwab) It's tempting to try and time the market, and it's also incredibly hard to do. Instead, advisors tell clients to focus on their financial goals and their long-term return estimates. "If your return estimates are too optimistic, you run the risk of not being able to retire on time or pay for a child's education," according to Michael E. Lind at Charles Schwab. "If they're too pessimistic, you may needlessly sacrifice some of your current lifestyle by over-saving for retirement." Lind explains the twofold method that investors can use to calculate long-term estimate. 1. Estimating current risk-free rates, "by directly observing Treasury yields in the marketplace. Because we're estimating returns for a 20-year time horizon, the risk-free rate is measured as the yield of a 20-year U.S. Treasury bond." Of course, no investment is ever risk free.  2.Estimating asset-class premiums which in the case of large-cap stocks is the equity risk premium (ERP) — "which measures the relative attractiveness of large-capitalization stocks versus a risk-free bond." The ERP can be measured through "the historical long-term approach or the valuation approach." The former "takes the historical difference in returns between stocks and risk-free bonds and assumes that the future will look like the past," while the latter "relies on fundamental data, such as dividends, earnings, gross domestic product (GDP) growth and valuation levels and then uses well-established financial theory to estimate an ERP." FREE AppDownload
“When I hear smart beta, it makes me sick,” he said. Sharpe spoke at the CFA Institute Annual Conference in Seattle on May 5. He also explained why a static 60/40 asset allocation has important limits. But let’s look at his criticisms of smart beta first. Sharpe did not offer a precise definition of which strategies he would include in the definition of smart beta. But in an email exchange, he wrote that it would at least include portfolios that overweight small-capitalization or value stocks, as well as alternative weightings, including fundamental indexing. The question Sharpe posed for a smart beta portfolio is whether it can be good for everyone. If so, then that would imply that he and his friends are dumb, because they hold the market portfolio. Other investors who underweight those stocks that are overweighted by the smart-beta strategies must be “really dumb,” he said. The market must therefore be divided between smart, dumb and really dumb investors. “If that’s your story,” Sharpe said, “then smart beta is a way to exploit stupidity.” “If so, then I would suggest that before too long, the really dumb ones will at least begin to choose index funds,” he said. “Maybe some of the Index-fund people will try to move in your direction,” at which point the advantage of smart-beta funds would be eliminated. “I think there are all kinds of confusion out there,” Sharpe said in regard to smart beta. “I don’t think it will work in the future.” He said he has seen what appeared to be empirical evidence of alpha, only to see that alpha fail to show up in other countries or disappear after a few years. He acknowledged that some strategies, like fundamental indexing, rely on proprietary methods and cannot be replicated mechanically, and therefore he cannot say for sure whether they would fail such a test. FREE AppDownload
New-car sales in the United States are expected to rise more than 7% in May, continuing 2014's winning streak, two industry research firms said on Thursday per Reuters. Sales climbed 8% last month, and are expected to be up more than 3% overall in 2014. The surge was predicted late last year by Edmunds, which said an increasingly aged fleet would help drive more consumers back to the new car market.    According to RBC Capital Market's latest survey, there appears to be no sign that trend will slow down. The firm found that a vehicle's old age was the No. 1 reason for purchasing a new one in May 2014, "consistent with prior surveys," they said.  Here are the full results, with the different columns showing results in recent months and from a year ago. May 2014 is in slate-gray.  Perhaps more frustratingly for analysts, "other” — which RBC does not define — came in second. Fuel economy was third. RBC   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorHenri Matisse's artworks at the Tate Modern gallery in London April 14, 2014.FactSet is out with its quarterly report on what stocks the 50 largest hedge funds are holding. FactSet notes that these hedge funds increased their equity exposure by 1.9% in the first quarter, and increased their exposure to the most widely held names by 7.5%.  Apple, while still being the second-most widely held stock among large hedge funds, was the largest sale for four of the fifty funds, and is the biggest equity position for three funds at the end of the first quarter, down from six in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Exposure to Verizon was increased 328%, or $2.9 billion, in the first quarter, and eBay also saw a huge increase in ownership, growing 109%, or $2.1 billion. FactSet ranks the holdings by the aggregate amount of stock held, in millions of dollars, by the 50 largest hedge funds. Here we present the 49 most widely held stocks from the 50 largest hedge funds. FREE AppDownload
That's in addition to the 34,000 jobs it officially confirmed in December.  So we're now talking 45,000 to 50,000 jobs cut. HP CEO Meg Whitman told analysts on the quarterly conference call that these cuts will come from all business units, and in all geogrpaphies. Analysts asked a lot of questions about this revised layoff plan, noting how HP keeps increasing the layoff targets. One even pressed Whitman to promise that this was the final number.  She replied, "I don't anticipate an additional program after this." Whitman insisted that it wasn't a lack of confidence in HP's ability to grow revenue that is causing the bigger layoff. She just keeps seeing more areas where HP needs to trim. "The longer I’m here, the more opportunties we see. We think that’s a goodness," she said. By trimming the workforce, she feels HP becomes "easier" to work with, while reducing its costs. CFO Cathie Lesjak told analysts that these cuts will save HP about another $1 billion, in addition to the $3 - $4 billion HP expected to save by cutting 34,000 jobs. Here's what HP said in its press release: In May 2012, HP adopted a multi-year restructuring plan designed to simplify business processes, accelerate innovation, lower costs and deliver better results. HP previously estimated that 34,000 positions would be eliminated in connection with the plan. As HP continues to reengineer the workforce to be more competitive and meet its objectives, the previously estimated number of eliminated positions will increase by between 11,000 to 16,000. To recap: in December, it officially increased the layoff by 5,000 jobs above the 29,000 jobs it had previously announced. (It had already warned it might shed more than 29,000 jobs. But in December, it made that number official).  And that was an increase from the 27,000 jobs it announced in May 2012, as first reported by Business Insider. In October, 2013, HP CEO Meg Whitman also said that the company would not do another big layoff once this round was over. She promised, "After 2014, we are not going to do another big restructuring." This layoff, whatever its final number, is supposed to be completed by October 2014, the end of HP's fiscal 2014 year, HP said when it first announced the job cuts in 2012. HP says it currently has 331,000 employees. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Steve Wright Jr. Darth Vader stands outside a GameStop locationGameStop (GME) is surging after hours after reporting first quarter profit of $0.59 per share, topping expectations for $0.57.  GameStop reported first quarter sales grew 7% to $2 billion, just shy of the $2.03 billion analysts had been expecting. On a comparable store basis, sales grew 5.8% during the quarter. GameStop's second quarter and full year profit outlooks were also in-line with estimates, and the company said it expects full year sales, on a comparable store basis, to grow 6% to 12%.  GameStop said new software sales fell 20% during the quarter, owing to fewer 'AAA' titles being released than during the prior year period.  Shares of GameStop, which gained 100% during 2013, are down 25% year-to-date. The stock is one of the most heavily shorted among companies with a market cap larger than $2 billion, according to data from Finviz.  Shares of GameStop, which were up as much as 7% following the report, are currently up 2.5%. FREE AppDownload
On Wednesday Tim Geithner sat down with a bunch of journalists to talk about his new book, "Stress Test: Reflections On Financial Crisis." It gave him a chance to clarify things, elaborate on pieces of the book, and explain his thought process. It gave the journalists a chance to size him up. Being Business Insider, and being completely obsessed with watches, we had to check out Geithner's wrist game. Despite being a former Treasury Secretary of the United States of America and a current employee at private equity firm Warburg Pincus, Geithner rocks a sports watch. He said it was a Men's Timex Triathlon, about $49. I guess it's not that surprising since he's a runner — but still... Here's a shot of the model we think he has. Target, screenshot FREE AppDownload
REUTERSStocks had a nice up-day today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
It reported revenue of $27.3 billion. That's a miss and a 1% decline from the year-ago quarter. It reported EPS of $0.88. That's right on target. For some reason, HP released them early, before market close. Analysts were expecting EPS of $0.88 cents and basically flat revenue of $27.41 billion, shrinking 0.6% over the year ago quarter. HP had offered guidance for this quarter that non-GAAP EPS would come in at $0.85 to $0.89 and GAAP would land in the range of $0.62 to $0.66. It reported GAAP earnings per share of $0.66, hitting the high mark. That's up 20% from the prior-year period. Stock is trading slightly down, not quite 2%, at around $32. Here's the details from the press release. Fiscal 2014 second quarter segment results FREE AppDownload
YouTube/ScreenshotBloomberg is reporting Hewlett-Packard's Q2 financial results. Quarterly results appear to be out early, and the numbers are in-line with expectations.  Hewlett-Packard reported earnings per share of $0.88 vs expectations for $0.88, on revenue $27.3 billion vs expectations for $27.4 billion.  StreetInsider has some more info from HP's release, noting that second quarter cash flow from operations totaled $3 billion, with the company returning $1.1 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases during the quarter.  HP shares are down about 2% following the announcement. More to come... FREE AppDownload
Jeffrey ColléIf you're going to buy in the Hamptons, you might as well go big. The Pond House by Georgica Pond in East Hampton was recently listed for more than $30 million. Everything from its high ceilings to the front portico gives the home an "old world meets new world" feel. And for good reason. The house was originally built by famous "American Renaissance" architect Stanford White over 100 years ago. But over the past few years, builder Jeffrey Colle renovated, enlarged, and even rotated the home to give it a 21st century update. Now it's a custom-designed, 12,000-square-foot mansion that includes six bedrooms, a guest cottage, a pool, and media room for a very new-world price tag of $32,950,000.
AP CNBC scored an exclusive interview with Russian President Vladimir Putin that will air on the network Friday morning. According to CNBC, Putin will talk with "Squawk Box" anchor Geoff Cutmore from the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. The interview is scheduled to air at 6:30 am Eastern Standard Time.  FREE AppDownload
Dollar Tree (DLTR) this morning reported first quarter earnings, and shares of the company are up about 7%. The company said that same-store sales grew by 2%, or 1.9% when excluding the impact of the Canadian dollar. Management said it expects its same store sales for 2014 to grow by low-single digits.  Following Dollar Tree's report, dollar store peers Dollar General (DG) is rallying and Family Dollar (FDO) is barely in the green.  It might be tempting to conclude that strength in the dollar stores is a bad sign for the economy. This chart from Family Dollar's January investor conference, paints an interesting picture of what makes these discount retailers go. Family Dollar has seen an uptick in its earnings before income tax, or EBIT, following economic downturns.  Family Dollar But recent U.S. economic data has painted the picture of an economy that is growing, even if that growth hasn't been as robust as many would expect.  The move higher in dollar store stocks comes during what has been a busy week for retail stocks. The XRT ETF that tracks the S&amp;P Retail index losing about 1% this week, underperforming the S&amp;P 500's 0.8% gain.   In more specific instances, companies in the retail sector have sent investors mixed messages. Luxury retailers Coach (COH) and Tiffany (TIF) saw their shares go in different directions after their most recent reports: Coach sank, Tiffany soared. High-end organic grocer Whole Foods (WFM) got smoked after its earnings report. But retail giant Wal-Mart (WMT), which has announced clear intentions to drive down the price of organic food,  also fell after its results, which disappointed.  So the question for investors is if the economy continues to make incremental improvements, what story is retail really telling, and might discount retailers go from here? Dollar General is set to report first quarter results on June 3.  FREE AppDownload
Navy BeachThe weekend we've all been waiting for is finally upon us. Memorial Day Weekend marks the start of summer, and for New Yorkers that means Hamptons season has officially begun.  From Southampton Social Club to Finale East, these summer kickoff parties are a good sign of what the rest of the season has in store for us.  Click through for our official Memorial Day Weekend Hamptons Party Guide, and make sure to look out for us while you're out east this summer! Click here to see this weekend's hottest parties &gt; FREE AppDownload
There's been a military coup in Thailand, at least the country's 12th since 1932 and the second in the past decade. It's the culmination of a push to end what had become a de facto one-party rule.  While the movement that led to the coup was not in itself bloodless, there were few reports of violence in the nation Thursday.   That, and the sheer volume of past coup attempts the country has lived through, may be why the instructions given to guests of the Le Meridien hotel in Chiang Mai, in the country's north, were downright dainty. To combat the effects of the nationwide curfew the military has imposed, happy hour has been extended through midnight, and free Wifi will now be available until further notice, according to a flyer posted on Facebook. Facebook FREE AppDownload
Policy Horizons Canada worked with futurist and data visualizer Michell Zappa of Envisioning to produce a report called MetaScan 3: Emerging Technologies and accompanying infographics. We are reproducing the summary for emerging health technologies. Joshua Roberts/ReutersBionic implants will be here soon.Below are technologies related to health under three key areas of accelerating change: Augmentation, Treatments and Diagnostics. The first area assists both less abled and fully able people to improve their senses, thought and biological functions. Treatments improve different kinds of illness, from genetic diseases, to organ replacements and anti-aging. Diagnostics will improve greatly over these next 15 years, enabling doctors and citizens to learn about their medical state in real-time. We have included predictions based on consultation with experts of when each technology will be scientifically viable (the kind of stuff that Google, governments, and universities develop), mainstream (when VCs and startups widely invest in it), and financially viable (when the technology is generally available on Kickstarter). Medical tricorder: A hypothetical handheld portable scanning device to be used by consumers to self-diagnose medical conditions within seconds and take basic vital measurements. A common view is that it will be a general-purpose tool similar in functionality to a Swiss Army Knife to take health measurements such as blood pressure and temperature and blood flow in a noninvasive way. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream in 2022; financially viable in 2025. Biohacking: A techno-progressive cultural and intellectual movement which advocates for open access to genetic information and defends the potential of truly democratic technological development. Biohacking can also refer to managing one's own biology using a combination of medical, nutritional and electronic techniques. This may include the use of nootropics and/or cybernetic devices for recording biometric data. Scientifically viable today; mainstream and financially viable in 2022. Labs on chips: Devices that integrates one or several laboratory functions on a single chip of only millimeters to a few square centimeters in size. LOCs deal with the handling of extremely small fluid volumes down to less than picoliters. They represent safer platforms for chemical, radioactive or biological studies. Scientifically viable today; mainstream and financially viable in 2018. Biometric sensors: The use of biometrics to telecommunications and telecommunications for remote biometric sensing. Potential applications include monitoring blood levels, infections and efficacy of vaccine. Scientifically viable today; mainstream and financially viable in 2015. Wake Forest UniversityA lab-grown bladder. Organ printing: The use of a combination of cells, engineering, material methods, suitable biochemical and physio-chemical factors to improve or replace biological functions. The term is closely associated with applications that repair or replace portions of or whole tissues. Scientifically viable today; mainstream in 2018; financially viable in 2019. Personalized medicine: A branch of genomics where individual genomes are genotyped and analyzed using bioinformatics tools. These may eventually lead to personalized medicine, where patients can take genotype specific drugs for medical treatments. Scientifically viable today; mainstream in 2017; financially viable in 2027. Prenatal gene manipulation: The direct manipulation of an embryo/fetus genome using biotechnology. Scientifically viable in 2020; mainstream in 2022; financially viable in 2024. Epigenetic therapy: The phenomena whereby genetically identical cells express their genes differently resulting in different phenotypes in, for example, the formation of cancer originating from cancer stem cells. Scientifically viable in 2018; mainstream and financially viable in 2022. Anti-aging drugs: Breakthroughs in tissue rejuvenation with stem cells, molecular repair, and organ replacement (such as artificial organs) might eventually enable humans to have indefinite lifespans through complete rejuvenation to a youthful condition. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2024; financially viable in 2027. Medical nanobots: A subfield of robotics that studies how to make robots that emulate living biological organisms/functions mechanically or chemically. The main objective of this technology applied to medicine is to enhance the human body's capabilities or treat malfunctions with robots capable of re-programming and adapt to different conditions, always mimicking organic functions. Scientifically viable in 2024; mainstream in 2026; financially viable in 2027. Enhanced organs: Engineered replacement organs for humans that perform better than their natural counterparts. Examples include artificial red blood cells and super-livers (via genetically engineered organs that overexpress key proteins). Respirocytes, for example, are theoretical artificial red blood cells that carry oxygen 200x more efficiently than red blood cells. Scientifically viable in 2024; mainstream in 2026; financially viable in 2027. Machine-augmented cognition: Refers to the effective use of information technology to augment human cognition using intelligence amplifying system of tools. Information retrieved from the brain would then be used to feedback necessary stimulus to accomplish determined brain functions. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream in 2020; financially viable in 2022. Robertba/flickrA retinal implant currently under development, similar to the recently approved Second Sight oneBiologically extended senses: The idea is based on the principle that the brain evolved to handle one construction of reality, yet now can overlay multiple local and remote experiences simultaneously, creating new cognitive perceptions. Biological senses can be enhanced and produced artificially, which adapt and transform to address different kinds of stimuli for specific purposes. Scientifically viable in 2021; mainstream in 2022; financially viable in 2028. Bionic implants: Microscopic technological structures that extract biometric information from an organism to analyze its performance and improve specific biological functions with assisted feedback. In terms of personal biometry, bionic implants represent great tools to empower preventive medicine and develop customized solutions for specific organisms and diseases. Scientifically viable in 2015; mainstream in 2017; financially viable in 2019. FREE AppDownload
Start thinking now. SumZero, an online community for investment professional to exchange ideas, is partnering with FactSet for an investment idea tournament with $160,000 up for grabs. It all starts on June 9th. Every three months there will be a new theme Best Short idea, Best Credit/Fixed Income idea, and Best Mid-Cap/Large-Cap idea. "Fund professionals are inherently competitive. It makes perfect sense to harness that energy by constructing a competition full of the types of rewards that people in the industry truly value," said SumZero CEO Divya Narendra. "Our mission is to create the most powerful ecosystem in the world for actionable investment ideas, and to do that it's important to make sure that the necessary incentives exist to reward outstanding efforts that go above and beyond the typical pitch you might find on Wall Street. That's what this Tournament is designed to do." 1st, 2nd and 3rd place finishers of the four, themed contests will be awarded first- round cash prizes worth $15,000, $6,000, and $2,500, respectively. At the end of the year, an additional round of $5,000 cash prizes will be awarded to participants based completely on their performance. The two, best all-around ideas, across all contests, as determined by an additional level of judge assessment, performance, liquidity, and peer-review, will receive the Grand Prizes, worth an additional $36,000 and $10,000, respectively. That means a single idea can be awarded as much as $56,000. Plus you can enter as many ideas as you want and win as many as you can. The judges are all investment pros — Mohnish Pabrai (Pabrai Investment Funds), James Montier (GMO), Glenn Tongue (Deerhaven Capital Management), Guy Spier(Aquamarine Fund), Zeke Ashton (Centaur Capital Partners), as well as senior professionals from asset allocation firms like the Virginia Tech Foundation, the MITInvestment Company, the Cook Children's Health Care System, and the UCLA Investment Company. To submit, you have to work at a private equity firm, hedge fund or mutual fund and be a member of the SumZero website. Oh, and your idea has to have at least a $500 million market cap. In addition to the cash prizes, winners will get to pitch their ideas on CNBC's Fast Money Halftime Report and at the 10th Annual New York Value Investing Congress. "There are many guys and girls in the fund community that are phenomenal investors, but don't have everyday access to broad distribution platforms more commonly available to the Bill Ackmans, the Warren Buffetts, and the John Paulsons of the world," said Narendra. "We love identifying under-the-radar talent and elevating it. Hopefully, performing well in this contest opens the runway just enough for talented up-and-comers to take off and become the investing greats of tomorrow." Like we said, start thinking. sumzero   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/samcamilliphotographyShares of for-profit education companies are getting killed after ITT Educational (ESI) withdrew its full-year outlook. ITT shares are down 25% in afternoon trade. ITT cited uncertainty related to inquiries from the SEC regarding its accounting treatment of an entity involved in its PEAKS Private Student Loan Program. In addition to pulling its outlook, ITT said was not able to file a timely reports with the SEC for its fiscal-year 2013 or the first quarter of 2014.  ITT's preliminary first quarter results also showed that total student enrollment had fallen 6.4% as of March 31. Apollo Education, which owns The University of Phoenix, (APOL) is down 10% following the news. Other for-profit education companies that are also lower include Career Education (CECO), Strayer Education (STRA), DeVry Education (DV), and Grand Canyon Education (LOPE).  FREE AppDownload
American cities are always changing, with some regions booming and others declining. The U.S. Census just released estimates of the 2013 population and recent population change for every city in the country with at least 50,000 residents. We used this to make maps of the fastest-growing and fastest-shrinking cities. Here are the 12 cities that grew at least 4.0% between 2012 and 2013: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census The fastest-growing cities are predominantly in the South and the West, with five of the 12 cities that grew by at least 4% in Texas alone. And here are the 10 cities that shrank by at least 1.0%:  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census The cities that shrank are a bit more spread out. The Rust Belt cities of Detroit and Youngstown continued their steady declines, while a number of cities in the Deep South lost people. FREE AppDownload
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has a comprehensive new ranking of 30 cities in the world that offer the widest opportunities for businesses and the people who live there. PwC's sixth edition of its "Cities of Opportunity" report examined intellectual capital and innovation; technology readiness; how accessible a city is to the rest of the world; transportation and infrastructure; health, safety, and security; sustainability and the natural environment; demographics and livability; economic clout; ease of doing business; and cost. We took a closer look at the top 11 cities on the list, what got them there, and where they have room to improve. Sean Pavone / ShutterstockThis artistic hub in Germany scored particularly high for public transport and health, safety, and security. Berlin — Germany's largest city — tied for No. 3 for sustainability and the natural environment. It ranks No. 4 for demographics and livability. Anybody who's ever visited Berlin knows that the massive underground transit, known as the U-Bahn, is unbelievably clean and efficient. Berlin is a safe place for tourists, who can take in the city's vibrant art scene. More and more businesses are attracted to Berlin these days. Just last year, The New York Times reported that the city was having a "coming-of-age moment." From The Times: As it attempts to evolve from a city that relies heavily on government support to one with sustainable industries, companies like Google and Etsy have opened up offices, joining technology startups like SoundCloud and ResearchGate, giving credit to the hype that Berlin is becoming a contender for Europe’s Silicon Valley. The PwC report noted that Berlin had risen to No. 12 from No. 16 in its last report for technology readiness, "confirming its steadily rising reputation as a high-tech hub in Europe." Flickr/chicagogeekThe Windy City of nearly 3 million people is one of the biggest cities in America, and it earned high marks in the PwC study for cost, quality of life, and air quality. The city made the top 10 for ease of doing business, which means big corporations are attracted to the Midwestern metropolis. Indeed, there are nearly 30 Fortune 500 companies in the Chicago area, including the massive aircraft company Boeing. Chicago has a lot to offer culturally, and it appears to have rebounded from a particularly bloody crime wave in the summer of 2012. Earlier this year, The New York Times published a 36-hour guide for Chicago visitors. "As the temperatures fall, the city changes from a playground to a cultural promised land — a place of fine and varied food, inventive theater and one of the country’s great live music scenes," The Times reported. Unfortunately, the Windy City fell out of the top 10 in transportation and infrastructure. It's not entirely clear from the report why Chicago fared poorly in transportation, but last year the city had a disastrous rollout of a new fare-card system for the Chicago Transit Authority system of trains and buses. As for infrastructure, Chicago pledged in 2012 to invest billions to fix its crumbling underground water pipes, school buildings, and city buildings. Of course, big projects like that take time. REUTERS/Jeremy PiperSydney’s benefits are obvious: incredible weather, an abundance of beautiful beaches, and Australia’s favorable “work-life balance.” It consistently ranks highly in safety, friendliness, and quality of living surveys. In PwC's rankings, Sydney hit No. 1 for both sustainability and livability. As the financial, manufacturing, and cultural hub of Australia, Sydney has a strong, thriving economy and plenty of business opportunities. However, housing prices and the cost of living are, like all of Australia, high. For reference, rent for a one-bedroom in Sydney costs about $2,100 a month, while a pair of Levi's jeans will run you $100.  Regular daily expenses are 16% more expensive than the world average, making it the 12th most expensive city in the world. Christopher LanceDespite the incredible population density of Hong Kong, the city-state ranks high for quality of life and has the fifth-highest life expectancy in the world. The city has an exceptional public transportation system, with over 90% of daily travels occurring on public transport. The Index of Economic Freedom has ranked Hong Kong's economy as No. 1, in part because of its low taxes and sophisticated international financial market. Indeed, PwC rated Hong Kong No. 2 for ease of doing business. Hong Kong’s biggest problems are, unsurprisingly, pollution and air quality, which have gotten significantly worse in the past 20 years. Peter AdermarkStockholm is one of the fastest-growing cities in Europe with both its population and new businesses ballooning over the past 15 years. One of the city’s biggest innovations was creating a publicly owned broadband network in the mid-'90s, which has developed the booming tech industry that has spawned Spotify and DICE Games. "We have a very interesting mix of life science companies, information, and communications-technology companies, clean-tech companies, and the entertainment industries," Stockholm's vice mayor for innovation, Ulla Hamilton, told PwC. "That creates an innovative climate."  The city is exceptionally green. Sustainability has been a heavy focus of the city for more than 60 years, as it has worked to develop public transportation, clean water, and a heating district system that keeps pollution out of the environment. Immigration has become one of Stockholm’s — and Sweden’s — biggest challenges, as the influx of asylum-seekers over the past decade has coincided with a rise in crime. James WhitesmithParis is highly regarded for its libraries, respected universities, and high rates of literacy and education, ranking No. 1 in PwC’s rankings of Intellectual Capital and Innovation. Public transportation in the city is exceptional with 14 metro lines, a network of regional trains that connect the city to the suburbs, and express lanes exclusively for buses. While it's certainly an interesting place to live — full of the world's best museums — obscenely expensive housing, poor car traffic, and record unemployment have dragged down the city in recent years. Flickr/Jitze CouperusNot surprisingly, the heart of Silicon Valley was one of the top three cities for intellectual capital and innovation. San Francisco — population 825,000, compared to 8 million in New York City — is an example of a small city with outsize economic influence, according to the PwC report. Some of the world's biggest companies are based in and around San Francisco, and big companies like Google have major outposts there.  While the city got a relatively good ranking for cost (No. 6), the city is getting more expensive. As a result, families there are fleeing for the suburbs, the PwC report notes. "[I]n places like San Francisco, Seattle, and Berlin, families are deserting the city," the report says. "As cities become more expensive and apartments smaller, the suburbs start looking better." ValeStock / Shutterstock.comDespite Toronto's crack-smoking mayor, it has a reputation for providing an excellent quality of life. In the PwC report, the Canadian city made the top three for health, safety, and security and transportation, and infrastructure; it was ranked No. 4 for ease of doing business. The city is considered one of the safest in North America, and it ranked No. 1 in the PwC report for public transport systems. However, it ranked No. 13 for traffic congestion and No. 12 for ease of commute. "Toronto’s rankings in these two variables also reflect the city’s current reality, in which the lack of a fully integrated regional transportation system is one of the leading challenges for Toronto," the PwC report stated. Patrick Bingham-Hall/WOHAThis sovereign city-state ranked in the top three for city gateway, transportation and infrastructure, and ease of doing business. Singapore made big advances in this year's edition of PwC's "Cities of Opportunity," going up four spots to third place and dominating transportation and infrastructure. As the Lonely Planet travel guide notes, "Singapore has fantastic public transport, with a tangled web of bus and train (MRT) routes taking you to the doorsteps of most sights." It's also possible to island-hop near Singapore by taking one of the city's many ferries. Singapore established superior infrastructure and transportation when it was a British colony prior to 1963, according to the Encyclopedia of the Nations. In the '70s and '80s, the city-state reacted to increased traffic problems by investing heavily in its mass transit system. While Singapore falls out of the top 10 in sustainability and the natural environment, it may do better on that front in the next PwC report. Just last month, The New York Times reported on a massive new green park in the middle of the city known as the Green Corridor. The park was inspired by New York's High Line, but it's much bigger at 15 miles long. Shutterstock.com / upthebannerWhile New York City didn't finish first in any of the indicator categories, it finished strongly across the board, according to the PwC ranking. The Big Apple was the second-most-desired city for relocation (right after London), and it was in the top three for "ease of doing business" and for "economic clout." New York City is home of the two biggest stock exchanges in the world, the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ, and it's a hub for a variety of industries, from finance to fashion to publishing to technology. The city isn't the easiest place to live or even visit, though. The Big Apple ranked 16th for transportation and infrastructure. The PwC reported cited the city's rising costs of public transportation (specifically, the MTA) and the difficulty of getting taxis. New York has a higher cost of living than other cities in the survey, such as Los Angeles, Chicago, and Beijing. Just last month, CNN reported it was the third-most-expensive city in the world to rent an apartment. Dan Kitwood / GettyLondon — the world's hottest city — finished first in technology readiness, city gateway, and economic clout. It jumped from the eighth spot for technology readiness in PwC's last report to No. 1 this time, in part because it provides internet access in many schools. The British capital is developing its tech sector, particularly in health technology. The British city's six international airports probably helped it ascend to the top ranking for city gateway. You can even hop on the high-speed Eurostar train and get from Paris to London in a couple of hours. As the PwC report notes, "More than ever, most roads (and flights) lead to London." England has been creating wealth for its citizens, and the world, for hundreds of years, the PwC report notes. Some citizens have more wealth than others, of course. Earlier this month, a new study of the world's wealthiest people found London had more billionaires than any other city. For people who aren't billionaires, London might be a tough place to live, as it ranked 15th in cost, which includes cost of living and cost of business occupancy. Just Tuesday, the radio show "Marketplace" asked whether London was becoming too expensive for poor Londoners. The program noted that more foreign investors are buying up luxury apartments there. “We’re the minority of London now,” one single mother told the show. “Londoners don't live in London anymore." FREE AppDownload
Roger Wollstadt via FlickrIf you're in the market for a condo, make sure you've got cash. If you have to wait to get a mortgage application approved, you might lose out to other buyers. A new report from CoreLogic shows that cash sales account for a large part of the condominium subgroup. This is especially so in Florida with an 81.2% of cash sales share; Nevada at 80.5%; and New York at 79.5%.  From 2000 to 2007, Nevada and Florida had cash share of 22.9% and 35.4% respectively, but this number exploded during the recession. "These high rates could be because of several factors, including investors buying up properties and the overall shrinking of the mortgage market," writes Tom Vito at CoreLogic. Cash purchases accounted for 31% of total U.S. home sales in Q1 2014. In terms of absolute volume, cash transactions have fallen 15% quarter-over-quarter. All-cash purchases might be down from the highs of Q1 2013, Q1 2012, and Q1 2011 but they're still a big part of the housing market.  This chart from CoreLogic shows cash share of total condo sales in the 25 largest states by total sales. CoreLogic FREE AppDownload
 Facebook/Seminole Golf CourseSummer is around the corner, which means that golf season is about to go into full swing. We partnered with search engine FindTheBest to come up with a list of the 10 best golf courses in America. To create the rankings, FindTheBest looked at reviews from experts at Golf Digest, Golf.com, and GolfLink.com, and came up with an average rating for each course. It also factored in the USGA Course and Slope Ratings, which evaluate the difficulty of a course for bogey (more amateur) and scratch players (more professional) players. FREE AppDownload
Instagram, ThedoctorjJon Najarian, just chilling in the pool with his homies.I was hoping for “Margin Call” meets “Spring Breakers”: 1,800 rich Wall Street dudes winging westward for four Krug-soaked days in the famous mecca of misbehavior and debauchery, Las Vegas, to talk shop of course. You imagine an orgy of black cards, mountains of powdery substances, late night poker games with hundreds of thousands of dollars on the table, ladies of questionable employment in very short dresses, steaks so finely aged and bloody you don’t know whether to eat them or call an ambulance. Frankly, the idea of attending SALT Las Vegas 2014, the biggest hedge fund conference of the year, scared me a bit, especially as I figured I’d be one of the few women in attendance. But I’m used to it. I’m a New Yorker, and I’m good at being one. I’ve found the afterparties, and the after- afterparties, and seen bankers sweat through $8,000 suits dancing til dawn. I was partying on West 27th Street when Lindsey Lohan could still get acting gigs, convincing Kenny Kenny to let me into the club. I’m not exactly a Disney princess. So there are things I know — like that I hate EDM as much as I hate trying to calculate a company’s EBITDA (it’s hard work, people). But as a reporter, I figured SALT 2014 would be the perfect environment in which to really understand the culture of Wall Street: the heady mix of money and machismo that, for better or worse, drives a good bit of the economy. I packed some 5-Hour Energy drinks, sunscreen, heels, and two books: a copy of Hunter S. Thompson’s collected works and a paperback of Connie Bruck’s classic junk bond chronicle, “The Predators’ Ball.” Then I hopped an 11 a.m. JFK-to-LAS direct flight, prepared for bedlam. Four days and at least three exquisite cuts of beef later, I emerged slightly dazed, exhausted, and extremely worried about the state of our economy. This couldn’t possibly be the way the Masters of the Universe really demonstrated their mastery... Instagram, ReformedBroker Day 1 I arrive at the Bellagio, drop my stuff off and make a beeline for the pool. Instead of loud Swedish House Mafia and neon bikinis, it’s Train and artisan dad jeans. There’s a guy in the pool with a bluetooth attached to his ear, listening to a conference call on mute. He’s got his phone in a plastic bag. Very prudent. Later, I head to the opening cocktail reception, where I find myself in conversation with a pair of accountants who are sponsoring the event. They’re dressed like lost members of the Rat Pack. One wants to know if I like Cubans. He said it as if he was introducing me to the secret good stuff — the best, illicit, this-is-our-secret stuff. I reply that I don’t smoke cigars. They look at me like I just insulted their mothers. Later, at dinner, I overhear a pair of bankers recount the wild story of a business trip they went on not long ago. It seems one guy had run out of cash for late night pizza at a cash-only spot. The other guy handed him (get this) a $100 bill. Rock on, fellas. Later that night, I arrive at Hyde, the club inside the Bellagio, to find guys dancing on tables. I say guys and I mean guys. It’s locals night, so there are a few girls around, but this is a male-dominated conference. So the suits from SALT are fist-pumping to whatever song the DJ plays — generally for two minutes before switching to the next one — in tight, happy bro-clusters. I’ll give them a solid B for effort, but the fact that they still have their name tags on puts a damper on the proceedings. Now, perhaps I'm jaded — perhaps because I've seen too much. But a banker dancing on a table surrounded by bottles of vodka and champagne doesn't impress me the way it used to. If you've clubbed in New York City and haven't seen that, then you've clubbed with a blindfold on. Indeed, if you haven't witnessed a banker stumble from a club at 4:30 a.m. clutching a $10,000 receipt then you obviously keep school-teacher hours. I've seen all that. Bedtime. Instagram, Reformed BrokerDay 2 Remember the off-the-hook bacchanalia of “The Wolf Of Wall Street”? Now forget it. So far, the only drug I’ve been offered is Adderall — the stuff that helps college kids cram for exams. The stuff they give little kids who can’t sit still. Everyone goes to all the lectures, which admittedly are top notch. David Tepper, the highest-paid hedge fund manager of 2013, pulling in $3.5 billion, gives a killer talk on the market in which he warns everyone listening to keep some cash on hand. “It’s nervous time,” he says. Then Kevin Spacey takes the stage, and proceeds to imitate SkyBridge Capital CEO (and our host) Anthony Scaramucci’s Long Island accent. “One percent, is that what you call yourselves, or your returns?” Spacey asks. During a break, I stop by a cabana party down at the pool, where everyone politely picks at sliders and talks about brokerage firms. A hedge fund manager tells me his favorite Vegas perk — a friend at his hotel who disconnects the minibar censor for him. “I get my fill of Beefeater gin and Pringles, and then go for the M&amp;Ms and vodka,” he confides. Super luxurious. After dinner everyone heads to the club: Encore at the Wynn hotel. It’s been more than 24 hours and I have yet to see one prostitute. People leave early. I do too. Later, I try to get away from the noise and dig into the Bruck book. The title, “The Predators' Ball,” is what insiders called the Drexel High Yield Bond Conference. It was thrown by Wall Street legend Michael Milken and his storied firm Drexel Burnham Lambert during their glory days in the 1980s. Held at the Beverly Hills Hotel, it sounds like a hell of a party. Money men came from far and wide to kiss Milken's ring. He was the father of the junk bond, friend to the 1980s gods of finance — the corporate raiders. He ensured that their deals got done, meaning that Milken was not only a king, he was a king maker. Of course, you can also read his story in the records of a federal grand jury indictment— he pleaded guilty to six counts of securities fraud in 1990. The real action happened at the conference itself, during which the serious deal-makers were treated to a private dinner at the then-so-glamorous Chasen's on night two. There, invitees were joined by a cadre of gorgeous working women, recruited by a Drexel guy named Don Engel who once remarked, "How could I get these guys to come if I didn't have the girls?" At the final night of the conference there was a dinner and a show. One year the performers were Frank Sinatra and Diana Ross. The latter performed for free in exchange for a piece of one of Milken's investments. Instagram, ReformedBrokerEncore at the Wynn Hotel.Day 3 Finally some insanity — a bunch of young people are having a champagne brunch party by the pool, and it’s all champagne and no brunch. They’re squirting the stuff in each other’s mouths, dancing to that same bad '9os alternative music (Better Than Ezra, really?!) and having a good time. I’d like to stay but I have a lecture to go to. Nassim Taleb is about to face off against Larry Summers. I later discover that most of the people “brunching” are not officially attending the conference. They come from a big Wall Street bank — can’t say which — and they’re in town to help entertain clients. Only one poor sucker is actually going to the conference. That said, client relations is serious business. The bank has given these people a firm expense limit of something like $8,000 per night —and that’s not a ceiling, it’s a floor. When they don’t spend it, it’s $1,200 bottles of Dom all around. That night everyone goes to see Lenny Kravitz give a killer private performance for over an hour. It’s not quite Sinatra-level, but it’s a great show. I heard that a prostitute approached my friend while he was standing around alone, but he politely declined. Day 4 A lot of people have gone but those who are still around are paying rapt attention to a China talk headlined by famed short-seller Jim Chanos. The closing pool party is more backyard-Connecticut-barbeque than Las Vegas blowout. There’s not a spot of neon to be seen. I’m out of business cards. Business InsiderLenny Kravitz at SALT 2014.On the plane home, I find myself absorbed in Bruck’s book. Milken himself famously never touched any kind of drug, not even caffeine. But the same could not be said for those who attended the predators’ ball. Let’s just say that. These days Milken presides over a decidedly less-wild affair, the Milken Institute's Global Conference. It brings together businessmen, world leaders, and scholars. It's lovely. People go to bed early. It almost makes you wonder if the public shaming that accompanied the crash of 2008 really did have an impact — one that anyone outside the world of Wall Street might not feel or see. Perhaps the notion that this gravy train can come to a sudden stop at any time has scared the Street into behaving better, at least for a little while. While the conference was underway, The Financial Times published an internal video that made the rounds at Deutsche Bank in April. In it, Colin Fan, the co-head of the investment banking division, admonishes his colleagues about their online behavior. "Some of you are falling way short of our established standards," he says. "Let's be clear: being boastful, indiscreet and vulgar is not OK, and will have serious consequences for your career — and I have lost patience on this issue." That kind of message spreads fast. Bankers aren’t supposed to be bragging to each other as much about sucker clients and big kills. They aren’t supposed to be dancing in the end zone. Not anymore. As for SALT, perhaps it’s no surprise those in attendance were so well-mannered. The conspicuous consumption of the 1% is being panned left and right. After Barry Rosenstein, head of hedge fund JANA Partners, recently acquired a Hamptons mansion for $147 million — the most expensive home purchase in U.S. history — his representative was so irritated by the media pile-on that the flack told the New York Post, “I am getting sick of you.” The SALT conference might not be the stuff of a Scorsese movie or a Connie Bruck blockbuster, but it still reflects the spirit of the times. The SEC is paying attention. Make a spectacle of yourself and you might be wearing an orange jumpsuit — or at least putting your signature on a very big check. Look what happened to Milken, after all. Which is why, the minute I stepped off the plane in New York, I started texting my friends about their evening plans. Time to go to a real party. FREE AppDownload
Tim Chong/ReutersYou land at Changi Airport after flying for what seems a lifetime, and you’re naturally disoriented, even before you hit the customs booths that feature bowls of mints, dire warnings about the death penalty for those bringing in drugs, and digital comment cards asking if the service was to your liking. Duck into a public restroom and you’ll be exhorted to aim carefully and to “flush with oomph” for the sake of cleanliness. Outside, it’s tropical sticky but impeccably clean, in a city inhabited by Chinese, Malays, Indians, and a multiplicity of guest workers from around the world—all speaking English. Singapore is an assault on one’s preconceptions. Singapore calls itself the Lion City, but it would be more accurate to call it the Canary City—the canary in globalization’s gold mine. Arguably no other place on earth has so engineered itself to prosper from globalization—and succeeded at it. The small island nation of 5 million people (it’s really just a city, but that’s part of what’s disorienting) boasts the world’s second-busiest seaport, a far higher per-capita income than its former British overlord, and a raft of number-one rankings on lists ranging from least-corrupt to most-business-friendly countries. On the eve of celebrating its 50th anniversary as an independent nation, Singapore is proof that free trade can and does work for multinationals and ordinary citizens alike. So long as globalization continues apace, the place thrives. Singapore’s defining achievement is summed up in the title of its longtime leader Lee Kuan Yew’s memoir, From Third World to First. When it split off from Malaysia a half-century ago to become a separate nation of dubious viability, Singapore had little going for it, other than a determination to become whatever it needed to be—assembly plant, container port, trustworthy banking and logistics center, semiconductor hub, oil refinery, mall developer, you name it. But the brilliance of its founding fathers—OK, it was mostly one father, Mr. Lee—was in realizing that the precondition for any and all of this to happen was good governance. Over a recent week of meetings and briefings with Singaporean business and government leaders sponsored by the nonprofit Singapore International Foundation, two offhand remarks bore this out. The first was a statement by one business leader that he has never had to pay a bribe in his lifetime.Chiangi Airport GroupSingapore airport To an American audience, that may seem like a fairly modest boast, but as this speaker noted, it’d be a difficult claim to make in neighboring Southeast Asian countries (or developing nations anywhere). Growing up in Mexico, my dad (a businessman who’d never set foot in Singapore) would often go on and on at dinner about how our country needed a Lee Kuan Yew. I had a vague sense of what Dad meant, but only now do I get the vehemence behind his sentiment. You couldn’t get by in Mexico back then without paying bribes, constantly. Like Americans, Singaporeans worship the concept of meritocracy. Unlike Americans, Singaporeans entrusted their society to an all-knowing one-party technocracy, a civil service that has delivered the goods across two generations—including affordable, publicly built housing for a majority of the population and a system of private lifetime savings vehicles that are the envy of policy wonks the world over. Society’s cohesive glue, in addition to English, is a collective form of the “Singlish/Chinese” termkiasu, which roughly translates into a fear of losing or being left behind. Kiasu usually refers to the extraordinary lengths to which people—individually and collectively—have gone to ensure success. And the motivating anxieties are not hard to discern in a nation-state so small it must rely on other countries for the water it drinks and the space to train its armed forces. What if China and some other Asian state go to war over disputed islands? What if Shanghai or Hong Kong leverage their domestic markets to overshadow you as Asian financial hub? What if the Malaysians cut off your water? The brutal Japanese occupation during World War II and the recent heart-wrenching dip in trade during the financial crisis of the last decade are stark reminders of how quickly things can sour for a vulnerable canary in a gold mine. Even now, at the height of its success, Singapore doesn’t get much love (as opposed to grudging respect) from the legions of foreigners who avail themselves of its First World amenities. It’s almost obligatory for Westerners visiting or residing in Singapore to complain about the “sterility” of the place, and joke about the carefully manicured boulevards and the pristine shopping malls, contrasting Singapore unflatteringly to the grittier authenticity and “character” of nearby Cambodia and Vietnam. It’s indeed easy to mock Singapore if you haven’t lived in a poor country, and it’s a form of colonial prejudice to begrudge Singaporeans their lack of Third World “charm.” We prefer our tropics to be exotically chaotic, thank you—not tidier and more efficient than the Swiss. But the interesting wrinkle here is that Singaporeans themselves seem to be joining in the second-guessing about the price of development. Opposition parties are gaining some ground in parliamentary elections, capitalizing on unhappiness with strained public services, soaring prices, and an influx of super-wealthy foreign investors that resulted from the government’s openness to rapid growth. Having taken care of its population’s basic needs and then some, it must be galling for Singapore’s relentlessly pragmatic leadership to see a surge of yearning for rooted authenticity. The few older neighborhoods that haven’t been demolished—including the first generation of public housing complexes—are now heralded as historic landmarks, and Singaporeans treat their old botanical gardens as sacred ground. At the Singaporean government’s world-renowned scenario-planning futures think tank, one analyst confided that she is looking into the uptick of nostalgia and what it might mean for policy. This ill-defined sense of nostalgia (presumably an irrational sentiment in a place that’s gone from Third to First World in record time!) reflects the tensions inherent in globalization. You can leverage all of your comparative advantages to succeed in the global marketplace, and transform yourself accordingly, only to end up feeling some unease at having your distinctive sense of place eroded. Until recently, Singapore was among the most welcoming places to outsiders, with one out of every three residents born elsewhere. But with fertility rates dropping, the country opened the floodgates to immigrants to ensure continued growth and prosperity—turning immigration into a lightning rod. This being policy wonk heaven, one of the triggering events to a national debate on the issue was a government white paper discussing the target of reaching a population of 7 million. A more spontaneous triggering event was a modest riot late last year in the city’s Little India Quarter. This was the subject of the second offhanded remark that struck me most during my recent week in Singapore, when a government official, off-script, said with some relish: “Imagine that, we had a riot: We must be a real place.” A general unease about Singapore’s identity and concerns about overcrowding (owning a Honda Accord will set you back more than $100,000, in what has to be the bluntest form of congestion pricing anywhere) have forced the government to slow down its intake of immigrants and taper its growth projections. The move was a testament to how responsive Singapore’s system can be to its citizenry’s needs and desires, without being terribly democratic. It was a testament, too, to how perfect Singapore—and its paternalistic, technocratic cosmopolitanism—is for an age of interdependence that prizes connectivity over a sense of place. There are many cautionary tales to globalization’s downsides, but no better canary in the gold mine of globalization’s tenuous triumphs than Singapore. FREE AppDownload
Yesterday Tim Geithner met with a bunch of journalists (including Business Insider) and expounded on his account of the mortgage crisis, "Stress Test: Reflections On Financial Crisis." The book came out earlier this month. Geithner said multiple times — "look at the work we did." That's how he wants his time as Treasury Secretary to the judged. In the book, he illustrates that using a bunch of charts. The one below, on page 369, is his favorite. It shows how quickly the Treasury, FDIC and Federal Reserve injected cash into the financial system when the crisis hit. It also shows how quickly they stopped. To Geithner, it shows how conservative the government was actually being. He digs that. FREE AppDownload
At first glance, the situation calls to mind the late 1990s. Biotech stocks surged between 1998 and March 2000, at which point they fell sharply and proceeded to grind lower for the next three years. But Thomas Claudio Kaufmann, a pharmaceutical and biotech analyst for Credit Suisse Private Banking, thinks that things won’t play out in 2014 as they did in 2000—and that large-cap biotech stocks still hold considerable potential upside from current levels. Scientific advancement is the most important difference between the two rallies, Kaufmann says. The Human Genome Project began in 1990, and by 1996, scientists had started to identify specific genes linked to Parkinson’s disease and various forms of cancer. Large-scale sequencing got underway in 1999, and the human genome was mapped by 2003. “People thought drugs would be popping up like mushrooms,” Kaufmann says. “But in the beginning, the Human Genome Project actually raised more questions than it answered.” Despite the advancements in sequencing, it still takes 12 to 14 years to develop a new drug, and Kaufmann therefore argues that enthusiasm about deciphering the human genetic code came about a decade too early. It’s now, he argues, that the real payoff is about to begin, and he points to Herceptin, a drug that targets a specific form of breast cancer in which faulty genes direct cells to produce too much of a protein called Her-2, as an example. “This is just the tip of the iceberg,” Kaufmann says. “The drugs coming to market today aren’t just ‘Me-Too’ drugs that are similar to therapies already on the market. These are real game-changers.” Biotechnology-driven drug development has seen such profound advancements over the last 15 years that the largest biotech companies are starting to look more like pharmaceutical companies, and the traditional dividing line has blurred. Fifteen years ago, pharmaceutical companies tended to develop “small-molecule” drugs, while biotech companies developed those based on large molecules or proteins. That’s no longer true. Gilead, one of the largest biotech firms, has very few biotech drugs, and the pharmaceutical giant Roche is the largest biotech manufacturer in the business. Because small-cap biotech plays still carry the risk of outright failure, Kaufmann suggests looking at those large-cap biotech companies that already have blockbuster drugs and are generating heaps of cash. Amgen introduced a dividend in 2011 and completed two share buyback programs worth a combined $7 billion in 2011 and 2012. Gilead announced a $5 billion buyback in March. Kaufmann expects more dividend announcements, share buybacks, and M&amp;A activity in the future, making large biotech firms exactly the kind of cash-rich companies that Credit Suisse’s Private Banking unit suggests offer both downside protection and upside potential in this year’s choppy equities markets. And here’s the rub: despite the multi-year rally, Kaufmann points out that large-cap biotech valuations are still quite reasonable. Using the so-called PEGY ratio – 2014 price/earnings ratios divided by forecasted earnings growth and dividend yield over the next three years ­–  large-cap biotech stocks are trading at just half the level of their pharmaceutical counterparts and just a third of their 1999 levels. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Phil McCarten T. Boone Pickens.It's billionaire oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens' birthday today. The 86-year-old certainly has a way with words and a knack for telling it like it is. He's known for engaging with hip-hop stars like Drake and Dr. Dre on Twitter about becoming billionaires. The author of "The First Billion Is The Hardest" has a ton of catchy/easy to remember phrases about life and business. They're affectionately referred to by his family and staff members as "Boone-isms."  We've compiled some of his business Boone-isms in the slides that follow from his website boonepickens.com. Some of these verbal gems are first seen on his Twitter account @BoonePickens.  FREE AppDownload
ValueWalkShares of Chinese e-commerce retailer JD.com opened for trade on the Nasdaq at $21.75, above its initial $19 pricing. JD.com's IPO comes amid a tough day for some other Chinese internet stocks.  JD.com's debut is in focus as investors gauge the market for tech IPOs.  Earlier this month, Union Square Ventures founder Fred Wilson said the IPO market for multi-billion dollar tech companies may be disappearing.  Last week, software company Zendesk (ZEN) debuted on the NYSE, and the company has seen shares rally since their debut.  Tech investors are also preparing for the public debut of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, which filed for its IPO earlier this month.  FREE AppDownload
William Dudley, the president of the New York Federal Reserve, spoke yesterday about the state of the New York, New Jersey, and U.S. economies.  The quote you need to know: "There have been significant and long-lasting changes to the nature of work," he said. That's true, both in the Empire State and nationwide. And though the changes began prior to the Great Recession, they have accelerated since its end. New York Fed senior economist Jaison Abel then gave a follow-up presentation that pinpointed what Dudley was referring to: middle-skill jobs are vaporizing. New York Fed New York Fed New York Fed New York Fed New York FedIn a later post on Liberty Street Economics, Abel and NYFed senior vice president Richard Deitz offered more context: These patterns primarily reflect three trends. First, they show that the decades-long process of job polarization—that is, a loss in middle-skill jobs combined with job growth at the upper and lower ends of the skills distribution—has continued through the latest business cycle. Second, ongoing weakness in housing has meant that there has been little bounceback in construction jobs. Finally, fiscal pressures in the public sector, which accelerated after the recession as stimulus spending wound down, have resulted in fewer teachers and cuts in state and local government jobs.  So while a growing number of places in the region have gained back the number of jobs lost during the Great Recession, the types of jobs in the region have changed: job growth has been geared toward higher- and lower-skilled workers, with job opportunities in the middle continuing to shrink.  This is the death of the middle class in real time.  (Via Delong) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe markets are up a little bit. The Dow is up 28 points (0.1%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 6 points (0.3%), and the Nasdaq is up 22 points (0.5%). Earlier today, we learned Markit's manufacturing PMI for May came in at 56.2, topping estimates for 55.5.  U.S. existing home sales for April, however, disappointed, rising 1.3% against expectations for a 2.2% increase. Sales in April were better than the 0.2% decline seen in March. Markets rallied after the PMI report, but pared some of those gains following the disappointing housing report. Some notable equity movers include:  FREE AppDownload
The Shard, a famous skyscraper in London, was hit by lightning on Thursday during a storm. Weather Channel meteorologist Tim Ballisty and others have been tweeting out an intense-looking photo originally posted on the Twitter feed of London company AIA Worldwide. Check it out: Well that was very exciting; better get back to work now the storms passed pic.twitter.com/LKvMbPiC6U London. MT @spacepatrol: Oh yes! #lightning #Shard pic.twitter.com/JvIwdXEYiZ  FREE AppDownload
An incredible infographic created by Joey Cherdarchuk at Darkhorse Analytics shows Manhattan's work and home population by the hour in a "breathing map." The blue spots represent people at home, and the orange spots represent people at work. The orange starts to get brighter at about 5 or 6 a.m., and the blue brightens significantly starting at 5 or 6 p.m., suggesting that most New Yorkers spend about 12 hours a day away from their apartments. The orange "work" spots are concentrated in midtown and downtown, where most office buildings are. Check it out: Darkhorse Analytics About 1.5 million people live in Manhattan and about 2 million people work there. Cherdarchuk explained how he created the map on Darkhorse's blog. FREE AppDownload
Kevin Lamarque/ReutersAs Treasury secretary, Tim Geithner examined every inch of the last global financial crisis. His account of those dark days was published earlier this month in his new book, "Stress Test: Reflections On Financial Crisis." It's a look back. So when Business Insider spoke with Geithner on Wednesday, we asked him to look forward to the next financial doom machine — the next product, the next policy that will systematically churn out economic ruin and spread itself around the world. We asked him to describe what that next doom machine might look like. It didn't take him much time at all to respond. "It will have this feature of guarantee with no risk," he said. Geithner described it as a product, an innovation that will be sold to consumers as a guarantee. Once financial institutions get their hands on it, however, they'll use it to buy something risky. He made it sound like a very contagious, latent virus. The mortgage crisis was exactly like that; it spread everywhere before many people knew how dangerous it was. It had the features he described above, but also some of its own distinct properties. That's what made it so hard to cure. Geithner told us there was a sort-of Doomsday manual for crisis at the New York Federal Reserve, where he was once president. When he cracked its covers, Geithner said  "It sounded cool, hopeful even." At least there was a solution. But by December 2007, they had run through all the options. The question after that was — now what? "There's no chance of vindication," he said, referring to his book's reception. He just wants you all to understand what he was dealing with. FREE AppDownload
Over on Flannel Guy ROI, blogger James has been talking about retirement. Specifically, he's discussing pretirement, which he defines as "a stepping-stone compromise between full-time work and full-time retirement." Basically, you stop contributing to your retirement savings and let them grow on their own until you actually retire, when you start using them. While pretirement sounds appealing, we're most interested in his calculations, which show how long you'd need to let your retirement savings grow before tapping into them if you stopped saving today. Technically, you could raid them any time after age 59 1/2, but James has calculated the waiting period based on your savings increasing enough to generate the income you expect to have in retirement. Check out the chart below. The bottom axis represents your current savings. Trace up to the colored line that represents how much income you want each year in retirement. Then look to the left axis to estimate how many years it will take your current savings to grow enough to support you during retirement. Flannel Guy ROI There's a table version, as well: Flannel Guy ROI Essentially, the chart tells us that if you have $200,000 saved today and wanted to have a $40,000 income in retirement without saving another penny, it would take 41 years to achieve your goal. Here's his methodology: There are a few caveats to this information. First, I’m assuming a 4% safe withdrawal rate and a 4% real rate of return. The rate of return assumption might be a little conservative for long-term, inflation-adjusted growth on a stock portfolio while the 4% safe withdrawal rate might be a little aggressive, depending on whom you ask. The idea behind the 4% withdrawal rate is that you could theoretically maintain it forever because investment growth will cover or outpace withdrawals … your $1,000,000 nest egg never really gets any smaller even though it keeps throwing off $40,000 in passive income per year. Some experts say that many modern-day retirees will need upwards of $1 million to support the retirement life they plan to lead, and James's calculations don't dispute that theory: His numbers find that if you retire this year with $1 million in retirement savings, you'll be living on a pretty conservative $40,000 annual income. And for the record, no one is saying you should stop saving for retirement — just the opposite. If your current savings could grow by this much, imagine how much more money you'll have if you keep contributing? Hat tip to Rockstar Finance. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExisting home sales climbed 1.3% month-over-month in April to an annualized pace of 4.65 million units. The latest data missed expectations for a 2.2% rise to an annualized pace of 4.69 million units. And existing home sales are down 6.8% from a year ago.  This compares to a 0.2% fall to an annualized pace of 4.59 million units in March. "The trend in sales is unlikely to rise much across the remainder of this year, thanks to the 20% increase in the monthly payment on a mortgage for a median property compared to a year ago," writes Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Housing inventory jumped 16.8% to 2.29 million existing homes for sale or a 5.9 month supply at the current sales pace. Single family home sales were up 0.5% to a seasonally adjusted to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.06 million in April, but were down 7.7% from a year ago. "We’ll continue to see a balancing act between housing inventory and price growth, which remains stronger than normal simply because there have not been enough sellers in many areas," said Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist in a press release. "More inventory and increased new-home construction will help to foster healthy market conditions,” Yun added." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: The pending home sales index increased modestly in March, and the series leads existing home. Moreover, sales are expected to get a boost as the weather returns to normal seasonal patterns.  But Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen has expressed concern about the housing recovery. FREE AppDownload
Markit's flash manufacturing data reading for May came in at 56.2. Expectations were for a reading of 55.5, up a tick from 55.4.  The output sub-index climbed to 59.6 from 58.2, the highest reading since Feb. 2011. Full release from Markit » Here's Markit Senior Economist Paul Smith: The US manufacturing sector continued to gain strength heading into mid-year as supportive demand conditions led to the sharpest month-on-month increase in production for over three years. This provides further confirmation that industry will aid a rebound in U.S. GDP in the second quarter, and other indicators from the survey suggest that the sector has plenty of momentum heading into the summer and beyond. Total workloads are up markedly, and manufacturers are gearing up for growth by purchasing inputs at a record rate. Capacity constraints are subsequently feeding through to increased hiring with the survey showing payroll numbers rising at a rate consistent of 15-20 thousand manufacturing jobs being created in May. Markit's Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) is a composite index based on five of the individual indexes with the following weights: New Orders – 0.3, Output – 0.25, Employment – 0.2, Suppliers’ Delivery Times – 0.15, Stocks of Items Purchased – 0.1, with the Delivery Times Index inverted so that it moves in a comparable direction. Here's what it's looked like recently: Markit FREE AppDownload
HessEnergy company Hess (HES) announced that it has agreed to sell its retail business, which includes its 1,342 gas stations and convenience stores on the East Coast, to Marathon Petroleum (MPC) for $2.6 billion. Hess said it would use the proceeds from the sale to increase its share-buyback program to $6.5 billion from $4 billion. Marathon Petroleum will operate the stations under its Speedway retail banner.  Hess CEO said the sale "marks the culmination of our strategic transformation into a pure play exploration and production company." The deal is expected to close before year's end.  Hess said it would continue to sell its iconic Hess Toy Truck's online. In fact, it issued a whole press release on the matter. Shares of Hess are up about 2%.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Shannon Stapleton John ThainFormer U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Timothy Geithner has a funny anecdote on page 166 of his new book, "Stress Test," about then-Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain. Bloomberg View's Matt Levine pointed it out. Geithner writes:  "When Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain brought his team to see me that spring, there was an awkward moment when it became clear he didn't know the name of his chief risk officer, who was sitting right next to him."  Thain was still new to Merrill. He had just left his post as CEO of the New York Stock Exchange to head the firm.  Thain, who infamously spent $1.2 million to refurbish his office, was the last CEO before the firm merged with Bank of America during the crisis.  He was ousted from Bank of America in 2009. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ng Han GuanChinese internet stocks are tumbling after earnings reports from Weibo (WB) and 58.com (WUBA).  In pre-market trading, Weibo shares are off about 7% and shares of 58.com are down nearly 9%.  These tumbles come ahead of the expected IPO of Chinese e-commerce retailer JD.com (JD), which is set to debut on the Nasdaq after its IPO last night priced at $9 per share.  Weibo last night said it expects Q2 to to come in between $74 million and $76 million, below expectations for $77.85 million. Weibo operates a Twitter-like social media platform in China. 58.com, which operates an online marketplace, reported first quarter profit that fell a penny short of expectations. The company, however, gave a more upbeat second quarter revenue outlook, projecting Q2 revenue of $61 million to $63 million, better than the $57.8 million analysts had been looking for.  This news also comes ahead of the expected IPO of Alibaba, which filed with the SEC earlier this month.  Other Chinese internet stocks Baidu (BIDU), down 0.4%, and SINA (SINA), down about 4%, are also lower ahead of the bell.  FREE AppDownload
Duncan Niederauer, the CEO of the New York Stock Exchange will retire at the end of August 2014, he's named Thomas L. Farley, the exchange's current COO, as his successor. Niederauer has been President and CEO of the NYSE for six years. Farley will also become President when he becomes CEO. Under Niederauer, the NYSE was sold to the London-based IntercontinentalExchange in an $11 billion deal. FREE AppDownload
Jobless claims missed, coming in at 326,000. Consensus was for an increase to 310,000, from a revised 298,000 prior. But, continuing claims fell to 2.653 million, beating expectations for 2.675 million and down from a revised 2.666 million. Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson says the broader trend continues to move in the right direction: This is superficially disappointing but the seasonal adjustment for last week's very low number was always a bit suspect. Taking the two weeks together, though, claims have averaged 314K, well below the pre-Easter trend. The eight-week moving average - our preferred measure of the trend - nudged up a touch but at 319.8K it has dropped significantly from 328.5K at the end of the first quarter, and 339.9K at the end of the fourth. Pantheon FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@gem_rayBranch cofounder Cemre GungorNEW YORK (Reuters) - When the nine-person startup he co-founded was bought by Facebook for a reported $15 million in January, Cemre Gungor, 27, was inundated with phone calls and emails from wealth advisers. Yet he spurned them all, opting instead to open an account with Betterment, an online financial adviser launched in 2010 that automatically invests in a portfolio of exchange traded funds based mainly on a client's age. "My personality doesn't lend itself to being the sort of person who would research good wealth managers and then trust them with making decisions. I don't want to spend any time thinking or caring about that," said Gungor, who grew up in Turkey and Finland before moving to the U.S. He and others of his generation are posing a challenge for wealth advisers who are streaming into Silicon Valley and San Francisco after the public stock offerings of companies such as Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter helped California create more millionaires than any other U.S. state since 2009. But even as traditional financial firms battle for office space and seek out new customers, they're finding that the pickings aren't easy. The youngest winners of the thriving tech economy, many of whom came of age during the last financial crisis, aren't often interested in the ideas that attracted clients in the past. Nor are they fans of the old-school model of letting a financial planner make decisions with minimal client input. In response, traditional advisers are changing the way they practice. They're finding that young clients need help with lifestyle issues ranging from how to give money away to how to deal with old friends who are jealous of a sudden tech windfall. And they are giving clients more of the hard data behind their decisions than they might with clients who inherited their fortunes or built them up over time. Debra Wetherby, an independent adviser whose Wetherby Asset Management manages about $3.6 billion in assets, has fielded questions from young, single workers about when and how to tell potential spouses about their fortunes. Christine Leong Connors, who heads JPMorgan's Palo Alto office, has talked with tech clients about how to donate money effectively when their own net worth is larger than the charity they are giving to. And Michael Williams, a UBS Wealth Management Americas branch manager in San Francisco, has found himself courting potential clients whose paydays are so far away that they're still pulling all-nighters and sometimes sleeping in their startup offices. It's all part of an attempt to appeal to a new demographic of money. The youngest members of Generation X and millennials are the most likely to say that they are dissatisfied with their wealth adviser, according to a report by the Spectrem Group, a market research company in Lake Forest, Illinois. "The industry is not in alignment with folks who are very tech savvy, and it's an industry that is trying to catch up," said George Walper Jr., the president of Spectrem. CALIFORNIA MONEY Nowhere is the collision between new money and the old-line business of wealth management more on display than in California. Firms like Barclays, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Bank of America Corp's Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co have all expanded their Bay Area operations as firms like Facebook have gone public and the shares of more mature firms like Google have hit all-time highs. In the three years since JPMorgan opened an office in Palo Alto, the heart of Silicon Valley, its headcount has swelled to 30 advisers from six. When combined with its sister office in San Francisco, its number of advisers in Northern California has grown by 50 percent, to 110 people, since 2012. The firm created separate teams based on how clients have built their wealth, said Jeremy Geller, the head of JPMorgan's Private Bank business in Northern California. Unlike other teams which may be more focused on investment ideas, the tech-centered team works on anticipating the personal financial consequences of one-time events such as a startup getting another round of funding, going public or selling the business altogether. Advisers discuss with young clients such issues as when to start selling a personal stake in a business, Geller said. ADVISERS TRY TO ADAPT Advisers say they are working to adapt to the needs of tech workers who are skeptical that the wealth management industry offers much value. Wetherby, 56, the independent adviser, finds herself having more conversations with clients who are unsure of how to handle their newfound fortunes at a time when income inequality is a larger part of the national conversation. "For many of them, this is something that's private and new and separates them from their existing social group," said Wetherby. "It's a big adjustment and so a lot of them are trying to be quieter about it." She also appeals to new clients by promoting so-called social impact investing, which tries to make money while also doing some social good such as buying shares in a company in the clean water business. Darell Krasnoff, a partner at Los Angeles-based Bel Air Investment Advisors who plans to open a San Francisco office for the firm by the end of the year, said that the approach he takes with wealthy tech clients is similar regardless of their ages. He has won new clients like Kamran Pourzanjani, he said, by creating data-heavy custom reports that appeal to tech workers more comfortable with the language of numbers. After the firm he co-founded, PriceGrabber.com, was acquired for about $500 million in 2005, Pourzanjani, 54, spent 8 years bouncing between financial advisers who did not present enough data to convince him. He eventually signed on with Bel Air, in part because Krasnoff was able to provide custom spreadsheets that allowed him to have faith that Krasnoff's plans were solid. The idea of trusting a financial adviser with his wealth after spending years as an entrepreneur making all of his own decisions was a "giant leap," Pourzanjani said. "That's definitely a struggle for a lot of people" in the tech industry, he said. NEW COMPETITORS Wealthfront, a private company that has received funding from DAG Ventures and other venture capital firms, represents the other end of the spectrum of personalized advice. The company counts Burton Malkiel, a Princeton professor whose book "A Random Walk Down Wall Street" helped popularize passive investing, as its chief investment officer, a role that chiefly focuses on evaluating asset classes and allocation strategies that underpin the firm's automated process. About 60 percent of its clients are under the age of 35, and it charges a fee of 25 cents per $100 invested for its services, and levies no fees at all for accounts under $10,000. Both Wealthfront, and its competitor Betterment, are heavily courting young workers whose memories of the financial crisis make them skeptical that anyone can have insights into where the stock market is headed. So far, that message has been resonating with its clients. "Unless you're at the stage and scope that you need to be playing crazy tax games, it doesn't make sense to talk to a wealth manager," said a young Stanford business school graduate whose company was acquired by a large technology company last year. He didn't want to use his last name because he didn't want to draw attention to himself. Adam Nash, Wealthfront's chief executive, used to work at both LinkedIn and eBay and said that his clients are mostly found in San Francisco, New York, and other places where "young people are able to make money." They tend to put more trust in technology than in people, Nash said. "They don't really believe that a person is going to be watching their money 24/7, but they believe that a computer is," he said. (Reporting by David Randall. Editing by Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
It's natural to want to be liked. Now science has unlocked some answers for us on how to make it happen. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Chaiwat SubprasomThai Buddhist monks walk past the Stock Exchange of Thailand building in Bangkok.The ongoing political turmoil in Thailand went to the next level this morning as the army took to the airwaves and announced it was taking over. The markets are taking the news in stride. In a quick reaction note to clients, Capital Economics' Mark Williams says the "Thai coup may be welcomed by markets." "The coup reduces uncertainty about the immediate outlook and, in particular, the possibility that the political standoff would turn much more violent," said Williams. "For these reasons it could actually be positive both for Thailand’s economy and financial markets in the near term." The Thai stock market closed before the announcement. The Thai baht, which continues to trade, is down only marginally. For Williams, any positive reaction in the markets is likely to be short-term in nature. "[T]he coup seems unlikely to bring a lasting solution any closer," he said. "After Thaksin was ousted in 2006, the military allowed elections to take place in December 2007. These were won, as every election since 2001 has been, by Thaksin’s supporters. Similarly, any return to democracy in the near future would almost certainly hand power back to the same group. In the meantime, the military’s seizure of power does nothing for Thailand’s reputation among global investors, or indeed tourists." It seems the army has only bought the country some time. FREE AppDownload
APBiologist Rodrigo Cerqueira holds an armadillo, named Ana Botafogo in honor of the Brazilian dancer, at the Rio Zoo in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Wednesday, May 21, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: There Is A Military Coup In Thailand. The country has seen months of antigovernment protests that have left 28 people dead and now led to the ouster of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra earlier this month. There have been, depending on who's counting, between 11 and 19 coups over the past 81 years there. Markets are unfazed. North Korea Fires Near South's Warship. The DPRK fired shells in disputed waters and near a South Korean military vessel. Earlier this week the South fired warning shots at a North ship, and Pyongyang vowed it would retaliate. China PMI. The flash reading for May hit a five-month high though remained in contraction territory at 49.7.  Everyone But France. The Eurozone saw its PMI composite output index slip to 53.9 in May from 54.0 in April. Anything above 50 is still means expansion is occurring. But France's PMI tumbled to a three-month low of 49.3. "France’s stuttering economic performance continued in May, with output sliding back into contraction following modest increases in the previous two months," said Markit's Jack Kennedy. Best Buy Sales. Comps fell 1.9% in Q1, and the big boxer says it expects consumer electronics sales to be weaker until marquee names start launching new products. BBY shares are down nearly 4% premarket. Sears Sales. Slowing electronics demand caused same-store sales at Kmart to fall 2.2% in Q1. Comps climbed 0.2% at Sears, but would have been up 0.8% "without the dampening effect of electronics," the FT reported. The retailer also plans to close more stores. SHLD shares are off nearly 3% premarket. Rouble Rally. The Russian rouble hit a four-month high against the dollar as the Ukraine crisis appeared to ratchet down. NATO chief Anders Fogh-Rasmussen Tweeted that there were signs Russian forces were finally preparing to withdraw from the Ukrainian border. Jobless Claims, Flash PMI, Fed Data. The Labor Department releases weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. Expectations are for claims to increase to 310,000 from 297,000. At 9:45 we get a flash reading for manufacturing PMI. Consensus is for a reading of 55.9, up from 55.4. The Chicago and KC feds all release business activity reports today. Existing-Home Sales. The National Association of Realtors will release existing home sales for April at 10 a.m. Consensus is for sales of 4.67 million on seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) basis. Sales in March were at a 4.59 million SAAR. Markets. U.S. futures are higher. Stocks in Europe saw mixed gains. The Nikkei climbed more than 2%. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Shannon StapletonBest Buy just released its Q1 financial results, and the numbers are mixed Adjusted earnings per share climbed to $0.33, beating expectations for $0.19. However sales were a bit weak. Revenue fell to $9.04 billion, missing expectations for $9.22 billion. Comparable store sales fell 1.9%. The company continues to move forward in improving the profitability of its operations. However, management warns that sales will be weak until the electronics makers launch some new products. "As we look forward to the second and third quarters, we are expecting to see ongoing industry-wide sales declines in many of the consumer electronics categories in which we compete," warned CFO Sharon McCollam. "We are also expecting ongoing softness in the mobile phone category as consumers eagerly await highly-anticipated new product launches. Consequently, absent any major product launches, we are expecting comparable sales to be negative in the low-single digits in both the second and third quarters." FREE AppDownload
XE.comA few minutes before 6:00 a.m. EST, the Thai army interrupted all of local TV programming to announce it was assuming power. It's a military coup. This comes two days after the military declared martial law. You might think this means chaos in the financial markets. But judging by the markets' subdued initial reaction, it doesn't seem like that big of a risk event. The Thai baht weakened barely against the dollar (see chart). The news came minutes after Thailand's stock market closed; the SET index climbed 0.16% today. There are at least two reasons today's news isn't rocking markets. One, the country had already been in chaos. Months of antigovernment protests had already left 28 people dead and saw the ouster of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Two, military coups happen frequently in Thailand. "The Thai military has staged 18 successful or attempted coups since 1932," noted Business Insider's Michael Kelley. Earlier this week, a couple of analysts addressed the Thai army's declaration of martial law. Here's some of what was said: Derek Bloomfield, Deutsche Bank: "Silver lining aspects of military intervention ... We attribute this to: 1) immediate uncertainty regarding politics is suddenly diminished (even as medium-to-longer term uncertainties remain the same or even heightened), and 2) military deployment quells risk of large-scale protest groups from either or both rival camps from assembling and causing widespread damage." Krystal Tan, Capital Economics: "The optimistic view is that the army’s goal is to use martial law as a way to force the opposing political factions to reach a compromise agreement that can lead to the creation of a functioning government with popular support. The caretaker government is calling for elections to be held on 3rd August, after the Election Commission recently said that political unrest has disrupted preparations for a July vote." Poramet Tongbua, Bualuang Securities: "We believe the market will react positively to the announcement, anticipating that it will presage some sort of resolution of the prevailing political gridlock and government dysfunctionality. But SET upside could be limited in the short-term; it will depend on what happens next." It's certainly jarring to see a country's army general announcing on TV that the military is taking control. But in a country where the alternatives are widely understood as being worse, you can begin to understand why panic isn't ensuing. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking(Reuters) - Sears Holdings Corp &lt;SHLD.O&gt; posted a bigger loss for the first quarter as the struggling retailer failed to arrest a fall in sales despite offering heavy discounts to woo shoppers. Shares of the company, which operates Sears department stores and the Kmart discount chain, fell 7 percent in premarket trading. Sears, controlled by hedge fund billionaire Eddie Lampert, has been shedding assets and closing stores as it battles the operating losses and weak sales that have plagued the company since 2005, when the two chains were merged. The company said last week it was exploring a sale of its 51 percent stake in Sears Canada Inc &lt;SCC.TO&gt;. Sears said on Thursday that a potential stake sale could raise about $730 million in cash at current market value. On Wednesday, Sears Canada reported its steepest fall in quarterly sales in almost five years. Sears said it would close 80 stores or more in the year ending January. The retailer operated 1,980 Sears and Kmart stores in the United States as of February. The company's U.S. comparable store sales fell 1 percent in the quarter ended May 3. Comparable store sales declined 2.2 percent at Kmart stores in the United States, but rose 0.2 percent at Sears stores due to higher demand for home appliances and home products. The company said its gross margin fell to 23.2 percent from 25.5 percent. Net loss attributable to shareholders widened to $402 million, or $3.79 per share, from $279 million, or $2.63 per share, a year earlier. Revenue declined 6.8 percent to $7.88 billion, but came higher than the average analyst estimate of $7.71 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Sears has been trying to move away from relying on stores for revenue to focus on membership through its Shop Your Way program, which integrates online shopping. The company said that sales to Shop Your Way members increased to 74 percent of eligible sales from 68 percent a year earlier. Sears shares were trading at $33.90 before the bell. The stock has fallen about 8 percent this year to Wednesday's close. (Reporting by Maria Ajit Thomas in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
The five corrections lasted from 27-154 days. Subsequent selloffs have been shorter and shallower, hardly meriting being called "corrections." All of these five corrections were triggered by macroeconomic events that threatened to precipitate a recession. When those threats dissipated, the bull market resumed. The anxiety attacks that caused the corrections were followed by relief rallies. This year’s correction is unique so far. The S&amp;P 500 is down just 0.5% from its record high on May 13. However, lots of stocks are down 10%-20% since March. They tend to be SmallCaps, as evidenced by the 8.7% decline in the Russell 2000, and the 12.2% drop in its Growth component. The Nasdaq is down 5.2% from its recent high. However, some LargeCap stocks have also taken big hits. In the S&amp;P 500, Biotechnology, Internet Software &amp; Services, and Consumer Discretionary Retail are down 13.5%, 12.0%, and 9.4% from their recent peaks. I have characterized the recent selloff as an “internal correction.” Scrambling to avoid giving back the fabulous gains from last year’s melt-up rally, institutional investors have been rebalancing their portfolios away from high-P/E to low-P/E stocks. They’ve moved some of their portfolios out of Growth into Value stocks. Stocks with predictable earnings are outperforming the more cyclical ones. Among the losers have been lots of “innocent bystanders” that have been pummeled mostly because they are included in out-of-favor ETFs. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Exit &amp; Entry Strategies. (1) Hair-raising corrections. (2) Internal vs. external corrections. (3) Innocent bystanders. (4) Will Congress invert corporate inversions? (5) Too many bulls again. (6) Central banks: coming or going? (7) ECB set to do more of whatever it takes next month. (8) Janet Yellen and John Wayne. (9) New Fedspeak word: "Normalization." (10) Dudley is ready to raise rates eventually, but not by much. (11) Surprisingly weak earnings in UK and Eurozone. (12) Not all sectors in Japan getting a lift from Abenomics. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
screenshot/Thai TV"All radio and television stations, satellite and cable, must stop normal programming and broadcast army content until told otherwise," Winthai Suvaree, a deputy army spokesman, said in a televised statement. Thailand's army chief appeared on every TV channel in the kingdom and declared the army is taking control of the government to restore order and push through reforms. "In order for the situation to return to normal quickly and for society to love and be at peace again ... and to reform the structure of the political, economic and social structure, the military needs to take control of power," Army Chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha told the country, adding that civil servants and military personnel should remain at their stations. The constitution has been suspended. Soldiers removed antigovernment protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban from a meeting of all political factions as hundreds of troops arrived at sites to clear protesters. However, the leader of the pro-government "red shirts" said they would continue their rally on the outskirts of Bangkok. "Will you fight or will you not fight? We will not go anywhere. Don't panic because we expected this," Jatuporn Prompan told supporters of former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. "Whatever happens will happen." Thai soldiers fired into the air to disperse thousands of pro-government protesters and detained a leader, Reuters reports. At 6:15 p.m. local time (7:15 a.m. EST), the army declared a nationwide curfew from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaThai soldiers stand guard during a coup at the Army Club where Thailand's army chief held a meeting with all rival factions in central Bangkok May 22, 2014. The coup d'état comes two days after the military declared martial law across the country after months of antigovernment protests that left 28 people dead and ousted prime minister and telecommunications tycoon Thaksin Shinawatra earlier this month.  The red-shirt loyalists, backed by Shinawatra, had warned of violence if the subsequent caretaker government was overthrown. The Thai military has staged 18 successful or attempted coups since 1932. An economic hub for Southeast Asia, Thailand has been gripped by off-and-on political turmoil since 2006. The economy shrank 0.6% year on year in the first quarter of this year, the first such contraction since 2011, and GDP contracted 2.1% in January-March from the previous three months. Global markets barely budged on the news. Political gridlock has been the norm this year: Protesters blocked voting of an election held in February, and last week the country's Election Commission said that a general election scheduled for July 20 was "no longer possible" amid the turmoil. Here is the U.S. government's position as of May 20, as stated by Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Daniel Russel to Congress: U.S. government FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt's a mixed picture in Europe's markets this morning. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is flat. This comes after a series of Flash PMI reports, which revealed that Germany continues to grow at a healthy pace as France slipped into contraction. Asian markets closed in the green with Japan's Nikkei up 2.1% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.5%. Overnight, we learned that China's Flash PMI climbed to a 5-month high of 49.7 in May, beating expectations for a 48.3 print. "The HSBC Chinese PMI has bounced and given markets a better feel this morning," said Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. U.S. futures are modestly higher with Dow futures up 19 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 1 point. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiSony Corp televisions are displayed at an electronic store in Tokyo May 14, 2014. Sony Corp said on Wednesday it expects to log a 50 billion yen ($489 million) net loss this financial year, its sixth in seven years, and plans additional restructuring measures that include its loss-making PC operations. TOKYO (Reuters) - Sony Corp &lt;6758.T&gt; is not thinking about selling or exiting the TV manufacturing business, where it has racked up annual losses for the past decade, although it would not rule out an equity tie-up, the company's chief executive said on Thursday. Kazuo Hirai added that the company was not operating under the assumption that it would forge an equity alliance for its struggling TV division, which will be turned into a separate entity this summer to boost transparency. Hirai also said the company did not plan to change the framework of focusing its electronics division on the three core businesses of mobile, imaging and games through the next fiscal year and beyond. (Reporting by Reiji Murai and Sophie Knight; Editing by Edmund Klamann and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannA flock of sheep graze on a field in front of a plant of Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche in the central Swiss village of Rotkreuz.SHANGHAI/ZURICH (Reuters) - Swiss drugmaker Roche Holding AG said on Thursday it had been visited by a unit of China's anti-trust regulator, amid increasing scrutiny over business practices in the pharmaceutical sector in the country. "We understand that a local government unit in Hangzhou visited Roche's offices on May 21, but the specific details are not yet clear. We will cooperate fully with the work of the relevant government department," Roche said in a statement emailed to Reuters on Thursday. A Basel-based spokesman added that the authority was a local unit of China's State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC), one of the country's anti-trust regulators, and the body which usually takes the lead on probes into corruption. Last week Chinese authorities charged executives at British drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline over bribery and corruption, with legal and industry sources saying that the crackdown against the pharmaceuticals sector was now likely to get more intense. GSK has said it wants "to reach a resolution that will enable the company to continue to make an important contribution to the health and welfare of China and its citizens".   (Reporting by Adam Jourdan in SHANGHAI and Caroline Copley in ZURICH; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
MarkitA handful of the major economies around the world have released their Flash (that is, preliminary) PMI reports, which are reliable indicators of GDP growth. Markit economist Chris Williamson was able to sum up the Eurozone story with one sentence: "Of greatest concern is France, living up to its moniker of 'sick man of Europe' by sliding back into contraction as Germany continues to enjoy robust growth and the rest of the region experiences its best expansion since mid-2007." The Eurozone's recovery continues to be a very uneven one with Germany driving most of the gains as the rest of the region struggles. Germany reported that its composite output index rested comfortably a 56.1 in May, which was a bit higher than the 56.0 expected by economists. Germany's services index jumped to a 35-month high of 56.4.  Markit economist Oliver Koldseike noted that the pace of job creation was at its highest level since late-2011. Any reading above 50 signals growth. France, however, unexpectedly signaled that its economy may be contracting. Its composite output index tumbled to a 3-month low of 49.3 in May, which was much worse than the 50.5 expected by economists. The services and manufacturing sub indices fell to multi-month lows. "France’s stuttering economic performance continued in May, with output sliding back into contraction following modest increases in the previous two months," said Markit's Jack Kennedy. The local story is disconcerting, but the overall big picture remains encouraging. The Eurozone saw its PMI composite output index slip to 53.9 in May from 54.0 in April. "A slight easing in the euro area<U+201F>s rate of growth was seen in May but doesn<U+201F>t change the picture of a region that<U+201F>s enjoying its best spell of growth for three years, especially when an acceleration in growth of new orders suggests that the pace of expansion could pick up again in June," said Williamson. Here's Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen: "The most positive news from the point of view of the economy is that the headline eurozone PMI report is now suggestive of broad-based employment gains in both the manufacturing and services sector. Much more is needed to make a meaningful impact of still high unemployment, but it is a good start. The optimism is also slightly dented by the fact that end demand is still reported as being weak relative to history. This means that higher sales, to some extent at least, are achieved by discounting prices." FREE AppDownload
