Getty This post originally appeared at Guest of a Guest. Spring has almost sprung! And with the new season, charities across New York City are preparing to take advantage of the nicer weather with their annual spring galas and events.  The themes this year range from “White Gloves Gone Wild” to “Enchantment in the Secret Garden,” and everything in between.  The one thing that is certain, however, is that these events are sure to take you far away from the depths of the Manhattan winter we are slowly coming out of. We've rounded up the best, most talked about and most prestigious charity events going on this spring. FREE AppDownload
Starr Environmental/Flickr, Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty ImagesOracle billionaire Larry Ellison is no stranger to the real estate market — he's been called "the nation's most avid trophy-home buyer" and has all but taken over entire neighborhoods in Malibu and the Lake Tahoe area.  When asked by CNBC in 2012 why he would buy more homes than he could possibly live in, Ellison referenced his love of art.  "My favorite museums are things like the Frick Museum in New York and the Huntington Hartford in Pasadena where it's someone's home that you walk through," Ellison said to CNBC. "So I'm going to start these art museums that are basically converted homes, and I have one for modern art, and I have one for 19th century European art, and one for French impressionism. I've got Japanese. I own a home in Kyoto, Japan actually on the temple on grounds in Nanzenji that is going to become a Japanese art museum. So, a lot of them are museums."  Ellison has made headlines in recent years for his plans to develop Lanai, a Hawaiian island he purchased in 2012, into a model for environmentally sound living. Though Lanai has been his largest overall investment by far, he's made a number of blockbuster purchases over the last two decades.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Columbia ManagementZach PandlIn December 2012, the Federal Open Market Committee — these are the people who determine U.S. monetary policy — announced it would employ a 2.5% inflation rate threshold and 6.5% unemployment rate threshold to guide monetary policy. This so-called forward guidance is part of the Fed's ongoing efforts to be more transparent. With the unemployment rate tumbling even as many other labor market stats remain weak, economists expect the Fed to make some changes to that forward guidance during this week's FOMC. For example, they may do away with that 6.5% threshold. But does this mean the Fed is full of crap and their words mean nothing? Of course not. That 6.5% threshold was never set in stone as a trigger for interest rate hikes. To appreciate this, you need to understand the nuances of the language coming from the Fed. Columbia Management's Zach Pandl offers a brief primer on forward guidance and how it shapes Fed credibility. The styles of forward guidance provided by central banks differ along two main dimensions: (1) the degree of commitment and (2) the motivation for providing guidance in the first place. Both aspects can affect credibility, and therefore the importance of these statements for markets. Forward guidance can take the form of an explicit commitment or a forecast. Central banks never make unconditional promises (at least about instruments), so there is not a black and white difference here. But in general, commitments are more difficult to reverse, either because policymakers’ credibility is on the line or because of institutional details of the policy framework. Statements that contain explicit commitments are more credible and should be taken more seriously by investors. Forward guidance based on forecasts alone (“we think we will raise rates next year because we forecast that inflation will rise”) is easier to reverse, less credible and should be given less weight by investors (even if it conveys some relevant information). The motivation for forward guidance also differs over time and across countries. The distinction comes down to whether guidance intends to clarify the existing policy approach or signals an intentional deviation from historical policy. In other words, whether it simply restates the reaction function or changes the reaction function. The European Central Bank, for instance, is adamant about the fact that its “extended period” guidance is only meant to clarify its existing approach. In contrast, many academic economists argue that policymakers should use forward guidance to intentionally deviate from past behavior in order to provide additional monetary stimulus at the zero lower bound—i.e. to go “lower for longer.” In our view, forward guidance that clarifies an existing framework is more credible, because the central bank will be less likely to change its mind in the future. Forward guidance which intends to deviate from past behavior should be considered less credible, because we cannot be sure that the central bank in the future will actually follow through with the plans laid out in the past (especially when the composition of the policy committee changes over time). Pandl offers this table summing up his thoughts. "The most credible type of forward guidance is one that clarifies the existing policy approach and backs up statements with some type of commitment," he said. "The weakest type of forward guidance is a forecast that the central bank will behave in the future differently than it has behaved in the past." Columbia Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERSInvestigators think the missing Malaysia Airlines 777 was seized by someone who knew how to fly it and then flown toward (or to) an as-yet-unknown destination as much as 2,000 miles from its last known position.  This range that could have taken the plane into central Asia or, via a southern route, far out over the Indian Ocean. (See red arcs at right) It's certainly possible — some people believe probable — that the jet crashed in deep water. US investigators currently seem to believe this. But why would anyone want to meticulously plan and execute the theft of a plane and then fly it 7 hours only to crash it in the ocean? Unless you wanted to try to make the plane or its passengers or its cargo disappear forever (possible, but why?), it seems unlikely that you would go to this trouble. If you just wanted to kill everyone, you could crash anywhere, anytime. And the sooner you crashed, the better, because the less likely that someone on board would discover you and foil your plot. That the person or people who took control of the Malaysia jet flew the plane for at least 7 hours after they switched the transponder off, therefore, would seem to raise a very real possibility that they did not want to crash the plane, but, instead, wanted to fly it somewhere. Where?  WNYCRunways in range that could handle a 777.Over the weekend, we published a map created by WNYC that shows all the runways within the plane's range that could handle a jet of this size. It's possible that the jet was headed for one of these or another makeshift runway created for the purpose of this one landing (and, possibly, another takeoff). Some, including Jeff Wise of Slate, have speculated that the plane's destination was Central Asia — somewhere in China, perhaps, or Pakistan. Today, a theory was floated that the plane slipped through land-based radar by shadowing another jet. More likely, perhaps, the radar operators just ignored its blip, the same way the Malaysian radar operators did. But why steal a plane a fly it somewhere? And what of the passengers and crew? Some obvious reasons to steal a plane would be to: 1) Sell the plane or its parts 2) Transport someone or something somewhere (on this trip or another) 3) Procure a 777 to use later  If the goal was to sell the plane or its parts, good luck. This plane and its parts will now be the hardest plane and parts to fence on the planet. If the goal was to transport someone or something, stealing a full commercial airliner in mid-air seems a complicated way to do it. If mere transportation was the goal, moreover, the job would probably be complete by now, and we might have already gotten some indication of what happened to the plane and its crew. If the goal was to use the passengers as hostages to demand something, it also seems likely that we would have heard news by now. More than week has gone by. That leaves the third option — procuring a 777 to use later, with or without using the passengers as hostages (or shields). If this was the plan, the execution of the first part of the plan was truly brilliant: While investigators were scouring the ocean for wreckage, the perpetrators could have landed, refueled the plane, and flown it almost anywhere. And they could now be poised to carry out the second part of the plan. Some have speculated that the next mission for the plane might be an attack of some sort. If the plane has indeed flown somewhere undetected, this speculation seems reasonable. And the questions that would follow, of course, would be 1) an attack on what? 2) when?, 3) how? (with a bomb on board – or just the plane?), and 4) with or without the passengers? If you assume that this whole plan was drawn up and executed with extreme care, which it seems to have been, it is reasonable to assume that the second part of the plan would have been equally well thought out. So, unfortunately, it does not seem inconceivable that, at some point in the near future, the world might discover the missing Malaysian jet by spotting it on radar again, perhaps flying toward a major city. If that happens, the next question will be whether the passengers and crew are on board. If they are, the local government might face the choice of shooting down a 777 loaded with most of its passengers and crew... or allowing the plane to continue to fly on toward whatever destination it is headed for whatever purpose its pilots have in mind. The motivations for such a plan seem hard to fathom, at least given what is so far known about the passengers and crew of Malaysia 340. So let's hope this possibility is as unlikely as it would have sounded a week ago. One thing seems probable: The more time that elapses, the more likely it would seem to be that the jet crashed in the ocean. If someone was brilliant enough to plan and execute the theft of a 777 in mid-air and land the jet on some remote runway with some future plot in mind, that someone is probably also brilliant enough to realize that the more time that goes by, the more likely it is that the plane will be discovered. SEE ALSO: Pilots Say The Jet Theft Took Meticulous Planning FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign for a Bank of America office is pictured in Burbank, California(Reuters) - A former personal banker at Bank of America Corp pleaded guilty on Monday to stealing more than $2.1 million from 31 people in a Ponzi-like scheme, and was sentenced to between three and five years in prison, Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley said. Elaina Patterson, 54, pleaded guilty to 31 larceny counts before Massachusetts Superior Court Judge Peter Lauriat over a scheme that lasted from 1999 to 2011 and targeted friends, family and the elderly, among others, Coakley said. The judge also sentenced Patterson, a resident of Wilmington, Massachusetts, to 10 years probation to be served after the prison term, Coakley said. A lawyer for Patterson did not immediately respond to a request for comment. According to the attorney general, Patterson persuaded 15 family members and friends to invest nearly $4.5 million in accounts that she claimed carried high interest rates, and which she could set up by virtue of her position at a Bank of America branch in Reading, Massachusetts, about 14 miles north of Boston. Starting in 2009, Patterson then stole almost $1.5 million from 16 other people, including a combined $315,000 from two 90-year-old customers, by forging signatures on withdrawal slips, in a bid to conceal her prior theft, Coakley said. Investigators said they uncovered close to $6 million in fraudulent transactions, of which Patterson returned nearly $3.8 million to investors, leaving the total net theft at more than $2.1 million. A Ponzi scheme occurs when money from new investors is used to pay earlier investors. Coakley said her office began probing Patterson's conduct after Bank of America referred the matter during an initial internal investigation. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
ReutersOver the weekend, the People's Bank of China widened its yuan-dollar trading band to 2%, from 1%. While this is an important step towards internationalizing its currency, Bank of America's David Cui points to the  market implications of the reform. "The knee-jerking market reaction may be to speculate on such a move given China's over-capacity issue (exports is a convenient way to address the problem)," writes Cui. "So in the short run, we expect the impact on the market to be largely negative." First let's take a look at the negative implications: This will however be positive for exporters as it would make their good cheaper and for Macau, "until the government cracks down on money laundering." Remember this is however in keeping with the promise made during the third plenum to let markets play a bigger role in resource allocation.  Summarizing from the Chinese central bank's statement, Standard Chartered's Stephen Green reiterated that this move would allow for greater "price discovery and more efficient resource allocation." He added that it would "deepen the breadth and depth of the onshore markets." Meanwhile, we've pointed out that the more meaningful reform that China needs to undertake involves relinquishing control of its exchange rate by moving away from a daily fix. FREE AppDownload
Every three months, the analysts at Societe Generale update their chart of "swan" risks in their quarterly "Global Economic Outlook" report. "Black swans" characterize unforeseen and unlikely events that have the potential to rock the economy and financial markets. The risks laid out by SocGen are very much visible to us. "Risks are centered on credit and liquidity storm surges," they wrote. As the analysts explain, the upside risks is largely from advance economies' credit, whereas the downside risks are from emerging markets' credit. "Fundamentals in the advanced economies continue to improve and we have made upward revisions to our euro area growth outlook, in part reflecting fiscal drift but also stronger export performance and much improved financial conditions," they write. "On the upside risks, faster than expected credit expansion, be it in the US, UK, euro area or Japan, holds the greatest upside potential for the global economy. Emerging economies could also deliver upside surprises with better-than-expected progress on structural reform attracting the return of investors. Upside surprises could also come from an easing of monetary conditions in China, but we fear this would be at the cost of far greater risks to the economy in the medium term." "On the downside, risks centre on emerging economies and what we term liquidity storm surges. These could result both from political events and misjudged policy choices. More aggressive than expected policy tightening from the Federal Reserve and/or portfolio concentration risks could further aggravate the situation. As we head to press, moreover, the German Constitutional Court is due to rule on the ESM. The divide on the euro area's future institutional framework remains significant and albeit no longer a source of immediate market concern the shortcomings of the current institutional framework would become all too clear in the event of a new shock." Societe Generale
REUTERS/ Jacky NaegelenFrench bank Societe Generale logo is seen on the facade of a building in Paris, November 7, 2013. PARIS (Reuters) - France's No. 2 listed bank, Societe Generale, said it will ask shareholders for permission to pay some staff bonuses worth up to double their salaries, in accordance with the European Union cap on bonuses. SocGen disclosed on Monday a 299.8 million-euro compensation pool in 2013 for management, traders and employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the bank. Chief Executive Officer Frederic Oudea said last month the bonus pool would be down for 2013, after a 445.9 million euro fine over attempted rigging of the Euribor benchmark rate wiped out investment banking profits in the quarter. From next year bankers' bonuses in the 28-country EU can be no higher than their salaries or twice that amount if a bank's shareholders give their approval. However, HSBC &lt;HSBA.L&gt;, Lloyds &lt;LLOY.L&gt; and Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; are all considering giving top staff monthly or quarterly allowances to boost fixed pay. (Reporting by Lionel Laurent, Leila Abboud and Maya Nikolaeva; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Five Reasons The End Of The Bull Market Isn't Near (BMO Capital Markets) Warnings that the current bull market is near its end are back in the headlines, but Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets doesn't think this is the case. Belski points to five reasons the bull market isn't near its end. 1. The length of the bull market — Some point out that few bull markets extend to five years "but cycles of this length are not unprecedented with 3 of the last 10 bull markets reaching this milestone."2. Valuation and earnings — "Current price multiples are only slightly above historical norms and are below levels witnessed at prior peaks; earnings growth has staged an impressive rebound in recent months, while longer-term projections continue to improve."3. Corporate guidance — "Negative profit outlooks have spooked some investors, but dividend actions suggest that corporate management remains confident with their longer-term outlooks."4. Market internals — "While defensive sectors are leading market performance lately, there is still very broad participation across the market judging by the number of stocks still outperforming."5. Fund flow activity — The recent flow into equity funds has caused some concern but investors pulled so much out during the financial crisis that "when you consider a longer-term fund flow measurement period (three years), current levels are still strongly negative." Six Common IRA Mistakes That Investors Need To Avoid (Morningstar) Christine Benz at Morningstar is out with six individual retirement account (IRA) mistakes that people need to avoid.  1. Waiting till the last minute — " Over time, missing out on the benefit of tax-advantaged compounding--even if it's only 15 months' worth at a time--can add up to some serious money, according to Vanguard's research."2. Thinking they need to pick between Roth and traditional — "savvy investors often end up with a blend of Traditional IRA and Roth accounts, both by happenstance and by design."3. Making a nondeductible IRA contribution for the long run — "The trouble is, the nondeductible Traditional IRA has never been a particularly useful vehicle, even for high-income savers. Instead, its main utility is as a conduit, for those who can't make a direct Roth contribution and intend to convert their Traditional IRAs to Roth."4. Assuming that you can open a Traditional nondeductible IRA and convert it to a Roth tax free — If you have other IRA assets that haven't been taxes yet, "the taxes due on the conversion will be based on the ratio of already-been-taxed IRA assets to those that have never been taxed (pretax contributions, including Traditional 401(k) rollover money, and investment earnings). If the former number is much smaller than the latter, your conversion will be mostly taxable."5. Being paralyzed by all the rules and analysis — If you end up with the wrong type of IRA, a "hatch called re-characterization" helps people move to a Roth or traditional IRA. 6. Not contributing once you get older — People benefit more from compounding when they start to invest early but that doesn't mean they should stop contributing once they get older. "You may have 20 years or more of tax-advantaged compounding left. And if you're investing in a Roth IRA, you won't need to take distributions from your account unless you need the money (that is, there are no required minimum distributions), so your money could continue to compound even after you're retired." GRANTHAM: Stocks Are 65% Overpriced, But They're Not A Bubble (Barron's) GMO's Jeremy Grantham told Barron's that he thinks U.S. stocks are 65% overpriced. He added that if they went up another 30% we'd have a true bubble "at which point stocks would be close to twice their fair value. Similarly, in 2000, stocks were more than double their fair value. So they are quite capable of doing that." "But my point is that with the professionals getting reinforced by the Fed going back to 1994, it will be very surprising if they don't keep on playing this game until the market at least hits a classic bubble definition. Bubbles don't usually stop until sensible investors, value investors, and prudent investors have been hung out to dry and kicked around the block. That hasn't happened yet, so that tells you there is probably quite a bit left in this rally." Investors Should Stop Ignoring International Bonds (Vanguard) International bonds account for over 30% of global investible assets, but U.S. investors have little exposure to them. "While investors in international bonds are exposed to the risk of interest rate movements, the political landscape, and the economies of many different markets, …the primary factors driving international bond prices are relatively uncorrelated to the same U.S. factors, which implies a diversification benefit," write Christopher Philips, Joseph Davis, Andrew Patterson, and Charles Thomas at Vanguard.  Investors would however be exposed to currency volatility and this could negate any diversification benefits that international bonds offer. That being said, if the currency risk is hedged, "an allocation to international bonds can lead to lower average portfolio volatility over time." The authors think most investors should consider adding hedged foreign bonds to their portfolios. Wirehouses Are Sweetening Succession Deals (Investment News) Advisors over sixty manage almost $2.3 trillion in assets and many will be retiring soon. But facing competition from registered investment advisors (RIA) and the broker-dealer space, warehouses are "sweetening" their succession deals, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. "Payouts at the wirehouses have been steadily increasing and this year reach as much as 250% of an adviser's book of business, depending on length of service, size of the book and other firm metrics," reports Braswell. FREE AppDownload
Last November and again in February, some folks passed around a chart overlaying the stock market today with the stock market ahead of the 1929 crash. Initially seen as ominous, the chart was quickly defanged because of horribly distorted scaling by its author. Raymond James strategist Jeff Saut was among the experts dissecting the charts problems. In his new weekly Investment Strategy comment, Saut notes that these things work in both directions. Here's Saut: Accordingly, the alleged pundits that called for a “crash” four weeks ago have, at least so far, also been proven wrong, which I discussed when dissecting their comparison chart to 1929 showing that when comparing apples-to-apples the correlation totally breaks down (see chart 1 and 2). In fact, as proof that you can make ratio charts do just about anything you want, take a look at chart 3 that suggests this secular bull market has another 300% to 400% left on the upside Who knows. Maybe it'll happen again. Raymond James FREE AppDownload
The Chicago metropolitan area saw 373 corporate facility investment deals in 2013, more than any other metro area in the U.S, according to Site Selection magazine.   “Chicago is certainly one of our major markets in the US, especially with the focus on the financial customers that we have,” Howard Horowitz, senior vice president of global real estate for Equinix, told the magazine's Ron Starner. “Corporate headquarters are there for many firms. Geographic reach is there. If you want a Midwest location, Chicago is the first place you look.” Horowitz also said latency — the delay in sending an electronic signal — was also a critical factory, especially among trading companies. Chicago remains home to one of the largest bond and commodities pits in the world, the CME. Site Selection counts deals thusly: And, it must be a corporate firm, though retail and health-care are also excluded. With permission from SS, here's the full table. Houston was a distant second at 255; Dallas an even more remote third at 178. Omaha was No. 1 for mid-sized metros, while there was a three-way tie among some Midwest bantam-weights among smaller metros. Site Selection Read the full story at Site Selection » FREE AppDownload
theprospectgroup / YouTubeMarc Faber, author of The Gloom, Boom &amp; Doom Report, was on Bloomberg TV with Trish Regan and Matt Miller talking about China, Russia, and Ukraine. Faber argued that a Russian annexation of Crimea could be a precedent for China to essentially take what it deems is theirs. Here's Faber: The Crimea is strategically most important for Russia. It has practically no meaning strategically to the United States or to Europe. But for Russia it’s very important. I don’t think that Russia will move further into Ukraine unless there is serious provocation. But I doubt it will happen. But I think the wider implication is that we have now border lines. In other words, the US would intervene if a foreign power would establish bases in Haiti and in Cuba and so forth and so on, and the Chinese will react if foreign powers threaten Chinese access to resources. This is very important because the occupation or say the referendum (ph) in Crimea and Crimea moving to Russia gives essentially a signal to China that one day they can also move and seize some territory that they perceive that belongs to them. It's an interesting take. Here's a transcript of Faber's appearance courtesy of Bloomberg TV: TRISH REGAN: China’s currency fell to an 11-month low after China’s central bank doubled the yuan’s daily trading range against the dollar. The decision to allow greater exchange rate fluctuations comes at a time when China’s economy is showing some serious signs of losing momentum. The government is targeting a 7.5 percent growth rate. That’s actually the slowest since 1990. But leave it to the author of Gloom, Boom and Doom, that report, to say that it will likely be a little more than half that. Marc Faber joining us right now on the phone. Marc, always good to talk to you. Somewhat depressing at times, but we’re calling – or you’re calling here for 4 percent growth out of China this year. Why? MARC FABER: Well I think that we had a colossal credit bubble in China and that this credit bubble is now being gradually deflated and will bring about problems in the real estate market and among some major players in the commodity markets as well. So overall, if I look at export figures from China, and they are very closely correlated to overall economic growth, then there is a huge discrepancy between what China reports and what China’s trading partners are reporting. So if you look at the figures of China, exports are still growing. If you look at the trade figures China exports to Taiwan, so China records exports of so and so much. The Taiwan report imports from China at a much lower level. So which figures are more reliable? I think the figures of the trading partners of China are more reliable. And they would suggest that growth has slown down considerably. MATT MILLER: Hang on. So Marc, are you calling for a Chinese report of 4 percent or are you saying it’s more realistic that we’ll see 4 percent and the Chinese will come out with a report or their own numbers that are closer to the 7, 7.5 that’s expected? FABER: Governments will always publish the statistics that they wish to show irrespective whether that is in China or in other countries. Governments control basically the statistical offices, so they can show whatever they want. As Stalin said, it’s not important who votes but who counts the votes. And the government counts the statistics. REGAN: Yeah, and if you’re China, you’ve got some muscle there to count what you want. But at the end of the day, investors, they have a tendency to see through these things. Marc Faber, do you believe investors are seeing through this? Have they discounted China enough in your view? FABER: Look, the fact is simply that Chinese stocks have been just about the worst performing stocks since 2006. Now analysts will dismiss that and say everything is prefect in China, but the stock market does not seem to believe everything that the government is saying about the economy. And clearly there are strength signs in the Chinese economy. In particular, as I said, we have this huge explosion of debt. Debt as a percent of GDP has increased in the last five years by more than 50 percent. Total debt is now over 215 percent of GDP, and a lot of it is trade finance that is being rolled over. In addition to that, there are lots of funny deals. A friend of mine who analyzes China very carefully, Simon Hunt (ph), he pointed out that trade finance between one state-owned enterprise and a private company has amounted to over $5 trillion by continuing to roll over the same collateral several times. There’s lots of funny things that are happening in China. And when the whole thing unwinds it will be a disaster. MILLER: Well surely they can do that kind of thing within their own borders and kind of keep a lid on it. But as you say, if there are discrepancies with their export numbers and say Taiwan’s import numbers, or if indeed we see all of their export numbers dropping, all of their import numbers dropping more importantly, it could portend disaster for the rest of Asia. Do you see that sort of playing through, those ripples playing through Asia this year? FABER: Yes. I think that investors are not sufficiently aware that the Chinese economy is far more important for other emerging economies than the United States because China is a large importer of resources. In other words, iron ore, copper, zinc (inaudible). And at the same time, they are a huge exporter to commodity producers of their own manufactured goods, as well as Korean exports. The commodity producers are much larger than Korean exports to the US or to the U (ph). So if the Chinese economy slows down, commodity prices – industrial commodity prices are likely to remain under pressure. They already come down a lot. They remain under pressure and the resource producers have less money. In other words, the Brazilian goes into recession. The Middle East does not grow as much as before. Central Asia, Africa and so forth all contract, and then they buy less from China and you have a vicious cycle on the downside. REGAN: Let’s talk about what’s going on over in eastern Europe right now as we watch Vladimir Putin take over Crimea. How – how big might this get in your view and how should investors be thinking about Europe right now as a result of these moves from Putin? FABER: I think as an international server (ph), Mr. Putin did the right thing from his perspective. We have to look – put ourselves into his shoes. He did absolutely the right thing at the right time. I don’t think he -- REGAN: I’m sorry. He did the right thing at the right time. What do you mean by that, Marc? FABER: By that I mean that there was interference by foreign powers in Ukrainian politics that were unfavorably from the perspective of Russia. And -- REGAN: So he – he needed to save his warm water ports? He went in and took over this region, which you see as a logical political move. I guess the big question is is he going to do more. FABER: The Crimea is strategically most important for Russia. It has practically no meaning strategically to the United States or to Europe. But for Russia it’s very important. I don’t think that Russia will move further into Ukraine unless there is serious provocation. But I doubt it will happen. But I think the wider implication is that we have now border lines. In other words, the US would intervene if a foreign power would establish bases in Haiti and in Cuba and so forth and so on, and the Chinese will react if foreign powers threaten Chinese access to resources. This is very important because the occupation or say the referendum (ph) in Crimea and Crimea moving to Russia gives essentially a signal to China that one day they can also move and seize some territory that they perceive that belongs to them. REGAN: Marc Faber, thank you very much for joining us live on the phone from Thailand. The author of Gloom, Doom and Boom – MILLER: Gloom, Boom and Doom. REGAN: Thank you. MILLER: And Marc, I hope we can get you back here in the studio soon. Always a pleasure talking with Marc Faber. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jin LeeIn the days following China's first-ever default of a corporate bond (Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Co's 11 Chaori bond), many tossed around the idea that this was China's 'Bear Stearns moment' or its 'Lehman moment'. The fall of investment bank Bear Stearns and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers marked key risk events during the great recession. Chaori's default ended up being neither, writes Lombard Street Research's Diana Choyleva.  "Unlike Bear Stearns, Chaori’s default did not change the market’s perception of inherent credit risk in the economy, causing a liquidity crunch," writes Choyleva. This is because it was known for some time that the solar company was in trouble. "Nor is it a replay of Lehman’s collapse, which triggered a panic partly because it introduced uncertainty about the US government’s intentions." That being said, Choyleva does think that "China's Bear Stearns moment may strike any time."  China's overall debt reached 238% of GDP last year, but even in an extreme case China will find the clean up more manageable. China could "use its ability to absorb loan losses to postpone the debt problem and defer financial market reform," writes Choyleva. Choyleva argues that with reforms China faces financial distress but that without it the debt will continue to balloon and cause a bigger crisis. "If the leadership opts to mop up the mess while still wasting capital, it could be only 2-3 years before a major financial crisis hits the economy." From Choyleva: "Debt in China over the past five years has grown much faster than in Japan at the same stage of development. Studies show the rate of increase in debt is as important, if not more important, in precipitating a crisis than the absolute level of debt. On that front, China scores extremely poorly. Japan’s debt didn’t start to rise at a similar speed until the mid-1980s. China’s debt has surged sooner because its economy is much bigger than Japan’s was. The world is just not big enough to let China continue to increase its income per capita and waste its savings on a vast scale for years to come. The financial crisis was the beginning of the end of China’s export and investment-led growth model." Both scenarios could prompt a Bear Stearns moment, but in the reform scenario China will be able to manage the situation. "If it happens later in a no reform scenario the crisis will be much bigger and China's catch-up growth would be compromised, i.e. China grows at below the rate of global growth for a decade," Choyleva told Business Insider in an email.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBunny and Paul MellonUPPERVILLE, Va. (AP) — Rachel "Bunny" Mellon, the deeply private and profoundly wealthy centenarian, has died at her estate in Virginia. She was 103. Her longtime personal attorney Alexander Forger said from his office in New York City that Mellon died of natural causes Monday at her 4,000-acre horse farm in Upperville. After spending most of her life trying to avoid the spotlight, she was thrust into it when Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards was indicted in 2011 for using what prosecutors alleged was campaign money, including $750,000 from Mellon, to hide his mistress Rielle Hunter and their child during his 2008 presidential bid. Friends said Mellon should be remembered more for her contributions to the world of horticulture, art and fashion than the scandal that marked her last years. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jo Yong-HakAn employee of the Korea Exchange Bank counts money next to stacks of one hundred U.S. dollar banknotes at the bank's headquarters in Seoul, August 11, 2011. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Swings in the foreign exchange market cost U.S.-based multinational corporations nearly $6 billion in revenue in the fourth quarter, according to a report by currency risk management consulting firm FiREapps on Monday. That was a 39 percent increase from the third quarter. With the exception of the second and third quarters of 2012, at the peak of the euro zone crisis, the fourth-quarter losses were the highest since FiREapps started tracking the effects of currency on earnings in 2011. Phoenix-based FiREapps analyzes the currency effects on quarterly earnings of 846 publicly traded companies, a subset of the Fortune 2000 companies that generate at least 15 percent of international revenue in two or more currencies. The average hit to earnings per share from foreign exchange among the companies disclosing impact on EPS was $0.03 in the fourth quarter, the same as in the previous quarters of 2013. Since FX managers from leading multinationals typically have a target of less than $0.01 in EPS impact, a hit to EPS that averages $0.03 is material, FiREapps said. More and more companies have made a conscious effort to hedge against sharp currency movements because sudden gyrations in major crosses can eat away at a company's bottom line. The dollar in 2013 managed to eke out a gain of 0.3 percent, but for the most part of this decade, the greenback has been on a downtrend. For 2013, the total reported negative impact was $17.8 billion, a 64 percent drop from the previous year, the report said. In 2012, the negative hit to earnings was $50 billion. "The trend is definitely improving, but there are still a lot of companies that are unprepared," Wolfgang Koester, chief executive of FiREapps, told Reuters. He added that the improvement in 2013 relative to 2012 was due to the fact that the euro zone debt crisis abated, stabilizing the euro. Last year, the euro gained 4.2 percent against the dollar. For the fourth quarter last year, the Brazilian real, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar had the largest negative impact on corporate earnings. The yen lost nearly 7 percent of its value against the U.S. dollar in the last quarter. The Brazilian real fell more than 6 percent, while the Canadian currency dropped 3 percent against the greenback. The FiREapps report also showed that 196 companies reported material negative currency issues in the fourth quarter. That represented a 4.4 percent decline from the third quarter and a 7 percent decrease from the 2012 average. Fifty-eight companies, meanwhile, reported positive currency effects in the fourth quarter. In total, the net quarterly impact from currency volatility totaled at least $5.65 billion in losses, the highest in 2013, FiREapps said. (Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
 The boom in multimillion-dollar real estate sales in New York has plenty of critics. But there is one group that's cheering: New York politicians. According to the New York state Department of Taxation and Finance, collections from the state's so-called mansion tax—a 1 percent levy on homes sold for $1 million—reached a record $259 million in the 2012-2013 fiscal year. That's up 22 percent from the previous fiscal year and up 47 percent from the market bottom in 2009-2010. Of course, $259 million is a drop in the revenue bucket, since New York collected $63.6 billion in total taxes and fees in 2012-2013. But collections on the mansion tax were more than the state alcohol tax and twice the tobacco products' tax in the same year. As its revenue has grown, so has its share of critics. Many argue that the mansion tax, first imposed by Gov. Mario Cuomo in 1989, should be adjusted for real estate inflation. Brokers say that a $1 million apartment in 1989 would be sold for about $1.9 million to $2 million today. Sothebys International Realty And while $1 million may get you a mansion in Binghamton or Erie, it can barely buy a one-bedroom in Manhattan. (In Manhattan, it might be time to rename it the "lavish studio apartment" tax.) Not surprisingly, the mansion tax is universally hated by the real estate industry. "It's arbitrary," said Duncan MacKenzie, CEO of the New York State Association of Realtors. "And it artificially depresses the market." It's hard to know how much the tax depresses the market—or even if it does. But a recent study by Wojciech Kopczuk and David J. Munroe of Columbia University found that the tax creates "bunching:" a large grouping of homes priced just under the tax threshold. A look at how much tax has been collected over time: CNBC FREE AppDownload
Iowa-based startup Dwolla has made a name for itself with its rather painless approach to sending money over the Internet — sending someone $10 or less is free. Sending more than $10 costs $0.25. That's all there is to it. "What about Bitcoin?" becomes the obvious question. "We had merchants operating in the system that exchanged the currency, but we never packaged, sold, converted or distributed the virtual currency," Dwolla's Jordan Lampe told Business Insider. Dwolla's relationship with Bitcoin ended poorly when the federal government seized $2.9 million worth of Bitcoin from Dwolla as part of its investigation into the Mt. Gox Bitcoin exchange. As Dwolla was merely the payments processor, the money actually belonged to Mutum Sigillum LLC, a U.S. subsidiary of Mt. Gox. This incident saw Dwolla prohibit Bitcoin-related merchant activity last Fall.  Bitcoin's only become more mainstream in the months since then, so what are Dwolla's current feelings toward the currency? Lampe elaborated: Dwolla's made the decision to focus its efforts on moving the US Dollar ... We look forward to reevaluating Bitcoin's status as a commodity or currency ... Whereas we work inside and with the constraints, regulations, and stakeholders of the existing US payment systems, Bitcoin is tackling the problem outside ... There's a powerful potential partnership here that I'm personally really excited about. Things just need to fall into place. We hope they do. So there's no Bitcoin integration on the way for Dwolla for the foreseeable future. But just because Dwolla deals in old fashioned U.S. dollars doesn't mean it can't improve the way we interact with money. Dwolla-to-Dwolla transfers happen instantly in realtime. And you know how those old-fashioned ACH transfers from one bank account to another take can a matter of days? Lampe told us that "it's Dwolla's mission to reduce this time. It's why we're creating new payment innovations like FiSync, which hopes to replace 40-year-old ACH system with realtime [transfers]." Once a financial institution implements FiSync (it's free!), its customers can enjoy ACH-like transfers without pesky waiting time. Bitcoin is quick to capture people's imagination, but far more people would rather trust the U.S. dollar. As long that's true, there will be great utility in providing services that move it quickly and efficiently. Dwolla's so far happy to be one of the companies doing so. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsU.S. President Barack Obama talks with pub-goers as First Lady Michelle Obama draws a pint of stout while coached by Ollie Hayes (right) at the Ollie Hayes pub in Moneygall, Ireland, May 23, 2011.It was a big up-day for stocks. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoAs Crimea has voted to join Russia, and as tensions between Russia and the Ukraine mount, the U.S. has announced sanctions against seven of Vladimir Putin's 'cronies'. The EU has joined the U.S. and is imposing sanctions on 21 people in Russia and Crimea and has said it will consider harsher sanctions when it meets this week. Morgan Stanley's Russia economics and strategy team writes that they are "cautious about the effectiveness of sanctions on Russia." "Russia is a large country, with extensive resources, accounting in 2012 for 2.8% of global GDP, 4.7% of international merchandise trade and 13% of internationally traded oil. Typically, sanctions have been applied against much smaller countries, such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and North Korea, with significantly fewer resources." But how effective are sanctions really? Recent history suggests not so much. In a Bloomberg Businessweek column, Carla Anna Robbins, an adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, points out three such failures.  "Sanctions have failed to dissuade Iran from continuing to enrich uranium. They haven’t dislodged North Korea’s repressive and erratic leaders or forced a rollback of their nuclear and missile programs. For all the international pressure on Syria’s Assad, the regime is getting more ruthless, not less, and the policy debate in Washington has moved on to how much military support to provide the rebels." A study by Gary Hufbauer, Jeffrey Schott, and Kimberly Ann Elliot (HSE) first promulgated "key evidence that sanctions can achieve ambitious foreign policy goals." In their study, the reviewed 115 cases between 1914 and 1990 where sanctions were used, and found that 40 cases, or 34% were successful.  In a seminal paper for International Security, titled "Why Economist Sanctions Do Not Work," Robert A. Pape writes that sanctions were in fact only effective 5% of the time, not 34%. Pape argues that the world would need to change significantly before economic sanctions could "be a reliable alternative to military force." Here are some of his key arguments. None of this is to say that sanctions never work, the dissolution of South Africa's brutal apartheid regime is a case in point. And turning to sanctions proves that the 'coercer state' is willing to try a more peaceful method of negotiation first. But the effectiveness of sanctions is very much in doubt. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidDavid Einhorn of Greenlight Capital Folks from popular stock market blogging website Seeking Alpha will appear in court on Tuesday to explain to a judge why they shouldn't have to hand over the identity of an anonymous blogger to hedge fund manager David Einhorn.  Last month, Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, filed a court petition requesting that Seeking Alpha reveal the identity of an anonymous blogger called "Valuable Insights."  Greenlight alleged that Valuable Insights disclosed the hedge fund's trade secrets and breached confidentiality by revealing his fund's stake in Micron Technology before it was made public. (Einhorn didn't publicly reveal his investment in semiconductor producer Micron until the inaugural charity Robin Hood Investors Conference on November 21, 2013.) Greenlight explained in its court petition that the fund began building its Micron stake on July 2, 2013, which was during the third quarter. Forty-five days after each quarter ends, hedge funds of a certain size are required to report their long stock holdings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a form known as a 13-F. Greenlight Capital didn't report the Micron stake in the third-quarter 13-F dated November 14, 2013.  Greenlight said it requested confidentiality treatment via a "Confidentiality Letter" request filed with the SEC on November 14, 2013. The fund did that so they could continue to add to the position, the court petition said.  According to Greenlight, the only people who knew about the Micron investment were Greenlight's employees, legal counsel, prime and executing brokers and other agents, the court document says. Those people have a contractual or fiduciary responsibility to keep these investments confidential.  Greenlight claimed that before 9:32 a.m. EST on November 14, 2013, before it had filed its "Confidentiality Letter" with the SEC, Valuable Insights wrote on Seeking Alpha, "Expect one mega hedge fund rock star to show up as [Micron] holder today, not Ackman, Icahn or Loeb..." We couldn't find the post that Greenlight referred to, but we did find that Valuable Insights Tweeted the Micron hint earlier at 7:48 a.m on November 14. Twitter.com/Valinsights Greenlight said that Valuable Insights also posted hints on Seeking Alpha about the identity of the fund manager and later confirmed it by saying "you heard it hear first" when one user on the site guessed "Einhorn."   Greenlight said that it believes that Valuable Insights owned Micron's stock. We didn't see a posting about Micron before November 14, 2013. However, according to a November 18, 2013 post we found, Valuable Insights wrote that they were long Micron (MU).  Seeking Alpha Consequently, Greenlight said that they had to purchase the stock at a higher price point following the Seeking Alpha posting.  Greenlight has also said that Seeking Alpha has refused to voluntarily disclose the Valuable Insight's identity. That's why they're petitioning the court.  According to Valuable Insights' profile, he's an "Analyst and Fund Manager with almost 20 years investment experience. Coverage includes a variety of industries, with a focus on technology." What's more is since the date of the petition, February 14, 2014, Valuable Insights hasn't blogged on Seeking Alpha or Tweeted. This was the last Tweet: Working on a new name and several updates. Hope to have something out next week. Seeking Alpha's site says that they like people to use their real names, but many "well-known, veteran stock market bloggers" use pseudonyms. "While Seeking Alpha editors greatly prefer that our authors use their real names, we recognize that is not always possible. Due to regulations at their workplace or other factors, some contributors are not able to reveal their real names. In addition, many well-known, veteran stock market bloggers (some of the finest, in fact) write under a pseudonym," the site's policy states. A representative for Greenlight Capital declined to comment. Seeking Alpha also declined to comment for this story.  FREE AppDownload
Douglas EllimanAfter selling New York City's first $100 million townhouse to the nation of Qatar, the A Team — a real estate group headed by brothers Tal and Oren Alexander from Douglas Elliman Real Estate — have another impressive listing on display. This time, the brothers are representing fertilizer billionaire Alexander Rovt, who's not only selling his Upper East Side townhouse, but a Phantom Rolls-Royce to go along with it, according to the New York Post. The Rolls-Royce was actually added to the property by the brokers, not the seller, Tal Alexander told Business Insider. It draws extra attention to the fact that the townhouse comes with a private garage, which is rare.  "This house is going to cater to a Chinese or Middle Eastern buyer," Alexander said. "We know that the Phantom is an attractive car to that type of buyer." The property spans 25 feet, putting it on the wider end of the city's townhouses. It has five outdoor spaces, including a rooftop patio. The five-bedroom, eight-bathroom home recently underwent renovations that took five years to complete, and now comes with a pool and jacuzzi in the basement. The home and car are on the market for a total of $25 million.
Andrew A/FlickrThe Golden Gate Bridge has long been a popular place for suicide attempts.It's time to admit that America has a suicide problem. The New Yorker's Emily Greenhouse recently discussed why preventing suicide is an apparently low priority in our health care system despite rising suicide rates, calling it "a phenomenon we push away, we mystify, even—it must be said—romanticize, as if science cannot begin to confront its cause." In the developed world, suicide is the leading cause of death for people aged 15 – 49, killing 107,536 people in 2010 while heart disease killed only 98,374, according to the Institute for Metrics and Evaluation. Meanwhile, U.S. suicide rates have been rising since 1999, after declining in the 1990s. While there are a number of factors that contribute to any suicide, including societal or economic factors, an overwhelming majority of those that attempt suicide (90% in the developed world) suffer from mental health issues like depression, bi-polar disorder, schizophrenia, and others. In other words, the primary causes of suicide could be treated. “We have effective treatments for most of these [psychological ailments] … but the tragedy is, people die from temporary feelings of helplessness—things we can help with.” Alan Berman, the executive director of the American Association of Suicidology and the president of the International Association of Suicide Prevention, told LiveScience last year. The U.S. Surgeon General did release a report in 2012 detailing a national strategy for suicide prevention, which increasing access to mental health and substance abuse care, in part by providing financial incentives to states and communities for providing these services.  As now-deceased writer David Foster Wallace once said, "... most of these suicides are actually dead long before they pull the trigger." The most effective way of preventing that is by proactively treating those that are at a high risk for suicide with proper mental health care and support.  It's also worth remembering that the suicide rate is much worse for men, generally rising with age. National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention FREE AppDownload
U.S. auto sales have come back nicely since the financial crisis thanks to a combination of looser credit conditions, increasing consumer confidence, and a need to replace old cars. This slide comes from a presentation from high-yield credit research team. It shows the fall and rise of U.S. auto sales. It also shows how vehicle miles driven has been on a decline. At least some of this can be attributable to higher fuel efficiency standards. Aging fleets are expected to be a bullish force as consumers and businesses trade up to newer more fuel-efficient vehicles. The final chart shows who the big players are in the U.S. auto market. GM, Ford, and Toyota lead the way. Citi Research
The U.S. has the world's highest incarceration rate, and obviously, someone has to pay to put people behind bars.  Using 2010 data from The Vera Institute, a justice policy nonprofit, Texas attorney David Breston and a team of designers created an interactive map showing how much prison costs in 40 states. Ten states' Departments of Corrections didn't participate in the Institute's survey. In the 40 participating states, researchers found total prison costs ran taxpayers $39 billion — $5.4 billion more than reflected in corrections budgets. DavidBreston.com The red dots show the prisons in each for state. The creators excluded transfer, psychiatric, pre-release, facilities, and only included state-run units. Take a look at Texas. Click here to check your own state. DavidBreston.com The bottom of the map then shows each state's total taxpayer cost of prisons, which the survey defined as residential facilities holding adult offenders in state custody. davidbreston.com Prison costs include expenses for the operation of state-run prisons, privately run prisons, and any payments made to local jails and to other states for housing state-sentenced inmates.  Taxpayer costs include expenses funded by state and federal revenue for these three prison-related expenses: administrative purposes, such as employee benefits or capital costs; inmate services funded through other agencies, such as education or training programs; and the cost of under-funded pension and retiree healthcare plans.  States with the highest costs don't necessarily spend the most per inmate. For example, California, the state with the most prison costs (near $8 million total), spends about about $47,000 on each inmate. New York, however, spends about $60,000 on each inmate — the most of any state. But the state's total budget only runs about $3.5 million. Costs outside the correction departments ranged from less than 1% of the total cost of prisons in Arizona to as much as 34% in Connecticut. Because the Institute couldn't account for all costs outside corrections departments, the data includes some conservative estimation.  Click here to play around with the map yourself. FREE AppDownload
Meet Victor, a robotic creation at Carnegie Mellon University that plays a mean game of Scrabble, reports the Wall Street Journal. The games are literally mean — Victor is programmed to trash-talk his competitors. Dorcas Alexander, a tournament Scrabble player who faced off against Victor, told the Wall Street Journal that she "thought he was going to be a better player than he was" — the people behind the project decided that it'd be boring to play a computer that won all the time, so they only gave him fairly middling Scrabble skills. By dumbing him down and giving him a cocky personality, Victor has some rather human-like characteristics.  FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderUSA Today columnist Michael Wolff has written a column expressing his view of the prospects for our business and that of other digital news companies. This follows a column that Mr. Wolff wrote in January suggesting that we should sell our company quickly. (We disagreed!). In his most recent column, Mr. Wolff again said some nice things about me personally (thank you!). Then he laid out his logic about why our future is likely to be bumpy and dark. Mr. Wolff's thesis is that digital ad prices are dropping and, therefore, that we and other digital media leaders won't be able to afford to produce high-quality digital news much longer. We agree with Mr. Wolff's observation about average ad prices. Where we disagree with Mr. Wolff is that this trend is bad for us. On the contrary, we think it's great. Why? Because the digital-ad prices that are dropping are the sky-high prices charged by traditional news companies that are trying to make print and broadcast models work in digital. These companies have big, legacy costs to support, so they are trying to charge the same prices in digital that they are charging in print and TV. Fortunately for buyers of digital ads, the prices the traditional news organizations can charge are dropping. Why? Because  real-time buying, data-based targeting, native advertising, and the changing behavior of news consumers are allowing ad buyers to get more bang for their buck elsewhere. For example, on Business Insider! At Business Insider, our goal is to create value for our readers and clients, not to protect a legacy business, so we charge native digital prices. We also encourage clients to use our "private exchange" to target their advertising in real time, which offers an even more efficient buying option. And we create custom native advertising solutions for our major clients, allowing them to reach our readers — the next generation of business leaders — more effectively and efficiently than they can on other professional news sites. Our clients see such value in our solutions, in fact, that, in contrast to USA Today's concern, our revenue per reader is actually rising. In short, the pressure on ad prices at traditional news organizations is good news for our clients and us. We are better at serving digital readers than many traditional news organizations, so we can thrive on these "digital dimes." We also have a successful subscription business, which we and our members are very excited about. So, we agree with USA Today about the trend of declining digital ad prices at traditional news sites. We hope this trend continues. For what it's worth, the USA Today article also includes several incorrect facts about us that we would like to correct: (USA Today did not attempt to contact us before publishing its article. After the article was published, we pointed out the factual errors, but the paper declined to correct them or note that we had corrected them. So we have corrected them here!) As ever, at Business Insider, we have two simple priorities: Thank you for reading us! SEE ALSO: Business Insider Secrets Revealed! FREE AppDownload
Last week, we learned that the amount of U.S. Treasury securities held in custody for international accounts plunged by $104.5 billion during the week ending March 12. To be clear, this does not mean those securities were sold. All it means is that they are no longer being held at the Fed. The leading theory regarding what happened is that Russia moved these securities in advance of potential sanctions that could limit or restrict their ability to access their overseas money. "There have been other more definitive reports in the media regarding pullback in activity on the part of Russia-based companies and investors in the past few days," said UBS's Boris Rjavinski and Matthias Rusinski. Nevertheless, some folks can't help but consider the possibility that Russia could start dumping Treasuries on the bond market in an act of economic warfare. "The big question is: will the Russian institutions sell large amounts of their holdings which could de-stabilize the market in the near term?" said Rjavinski and Rusinski. "To be exact, it is roughly a $139 billion dollar question, since that was the latest report amount of Treasuries held by Russian official institutions." To put Russia's presence in the Treasury market into context, China holds $1.26 trillion worth of Treasury securities and Japan holds $1.18 trillion. According to Treasury data, Russia is only the eleventh largest overseas holder of Treasuries. "Not only are they far cry from the two behemoths – China and Japan – but also place close to the bottom of the "peloton" in the Treasury buyer's race," added Rjavinski and Rusinski. Basically, Russia isn't really that big of a player in this market. Circling back the the issue of falling custody holdings, the analysts offer an alternative explanation. "While geopolitical conspiracy theories are tempting, there are possible more mundane contributing factors to consider," they said. Specifically, they note that last year's discussion of tapering by the Federal Reserve triggered weakness in emerging market currencies. And data suggests central banks in these economies sold some of their Treasury reserves in their effort to bolster their currencies. "Without the benefit of detailed breakdown of data, Figure 1 still shows that foreign custody holdings have been in decline since November last year, i.e. long before the latest drop," they said. In other words, the recent drop in custody holdings may be at least partially explained a continuation of a declining trend of custody holdings, which in turn is explained by emerging-market selling. UBS FREE AppDownload
Credit growth in the US seems to have stabilized and may be on the rise. It's worth mentioning that the bottom in loan growth just happened to correspond to the start of Fed's taper. Coincidence? FREDTotal loan growth rate YoYWhatever the case, this may be a sign of improving demand for credit and banks' willingness to accommodate. The key to this change in trend is that improvements in loan growth have been primarily driven by a sudden jump in corporate lending. FREDCorporate loan growth rate YoYWhy is corporate America increasing its borrowing all of a sudden? The most likely answer is the improvement in capital expenditures (capex), which is evidenced by firmer capital goods spending by US companies. We saw initial signs of that improvement back in February (see story). There were other indications as well. ISI's latest corporate survey provides further support to this thesis. ISI Research: - Survey strengthened over the past two weeks with U.S. orders now a solid 61.5. Areas of strength include equipment tied to trucks, rail, aerospace, and construction. Whether using their massive cash reserves or tapping bank credit facilities (increasing bank loan balances), the time has come for higher capital expenditures by US firms. Here is why. Barron's: - Capital expenditures [have been] just 46% of operating cash flow for nonfinancial companies in the S&amp;P 500. The average since 1989 is 57%. Capex can't remain low forever. Already, the average age of U.S. structures is the highest it has been since 1964. Equipment hasn't been this old since 1995, and intellectual-property products, like software, since 1983. In a report issued this past week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicts U.S. capex growth will more than double over two years, to 5.7% in 2015, from 2.6% last year. Beyond mounting cash and aging plants and equipment, it cites some new factors. Economic growth is picking up, giving business managers more confidence and less spare capacity. Congress even passed a budget this year—one less thing for business leaders to worry about. Barron's goes on to say that many shareholders are now pushing firms to increase capital expenditures. Much of the capex spending behavior in the post-recession era has been driven by uncertainty. Recently in the US we've had two major sources of such uncertainty: the Fed's taper and the federal government budget/debt ceiling. Both of these macro risks frightened corporate management enough to hold back on capex. The Fed's taper however is now on a slow, fairly predictable "autopilot" and as Barron's points out, the budget deal has removed the risk of a near-term federal impasse. As far as corporate CEO's are concerned, the major uncertainties related to the US federal government have clearly receded - for now. Thus the similarities in timing of the bottoming of loan growth in the US and the start of Fed's taper may not be a coincidence after all. FREE AppDownload
In response to the Crimean referendum, new sanctions have been announced. The European Union has announced sanctions against 21 Russian individuals. This was the bare minimum expected. It will include travel visa bans and freezing assets. The longer list, which reportedly will be used to escalate the pressure, includes 130 names. It is not thought to impact senior Russian leadership, like Putin or his family, though new U.S. sanctions include a few Putin aides. There appears to be some lingering — if misplaced — hope that there is an opportunity for Russia to hold off annexing Crimea. This may be meant more for domestic consumption in the U.S. and Europe than sending Russia a powerful message. Such an opportunity seems very small. Russia secured a natural gas asset in east Ukraine that services Crimea over the weekend. On April 1, the Russian ruble will be introduced in Crimea. The plan appears to allow the Ukrainian hryvnia to continue until the beginning of 2016. At the end of the day, officials will accept Crimea is Russian controlled. They may not like it, and they may continue to protest, but the facts on the ground will be accepted. The key now is what Russia does next. It has been making the argument that Kiev is 1) not a legitimate government and 2) that it is not protecting the Russian ethnic people in parts of eastern Ukraine. It claims it has the right to move to protect those people, even though for some the social disturbance is believed to be at least partly spurred by Russian agitators. After Russia and Georgia fought in 2008, the U.S., Poland, and the Baltics favored extending NATO to Georgia (and Ukraine). France and Germany objected, and shortly after that, Russia moved into South Ossetia, which it continues to occupy. The signals that the U.S. and E.U. send now are very important. In addition to using the visa and asset sanctions on mid-level officials, pushing them into the upper echelons of the Russian government would still be seen as fairly benign, like holding the G7 meeting in London in June instead of a G8 meeting in Russia. However, four other measures would be more potent. First, a Membership Action Plan (MAP) to extend NATO to Georgia and Ukraine could be proposed. Second, the U.S. could acquiesce to the Ukrainian request for military assistance. Third, a list of U.S. and European companies doing business in Russia can be formally warned that such activity is under review. Fourth, and partially related, Germany and France could freeze arms sales to Russia. Shortly after the Russian conflict in 2008, France sold Russia state-of-the-art amphibious assault ships, and other deals followed. Germany recently sold a state-of-the-art brigade-level training facility. German Foreign Minister Steinmeier acknowledged Europe's faux pas. He conceded that E.U. foreign ministers had been too quick in the early days of the crisis in Kiev to engage the opposition, and too slow to take into account the larger geopolitical forces. This is to admit that the Europe over-reached and failed to take into account Russia's interests. The price to be paid is Crimea, but it does not necessarily have to be east Ukraine, as well. Some observers are willing to concede that the vast majority of Crimea voted in favor of joining Russia. Democracy is not simply majority rule, but also the rule of law. There are legal reasons why Scotland's referendum later this year is legitimate, but the one in Catalonia, Spain is not. Italians in Venice will have a non-binding internet-based vote this week aimed at boosting interest in a bill calling for a referendum on whether the Veneto region should break away from Italy, which polls suggest nearly 2/3 of the Venetians would like to do. The continued rally of European peripheral bonds markets and the euro suggests the financial markets are undeterred by the Crimean referendum and sanctions. Although many policy wonks talk about the break from the post-Cold War order, investors seem to be saying not much has really changed or will change. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Carlo Allegri Law firm Dewey and Leboeuf's former client relations manager Zachary Warren departs after an arraignment at Manhattan Criminal Court in New York March 6, 2014.A 29-year-old overachiever who worked for the now-defunct law firm Dewey &amp; LeBoeuf after college got indicted recently with the top leaders of that firm, and his inclusion in the indictment has baffled many in the legal industry. Zachary Warren was 24 when he joined Dewey in 2008, taking a job helping partners collect money from firm clients and later working as a "client relations manager," according to The New York Times. But in 2009, Warren went on to Georgetown Law, graduating magna cum laude and scoring two prestigious judicial clerkships. He currently has a job offer from the top law firm Williams &amp; Connolly. How did Warren get swept up in an indictment that included the firm's former chairman, executive director, and chief financial officer? Many former partners and employees told the American Lawyer the then-24-year-old left little impression on them. One partner hadn't even heard of Warren until the indictment. Officially, Warren is charged with helping to hide Dewey's financial problems before its spectacular collapse in 2012. The indictment states that Warren was told he'd receive his full bonus if the firm satisfied cash projections the law firm promised its bank. The law firm's leaders allegedly helped create a "master plan" to make it look like Dewey had more revenue than it already did. After an employee known only as "Employee C" made that plan, Warren allegedly wrote him an email stating, "Hey man, I don't know where you come up with some of this stuff, but you saved the day. It's been a rough year but it's been damn good. Nice work dude. Let's get paid!" Warren is also charged in a separate indictment accusing him of falsifying business records. The young lawyer is not named in a parallel civil suit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which claims several firm leaders misled investors in a 2010 bond offering. Warren realized he might be a witness in the SEC civil proceedings but had no idea he'd get caught up in a criminal investigation, sources told the Times. He agreed to be questioned by the SEC without a lawyer present but was then told a district attorney would be "sitting in," according to The Times. Here's how the interview went after the DA took over questioning: By all accounts, the interview was a disaster for Mr. Warren. He had trouble remembering details from his time at the firm, which prosecutors interpreted as evasion or, worse, lying. They showed him emails and documents, most of which he did not recall. He was not prepared for the hostile tone and became defensive. Prosecutors thought that Mr. Warren was arrogant, even that he was “playing them” by trying to ferret out what they knew, rather than offering to help the investigation. Warren has pleaded not guilty. His attorney said in a statement to The American Lawyer that Warren did nothing wrong, and that his inclusion in the indictment is "a travesty." FREE AppDownload
Cadillac XTSA Cadillac XTS, one of the models being recalledGM has announced three new, separate recalls in the wake of a series of blockbuster reports in the New York Times alleging the company neglected customer complaints about the dangers of some vehicles. They will take a $300 million charge in Q1 "primarily for the cost of the repairs for the three safety actions and the previously announced ignition switch recall."  GM recently announced it was recalling 1.6 million vehicles over the faulty ignition issue. Those glitches were responsible for at least 303 deaths, most of which involved the airbag failing to deply as a result of the busted ignition switch.  Last week, federal prosecutors in New York announced they'd opened a probe. The stock turned negative on the news. Yahoo Full release: DETROIT – As a result of Mary Barra’s request for a comprehensive internal safety review following the ignition switch recall, General Motors today announced three separate recalls involving U.S. production and sales of approximately:   “I asked our team to redouble our efforts on our pending product reviews, bring them forward and resolve them quickly,” said Mary Barra, GM CEO.  “That is what today’s GM is all about.” The full-size vans with gross vehicle weights of 10,000 pounds or less do not comply with a head impact requirement for unrestrained occupants, requiring a rework of the passenger instrument panel material. Unsold vehicles have been placed on a stop delivery until development of the solution has been completed and parts are available. Customers will be notified at that time. Repairs will be made at no charge to customers. In the XTS, a brake booster pump can create positive pressure within the wiring harness attached to the pump relay. This pressure can lead to the dislodging of a plug in the brake booster pump relay, allowing corrosive elements to enter the connector and form a low-resistance short that could lead to overheating, melting of plastic components and a possible engine compartment fire. GM is aware of two engine compartment fires in unsold vehicles at dealerships and two cases of melted components. With respect to the Enclave, Traverse, Acadia and Outlook, the vehicles are equipped with a Service Air Bag warning light in the driver information center.  Ignoring the Service Air Bag warning light will eventually result in the non-deployment of the side impact restraints, which include driver and passenger seat-mounted side air bags, front center air bag (if equipped), and the seat belt pretensioners.    To repair the condition, dealers will remove the driver and passenger side air bag wiring harness connectors and splice and solder the wires together. “Today’s announcement underscores the focus we’re putting on the safety and peace of mind of our customers.  We are conducting an intense review of our internal processes and will have more developments to announce as we move forward,” Barra said. GM expects to take a charge of approximately $300 million in the first quarter primarily for the cost of the repairs for the three safety actions and the previously announced ignition switch recall.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyAs of Monday, the yuan-dollar daily trading band has been widened to 2%, from 1%.  This move was widely expected, but it is nevertheless an important step towards internationalizing the renminbi and establishing a truly market-based exchange rate. "The primary purpose is to disentangle monetary policy from FX policy," Societe Generale's Sebastien Galy wrote over the weekend. While a lot of headlines have been focused on the band widening itself, the world is actually looking for a more meaningful reform out of China. Societe Generale's Wei Yao writes that if China really means to "let go," it has to be be willing to relinquish control of its exchange rate. "We think that, as the next move, the PBoC needs to be more elusive by moving to weekly or monthly setting of reference rates," she added. "Or at least, the trajectory of the daily reference rate should be less directional." Bank of America's Ting Lu also thinks that any further band widening would be of little consequence, and that "a much more important and meaningful reform is to change the rule on setting the daily fixing of CNY/USD." Ting expects China to eventually shift to a market-determined foreign exchange regime. "As an intermediate step, China could peg yuan to a basket of currencies weighted by the importance of its trading partners," he writes. "More specifically, the Singapore’s BBC (Basket, Band and Crawl) regime seems to be favored," he noted. "A reform towards a real managed float such as the 'BBC' system requires a group of more confident and pragmatic political leaders who are true believers of markets." Chinese policymakers are reform oriented when it comes to the economy and they have already got the ball rolling. It's unclear if the PBoC will move away from a daily to a weekly or monthly fix anytime soon. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Shares of Burger King Worldwide have been significantly outperforming those of their number-one competitor, McDonald's, in recent months. Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, says now is the time to "flip the burger trade" — i.e., sell Burger King and buy Mickey D's. Krinsky believes shares of the former are looking extended after a great run, such that "risk-reward no longer looks favorable on the long side." Shares of McDonald's, on the other hand, may be breaking out of a downtrend. "For holders of BKW, we recommend rotating out of BKW and into MCD," says Krinsky. "For those that can put on pair trades, we would short BKW while going long MCD, looking for the ratio to head back down towards the initial breakout level of 0.21. That offers an approximate 20-25% reward, while risking ~4% on a move to new highs." FREE AppDownload
Joe WeisenthalAn anonymous donor has donated $11,000-worth of Dogecoin in honor of Saturday's World Water Day, in the latest charitable roundup by the Dogecoin community. That's equivalent to 14 million Dogecoin.  Here's the proof from the Dogecoin Tip Bot, which confirms all Dogecoin tips: WOW! @savethemhood just donated 14000000 DOGE to @doge4water - we are at 100% http://t.co/0KfOuhfXJL "Do not be concerned, friends," he wrote on reddit. "These are not stolen crypto. I convert the paper fiat of the wealthy into crypto for your to spread. Please help those in need." And he Tweeted this about his identity. Not to worry about my identity, reddit friends. I live in the world of proxies, disposable devices, and roaming vehicles. More very soon... Paul Young, director of digital for charity:water, the group that will receive the donations, said the funds will be used to bring clean water to Kenyans through our local partner Action Against Hunger, according to a statement from Dogecoin.com.   The campaign was initiated by Eric Nakagawa, the co-founder of internet humor site ICanHasCheezburger and a member of the Dogecoin Foundation, the site said.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWe recently shared "22 Phrases Only Wall Streeters Will Understand", which was basically an encyclopedia of some of the classic and unusual slang terms used by finance folks.  The thing about Wall Street, though, is that it's incredibly diverse. There are the floor brokers, the pit traders, the investment bankers, the research analysts, the quants, the hedge funders and the private equity folks, just the name a few. That means not every group will understand all of those phrases.  We spoke to a former bond broker, who will remain anonymous, about the type of slang they use with each other. Brokers tend to be a pretty colorful group as you can see with the slang that's used below:   "Piker"  A piker is a guy without money.  Brokers use it to identify crappy clients.  "That guy is a piker. He buys ten bonds--and calls me twice a day! I'm firing him as a client."  "Real Guy" This is the opposite of a piker.  Wall Street brokers don't say "Whale" much because it makes you sound like a jerk, and guys in the know want to sound understated.  "What's the story with Mr. Jones? Is this guy another piker?"  "Trust me: He's a real guy."  "No Bid" On a Bloomberg terminal, thinly traded bonds don't always get a bid. They're not like trading shares of big blue-chip stocks like IBM. You may get a price you don't like on IBM, but you can always get a price. With bonds, sometimes the Bloomberg terminal would read NB — No Bid.   Bond brokers will use this in their everyday conversations. "Come on dude. She's my girlfriend's roommate. It's just one night."  "Dude, no bid."  "Dog Snot" Dog snot are the junkiest of junk bonds that nobody wants.  "I'm no bid on that tax dog snot."  "Pick up the f-------g phones!"  The cold callers are dialing fast enough as it is. But when the head of the desk yells that in the middle of the day, it's terrifying. Nobody wants to be the guy on the desk spacing out when the head yells "Pick up the f-------g phones!"  "YTB"  This is a classic. Bonds are traded on a YTM (Yield to Maturity) basis. There are all kinds of other yields in the bond market.  The most cynical acronym on earth is YTB— "Yield To Broker."  Why? Well, when trading desks are pushing "dog snot" products the brokers will ask: "What's the YTB?" When they do, they're basically asking, "How much are you going to pay me to unload this crap into my clients account?"  If you pull that, you might get "dinged."  "Dinged"  Getting "dinged" is how brokers refer to FINRA sanctions.   If you get "dinged" one to many times of you aren't making money for the desk someone will say this about you...   "Left the city, left the business."  If somebody asks you about a broker you used to work with they might say, "Hey, what's Mikey B. up to these days?" The response is something like, "Left the city, left the business."  That's the worst thing that can be said about a broker. It's like the broker died and he's just gone. It means you don't have a clue. In short, it means the guy is no longer part of our thing.  "X's Cold Caller" or "X's Connector"  When you're a cold caller or connector (we've heard both), you don't even get the dignity of having a name. People walk up to you and say, "Hey, David's Cold Caller/Connector, go pick up my sandwich."  "You're Bob's Cold Caller/Connector, right? What the heck are you doing just standing there? Help me carry this?"  "He just stepped off the desk" When you call a trader who isn't in and the guy who answers the phone says, "He just stepped off the desk" it's a funny phrase because it means that he's not in the only place in the world that matters — the trading desk.  Did he go to the men's room? Is his wife in labor?  None of that matters. He's just not on the desk and besides that what else matters? FREE AppDownload
This morning, the White House announced sanctions against seven individuals with close ties to Vladimir Putin. So far, it doesn't look like the market cares. At all. Russia's stock market is up over 3%. Bloomberg.com Meanwhile, the dollar is falling against the ruble. Micex.com FREE AppDownload
Stock markets around the world are rising to begin the week as risk appetite makes a comeback in the marketplace. The S&amp;P 500 is up 1.0% early in the U.S. session, trading around 1859. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at 2.67%, about two basis points above Friday's closing levels. The U.S. dollar is stronger against the Japanese yen and lower against the euro. European indices are firmly in positive territory. Most Asian indices closed higher overnight, save for Japan and Australia, which both moved a bit lower. The Russian ruble is gaining back some of its recent losses against the U.S. dollar today, and Russia's MICEX equity index is up more than 3%. Yields on Russian government debt are falling, providing some additional relief to financial conditions there. Copper futures are up nicely following a big drop last week on fears related to China's fragile shadow banking system. Two big stories over the weekend have set the tone today: We've also seen the release this morning of three U.S. economic data releases, though none of them have moved markets much: The charts below show price action across various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, gold futures, and copper futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark LennihanThe NAHB housing market index climbed to 47 in March, from 46 the previous month. This missed expectations for a rise to 50. The HMI is a gauge of homebuilder confidence.  "The March HMI mirrors last month’s sentiment, as builders continued to be affected by poor weather and difficulties in finding lots and labor," NAHB Chairman Kevin Kelly, said in a press release. The fall in February was the biggest decline on record. The severe winter and concerns about the cost and availability of labor and lots were blamed for the decline in homebuilder confidence last month. The three month moving averages for regional HMI fell across all regions. The three HMI components were a mixed bag in March. A reading over 50 shows that more builders view conditions as good than poor. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
YouTubeProfessor Jeff Bergen explains the simple math. On Sunday, the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament participants and bracket were announced. So get your predictions filled in before the tournament starts Thursday. If winning money interests you, billionaire Warren Buffett and Quicken Loans are sponsoring a bracket challenge for the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament. If you can fill out a perfect bracket, you will win a billion dollars. But everyone wants to know: what are the odds of filling out a perfect bracket? The probability "one in 9.2 quintillion" has been cited quite a few times in various articles about the bracket challenge. Before the 2012 tournament, DePaul University math professor Jeff Bergen posted a video on YouTube explaining where this number comes from. There are 63 total games in a tournament bracket. For each of those games, two teams play, and one team wins. So, filling out a bracket consists of picking 63 winners. So, you have two options for the first game, two options for the second game, two options for the third game, and so on, for all 63 games. To get the total number of possible ways to fill out a bracket, you multiply together all 63 of these twos, giving us 263, or about 9.2 quintillion, possible brackets. If all of these brackets are equally likely — if each game in the entire tournament is a 50-50 tossup, and picking the winner is basically a coin flip — we then get the odds of a correct bracket at one in 9.2 quintillion. Of course, flipping a coin 63 times is probably not a very good strategy for deciding how to fill out your bracket. Most of the games are not 50-50 matchups. Consider the first round (the round of 64) of the NCAA Tournament.  Of the 32 games in the first round, there are four games in which four of the best 64 teams (1st seeds)  play four of the worst 64 teams (16th seeds). Since 1985, when the tournament first expanded to 64 teams, no 16th seed has ever beaten a 1st seed in the round of 64. If we're comfortable assuming that this trend continues, we can safely fill in the four 1st seed vs. 16th seed games on our brackets. Now we have 59 games to pick, and if we flip coins for all those, we have a one in 259, or about one in 576 quadrillion, chance of winning the tournament. Still pretty terrible odds, but by making this one assumption, we have boosted our chances by a factor of 16. Professor Bergen suggests that by taking a more nuanced approach to the tournament along these lines, we can improve our odds to around one in 128 billion. That is still insanely unlikely — you are about 500 times more likely to win the lottery. And Quicken and Mr. Buffett probably have very little to worry about this coming spring. Watch Bergen's video here:    FREE AppDownload
Ford Motor CompanyFebruary industrial production data is out. Industrial production climbed 0.6% month over month in February, up considerably from January's revised dip of 0.2%. Economists were looking for a 0.2% rise. "A rebound in auto output is expected to drive IP into shallow positive territory following last month’s 0.3% decline," wrote Credit Suisse economists ahead of the report. "Factory hours worked also dropped by less in February (-0.2%) than in January (-0.7%), so it’s possible weather effects will be sequentially less of a factor this month. Weekly utility output figures point to a decline following the January spike." FREE AppDownload
flickr/fanofretailQuiznos has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The sandwich chain says the move will reduce the company's $570 million in debt by roughly $400 million. Quiznos has nearly 2,100 restaurants in the U.S., down from about 5,000 in 2008. It was founded in Denver in 1981. "The actions we are taking are intended to enable Quiznos to reduce our debt, execute a comprehensive plan to further enhance the customer experience, elevate the profile of the brand and help increase sales and profits for our franchise owners," Quiznos CEO Stuart K. Mathis said in a release. "We look forward to continuing to work with and support our global network of franchise owners, who are the backbone of our business." FREE AppDownload
BloombergDavid KostinThe bull market in the U.S. stock market recently completed its fifth year. Since March 2009, the S&amp;P 500 gained 1,200 points or 180%. "Three drivers of the rally: A profit rebound (59% of rally), a P/E multiple expansion (25%), and a change in expected EPS growth (16%)," noted Goldman Sachs' David Kostin. Now, everyone want to know if this rally can continue. "In order for S&amp;P 500 to climb higher, (a) the level of profits, (b) the expected forward earnings growth rate, and/or (c) the P/E multiple must change," said Kostin. "Given the high starting point of all three metrics, it is hard to identify any one of these that will climb significantly during the coming year." Kostin discussed each of these three drivers. We paraphrase here: So, there's not much enthusiasm here. Kostin has a 1,900 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500, which reflects a modest 3% gain from current levels. FREE AppDownload
The New York Fed says its manufacturing survey for the tri-state area ticked up to 5.61 for March. Consensus was for a reading of 7.00 compared with 4.48 prior. Unfilled orders fell to -16.47 from -6.25. Inventory levels rose. The employment index was slightly higher. Capital Economics says there's no real sign of a slow-down: The rise in the US Empire State index to +5.6 in March, from +4.5, was most probably constrained by the unusually wintery weather at the start of the month, with northern New York State hit by yet another big dump of snow only last week. While the sub-indices provide a mixed picture, there is no sign of an impending slowdown in the region's manufacturing activity. It was the challenge of coping with the continuous run of bad weather over the past three months that has prevented businesses from increasing output. But now that the weather is getting back to normal, we expect further increases in the Empire State index. Here's what it's been looking like recently — basically, very little improvement. New York Fed FREE AppDownload
Beyond being late and looking like a slob, there are a few things that you should NEVER say during a job interview.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
RokuRoku isn't a public company, but according to Bloomberg, investors might have a chance to buy shares later this year. If so, Roku could emerge as the best way to take advantage of the growing trend toward Web-based video. Although Roku competes with a number of massive companies, including Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL  ) , Google(NASDAQ: GOOG  ) , and soon Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN  ) , it's becoming increasingly clear that Roku will always have an advantage over its larger rivals. Too many conflicts of interestAmazon is widely expected to release a set-top box later this month. Offering another way to stream Internet video, and priced aggressively, Amazon's set-top box will more than likely compete with Roku's family of streaming devices, and could be expected to weigh on Roku's sales. Or maybe not. According to Gigaom, Amazon's set-top box will be hamstrung by the lack of a major app. While it will allow owners to access both Netflix and Hulu Plus, in addition to Amazon's own Prime Instant Video, Google's YouTube will be inaccessible. Given that Amazon's set-top box will likely be powered by FireOS, Amazon's forked version of Google's Android, a YouTube app is highly unlikely. Roku's other competitors face similar limitations. Apple TV can access YouTube, for example, but it can't directly access Amazon Instant Video -- it requires the use of an iPhone or iPad and Apple's AirPlay technology. Vudu, a competitor to Apple's iTunes, isn't accessible on the Apple TV even with AirPlay. Google's Chromecast is similarly limited. Earlier this year, Google opened up the Chromecast to third-party developers, allowing them to add Chromecast compatibility to their existing Android apps. This meant that, despite competing directly with Google Play, owners of the Chromecast will soon be able to access Vudu. But they won't be able to access Amazon Instant Video -- Amazon hasn't released a video app for standard Android devices, and it probably won't anytime soon. Doing so would take away one of the Kindle Fire's key selling points, weighing on Amazon's tablet business. Roku has no reason to be biasedIn contrast, owners of Roku's streaming devices don't face any limitations. Not only can a Roku owner access Netflix and Google's YouTube, but they also get Amazon Instant Video. Unfortunately, Apple's iTunes and Google Play aren't available, but owners of Roku's devices can go to several different competitors, including Vudu, Target Ticket, Flixster and the aforementioned Amazon Instant Video -- Roku owners have the ability to shop around. A new level of hardwareIf Roku does get outclassed, it will be because its rivals offer far more impressive hardware. Amazon's set-top box could double as a video game console, while both Apple and Google are rumored to be working on more advanced TV products -- the next Apple TV could add in voice and gesture controls, while Google is said to be working on a Nexus video game console. But adding that extra functionality could come at cost. The Xbox One and PlayStation 4 offer streaming set-top box functionality (in addition to playing video games), but at $499 and $399 respectively, they're several times more expensive than the $99 Roku 3. By not competing in the content business, Roku can offer more services than its rivals -- even with competition from Amazon, Apple and Google intensifying, the fact that it doesn't have to play favorites is a compelling advantage. FREE AppDownload
The institutional context: This week’s FOMC meeting is of interest for more than its update of economic developments and prospects, policy insights and actions, and the periodic release of the summary of economic projections. It is the first FOMC meeting to be chaired by the highly-respected Janet Yellen; and it will be her first press conference as the leader of the most powerful central bank in the world. The Policy Context: Absent some major economic acceleration or deceleration – and, I stress, it has to be major, one way or the other – the FOMC is essentially on automatic pilot for 2014. Specifically, the Fed will: The Economic Context: The FOMC’s approach is underpinned by the view that the underlying economic conditions are strengthening, albeit slowly; that balance sheets continue to heal; and that inflation is well contained (maybe too low). As such, senior Fed officials would attribute most of the recent weakness in economic indicators to the temporary and reversible impact of the weather. And the situation in the Ukraine would be seen as important to monitor but not a reason for a policy course adjustment. The Intrigue: As it pivots from balance sheet purchases (QE) to greater reliance on forward policy guidance to support the economy, there are significant uncertainties as to how the Fed can/should best do this – particularly when it comes to the forward guidance component. What we know for sure is that the Fed will transition away from its current (narrow) unemployment threshold to a more holistic view of the labor market. This could even happen as early as this week. We don’t know as yet when our central bankers will supplement this by an inflation indicator that is well above the current rate. This is relevant for markets as investors would take the latter as an even stronger signal that the Fed would remain on hold for quite a while. If not, markets would be much more willing to test the central bank. The Immediate Market Implications: Assuming other things are relatively constant (and that is a big assumption given what is happening in Ukraine and some other emerging economies), risk assets would do well if the Fed does indeed decide to evolve its forward policy guidance by moving both on the unemployment and on the inflation fronts – that is to say, inserting more comprehensive employment indicators and some type of inflation target. Also, in such circumstances, the dollar would weaken against other major currencies, inflation-protected bonds would do well, and the nominal Treasury yield curve would steepen. The Big and Consequential Uncertainty: Notwithstanding the Fed’s continued activism and vigilance, and despite its deep and steadfast commitment to support growth and jobs, there are unanswered questions about the overall effectiveness of its current policy stance. The concern – for both Main Street and Wall Street – is that the longer the Fed experiments and the longer the economy fails to attain “escape velocity,” the greater the likelihood that the durable benefits of its unconventional policies would be offset by the “costs and risks.” Look for this issue to assume greater prominence as the Fed shifts this year from directly impacting the net supply of securities (via its QE purchases) to indirectly influencing it (via strengthened forward policy guidance).  In the process, markets would likely periodically test both the Fed’s resolve and its effectiveness. So far, investors have repeatedly given the Fed the benefit of the doubt. And it has been the correct trade, over and over again. But if the economy continues to respond rather sluggishly, and with developments in the rest of the world now acting as headwinds, the Fed may have to experiment even more to sustain the wedge between market values and underlying fundamentals.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow El-Erian on Twitter @elerianm  FREE AppDownload
@elerianmMohamed El-Erian, the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO and current Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz, has joined Twitter. His Twitter handle: @elerianm "Having followed Twitter for some time for news, analysis and insights, I will now try to also contribute to the conversation," said El-Erian in an email to Business Insider. "For those who are interested, I would just ask for patience as I gradually get familiar with the technology and the procedures. And please excuse all my typos." Business Insider learned about the Twitter handle earlier when El-Erian submitted a post previewing this week's big Federal Open Market Committee meeting. El-Erian has yet to send out his first tweet. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoRussian army MI-35 military helicopters patrol the area as Ukrainian servicemen guard a checkpoint near the village of Strelkovo in Kherson region adjacent to Crimea, March 16, 2014. Ukraine accused "Kremlin agents" on Saturday of fomenting deadly violence in Russian-speaking cities and urged people not to rise to provocations its new leaders fear Moscow may use to justify a further invasion after its takeover of Crimea. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Crimea votes for independence. On Sunday, the Ukrainian region of Crimea — an area home to many ethnic Russians — voted in a referendum to announce its independence from the Ukrainian state. Western powers have said they do not recognize the action, and the big question is whether Russia will stage additional military provocations, as well as what potential sanctions against Russia the West will bring. "Following recent risk-off price sessions and the fact that the referendum did not lead to any notable immediate violence, there may be space for an immediate relief in bond markets, and some short-covering in FX (in Central and Eastern Europe) early this week," says a team of analysts at Nordea Markets led by Aurelija Augulyte. "Our baseline is that the conflict will not evolve to the level where tough trade/investment sanctions are imposed, or even to the level where energy supplies are cut off from Russia to Europe. Therefore, we also believe that markets will revert to look at fundamentals within weeks." China widens renminbi trading band. On Saturday, the People's Bank of China announced a widening the daily trading band around which the value of the Chinese yuan is allowed to deviate from the daily reference rate to 2% from 1%. The move will allow for greater volatility in the U.S. dollar-Chinese yuan exchange rate, and many wonder what the announcement means for its near-term direction. The PBoC has engineered a weakening of the yuan by setting lower reference rates over the past several weeks — largely designed to shake out carry-trading speculators following an extended, multi-year period of sustained appreciation against the U.S. dollar. On Monday, the PBoC set the reference rate at 6.1321 yuan per dollar — down from Friday's 6.1346 fix and 6.1502 close — but the yuan is trading lower, at 6.1790 per dollar. Markets up. Global financial markets are taking a sanguine view of developments over the weekend. S&amp;P 500 futures are solidly in positive territory, while U.S. Treasury note futures are trading lower and gold has erased overnight gains. The U.S. dollar is stronger against the Japanese yen and lower against the euro. Copper futures are up nicely as well following a big drop last week on fears related to China's fragile shadow banking system. The Russian ruble is losing a bit of ground against the dollar, but Russia's MICEX equity index is up more than 3%. European indices are all rising to begin the week, as did most Asian indices (with the exception of Japan, Australia, and Indonesia). "Risk-correlated currencies consolidated and safe haven currencies lost some ground at the start of the week after the Crimean referendum to join Russia passed and the China doubled the trading band of CNY. Investors’ take could be that the events could point at lower EM volatility ahead," says Valentin Marinov, a currency strategist at Citi. "We think that there are risks to the above view. We think that market risk aversion could still escalate on the back of more tensions between Russia and Ukraine as well as more uncertainty about the Chinese growth outlook." Euro zone inflation. Eurostat's final estimate of February HICP inflation data indicated that euro zone consumer prices rose only 0.3% in February from the month before — below its initial 0.4% estimate — bringing the year-over-year growth rate to 0.7% from the previous 0.8% estimate and marking a decline from January's 0.8% year-over-year change. The year-over-year rate of change of core consumer prices was unchanged from January and the initial February estimate of 1.0%. Many expect this month to mark the bottom in euro zone consumer prices, which may restrain the European Central Bank from announcing additional easing measures going forward. Empire manufacturing. Out at 8:30 AM ET are the results of the New York Fed's monthly Empire State Manufacturing Survey. The report's headline index is expected to rise to 7.00 from the February survey's 4.48 reading, indicative of an improvement in business conditions for manufacturing firms in the state of New York over the last month. Industrial production. The big economic data release in the United States today is the monthly industrial production report, due out at 9:15 AM. Economists predict total output rose 0.2% in February after falling 0.3% in January. Manufacturing production is expected to have risen 0.3% in February after staging a 0.8% decline in January. Weakness in the January report was largely attributed to weather disruptions. NAHB housing. The final U.S. economic data release today is the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index, due out at 10 AM ET. Economists predict the index moved back up to 50 in March after falling to 46 in February from 56 in January — the largest one-month drop ever. FOMC. The big event on the calendar this week is the March FOMC meeting, which will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, along with the subsequent monetary policy announcement and Janet Yellen's first FOMC press conference as chairman of the Federal Reserve. The consensus view is that the Fed will reduce the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program to $55 billion from $65 billion. Opinions are more split on what the Committee will choose to do with its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. The hunt for MH370 continues. The disappearance of Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 continues to captivate onlookers around the world as the search for the missing plane drags on. According to reports, U.S. investigators are growing more convinced that the plane is somewhere west of Australia in the Indian Ocean. Beer companies withdraw parade sponsorship. Guinness USA, Heineken USA, and the Boston Beer Company (the brewer of Sam Adams beer) have withdrawn sponsorships of St. Patrick's Day parades in New York City and Boston in protest of a ban on gay groups expressing their sexuality during the parades. That leaves Ford Motor Company as the last major sponsor of the NYC event. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Eduardo CastilloThis March 12, 2014 photo shows a confiscated iron ore mining operation near the Pacific port of Lazaro Cardenas, Mexico. LAZARO CARDENAS, Mexico (AP) — Forget crystal meth. The pseudo-religious Knights Templar drug cartel in western Mexico has diversified to the point that drug trafficking doesn't even rank among its top sources of income. The cartel counts illegal mining, logging and extortion as its biggest moneymakers, said Alfredo Castillo, the Mexican government's special envoy sent to restore the rule of law in Michoacan, the state controlled by the Knights Templar the last several years. Iron ore "is their principle source of income," Castillo told The Associated Press. "They're charging $15 (a metric ton) for the process, from extraction to transport, processing, storage, permits and finally export." The ore itself doesn't go for that price; the cartel skims $15 for every ton arriving in port. While it's long been known that Mexican cartels engage in other types of criminal activity, including trafficking of people and pirated goods, this is the government's first official acknowledgment that a major organized crime group has moved beyond drugs. The Knights Templar and its predecessor, La Familia, started out as major producers and transporters of methamphetamine. The implications are enormous that organized crime in general in Mexico stands to diversify and become even more entrenched. "It's a criminal organization like the mafia," said Antonio Mazzitelli, the Mexico and Central America representative to the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime. "La Familia, the Knights Templar and, in part, the new, smaller cartels that have developed, like the New Generation Jalisco, are copying this new typology." Mexican authorities count at least 12 major cartels, but also talk of an untold numbers of smaller splinter groups. Federal prosecutors have not seen similar shifts in other cartels, according to an Attorney General's Office official, who insisted on speaking anonymously because he wasn't authorized to speak about the topic. But experts disagreed. The Zetas cartel, with its strongholds along the U.S.-Mexico border, was among the first to change the business model from merely production and transport of drugs to migrant smuggling and controlling territory through terror. Though drugs still top their list, the Zetas likely make as much from kidnapping and extortion, said Samuel Logan, director of Southern Pulse security consulting firm. "I've never looked at them as drug-trafficking organizations," Logan said of Mexico's cartels. "They're multinational corporations that will react to market pressures and do what they have to do to stay in business." The Knights Templar took the model to another level, exploiting the main industries of the territory they control.  Alonso Ancira, president of the National Chamber of the Iron and Steel, recently told local journalists that he estimated drug cartels earned $1 billion in profits from selling iron ore in 2013. It was unclear if Ancira was referring only to the illegal mining done by the Knights Templar, and he didn't respond to an interview request from the AP. The federal government has issued 900 concessions in Michoacan to mine iron ore, Castillo said. In 2008, only 1.5 percent of the iron ore exports to China went through the state's port of Lazaro Cardenas, but by 2012 nearly half of the exports to the Asian country were processed there. As for extortion, Castillo said, information from victims led government experts to estimate that the cartel earned $800,000 to $1.4 million a week just from that crime. Much of its extortion demands were made on Michoacan's lime and avocado producers, and the Knights Templar even controlled the wholesale distribution center where prices were set and growers sell limes to the rest of the world. Former President Felipe Calderon warned against such a stranglehold when he first sent troops to Michoacan in late 2006 to fight La Familia, the predecessor of the Knights Templar. He said the cartel was trying to infiltrate all levels of society. By the time La Familia morphed into the Knights Templar in 2010, it seemed to control the entire state, including politicians and police who failed to act. More than seven years of military-style strikes failed to dislodge them. Now the federal government seems to be having more success by going after the cartel's financial resources. It took over the port of Lazaro Cardenas in November and named Castillo in January as a commissioner with special powers to try to clean up Michoacan. Since then, authorities have seized 119,000 metric tons of iron ore stored at several yards in Lazaro Cardenas and say they have liberated the wholesale lime center by taking over the farming hub of Apatzingan. The government also has arrested or killed much of the cartel's leadership, but they did the same to La Familia, only to see the cartel remake itself into something even more menacing. Because of financial hits, the cartel is now struggling to pay informants and assassins, Castillo said, though he didn't explain how that's known. The Knights Templar hold was so tight that vigilante groups eventually formed and armed themselves to fight back. With fighting escalating between the cartel and the "self-defense" groups, federal security forces finally moved in early this year. "The Zetas, La Familia Michoacan, the Knights Templar are, for the most part, predators and parasites that become rejected by the communities," the U.N.'s Mazzitelli said. That contrasts with traditional drug-trafficking cartels, which generate jobs and wealth for local people, buying loyalty and protection. The classic example is the Sinaloa cartel, the only pure drug-trafficking organization left in Mexico, even with the recent capture of its leader, Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman. Hundreds of local residents protested his arrest. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
bark via flickrFor many people, office work involves extended periods of time at their desk. For some, it can be all day. Despite the growing availability of ergonomic products and workplace offerings like flexible gym hours, scientists believe many desk jockeys will have already done lasting damage to their bodies as a result of sitting down all day. According to Peter T. Katzmarzyk, Ph.D.: “Even within physically active individuals, there was a strong association between sitting and risk of mortality… This is an important observation because it suggests that high amounts of sitting cannot be compensated for with occasional leisure time physical activity even if the amount exceeds the current minimum physical activity recommendations.” It’s hard to imagine such a simple, unconscious act can bet so detrimental to our heath but in fact there are many devastating implications from working at a desk. Here are 11 adverse effects on the body that can occur from sitting at your desk for too long. 1. Low energy expenditureRole of Low Energy Expenditure and Sitting in Obesity, Metabolic Syndrome, Type 2 Diabetes, and Cardiovascular DiseaseSitting at your desk for too long reduces your non-exercise activity thermogenesis is generally a much greater component of total energy expenditure than exercise. 2. Slower metabolismSitting Time and All-Cause Mortality Risk in 222 497 Australian AdultsThe decreased muscle contractions that occurs with prolonged, immobile sitting slows the clearance of fat from the blood stream and decreases the effect of insulin. 3. Compromised posture Sitting bio-mechanicsSitting causes the pelvis to rotate backward and puts pressure on the lumbar discs. This position forces the head forward and cause the shoulders to curve to compensate for the weight transfer. 4. Back and spine injuriesThe biomechanics of low back injury: Implications on current practice in industry and the clinicProlonged, static loading of tissues over time puts undue pressure on the low back and stress the surrounding muscles and joints. 5. Reduced social skillsInternet paradox: A social technology that reduces social involvement and psychological well-being?Interaction limited to communication over the internet is associated causes a decline in social involvement and psychological well-being. 6. Loneliness or depressionInternet paradox: A social technology that reduces social involvement and psychological well-being?When the computer is used as the single form of communication, the size of a person’s social circle is believed to decline, and and feelings of depression and loneliness increase. Being stuck at your desk also means you’re probably not getting outside enough. This lack of sunshine can cause person to become deficient in vitamin D and ultimately lead to depression. 7. Metabolic SyndromeRole of Low Energy Expenditure and Sitting in Obesity, Metabolic Syndrome, Type 2 Diabetes, and Cardiovascular Disease 8. Chronic PainErgonomics of posture—Review of various problems of standing and sitting postureInadequate sitting postures, associated with long periods of sitting at a desk, provoke excessive increases of lower back pressure. These somatic pains can become the symptoms of chronic diseases. 9. Rheumatic disordersErgonomics of posture—Review of various problems of standing and sitting postureSome rheumatic diseases like osteoarthritis are the result of “wear and tear” to the joints, like that of excessive amounts of sitting. 10. ObesitySitting Time and All-Cause Mortality Risk in 222 497 Australian AdultsSitting at a desk reduces a person’s energy expenditure because the body’s major muscle groups aren’t being utilized and calorie burning is minimized. Over an extended period of time this can lead to weight gain and in severe cases obesity. 11. DiabetesSitting Time and All-Cause Mortality Risk in 222 497 Australian AdultsSitting at a desk all day impairs the body’s ability to handle blood sugar, causing a reduced sensitivity to the hormone insulin, which helps carry glucose from the blood into cells where it can be used for energy. 12. CancerOccupational physical activity and the incidence of cancer of the breast, corpus uteri, and ovary in Shanghai.Low physical activity occupations have an increased incidence of cancer. A study found women’s chances of developing breast, corpus uteri, and ovary cancer were heighten if working in a sedentary job. 13. Your risk of heart disease has increased by up to 64%Sedentary behaviors increase risk of cardiovascular disease mortality in men 14. All-cause mortality is adversely effected from too much sitting, independent of physical activity.Sitting Time and All-Cause Mortality Risk in 222 497 Australian AdultsA study found prolonged sitting time was responsible for 6.9% of deaths. The association between sitting and all-cause mortality remains consistent across women and men, age groups, weight, health and physical activity levels. Worried? Here are tips from James A. Levine, M.D., Ph.D. of the Mayo Clinic on how to sit less and move more to live better. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERSU.S. investigators think the missing Malaysia Airlines plane most likely flew southwest over the Indian Ocean off Western Australia, Bloomberg reports citing two officials. Satellite data showed that the plane likely flew either on that route or northwest toward Kazakhstan. The latter seems less likely since the plane would have flown through the airspace of multiple countries. Experts agree that there’s a good chance MH370 will never be found if it’s gone into a deep and remote part of the Indian Ocean. Australia today took charge of the search in the Indian Ocean. Prime Minister Tony Abbott told parliament Australia would coordinate operations in the vast search area to its west. Mr Abbott spoke to Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak today. “I offered the Malaysian Prime Minister additional maritime surveillance resources which he gratefully accepted,” he said. Defence Force chief General David Hurley had been in touch with his Malaysian counterpart to discuss how additional resources could be used. Australia has two P-3 Orion surveillance planes on the search and are reportedly looking around the Cocos islands about 2,000 nautical miles northwest of Perth. Mr Abbott said: “We will do our duty to ensure that our search and rescue responsibilities are maintained and upheld and we will do our duty to the families of the 230 people on that aircraft who are still absolutely devastated by their absence and who are still profoundly, profoundly saddened by this as yet unfathomed mystery.” REUTERS/U.S. Navy/Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class Eric A. Pastor/HandoutCrew members on board a U.S. Navy P-8A Poseidon man their workstations while assisting in search operations for Malaysia Airlines flight MH370. FREE AppDownload
Europe continues to turn Japanese. The annual rate of inflation has fallen to 0.7%. And four countries are officially in deflation. Eurostat Check out more at Eurostat &gt; FREE AppDownload
Reuters' Felix Salmon has obtained a statement from counsel hired by Dorian Nakamoto, the man Newsweek says created Bitcoin, in which the Temple City resident unconditionally denies creating the digital currency. L.A. attorney Ethan Kirschner confirmed to BI that he's been retained by Nakamoto but would not comment further.  In the statement, Nakamoto says he had not heard of Bitcoin until his son mentioned that a reporter was inquiring about his connection to the digital currency. Nakamoto goes on to deny having any experience working with the core technologies of Bitcoin, and that he had to discontinue his Internet service in 2013 due to financial difficulties. He adds that since the report was published his family has been put under severe stress.   Salmon Tweeted the full text of the statement early Monday. @truth_eater is the Twitter handle for Leah McGrath Goodman, who reported the story; and @jimpoco the handle of Jim Impoco, the editor of Newsweek.  Dorian Nakamoto official statement/denial. Very interested to see how @newsweek @truth_eater @jimpoco respond. pic.twitter.com/wfCyK1dQ48 FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - Malaysia must "immediately" expand and clarify the scope of the search for a Malaysia Airlines jetliner that disappeared with 239 people on board, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said on Monday in a statement posted on its website. Meanwhile, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a regular briefing in Beijing that China's ambassador to Malaysia met Malaysia's foreign minister on Monday. No trace of the plane has been found more than a week after it vanished but investigators believe it was diverted by someone with deep knowledge of the plane and commercial navigation. Satellite data suggests the plane could be anywhere in either of two vast arcs: one stretching from northern Thailand to Kazakhstan, or a southern arc from Indonesia into the Indian Ocean west of Australia. "Of course search and rescue efforts have become even harder now, and the area is much bigger," Hong said. "We hope that Malaysia can provide more thorough, accurate information to countries participating." Hong declined to comment when asked if China is checking into the backgrounds of the Chinese passengers on board in search of suspicious histories. He declined to say whether China is searching over Tibet and the western region of Xinjiang for the jet, or whether China has ruled out that the plane entered its airspace. About two-thirds of the passengers on board the flight were Chinese. Malaysian investigators are trawling through the backgrounds of the pilots, crew and ground staff who worked on the missing Boeing 777-200ER for clues as to why someone on board flew it perhaps thousands of miles off course. (Reporting By Ben Blanchard; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
One of the big market stories of the weekend/week: The Chinese Yuan weakened again after China announced over the weekend that it would widen the "band" in which the currency was allowed to trade. Basically, the government sets a midpoint price, and now there's a 2% band around that price around which the market can move the value of the currency. Previously the band was set at 1%. As you can see in this chart of the US dollar vs. the yuan, the yuan has been falling a lot lately, and last night it dropped again.  Via XE.com: XE.com FREE AppDownload
stpaulgirl/FlickrGood morning! It was a fairly eventful weekend. Citizens of Crimea voted overwhelmingly to secede from Ukraine and join Russia. And China widened its band for yuan trading, and the yuan had another big fall (it's been falling a lot lately). And of course the mystery of the missing Malaysian jet has only widened. But markets are surprisingly calm so far today. Futures are nicely higher. Asian stocks didn't do too much. Russian stocks are up over 2%. In addition to the weekend news, this comes after selling from last week. We'll see if it continues. FREE AppDownload
