WikipediaThe notion of gentrification management that I've put forth over the last couple weeks may seem foreign and altogether unrealistic to many. However, there are actual examples of transition management undertaken by neighborhoods and suburbs that can offer guidance as to how gentrification management might be organized and implemented. Oak Park, Illinois, an inner-ring western suburb of Chicago, is an excellent example. Oak Park is located about nine miles directly west of the Loop. The community is well served by public transit, with stops on the Chicago Transit Authority's Green and Blue lines, and is also served by Metra commuter rail service. The community is well known to architecture and literature devotees, having been the home of both Frank Lloyd Wright and Ernest Hemingway. It has a strong town center located at the intersection of Lake Street and Harlem Avenue that effectively serves as the cultural and commercial centerpoint for Chicago's near western suburbs. Oak Park has long had a strong arts and culture scene, and is as walkable as any of the most urban of neighborhoods in Chicago. It is a proud and prosperous community. I know the community well, having interned there with the Village of Oak Park while in graduate school. But none of these assets were enough to save the community when Oak Park faced perhaps its greatest challenge, potential destabilization through resegregation following World War II. You see, Oak Park borders Chicago at Austin Avenue along its eastern edge, directly across from the city's Austin neighborhood. Austin and Oak Park share a similar history and development type, having once been joined as one Austin Township prior to Austin's annexation into Chicago in 1902. Oak Park is also located just two miles northwest of Chicago's North Lawndale neighborhood, which Ta-Nehisi Coates wrote about in his essay, The Case for Reparations. Austin and North Lawndale both underwent dramatic destabilization and change. The process started in the 1950's in North Lawndale, and spread into Austin throughout the 1960's. In each community, the process that Coates so eloquently describes in his essay was moving forward -- redlining meant mortgages would not be insured by the FHA; blockbusting meant that speculators would buy homes low from white homeowners worried about lost equity and sell high "on contract" to black buyers without the chance to build any equity. At the same time, jobs were moving away to the suburbs. Overcrowding raised tensions, and crime started to rise. By the middle of the 1960's, Oak Park residents could see the process had Oak Park in its sights. But Oak Park had another asset that was able to confront the challenge -- an informed and engaged citizenry. Rather than fall prey to the destabilizing pattern that was devastating communities to the east, Oak Park elected to devise a program to manage transition, instead of letting it overwhelm them. Via the Encyclopedia of Chicago (an excellent resource on Chicago history, I might add), here's what Oak Park did: The village board created a Community Relations Commission charged with preventing discrimination, forestalling violent neighborhood defense mechanisms, and setting a high standard of behavior as the community prepared for imminent racial change. Village officials, often joined by clergymen, visited blocks to which families of color might move and carefully sought to control the fears and rumors generally associated with neighborhood succession. They identified white families who would welcome the newcomers. They encouraged African American families to disperse throughout the village to counter concerns of clustering and ghetto formation. In 1968, after lengthy and angry debate, and the passage of the federal Fair Housing Act, the village board passed an open-housing ordinance allowing officials to control many aspects of racial integration that otherwise were likely to lead to resegregation. Real-estate agents were banned from panic-peddling, blockbusting, and the use of “for sale” signs. A community relations department would address rumors, monitor the quality of services and amenities throughout the village, and establish block clubs to promote resident cohesion and local problem-solving. The police force expanded by one-third, with a residency requirement whose impact was magnified because police generally lived in areas most likely to be threatened by resegregation. An equity assurance program for homeowners would reassure residents that they were financially protected against a downward spiral of property values. Leaders acted on a vision of Oak Park as a community strong enough to achieve integration, and able to challenge the Chicago pattern of block-by-block resegregation with a policy of managed integration through dispersal. Let's reiterate here. Oak Park: I realize that one critique of this is that as an independent municipality, and one noted for having an exceptional school system as well, Oak Park was in a position to determine its own fate to a much greater extent than any city neighborhood. But I think it's important to note that several of the points listed above relied not on the governmental strength of the community, but on the institutional strength of its churches, block clubs and nonprofits, and the local business community's integration into the institutional framework. Oak Park was able to withstand the threat of destabilization because of its institutions, and that's why I believe a commitment to strengthening existing local institutions is a critical piece of gentrification management. Without a doubt the transition through the '70s and into the '80s was still hard on Oak Park. The Village experienced a slight decline in population over the period, losing 12 percent of its population between 1960 and 1990. But it did not lose population and property value in the way Austin and North Lawndale did. Since the '90s Oak Park has transformed itself into a new community of choice for young adults and families, offering excellent amenities in an vibrant, mixed-use community. The community is home to many of the employees of Chicago's constellation of hospitals on the Near West Side, as well as faculty and staff of the University of Illinois-Chicago. Both are a short and easy commute on public transit from Oak Park. Today the community stands in contrast to the Austin and North Lawndale neighborhoods to the east, and to the challenged western suburbs that did not implement similar transition policies -- Maywood, Broadview, Bellwood and Cicero are likely in that group. Oak Park continues to market itself as a model for racial diversity, and is today multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and affluent. I believe the challenge for communities facing gentrification pressures, and those where gentrification has already taken a strong hold, is nothing compared to what Oak Park faced over that critical twenty-year period between 1960 and 1980. Oak Park was swimming against the current of housing policy that was designed to conquer it, and it succeeded. Today's gentrified, gentrifying and currently low-demand inner-city communities are swimming with the current; today's concern is the distribution of a positive good, rather than the mitigation against a negative. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. What The Bond Market Is Telling Us (Morningstar) At the start of the year everyone expected long-term interest rates to rise, but rates have actually been declining. "Keep in mind that long-term interest rates really reflect investors' expectations about future short-term rates," according to Matt Coffina editor of Morningstar StockInvestor newsletter. "I hate to say it, but I think it's not good," Coffina said. This he thinks is the bond market's way of saying that "interest rates are not going to be higher in the future, which presumably means that the economy is not going to be all that strong.""You'd expect if the economy really started to pick up strength, inflation pressures would start to build and sooner rather than later the Federal Reserve would be in a position where it would have to start raising short-term interest rates. …I think the bond market is telling us that inflation still isn't a concern, and economic growth is going to be fairly weak for the foreseeable future." Household Net Worth Hits Record High (Calculated Risk) U.S. household net worth was $81.8 trillion in Q1 2014, up $26.2 trillion from the trough in Q1 2009, according to the Federal Reserve's Q1 2014 Flow of Funds report. This is a new record high. "Although household net worth is at a record high, as a percent of GDP it is still slightly below the peak in 2006 (housing bubble), but above the stock bubble peak," writes Bill McBride at Calculated Risk. Calculated RiskSmall Foundations Need To Diversify Just As Much As Big Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Diversification is important even for small foundations, writes Bret Sinak, managing director of Endeavor Wealth Management in a WSJ column. "In the past, if a foundation wanted to diversify in an asset class like real estate, it had to buy an office building," he writes. "If it wanted exposure to gold, it had to buy gold bullion. If it wanted timber, it had to buy a forest." "Over the last 10 years, however, the mutual fund and exchange-traded fund marketplace has incorporated a variety of alternative-asset classes like real estate, commodities, and hedge-fund strategies. By utilizing such funds, advisers can help smaller foundations emulate the diversification strategies of their larger counterparts."  Nearly Half Of Advisors Think They're At The Top Of Their Industry (WealthManagement.com)  Nearly 50% of advisors think they're at the top of their industry, according to a report from Pershing published at its INSITE 2014 conference. Interestingly, only 21% said their peers were as successful, reports Diana Britton at WealthManagement.com. "The gap between perception and reality might be explained by over-confidence, or simply each advisor’s sense that his or her hard work must be achieving a measurable advantage over other advisors,” according to the report cited by Britton. FREE AppDownload
ZillowThe median price for an existing home in the United States is $211,000, according to the National Association of Realtors. However, these twelve homes blow this average away with price tags in the high millions.  With the help of Zillow, we've put together a list of the most expensive homes currently on the market in the U.S. They range from penthouse apartments to sprawling estates, and each has amenities that most people can only dream about. All of the homes are located in either New York or California, which is unsurprising as both are in the top 10 most expensive states in America. Paige Cooperstein contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
AZCentral.comHow big is solar getting in the U.S.?  How about, it just got its own protest against obstacles to its continued growth.  It's difficult to recall a similar campaign for oil, gas, or nuclear. TUSK, a group backed by the solar industry, convened the demonstration Wednesday on the lawn of the Arizona Capitol to demand Gov. Jan Brewer repeal a new tax on homeowners leasing solar panels. Last month, the state's Department of Revenue ruled anyone leasing was leasing a panel faced levies of up to $152 starting this year. The Arizona Republic's Ryan Randazzo, who's mastered coverage of the state's solar fight, was told by a Brewer rep that there's little chance this particular campaign would pay off: The governor will not override the department's authority, and a bill to throw out the taxes hasn't made it out of committee.  "Having failed to move their bill, TUSK is seeking an expedient political solution," Andrew Wilder said. Arizona's main utility has argued solar customers are getting an unfair discount on their electricity statements. Nationwide, utilities are attempting to slow solar's rapid growth, which has up-ended their business models. Barclays just downgraded the entire electric utility sector. Solar groups have said they'd take the department's ruling to court if they failed here. Arizona now possesses 1,875 MW-worth of solar capacity, enough to power 262,500 homes, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. GTM Research said the U.S. had the second-best quarter ever for solar installation ever in the first three months of 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiIt was a busy day on Wall Street. This morning, the European Central Bank took the unprecedented step of pushing interest rates into negative territory. Following the decision, both the Dow and S&amp;P 500 closed at new record highs. First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,833.40, 95.8, 0.6%S&amp;P 500: 1,939.77, 11.8, 0.6%Nasdaq: 4,296.23, 44.6, 1% The top stories of the day: Don't Miss: Wall Street Should've Seen This Coming FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report CHESAPEAKE-MCCLENDON/LOANSBy Brian Grow and Joshua Schneyer ATLANTA (Reuters) - Michigan’s attorney general filed felony racketeering and fraud claims against Chesapeake Energy Corp. on Thursday, alleging the company canceled hundreds of private land leases under false pretenses following a short-lived oil and gas boom in the state in 2010. The charges, filed in Michigan state court in Cheboygan, allege Chesapeake, through its leasing agents, victimized private landowners in northern Michigan by falsely claiming mortgages on their properties were a legitimate basis for the lease cancellations. Landowners were previously told the mortgages were not a problem, the state alleged. "I will defend and protect the taxpayers of Michigan in the face of fraudulent business practices," Michigan Attorney General Bill Shuette said in a press release. "Scamming hardworking Michigan citizens is not how we do business in this state." A felony complaint filed by the Attorney General charges Chesapeake with one count of "conducting a criminal enterprise," punishable by up to a $100,000 fine, and eight counts of "false pretenses," punishable by a $10,000 fine each or three times the value of money or property involved, whichever is greater. Schuette alleged that, as a result of leasing the oil and gas rights on Michigan landowners’  properties then canceling the deals, "Chesapeake therefore obtained uncompensated land options from these landowners by false pretenses, and prevented competitors from leasing the land." Chesapeake allegedly signed leases with as many as 800 Michigan landowners, but honored less than 30 leases, according to the state’s felony complaint. "We believe this action has no merit and we will vigorously contest these baseless allegations," said Gordon Pennoyer, a spokesman for Chesapeake. Chesapeake shares traded at $29.67, up 1.3 percent, at midday on Thursday. In 2011, Reuters reported on the company’s land leasing and cancellation tactics in Michigan. Hundreds of landowners were notified that their leases had been canceled by an obscure company called Northern Michigan Exploration, a shell company formed by Chesapeake. Scores of landowners later sued Chesapeake in Michigan state courts, alleging their contracts had been breached. Many of those cases have been settled, according to private attorneys. Michigan Attorney General Schuette now alleges that the "massive, orchestrated nature" of Chesapeake’s lease cancellations, using mortgage and other reasons, "indicates that Chesapeake entered into those leases knowing it would cancel them if Chesapeake so choose – a scheme known as 'cold drafting' in the industry." Chesapeake is scheduled to be arraigned on the racketeering and fraud charges in Michigan state court in Cheboygan on June 25.  ADDED WOES The new Michigan criminal charges add to Chesapeake’s troubles in the state. In March, Attorney General Schuette alleged the Oklahoma City-based company, the second-largest natural gas producer in the United States, and rival Encana Corp. &lt;ECA.TO&gt;, based in Calgary, colluded to keep oil and gas lease prices artificially low in Michigan during the oil and gas rush in its Collingwood Shale region in 2010. The companies were originally charged with one count each of antitrust violations "relating to a contract or conspiracy in restraint of commerce," and one count each of "attempted antitrust violations." At a probable cause hearing on May 5 in Michigan state court in Cheboygan, Encana agreed to pay Michigan $5 million in a civil settlement that could clear the company of criminal antitrust charges stemming from its role in the 2010 land leasing spree. Encana pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor state charge it attempted to commit antitrust violations during the leasing spree in which it and Chesapeake were the biggest lease buyers. The court took Encana's plea under advisement and agreed to dismiss all charges against the driller if it fulfilled terms of its civil settlement over the next 11 months. At the same hearing, Chesapeake fought the criminal antitrust charges. Heather Tewksbury, an attorney representing Chesapeake, described the allegations of antitrust violations against her client as "smoke. Smoke with no fire." Tewksbury, a former U.S. Department of Justice antitrust lawyer, added, "there was no agreement" between Chesapeake and Encana. The companies said earlier that they discussed forming a joint venture in Michigan but never reached agreement. The boards of both Chesapeake and Encana conducted internal investigations in 2012 which they said showed no collusion. A series of communications between Chesapeake and Encana executives showed they had discussed bidding strategies to acquire leases, Reuters reported in 2012. The executives discussed splitting bidding responsibilities for nine private landowners and nine counties ahead of an October 2010 state lease auction in order to keep prices from creeping higher, Reuters reported. (reut.rs/1ieHE8D) Prosecutors have said the alleged collusion may have been a factor pushing down state lease prices to $40 per acre at public auction in October 2010, from a record-high average $1,510 per acre at a prior auction five months earlier. Following the probable cause hearing in May, state prosecutors expanded alleged antitrust violations against Chesapeake. The charges were divided into two separate claims, alleging the company conspired against private landowners between May and June 2010 and against the state of Michigan’s oil and gas lease auctions between August and October 2010. The charge of attempted antitrust violation, a misdemeanor, remains. A ruling from a state court Judge Maria Barton is expected this month. If the court finds sufficient probable cause, the case will move to trial. Chesapeake and Encana received letters in April from the U.S. Justice Department informing them that a separate, Justice Department-led probe into whether they violated antitrust laws in Michigan had concluded. The Justice Department is still pursuing an investigation into potentially anti-competitive behavior in oil and gas leasing in other states. (Reporting By Brian Grow and Joshua Schneyer; editing by Edward McAllister) FREE AppDownload
The European Central Bank has taken the unprecedented step of taking interest rates into negative territory.  ECB President Mario Draghi today unveiled the central bank's decision to take its deposit rate into negative territory, to -0.10%. This is the first time a major central bank has cut any interest rate below zero. The rate cut means that any bank reserves held at the ECB will be charged 10 basis points, or 0.10%, for being hoarded rather than used for some form of investment.  The idea is that if banks are penalized for parking their reserves at the ECB, they will be more apt to lend out that money, hopefully spurring economic activity. Claus Vistesen, Chief Eurozone Economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, noted that in his press conference following the ECB's announcement, Draghi signaled that markets should not expect further rate cuts.  Vistesen said, "the drag on the banking industry's earnings should be minimal given the current relatively low usage of the central bank's deposit facility."  The direct effect of a negative deposit rate may be muted, but the idea that savers can be penalized for holding money in a bank is new territory for the financial industry.  Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. securities regulator said on Thursday she is developing rules targeting high-speed traders, less transparent trading venues and order-routing practices, a move designed to promote fairness for investors, shine more light on the markets and bolster stability. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Mary Jo White's ambitious proposals, unveiled in a speech in New York City, mark the first time she has articulated her plan for revamping equity market structure rules since she took over at the SEC in the spring of 2013. White said she has numerous regulatory proposals in the works, including an "anti-disruptive trading" rule to rein in aggressive short-term trading by high-frequency traders during vulnerable market conditions, and a plan to force more proprietary trading shops to register with regulators and open their books for inspection. White also said the SEC is working on a handful of transparency measures. One such rule would require alternative trading venues such as dark pools and brokerage internalizers to disclose more to regulators and the public about how they operate. Dark pools allow investors to execute trades anonymously and do not make trading data available until after the trade is complete. Another proposed measure would seek to mitigate potential conflicts of interest at brokerages by requiring more disclosure on how they handle orders for large institutional investors. "Investors and public companies benefit greatly from robust and resilient equity markets," White said in prepared remarks. "I am recommending additional measures to further promote market stability and fairness." The SEC has been exploring potential equity market structure reforms since early 2010. The agency's review intensified later that year, after the May 2010 "flash crash" incident in which the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 700 points before it sharply rebounded. Regulators traced the rapid plunge back to the trading strategies of a computer algorithm that started in the futures market and quickly spread to the equities markets. Although no high-speed trading tactics were to blame for the incident, it sparked a worldwide debate about the impact high-speed trading has on the marketplace, and whether the SEC's major market rule changes in the early to mid-2000s have led to unintended consequences that gave some investors an edge over others. One rule in particular, known as Regulation National Market System (REG NMS), was designed to promote competition and price improvement but has since been blamed for overly fragmenting the market and giving rise to high-speed trading. The debate over high-speed trading was reignited this year with the publication of the book "Flash Boys" by best-selling author Michael Lewis. In the book, Lewis alleges high-speed traders have rigged the market because they are able to see first how others are trading, jump ahead and pocket the spread. White has since refuted Lewis' assertion that the markets are rigged. However, she has repeatedly pledged since her U.S. Senate confirmation last year to bring certain "data-driven" changes to the equity markets to promote more confidence and stability. Any regulations that are ultimately proposed will have to be vetted through a public comment process and approved by a majority of the SEC's five commissioners. In her speech Thursday, White also outlined several long-term initiatives to better understand how the SEC's past rules have shaped the present-day marketplace. Those include a review of how REG NMS has fragmented the market. She also said the SEC would re-examine the regulatory model for trading venues, including both exchanges and alternative trading systems. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/CrumbsThe world's largest cupcake company is crumbling.  Crumbs Bake Shop's stock price has plunged to around 27 cents per share from a high of $14 per share in July of 2011.  The once-hot bakery catapulted to fame thanks to a cupcake craze that swept across the U.S. in the early 2000s. Shortly after going public in 2011, however, Crumbs began losing money.  The company is now closing stores and its auditors are expressing doubt over whether Crumbs can stay in business. FREE AppDownload
APBy: Sen. Jerry Moran is the junior U.S. senator from Kansas. Rep. Tom Cotton is a congressman from Arkansas.  The newest Davis Guggenheim documentary Spent: Looking for Change premiered on YouTube this week and shared with the world the heartbreak of financial insecurity and the struggle to escape it. The film tells stories about how a lack of access to basic financial services can make the road to economic security long and difficult. Unfortunately, the film’s stories are all too common for the millions of Americans who work hard yet face resistance and pitfalls while trying to scale the economic ladder and realize their own American Dream. By addressing the headwinds that limit upward mobility, we can improve the chances that more Americans can achieve financial security. Research shows that one of the most critical factors that enhances economic mobility is savings. When individuals and families are able to create their own safety nets, they are less likely to be derailed by financial emergencies. Those who save are also better equipped to make mobility-enhancing investments such as purchasing a car, buying a home, or saving for college. The Pew Foundation’s Economic Mobility Project found that 71 percent of children born to high-saving but low-income parents emerge from the bottom income quintile in one generation, compared to only 50 percent of children from non-saving low-income households.  While the correlation between savings and economic mobility is strong, too few Americans choose to make savings a priority. Research shows that 44 percent of American households lack the savings needed to cover basic expenses for three months, leaving families unable to withstand a financial emergency. In 2013, the personal savings rate dipped to just 3.8 percent, down from down from 10.5 percent in 1963. Meanwhile, over 20 percent of Americans believe winning the lottery is a meaningful strategy to build wealth. Americans spend more than $60 billion every year on lottery tickets, and families earning the least spend the highest percentage of their earnings on lottery tickets despite the long odds of winning. This savings crisis affects individuals, families and the entire American economy. It is one of the reasons we support the American Savings Promotion Act. This bipartisan legislation updates a broadly-written banking laws to allow banks and thrifts the ability to offer prizes for customers who make a deposit in their savings account. These prize-linked savings (PLS) accounts are an innovative tool to encourage saving while offering the thrill of a chance to win a larger prize. PLS programs have proven successful both abroad and in states that allow credit unions to offer these products.   More than a half dozen states have changed applicable state laws to allow credit unions to offer prize-linked savings accounts. In 2009, Save to Win, the first large-scale PLS program, was launched at a handful of credit unions in Michigan. Each time a participant deposits $25 in their savings account, they are entered into a raffle with a chance to win a monthly prize of up to $3,750 or an annual prize of $10,000. Early data from the program shows that this incentive has been successful at encouraging first-time savers and low-to-moderate income savers. The program has since expanded to Nebraska, North Carolina and Washington. In addition, state lawmakers in Indiana approved legislation this session to allow PLS products. Since 2009, over 50,000 account holders have collectively saved more than $94 million. Unfortunately, current federal barriers prevent banks and thrifts from offering these proven PLS products. The American Savings Promotion Act would update federal law to allow states to expand prize-linked savings to other financial institutions. This legislation has been introduced in both chambers of Congress and enjoys bipartisan support from across the political spectrum.  Increasing savings is not only a win-win for individuals and families, it will also provide a boost for financial institutions and the greater American economy. Let’s give all Americans – especially those with the greatest need of financial security – an incentive and tool to protect themselves from risk, save for their future and more easily scale the economic ladder. FREE AppDownload
wallyg/FlickrDamien Hirst's "The Virgin Mother" on display in Manhattan's Lever House in 2007.Real estate mogul and art collector Aby Rosen has sparked a feud with his wealthy Old Westbury, N.Y., neighbors after debuting this graphic Damien Hirst statue on his front lawn. The statue is titled “The Virgin Mother” and stands 33 feet tall. It depicts a naked pregnant woman in stride, with the right half of her skin peeled away to expose her skull, muscles, and the fetus in her womb. Somewhat understandably, Rosen’s neighbors were not pleased when he began displaying the statue on his lawn back in May after renovating his Old Westbury Village property, according to Newsday. The complaints from neighbors reached village officials, forcing Rosen to argue to the village’s planning board this week why the statue should stay. Rosen is also up against the village's Mayor Fred Carillo, who has introduced new legislation in response to the controversy that would limit the height of “accessory structures” — like statues — to 25 feet in height. Carillo has previously said to 1010 WINS’ Mona Rivera that the statue would be more appropriate in a medical building, “especially OBGYN.” On Monday night, representatives for Rosen testified to the planning board that the statue not only fit with Rosen’s avant-garde estate, but also that with the proper landscaping, the statue could be screened from neighbors as much as possible. Rosen’s land-use attorney Peter MacKinnon previously stated to Newsday that the statue could be moved to a lower elevation or “pocketed into a hill” to accomplish this. Mike PD/FlickrAnother Damien Hirst sculpture on display at London's Royal Academy in 2006.Village officials decided to reserve judgement until touring the estate, according to Newsday. The statue currently remains on Rosen’s property but is covered in a long black sheet. "The Virgin Mother" is one of three similar statues created by Hirst, including one called "Verity" that is 67 feet tall and holds a sword above its head in Ilfracombe, Devon. Rosen purchased his statue in 2005, and it has previously been displayed at Manhattan’s Lever House. This is not the only art-related battle Rosen is currently fighting. The real estate mogul is also being sued by the New York Landmarks Conservancy for wanting to take down the fragile Picasso curtain “Le Tricorne” (1919) from New York City’s Four Seasons Restaurant. FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve released the Q1 2014 Flow of Funds report today: Flow of Funds.According to the Fed, household net worth increased in Q1 compared to Q4, and is at a new record high. Net worth peaked at $68.9 trillion in Q2 2007, and then net worth fell to $55.6 trillion in Q1 2009 (a loss of $13.3 trillion). Household net worth was at $81.8 trillion in Q1 2014 (up $26.2 trillion from the trough in Q1 2009).The Fed estimated that the value of household real estate increased to $20.2 trillion in Q1 2014. The value of household real estate is still $2.5 trillion below the peak in early 2006. Calculated Risk The first graph shows Households and Nonprofit net worth as a percent of GDP.  Although household net worth is at a record high, as a percent of GDP it is still slightly below the peak in 2006 (housing bubble), but above the stock bubble peak.This includes real estate and financial assets (stocks, bonds, pension reserves, deposits, etc) net of liabilities (mostly mortgages). Note that this does NOT include public debt obligations.This ratio was increasing gradually since the mid-70s, and then we saw the stock market and housing bubbles. The ratio has been trending up and increased again in Q1 with both stock and real estate prices increasing.This graph shows homeowner percent equity since 1952.  Calculated RiskHousehold percent equity (as measured by the Fed) collapsed when house prices fell sharply in 2007 and 2008. In Q1 2014, household percent equity (of household real estate) was at 53.6% - up from Q4, and the highest since Q1 2007. This was because of both an increase in house prices in Q1 (the Fed uses CoreLogic) and a reduction in mortgage debt. Note: about 30.3% of owner occupied households had no mortgage debt as of April 2010. So the approximately 50+ million households with mortgages have far less than 50.7% equity - and millions have negative equity.The third graph shows household real estate assets and mortgage debt as a percent of GDP.  Calculated RiskMortgage debt decreased by $37 billion in Q1.   Mortgage debt has now declined by $1.28 trillion from the peak. Studies suggest most of the decline in debt has been because of foreclosures (or short sales), but some of the decline is from homeowners paying down debt (sometimes so they can refinance at better rates).The value of real estate, as a percent of GDP, was up in Q1 (as house prices increased), and somewhat above the average of the last 30 years (excluding bubble). However household mortgage debt, as a percent of GDP, is still historically high, suggesting still a little more deleveraging ahead for certain households. FREE AppDownload
Isaac Brekken / Getty Forbes does great sports business analysis, but they've been too conservative. The Milwaukee Bucks, valued by the business site at $410 million, sold for $550 million in April. The Los Angeles Clippers, valued at $575 million, sold for $2 billion in May. Franchise values are rising for many reasons, with new TV deals in particular set to drive them to record highs. Even if billionaire Steve Ballmer overpaid for the Clippers (Stern School of Business valuation expert Aswath Damodaran puts their value at $1.6 billion), it is clear we have entered the new value paradigm faster than expected. With every team worth more than expected, every owner is, too, and the bump should be more than enough to make Charlotte Hornets majority owner Michael Jordan a billionaire. Jordan's net worth was estimated at $750 million in February in a thorough analysis by Forbes's Kurt Badenhausen. The NBA legend earned an estimated $90 million in 2013, more than any current athlete including current NBA leader LeBron James, who earned an estimated $60 million. His wealth came primarily from an unprecedented deal with Nike, with his line of shoes alone selling $2.25 billion in the U.S. last year, along with other endorsement deals, business holdings, and very high pay during his playing career. But he also owns 80% of the Hornets, and that asset is suddenly looking a lot more valuable. Although the Hornets (then Bobcats) franchise was valued at $175 million when Jordan bought a 80% share in 2010, its projected value increased quickly. By 2013, the team was already worth $410 million and expected to rise significantly in the near future, according to Forbes. Badenhausen concluded in a February article that Jordan's "earnings prowess shows no sign of letting up and should land him a spot on Forbes billionaire list in the coming years." Within months, however, apparent NBA team values would skyrocket. The Bucks sold for 34% more than Forbes's projection. The Clippers sold for 248% more. Let's split the difference and say Jordan's Hornets are worth 159% more than projected, putting their current value at $1,062 million. That would put Jordan's share at $850 million, rather than the $328 million figure Badenhausen used, raising his new estimated net worth to $1,272 million. Yes, this recalculation is fairly arbitrary, but all indicators point to it being on the right track. We can fairly assume that Jordan is a billionaire — and as great as his legacy was in the NBA, his net worth may be even harder for other basketball players to match. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lisi NiesnerThis morning Mario Draghi and the European Central Bank (ECB) took a very bold move, they pushed interest rates into negative territory. This is part of an aggressive approach to combat weak growth and low inflation that are plaguing the eurozone. Draghi had highlighted three steps to counter this weakness at an ECB forum last month; lower interest rates, targeted lending to non-financial corporates and finally a broad-based asset purchase program. Today we got two of three of these steps. Here are the key takeaways and what they mean: Negative rates The deposit rate was lowered to -0.1%, from 0%, effective June 11. The idea is that if banks aren't being rewarded for parking their reserves at the central bank, then they will be more likely to lend it to households and businesses. But George Magnus makes an interesting point in a Financial Times column, suggesting that this move won't be that powerful.  "European banks’ deposits at the ECB have fallen close to zero in the past several months, and their reserve holdings at the ECB, to which negative rates will also apply, have also diminished significantly," he writes. "The negative interest rate, therefore, is unlikely to have a significant effect on banks’ behavior." Draghi added that ultimately the decision to lower rates for households is the decision of banks, not the ECB. "There is a deep misunderstanding here. The rates we've changed are for the banks, not for the people," Draghi said. It's wrong to think the ECB wants "to expropriate savers. ...The concerns of savers should be taken very seriously." Targeted LTROs The ECB unveiled targeted LTROs (Long Term Refinancing Operation), which is about €400 billion and that will mature in September 2018, or in about 4 years. Basically these are subsidized loans in targeted areas, when you look at it from the supply side, because banks are going to the ECB to get liquidity which they might not be able to get elsehwere, Vistesen told Business Insider in a phone interview, it's "passive balance sheet expansion." But the key thing is that their is impaired demand, since the non-financial corporate sector in peripheral economies aren't doing as well, he said.   The TLTROs are basically intended to boost lending to the non-financial private sector, and this excludes loans for home purchases.  "The cost obviously, it is very low, the term maturity is four years, and the termination that this money not be spent on sovereigns and on sectors that are already experienced or have just come out of a bubbly situation, that's what in it," explained Draghi during the press conference. "The set-up is taken straight out of the BoE’s playbook as it does not apply to house purchases—providing a nod to the BoE’s recent criticism of the Help-to-Buy program—and is instead conditioned specifically to loans for the non-financial corporate sector," Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in an email. The end of SMP sterilization Under the SMP program the ECB would buy securities on the secondary market (from banks and against market prices) but sterilize its purchases by removing an equivalent amount of liquidity from the system. The ECB moved to end its securities market program (SMP) sterilization, which should add €175 billion to the ECB’s balance sheet. This sends the message that the "the central bank is now ready to consider outright balance sheet expansion later this year," writes Vistesen. Outright Purchases of Asset Backed Securities (ABS) The Governing Council is working to "intensify preparatory work related to outright purchases in the ABS market to enhance the functioning of the monetary policy transmission mechanism, given the role of this market in facilitating new credit flows to the economy." The ABS will essentially see the ECB buy bundled packages of small and medium enterprise loans. Vistesen argues that the market "cannot currently accommodate the flow from an aggressive purchasing programme in this sector." No big bazooka just yet The ECB did not announce full quantitative easing — purchases of government bonds as undertaken by the Fed — but has left that option open. "The details of the announcement indicate that QE is still a thorny issue, and a step that the central bank would prefer to avoid for as long as possible," Vistesen. The ECB has thrown everything but the kitchen sink at a eurozone economy," Nicholas Spiro, managing director, at Spiro Sovereign Strategy wrote in an email to clients. "...The reality is that markets continue to expect far too much from the ECB and are letting the Eurozone's politicians, particularly those in France, off the hook. " But the last word on this comes from Draghi. "Are we finished? The answer is no," he said. FREE AppDownload
T. Boone Pickens wants to compete against President Barack Obama to a 1-hour workout, in the wake of leaked footage showing the president's apparently less-than-strenuous exercise session in Poland. "I challenge President @BarackObama to a 1 hour workout," the gas baron writes on his Instagram account. "My cardio is better. Will work out energy plan for America. #nosweat" T. Boone Pickens is 86 years old. Based on this video, T. Boone Pickens seems like he could beat the president in said challenge.  This was of course in response to leaked footage showing the president pumping iron at a gym in Poland: New York Post Annihilation would likely ensue.  (H/T @sportsrapport) FREE AppDownload
AP Images Markets are booming again. The Dow is up 101 points (0.6%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 11 points (0.6%), and the Nasdaq is up 37 points (0.9%). Hedge fund manager David Tepper, who said last month that it was "nervous time" for markets, said his market concerns have "alleviated," according to CNBC.  This morning saw a flurry of major economic activity. The ECB cut interest rates.  At his press conference, Mario Draghi announced programs to boost lending. After this activity, the Euro softened against the dollar, but has since rallied to $1.362 against the dollar, essentially unchanged from where it was ahead of the ECB meeting. European stocks rallied but later pared those gains. Attention now turns to U.S. nonfarm payrolls, scheduled for 8:30 tomorrow morning.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusMiss Connecticut Erin Brady reacts as she is crowned by Miss USA 2012 Nana Meriwether during the Miss USA pageant at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada June 16, 2013. This weekend, Miss USA 2013 Erin Brady will crown her successor at the widely-viewed beauty pageant owned by billionaire Donald Trump.  Before becoming Miss USA, Brady worked an accountant. She told us last year that working as an accountant helped her prepare for the pageant.  While some might consider pageants to be superficial, they actually help teach poise and confidence. They also help tremendously when it comes to interviewing. What's more is being a titleholder like Miss USA is a job. It requires a lot of work.  In honor of the upcoming event, we decided to do a little research and look up former pageant titleholders who work or have worked in financial services. We were able to find a handful of them.  If we're missing any names of titleholders in the finance industry, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.   FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVLast month David Tepper spoke at one of the biggest hedge fund conferences of the year, SALT Las Vegas. He told the crowd, "I am nervous, I think it's nervous time." Now, according to CNBC's Kate Kelly, it seems that Tepper thinks we're out of the woods for now. His market concerns have "alleviated." From Kelly: I just spoke briefly to David Tepper this morning who said his view has changed somewhat since last month when he spoke at a conference and said, famously, it is nervous time in the markets for a number of global macro reasons dealing with Central Banks. Now that the ECB has made this somewhat historic decision today he indicates to me that he is feeling a little bit better. Tepper had said in May that the ECB "better ease in June. I don't know how far they are behind the curve...We are a fairly leveraged world...I'm not so keen about deflationary forces." He warned the crowd that he wouldn't be short but "don't be too freakin' long." He also voiced concerns about China's slowing growth, instability in Ukraine, and the U.S.'s own anemic recovery. He told Kelly that those concerns too had alleviated for the moment. Anyone out there relieved? Now it seems that Wall Street's main concern is being bored to death.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway CEO Buffett throws a newspaper during a competition at a trade show, at the company's annual meeting in Omaha(Reuters) - Warren Buffett's annual auction to benefit a San Francisco charity has drawn a bid of more than $1 million, surpassing last year's top offering, with a day of bidding remaining for a chance to eat lunch with the billionaire investor. The $1,000,300 high bid is for the 15th annual auction to benefit the Glide Foundation, which provides food and services to the poor and homeless. The high bid often surges in the last hour or two before the auction on eBay closes. The auction ends Friday at 10:30 p.m. EDT (2:30 a.m. Saturday GMT). Last year's $1,000,100 winning bid was considered a relative bargain, being lower than the five previous winning bids, including the $3,456,789 top bid in 2012. This year's winner and up to seven friends will have a private lunch with Buffett at the Smith &amp; Wollensky steakhouse in Manhattan. Buffett has said he will talk about anything other than what he might next invest in. Auctions began in 2000 after Buffett was introduced to Glide by his first wife Susan, who died in 2004. The auctions have raised nearly $16 million. Other winners have included hedge fund managers David Einhorn, who paid $250,100 in 2003, and Ted Weschler, who spent $5.25 million to win the 2010 and 2011 auctions. Weschler was later hired by Buffett, and is now a portfolio manager at Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA trader stands outside the New York Stock Exchange, Sept. 29, 2008. The Wall Street jobs story everyone's talking about today is in The Wall Street Journal, and it's ugly. The gist is this: Get ready for a mass exodus of traders from top Wall Street banks. It's not hard to understand why. The market is quiet. As a result, trading — in bonds, credit, currencies, what have you — just isn't the moneymaker it used to be. People have been warning of this hole in bank balance sheets for months. Especially in the second quarter, analysts expect trading revenue to nosedive, and it's key revenue — at Goldman it makes up 30% of their quarterly haul. This deficiency means banks must find a way to cut down unnecessary costs. Headhunters such as Richard Stein, senior partner at executive-search firm Caldwell Partners, told The Journal that there are "too many people on these trading floors" and that he's starting to get calls from people who want to jump ship before they're pushed out. From The Wall Street Journal: Mr. Stein of Caldwell Partners says he has received between 17% and 19% more calls in the past month than in the same month a year earlier from managing directors inquiring about job opportunities. Managing directors inhabit the top rung of the Wall Street career ladder. "It's very clear to most people that making money and profits is harder," said a credit trader who left a large U.S. bank earlier this year. "There's a high probability you're going to be pushed out. Most people don't come into a bank thinking they're going to be there 15 or 20 years, even if they do well." Until the market changes — interest rates rise or things become more volatile — traders will be twiddling their thumbs. And Wall Street can't afford that. FREE AppDownload
Last month federal regulators did the once unthinkable and criminally charged Credit Suisse for helping its clients evade taxes. Now the government is going after France's biggest bank, BNP Paribas. Reports indicate that over the next few weeks it faces a $10 billion fine and criminal charges for doing business with in sanctioned countries such as Iran. Wall Street should've seen this coming. Back in March, Preet Bharara, the U.S. district attorney for New York known for taking down some big names on Wall Street for insider trading, made a telling speech.  He warned Wall Street that he was sick and tired of seeing big banks admit to civil charges and pay fines for their million-dollar malfeasance only to then go on business as usual. For the last decade, banks have argued that prosecuting them criminally will result in their collapse. Bharara called this their "Chicken Little routine." Here's the part where Bharara disclosed that he had had enough: Companies, especially financial institutions, will do almost anything to avoid a tough enforcement action and therefore have a natural and powerful incentive to make prosecutors believe that death or dire consequences await on the other side of such an action – to dissuade the prosecutor from taking the fateful step of filing a criminal charge, even a deferred charge. And in that dynamic also lies a powerful incentive to exaggerate. In meetings with senior executives and their counsel—and in written submissions also—I have heard assertions made with great force and passion that if we take any criminal action, the skies will darken; the oceans will rise; nuclear winter will be upon us; and the world as we know it will end... When these arguments are made to me and my staff, we take them seriously—like we take all arguments and submissions. But we also take them, increasingly, with grains of salt, and make our own independent judgment about what actually is likely to happen. What I have found typically is that, in reality, as we had suspected, the sky does not fall... And so, this repeated Chicken Little routine, I will tell you, begins to wear thin. And the result is that we view with more and more skepticism and with more and more doubt all the breathless claims of catastrophic consequences made by companies both large and small. Over at Bloomberg, Greg Farrell and Tiffany Karry report that Bharara started to come around to this way of thinking last fall, when he wanted to prosecute JPMorgan for its decades long neglect to report Bernie Madoff's fraud. JPM was the Ponzi schemers banker, and some inside the company knew that something was afoot — they pulled the bank's money from Madoff before reporting the issue to the Feds. That upset Bharara. But when JPM CEO Jamie Dimon got a 74% raise to $20 million afterward for guiding the company through the storm, Bharara was livid. Dimon's pay had been cut in 2012, when traders lost $6 billion on a single trade. The whole matter said something about the bank's priorities. It made Bharara think back to when Dimon had personally told him that criminal charges for Madoff would destroy JPM. Wall Street as a whole has been telling this story because once upon a time the sky did fall. When the Feds prosecuted Arthur Andersen for its role in disguising Enron's fraud, the company collapsed in 2002. This time around Credit Suisse, however, did not collapse. And though the French are upset that American regulators are going after BNP, law enforcement officials are betting that it won't collapse either. In his speech, Bharara said that the pendulum had swung too far one way — against prosecuting Wall Street criminally — after Arther Andersen. If the pendulum is in fact swinging in the opposite direction — toward handing out criminal charges — the next thing in its way could be prosecuting individuals. It's quite likely that Wall Street has always known that. FREE AppDownload
SolarRoadways The crowdfunding story of the year is SolarRoadways, the firm run by an Idaho couple that wants to repave America's asphalt with solar panels. Julie and Scott Brusaw have now raised just short of $2 million on Indiegogo. With over 38,000 funders, it is the most widely sourced campaign in Indiegogo history. So...When can we start driving on the panels? According to Scott, we can expect the first installation next spring at a welcome center parking lot in Sandpoint, the town up the road from SolarRoadway's HQ, also known as the Brusaw residence. "We've lined up a couple people to hire, we're looking at some resumes, places in town, getting our ducks in a row," the 56-year-old Brusaw told BI. In the idealized case of replacing all ~31,000 square miles of paved road- and walk-ways in the lower 48 states with solar panels, Brusaw has calculated that his panel designs could meet the ~3,800 billion kilowatt hours of electricity consumed by the U.S. 3x over.  So it's easy to see why the project has generated so much interest. Recently, though, there's been a spurt of criticisms about the project, charging both unsustainaible costs and untenable specs.  It's true that, in Brusaw already anticipated some of the critiques in the project's extensive documentation. And The Week's John Aziz (who first gave us the head's up on this story) also did a great write-up of why it seems unfair to second guess a project that's still in its infancy.  Brusaw acknowledges that there is no guarantee of success if one measures their potential solely on results in controlled settings. Besides addressing anything unanticipated that comes up once the panels are in the wild, the greatest challenge will indeed be manufacturing them cheaply enough to meet demand. The means used so far — assembling them by hand, which at one point entailed working out of a Residence Inn in California — won't cut it for much longer.    "That’s something we have to figure out, how to mass produce these," he said.  SolarRoadways Among the other unprecedented things about the project is its complete rejection of professional investors. Brusaw got into the details a bit more about why they've decided to go down this path. He said he moved to Idaho soon after leaving his job as the research and development director at an Ohio manufacturing facility, scarred by the effects of seeing his colleagues' jobs off-shored. He has been wary of outside decision makers ever since.  "It bothers me that American businesses are transferring work overseas — always has bothered me," he said. "Even at the company in Ohio — I won't name them — someone else bought the company and immediately started transferring work overseas, and the quality became horrible." The company will thus remain private, eventually to be funded through sales alone. Brusaw says they've already been in talks about shipping panels to NASA, Boise State, Wright State, and Amtrak, which plans to repave a passenger platform with the panels.  "Other people are saying, 'Can we buy stock? Will you go public?'" Brusaw said. "If we go public, we'll have stockholders to answer to, but they'll be more focused on increasing the bottom line...I'm not going to do that." Brusaw credits a screening of Al Gore's 2006 film "An Inconvenient Truth" and his wife's encouragement with rekindling a lifelong vision of making roadways somehow more useful than hunks of asphalt. Thanks to Julie's successful therapy practice, Brusaw says the family had a nest egg off which he could start assembling his vision.  They haven't looked back.  FREE AppDownload
Joel Kramer / FlickrEconomists have begun commenting on the economic fireworks from this morning, and in a note, Chris Rupkey, Chief Financial Economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ said, "the world looks to be a safer place today." This morning, the European Central Bank cut interest rates, taking its deposit rate negative to -0.1%. The benchmark interest rate was also cut from 0.25% to 0.15%.  But perhaps more importantly, Draghi unveiled a package of targeted longer term refinancing operations, or TLTROs. The initial size of these operations is EUR 400 billion and will mature in September 2018.  In the U.S., weekly jobless claims rose slightly to 312,000 from 300,000 last week, but the four-week average of claims has fallen to its lowest level since 2007 as the labor market in the U.S. continues to show improvement. In his note, Rupkey says the U.S. economy appears to be rounding into form.  Rupkey:  "Good news this morning on the labor market, current conditions. We don’t see the slack economic conditions that Fed officials see, and unemployment claims don’t either. Current conditions could not be any better. First-time jobless claims rose slightly by 8K to 312K in the May 31 week. These are levels we tend to see during robust economic expansions, where any job losses are modest frictional ones in a normal, growing $17 trillion economy. Unemployment claims are better than they were in April. In the five weeks of May, claims have been below the 325K level that defines the 'full employment' unemployment zone, claims have been 325K or lower in 4 out of 5 weeks in May, and the outlier was 327K. This is evidence, anecdotal to be sure, that we could get a big 200K plus payroll jobs tomorrow." Rupkey says it might be time for the Fed to start normalizing monetary policy, given the employment and inflation situations in the U.S. " The Fed has told us the Fed funds rate should be 2.25% when unemployment hits 5.2-5.6 percent, and at 6.3% unemployment right now, they better get going. The economy is better than you think. The ECB may be worried about deflation over there, but the Fed has won the battle here. There is no deflation in the U.S. The labor markets are closing in on full employment, and rate hikes are coming faster than you think." We will see how this plays out, but it is certainly showtime for the U.S. economy.  FREE AppDownload
Marc Andreessen told CNBC's Andrew Sorkin that NSA leaker Edward Snowden is a traitor. "Obviously he's a traitor. If you look up in the encyclopedia 'traitor,' there's a picture of Ed Snowden," the Silicon Valley venture capitalist said. "He's a textbook traitor. They don't get more traitor than that." The dictionary definition of "traitor" is "a person who betrays a country or group of people by helping or supporting an enemy." Andreessen bases his views on that argument that the 30-year-old "stole nationals security secrets and gave them to everyone on the planet." Snowden stole hundreds of thousands of top secret NSA documents and fled to Hong Kong last May. Top U.S. officials claim that the stolen documents include U.S. military information that has little to do with civil liberties or privacy.  The former NSA systems administrator provided an estimated 200,000 documents to journalists, sparking a flurry of reports over the last year that exposed NSA surveillance practices in the U.S. and around the globe. Andreessen noted that he is in the "distinct minority" in Silicon Valley, where the disclosures have led to calls for widespread reform of the relevant laws, and said he was surprised that so many people were shocked by the revelations. "I think if you actually followed the NSA, read the books, followed the history … then you generally assumed that they were doing just about everything that has come out," he said. "We've been funding this agency for 50 years that has 10s of thousands of employees and 10s of billions of dollars. I thought they were spying. … I thought everybody knew that." Stories based on the Snowden cache that have riled Silicon Valley include evidence of the widespread collection of "metadata" from U.S. phone calls as well as a program called PRISM that compels Internet companies to turn over any data that match court-approved search terms. Both are approved by Congress but have lacked strong oversight. Other stories have included NSA surveillance abroad, including spying on German Chancellor Angela Merkel's non-encrypted phone, the leaders of Russia, the metadata of foreign populations, and various targets in China. Andreessen notes that a lot of that outrage is political. "Some of the shock I think is fake," he said, adding that foreign governments like Germany and Russia "knew full well what was happening … and of course they do many or all of the same things themselves."   Andreessen described the potential damage to Silicon Valley as "very serious and very worrying," noting that U.S. tech companies are in danger of losing critical funding from abroad. "Some companies get 70% of revenue outside the U.S.," Andreessen noted. "There's a big open question right now how successful they'll be when they sell products overseas. ... A lot of countries are jealous of Silicon Valley and will use the Snowden affair as an excuse to implement protectionist policies." The leaks are already hurting business in Silicon Valley. “It’s clear to every single tech company that this is affecting their bottom line,” Daniel Castro, a senior analyst at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation who predicted that the U.S. cloud computing industry could lose $35 billion by 2016, told the New York Times in March. Lastly, Andreessen was critical of the Obama administration's response to the leaks. "The administration is …  letting the NSA hang out to dry, they're letting the American tech industry out to dry. I haven't met anybody who feels like the White House has a plan, it's just happening." Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotGM CEO Mary Barra was apologetic in a telecast about the findings of the Valukas report — the company's internal report on why it took 11 years for the company to recall cars with faulty ignition switches. The switches have been linked to 13 deaths. Barra became CEO last December as the company started hitting its stride after declaring bankruptcy in 2009. "It [the report] represents a fundamental failure... in this case with these vehicles we didn't do our job. We failed these customers." That said, Barra sounded confident that the report was "very thorough", with 230 individuals questioned. "I hate sharing this with you just as much as you hate hearing it," said Barra, "but I want to share it with you... I want you to hear it and never forget it." Barra blamed the findings on a "pattern of irresponsibility and neglect" that made a lazy attitude about safety "business as usual" at the company. She said that this behavior was never reported to the highest ranks of GM and that there was no conspiracy to cover up the issue, though "personnel's inability to address ignition switch problem... represents a history of failures." As a result of the report, Barra announced a management shakeup, fifteen fired, more safety investigators, and compensation for the families who lost loved ones, and those who were severely injured. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschThe ECB press conference has begun. In his introductory statement, Mario Draghi unveiled targeted longer term refinancing operations (TLTROs). The initial size of TLTROs is about €400 billion and all TLTROs will mature in September 2018, or in about 4 years. Two successive TLTROS will be conducted in September and December 2014. "From March 2015 to June 2016 all counter parties will be able to borrow quarterly up to three times the amount of their net lending to the euro area non-financial private sector, excluding loans to households," said Draghi. The ECB is "intensifying preparatory work for outright purchases in the ABS [asset backed securities] market." It will also suspend its weekly securities market program (SMP) sterilization. The euro is moving lower after these comments. The ECB cut its 2015 GDP forecast to 1% in 2014, from previous forecast of 1.2% growth. It expects 1.7% GDP growth in 2015, up from previous forecast of 1.5%. Finally, it projects 1.8% growth in 2016. The Q&amp;A has begun. Here are the key highlights: The ECB press conference is now over. Even as Draghi was speaking we got this from Kit Juckes at Societe Generale: "Mr Draghi is still speaking, but the gist is that he is doing everything short of full QE to support the economy, and that will be reflected in stronger asset prices generally," Juckes said in an email. "...And the carrot of full QE is still dangling in front of us." Click here for Draghi's introductory statement in full » ----------- The European Central Bank just announced a historic rate cut, pushing interest rates into negative territory. Specifically, the ECB cut the deposit rate to -0.1%, from 0.0%, effective from June 11, 2014. At 8:30 a.m. ET, ECB president Mario Draghi will come center-stage as he addresses this morning's rate cut.  At 9:30 a.m. ET we will have a press conference that is more technical in nature, according to Richard Gilhooly at TD Securities. He could announce further actions to fight weak growth and low inflation in the eurozone. Markets are watching for any announcements on an asset purchase program, or quantitative easing.  Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics doesn't expect the ECB to fire any sort of bazooka today though. Click here for the LiveStream. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonPeople wait in line to enter a job fair in New York.Initial jobless claims rose to 312,000. Expectations were for claims to rise to 310,000 from last week's 300,000. Continuing claims fell further to 2,603,000. Expectations were for continuing claims to fall to 2,625,000. Last week continuing claims fell to 2,631,000, the lowest reading since 2007. But despite the weekly rise in jobless claims, Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson notes that the four-week average is now at 310,250, the lowest level since June 2007. Shepherdson: "The key point here is that the trend is downwards, with the four-week average now at 310.25K, its lowest since June 07 — before the recession, which began in Dec — and the smoother eight-week average is at 318K. At the turn of this year, the underlying trend was about 340K, so drop since then is consistent with monthly payroll growth accelerating by as much as 50K. That hasn't happened yet, and we don't expect a blockbuster number tomorrow, but the claims data suggest sustained better payrolls are in the pipeline." Following the initial claims report, Cooper Howes at Barclays affirmed his view that nonfarm payrolls will rise 225,000 tomorrow with the unemployment rate reamining unchanged at 6.3%.  This chart from Barclays shows the decline in continuing claims since last 2007.  Barclays FREE AppDownload
APBitcoin has been on a bit of a run lately, having climbed nearly 50% in the past two weeks. Prices now sit at $655.  We discussed some of the factors for the melt-up last week, but the surge has managed to occur in the absence of any of the biggest "Web 2.0" guys accepting the digital currency. That may change sometime in the near future: Appearing on CNBC, eBay President John Donahoe told Andrew Ross Sorkin that while his firm has not set a date, it will have to integrate digital currencies like Bitcoin at some point. Here's the full transcript: JOHN DONAHOE: I think there's no doubt digital currency is going to play an important role going forward, and at PayPal, we're going to have to integrate digital currencies into our wallet.  Andrew Ross Sorkin: So handicap it: How quickly do you think we'll see Bitcoin in PayPal?  JD: Oh, I don't know, I can't give a specific time. But I think you'll see Bitcoin used in different use cases, whether it's a peer-to-peer use case, a cross-border transaction, someone's sending currency to someone else, and over time, you'll start to see it with some merchants accepting Bitcoin. And I don't know how big it will get how quickly, but the underlying theme is that a digital currency is something we're aware and something we should be paying attention to.  ARS: Do you own any Bitcoin, personally?  JD: Yes, I do. What do you think it should be worth? For me, I'm not buying it as an investment. I'm buying it to understand how it can be used. I think there are two sides of it, the investment side and the digital currency side. I'm more interested in the digital currency side.  ARS: I don't know if it's a Stockholm Syndrome or what, but everybody that I talk to out here — and you sort of get into it — really does talk about Bitcoin as the next big thing. And they believe it. And they mean it. It is not just some kind of fly-by-night thing they are playing with. They are serious, and very big companies out here, are very, very serious about it. And here's the clip:   FREE AppDownload
This is interesting. Maybe it's nothing. Maybe it's not. But Simon de la Rouviere points out that it looks like Bitcoin just had its first ever reaction to a central bank announcement. Specifically, at 7:45, the ECB made the historic decision to cut rates to negative. In other words, one of their interest rates will literally make it so that it costs people to save money. And look what Bitcoin did right then. It's hard to believe there would be any direct link between monetary policy and the digital currency. But still, the timing is notable. Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi waves as he arrives at a eurozone finance ministers' meeting in Brussels, Feb. 17, 2014.In a bid to counter weak growth and prevent deflation, European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi has lowered main interest rates. Specifically, the ECB cut the deposit rate to -0.1%, from 0.0%, effective June 11. This is a historic development, as it's the first time a major central bank has cut any main interest rate to negative in a bid to spur lending and spending. The idea is that if banks aren't being rewarded with a good deposit rate by parking their reserves at the central bank, then they will be more likely to lend it to households and businesses. During his press conference, Draghi pointed out that "the rates we've changed are for the banks, not for the people. …It's wrong to think we want to "expropriate savers." But he said the decision to lower rates for households would have to come from the banks not the ECB. The refinancing rate was lowered by 10 basis points to 0.15%, which was a slight disappointment. Finally, the marginal facility interest rate was lowered by 35 basis points to 0.4%. This is the rate that banks pay to borrow from the central bank.  In the press conference that followed the announcement, Draghi unveiled longer term refinancing operations (TLTROs). "What is in this TLTRO that makes it different?" said Draghi during the press conference. "The cost obviously, it is very low, the term maturity is four years, and the termination that this money not be spent on sovereigns and on sectors that are already experienced or have just come out of a bubbly situation, that's what in it." He also added that the ECB would suspend its weekly securities market program (SMP) sterilization, which frees up €165 billion in liquidity. These cuts were largely priced in so markets moved modestly higher in response to the news but the Dragi effect work off soon after the press conference ended.  "A negative deposit rate is bearish for the euro in the short term, but we need more detail on exactly how this new interest rate regime will be implemented to gauge the full effect," Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in an email after the release. The last central bank to push rates into negative territory was the Danish central bank. Richard Milne at the Financial Times explains the difference between the two central banks:  The first thing to note is that the ECB’s justification for such a move will be different from the Nationalbanken’s. Denmark’s monetary policy is aimed at maintaining the krone’s currency peg with the euro. Denmark introduced negative rates to stem massive inflows from investors looking for a safe haven outside the eurozone that was causing the krone to strengthen. The ECB, by contrast, has an inflation target. Last month, Mario Draghi, ECB president, said rate-setters were “comfortable with acting next time” because there was “dissatisfaction about the projected path of inflation”. While the ECB is primarily concerned with prices, the strength of the currency also matters: Mr Draghi has often said the strong euro is one of the most important reasons why inflation is so low as this has made imports cheaper Draghi announced a three-step response to counter weakness in the eurozone at an ECB forum earlier this month. "The first step involves a reduction in interest rates to put downward pressure on rising money market rates, and to depress the exchange rate," Vistesen wrote ahead of the announcement. These are the cuts we just got. "The second step responds to sluggish credit growth by targeting lending to non-financial corporates through either an LTRO or private QE," writes Vistesen. "The final step sees a broad-based asset purchase program to counter a persistent lurch lower in inflation expectations." Here's the full decision: At today’s meeting the Governing Council of the ECB took the following monetary policy decisions: The interest rate on the main refinancing operations of the Eurosystem will be decreased by 10 basis points to 0.15%, starting from the operation to be settled on 11 June 2014. The interest rate on the marginal lending facility will be decreased by 35 basis points to 0.40%, with effect from 11 June 2014.  The interest rate on the deposit facility will be decreased by 10 basis points to -0.10%, with effect from 11 June 2014. A separate press release to be published at 3.30 p.m. CET today will provide details on the implementation of the negative deposit facility rate. The President of the ECB will comment on the considerations underlying these decisions at a press conference starting at 2.30 p.m. CET today. Further monetary policy measures to enhance the functioning of the monetary policy transmission mechanism will be communicated in a press release to be published at 3.30 p.m. CET today. And here's a nice cheat sheet from Bloomberg eurozone economist Maxime Sbaihi: Maxime Sbaihi via Twitter FREE AppDownload
How much do you know about Brazil? Here are 13 wild facts about the country. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
AP Photo/Keith SrakocicPittsburgh Steelers outside linebacker Jarvis Jones, right, does sprints with teammates during an NFL football organized team activity on Wednesday, June 4, 2014 in Pittsburgh. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. ECB. At 7:45 a.m., European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi will announce the body's latest policy stance. Most believe there will be easing of one form or another given strong evidence of disinflation. For what it's worth, retail sales in the euro zone registered their strongest annual growth in seven years in April. Bank of England. Upstaging the ECB is the BOE, which announced it left rates and QE unchanged.  Jobless claims. Come in at 8:30 a.m. Consensus is for 310,000, up a bit from last week's 300,000. Amazon Smartphone. It's coming later this month, Bloomberg's Adam Satariano reports. "Amazon tweeted yesterday that it was holding an event in Seattle on June 18 hosted by Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos for a product unveiling. The post included a picture of a black, thin device with Amazon’s name in silver emblazoned on it. Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Amazon, didn’t return a call for comment." UK Home Prices. This continues to be the hottest market in the world. From The Wall Street Journal: "Mortgage lender Halifax said the value of homes purchased by its own mortgage customers hit £184,464 ($308,922) in May, the highest price since April 2008. That marks a 3.9% increase from April—the largest monthly gain since October 2002—and an annual gain of 8.7%." IMF Cuts China Growth Forecast. The body cut its outlook to 7% from 7.3% on the property market slowdown and fears about credit build-up, the FT says.   Sprint Is Close To Buying T-Mobile.The Wall Street Journal says T-Mobile would cost approximately $32 billion. The companies are the third and fourth-largest mobile providers in the country. Too Quiet. Volume hit 5.7 billion daily transactions last month, according to Credit Suisse, a low not seen since 2007.  RadioShack's Not Dead Yet. The electronic chain announced it would start offering start-ups making new products "special retail terms" and promotions, in a bid to reignite its own fortunes, the FT says. Markets. U.S. futures are flat. European stocks are mixed. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVCullen Roche passes along David Rosenberg's list of 10 possible recession indicators. Rosenberg concludes that not one of the indicators is pointing to a recession, so there's a zero percent chance of recession. Here are the indicators. Note that the first part of each indicator is what we'd need to see to be worried, and the second half is the much less worrisome actual data. 1.  Inverted yield curve – despite the decline in bond yields, the spread between the 10 year US T-note and the three month T-bill is 244 points. 2.  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Stock Index down more than 10% – the index closed at a record high on Monday and is up 4.9% year to date. 3.  Bond yield rally of at least 135 basis points – the 10 year T-note yield has fallen 56 bps from the recent peak of 3.04% hit at the end of December. 4.   Commodity prices down 5-10% – the CRB spot commodity price index is just off a two year high hit in May and is up 9.3% year to date. 5.  High yield corporate bond spreads widen out 350 bps or more – spreads have continued to narrow and currently sit at almost seven year lows. 6.  ISM below 50 for at least on month – the ISM manufacturing index just ticked up to its highest level so far in 2014 at 55.4 in May. 7.  Initial jobless claims (four week moving average) up 75K – the four week moving average of initial claims fell to 311,500 in the week of May 24th, the lowest level since August 2007. 8.  Relative strength of the S&amp;P Financials down at least 20% – the ratio of S&amp;P financials to the S&amp;P 500 is down 2% year to date and down 6% from the recent peak from last July. 9.  ECRI smoothed index of -5 or worse – the index was +5.3 for the week of May 23rd. 10.  20 point decline in University of Michigan consumer sentiment – the gauge of consumer confidence fell 2.2 points in May from April’s nine month high and is 3.2 points below the post-recession high hit last July.   FREE AppDownload
WealthTrack / YouTubeBill MillerBond manager Jeff Gundlach is famously bearish on housing these days. He recently argued in favor of shorting the homebuilders: [Gundlach] said that the bulls use affordability for their argument. However, Gundlach believes that affordability is "bleak."  Gundlach said that young people were scared by the housing crisis, so they're not buying homes. Instead, they're renting because that's much more appealing.  On BloombergTV this morning, investor Bill Miller was asked about Gundlach's call. First, Miller chuckled about the idea of a bond manager being an expert on housing stocks. Bigger picture though is a good point: What Gundlach says is bad (low affordability and lack of interest in buying homes) is actually bullish. That's because this all represents pent up opportunity. The bearish headlines were in 2006 and 2007 when everyone wanted to buy a home, and everyone could get access to a home if they wanted. Now it's tough to get a mortgage and everyone wants to rent, which means that there's a lot of improvement left in the industry. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidThere are two big economic events coming up today. From Calculated Risk: • 7:45 AM ET (1:45 PM CET) the ECB meets in Frankfurt. From Nomura:  We expect the ECB to deliver a package of measures on 5 June to ease monetary policy. We expect a 10bp cut to all key interest rates, taking the refi rate down to 0.15%, the deposit rate negative for the first time to -0.10% and the marginal lending facility rate down to 0.65%. We also expect an extension of the forward guidance on liquidity provisions, with the fixed-rate full-allotment procedure extended by a further 12 months to at least the end of June 2016. We also expect the ECB to launch a targeted LTRO programme in June (60% probability), to address credit weakness and risks to the recovery from this channel. • At 8:30 AM, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to increase to 310 thousand from 300 thousand. We'll be covering all this LIVE. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHiring sign seen in restaurant window in San FranciscoWASHINGTON (Reuters) - For the first time in six years, the share of people who either have a job or are looking for one is on the rise in a majority of U.S. states, a sign one of the deepest scars of the economic crisis could be healing.     Most states have experienced sharp declines in labor force participation since the 2007-2009 recession, but a Reuters analysis of government data found a reversal could be underway.     The data bolsters Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's view that America has ample room to create jobs without causing uncomfortably high inflation and it buttresses arguments for keeping interest rates low. If Yellen is wrong, the Fed's easy money policies could lead employers to bid up wages for scarce talent, stoking price increases.         Anecdotal reports suggest that in many parts of the country, demand for labor appears to be growing enough to get people who had dropped out of the workforce to restart their job hunts.     "We are getting more job creation and we are seeing more people come in," said Paul Turek, a labor economist with Washington state's Employment Security Department.     Washington is one of 32 states where the participation rate rose in the six months through April, according to the Reuters analysis. Together, these states account for a majority of the nation's working-age population. It was the second straight month where most states chalked up gains over a six-month period.       The data covering the 50 states and the District of Columbia is volatile, so it does not provide conclusive evidence of a bounce back in the labor force.     But since the start of the recession in December 2007, the direction of participation rates has been clear: they have been falling. It has been rare in recent years for more than a handful of states to show improved labor participation over any six-month period.     Now there's evidence the pendulum may be swinging back.     The gains are spread across the country - from states with rebounding construction industries like Florida and Utah to those with job growth in health care and education like West Virginia.     The Fed's Beige Book of anecdotal economic reports for May, which was released on Wednesday, said the U.S. labor market "generally improved," with the central bank's Kansas City district reporting that businesses were now having to compete for workers, the Cleveland and Chicago districts noting an upturn in demand for temporary employees, and Atlanta pointing to a jump in the number of workers moving from temporary to permanent jobs. It said wage pressures remained "subdued." Texas is another state making gains. Blessed with robust economic growth, the speed with which unemployed Texans find jobs is nearly twice as high as in the rest of the country, a dynamic that is coaxing discouraged workers from the sidelines, Dallas Fed economist Anil Kumar told Reuters. He expects a similar pattern will emerge nationwide.     "As the economy continues to improve, at least some of the people (will) be drawn back into the labor force," Kumar said.     Whether or not they return could be vital for the strength of the U.S. economy, for the behavior of inflation, and for the path of monetary policy.          'THE JOBS ARE THERE'     The U.S. jobless rate has declined steadily over the last four years, but much of the drop was due to people giving up the hunt for work, which means they were no longer counted as unemployed.     In April, the national participation rate fell to 62.8 percent, revisiting a 36-year low reached late last year, although a report on Friday is expected to show it ticked up in May. During 2007, before the financial crisis and the recession, it was as high as 66.4 percent. [ID:nL1N0OK1NR]     Some of the decline has been due to an aging workforce and the retirement of baby boomers, a fact that may well keep participation from ever bouncing back to its pre-crisis level.     But some dropouts went to college and are bound to eventually restart job hunts. Others grew frustrated at the lack of available jobs, but may decide to try their luck again if the economy continues to improve.     Some prominent economists, including former White House adviser Alan Krueger, argue that many of the folks on the margins of the labor force are not coming back. If that is true, higher inflation, fueled by rising wages, could come sooner than the Fed expects.     But Yellen, who took the helm at the Fed in February, has refused to write off Americans who have suffered long bouts of unemployment or given up the search for work entirely. She argues there is more slack in the economy than suggested by the nation's 6.3 percent unemployment rate, a key reason the Fed is expected to bide its time before hiking rates. Along with the drop outs and record number of long-term unemployed, millions are working in part-time jobs even though they want full-time work - another fact Yellen has cited.     The state data, which can diverge from the national statistics because of adjustments the government makes to account for seasonal swings and other local economic factors, suggests she may be right to wait.     In places like Portland, local officials and entrepreneurs say a recovery in the job market is starting to gather pace.      Tech companies like business software manager Puppet Labs have been growing quickly in the city. Puppet Labs expects to double its work force to around 400 by the end of the year as it takes advantage of what CEO Luke Kanies said are wage levels as much as 20 percent lower than in hotter markets like San Francisco or Seattle.     While Oregon's labor participation rate has not gone up, officials say they feel the groundwork is in place.      Patrick Quinton, head of the Portland Development Commission, said the vacancy rate for commercial office space is now in the single digits because of the rapid local expansion in Portland of companies like accommodation booking service Airbnb and game maker Kixeye. That, he said, is expected to trigger a wave of office building and the creation of construction-related jobs in Portland, which accounts for around 15 percent of the state's population.     Job creation on its own is no guarantee that the country's labor pool will stabilize or expand. But recent research has held out some hope by focusing on the fate of the long-term unemployed - a group that, by historical standards, currently accounts for a disproportionate share of the unemployed.     If they were to grow frustrated and stop looking for work, they would drive the participation rate even lower. But research by both Goldman Sachs and the Fed indicates they are beginning to find jobs, gravitating, for example, to part-time work as a "stepping stone" to full-time employment.     Marlena Sessions, head of the Workforce Development Council of Seattle-King County, said there has been a noticeable turn in recent months.     In the depths of the recession, her agency was able to place around 73 percent of the people who sought help into jobs, and that figure was only 60 percent for the long-term unemployed.     Now, it is back up to the long-term average of 85 percent for all job seekers, regardless of how long they have been out of work.     "The numbers are falling and that is great, and the jobs are there and that is great," Sessions said.   (Reporting by Howard Schneider and Jason Lange in Washington; Additional reporting by Ann Saphir in San Francisco; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke Macgregor Damn, UK home prices are going nuts. From WSJ: Mortgage lender Halifax said the value of homes purchased by its own mortgage customers hit £184,464 ($308,922) in May, the highest price since April 2008. That marks a 3.9% increase from April—the largest monthly gain since October 2002—and an annual gain of 8.7%.  Everything in the UK is hot these days, from PMI data to real estate to labor gains. And the real estate boom, which has been discussed for awhile, now seems to be accelerating. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi waves as he arrives at an eurozone finance ministers meeting in Brussels February 17, 2014. Good morning! Once again, markets are very quiet. The big event today, coming up this morning at 7:45, is the ECB decision. There is a widespread belief that the ECB is going to ease monetary policy in some matter, while trying to boost lending. Both commentary from top officials and a raft of disinflationary data support this idea that it's time for the ECB to ease. The Eurozone has recently been drifting dangerously close to deflation, as price data is at its weakest since the crisis began. Meanwhile, there's been some weakening in "core" Europe again, as German economic numbers have begun to flag. Combine all that with a very strong Euro currency (too strong for Europe's tastes, since the strong currency hinders exports) and there's all kinds of pressure on the ECB to act. Of course, the ECB should have probably done a lot more a long time ago, but the slow pace is how Europe acts. FREE AppDownload
