APBritish artist Tracey Emin 1998 artpiece, entitled 'My Bed' on display, at an auction house exhibition space in central London, Friday, June 27, 2014.Tracey Emin's controversial My Bed modern artwork has sold at auction for £2.2 million. The 1998 work, which features an unmade bed and a littered floor including empty vodka bottles, cigarette butts and discarded condoms, went under the hammer at Christie's in London tonight. The 1999 Turner Prize shortlisted work had been put up for sale by millionaire art collector Charles Saatchi, with a guide price of between £800,000 and £1.2 million. Emin was in the packed auction room as the work was sold, to applause from the crowd. Saatchi, who paid £150,000 in 2000 for My Bed, one of the key works of the Young British Artist movement, sold it to support the work of the Saatchi Gallery Foundation. Other works sold in the Post War and Contemporary Art Evening Auction included Francis Bacon's Study For Head Of Lucian Freud, which sold for a hammer price of £10.2 million. Christies said that with buyer's premium My Bed went for £2,546,500, which is a world record for the Margate artist at auction. Christie's said My Bed was bought by an anonymous bidder. Emin, 50, who went from rebel to establishment when she was made a CBE in the New Year Honours in 2012, grinned as she left the auction after her piece, which was Lot 19, was sold. She first made an impression on the wider public outside the art world in 1997 with a drunken appearance on a television discussion show about the Turner Prize which ended with her pulling her microphone off and telling the audience "I've had a really good night out". Two years later, she was shortlisted for the prize and exhibited My Bed at the Tate Gallery. It divided the critics but began the process of making her one of the country's most famous living artists. Speaking at Christie's in central London last week ahead of the sale she said she still stands by her work which "changed people's perceptions of art". My Bed was on display in the foyer at Christie's during the sale. Francis Outred, head of post war contemporary art for the auctioneers, said the "iconic work of British art from the 1990s" quadrupled her previous world record, achieving £2.546 million. Her previous best was £481,000. Jussi Pylkkanen, the auctioneer and president of Christie's Europe, added: "Tracey is very, very happy. "I just caught Tracey at the Serpentine party, I just called her to see how she felt about things and she said she was absolutely delighted. "She was very nervous going into the sale. "Thanks everyone for supporting the sale of that object, it meant a huge amount to her. "People wondered why she was so engaged in the process of selling that object but for her that was her biography, that was a statement, that was a self portrait. "It is quite unusual actually to have an artist so involved in their own works that for them it is a sort of step into the next stage of their lives. "For Tracey seeing that here at the top of the stairs... it was incredibly meaningful." Emin's work was one of four pieces which achieved a world record at the auction, whose 75 lots sold for a total of £99.4 million. Bacon's Lucian Freud work accounted for more than a tenth of that, selling for £11.5 million including buyer's premium. This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
One of the biggest threats to Apple's future profits and stock price is growing price pressure in the smartphone business. An estimated 70% of Apple's profit comes from the iPhone. And most of that comes from high-end iPhones that sell for about $600 apiece ($200 to the consumer, with subsidy, in rich countries). Apple's gross profit on these phones is estimated to be about 50%. Over the past couple of years, the growth rate of Apple's iPhone business has tanked (see below), which has caused Apple's profit growth to slow. Sales growth has slowed because developed markets have matured, and Apple has not had a phone priced to sell well in huge emerging markets like China and India, where growth is still rapid. Business Insider Apple's decision not to offer a low-priced phone has opened the door for, first, Samsung and other incumbents, and, now, a group of upstart Chinese smartphone makers that are growing like mad. The first phones offered by Apple's low-price competitors were cheap because they were crappy. In the past year, however, the quality of low-priced phones has improved dramatically, to the point where the design and specs of some of these phones, as well as the religious devotion of some of their brand fans, has come to rival that of Apple. And sales of these phones are starting to explode. In the first quarter, for example, sales of phones by Xiaomi, the "Apple of China," soared to a staggering 15 million, up 278% year over year. See the chart from analyst Tony Danova of BI Intelligence below. BII Xiaomi already sells more phones than Apple in China. The 15 million is also approaching nearly half the number of phones that Apple is expected to sell worldwide this quarter (about 35 million). Yes, when Apple finally releases the big-screened iPhone 6, the company will likely sell something on the order of 60-70 million of them for a couple of quarters. But at the rate Xiaomi's sales are growing, it won't be too long before its sales start to close in on Apple's. Xiaomi's top-of-the-line phone, the Mi3, sells for about $320, about half the price of a comparable iPhone. Xiaomi also makes other well-designed phones that sell for $100. Nor is Xiaomi the only maker of high-quality, low-priced phones. BI tech editor Steve Kovach recently tried a phone from a new company called OnePlus. Steve says it's one of the best phones he has ever used (and he's picky). And this phone, the One, also costs less than half of a top-shelf iPhone. The chart below, also from BI Intelligence, shows the rise of the low-priced smartphone makers. Collectively, they already sell way more phones than Apple. BII Importantly, many of these phones are not "cheap plastic crap," as Apple devotees (I'm one) are fond of sniffing at any gadgets that aren't made by Apple. They're slick. And Xiaomi and its charismatic founder, who learned a thing or two about designing and launching products and building fan loyalty from Steve Jobs, has a fanatical following in China. The ~$300 difference in price between these phones and Apple's phones is Apple's profit. If Apple is ever forced to reduce its prices to compete with the likes of Xiaomi—or if any would-be full-priced iPhone buyers are ever seduced by the far more attractive prices offered by the likes of Xiaomi—Apple's profit is going to tank. Will that happen? Diehard Apple fans scoff at the idea. Apple, they say, is like BMW or Mercedes—a premium brand for premium customers. Xiaomi, et al, meanwhile, are like, well, Chrysler or Ford. That analogy sounds persuasive... until you remember two things: First, Apple's customer base has already expanded way beyond the "luxury" market composed of folks who buy Mercedes and BMWs. Apple's market share in the United States, for example, is about 40%. The "luxury" share of the overall U.S. auto market, meanwhile, is only about 10%-11%. So Apple is already selling a lot of phones to people who drive Chryslers and Fords.  Second, unlike cars, phones are a "platform market," meaning that third-parties build products (apps and services, in this case) that are designed to work with a particular platform. In platform markets, market share is important: If a platform's share falls too low, there is less incentive for third parties to build products and services for the platform. And with fewer products and services built for the platform, there's less reason to use the platform. So if Apple's low and declining market share in some markets could ultimately make it even harder for the company to compete, even if it priced its products more aggressively. Apple will likely have an easier time maintaining its prices in developed markets like the U.S., in which carriers continue to offer subsidies, and in which the subsidized top-of-the-line iPhone only appears to cost $200.  In emerging markets, however, and in markets without subsidies, the threat from lower-priced phones is more immediate. And the combination of low platform share, plus price, will likely make it very hard for Apple to grow its share much in markets like India and China. Does this mean Apple is toast? No.  The iPhone 6 upgrade cycle is likely to be huge, and Apple's profit margin is so gigantic that it could get creamed and still be making staggering amounts of money. Apple also has more money in the bank than it or any other company will ever need. But it does mean that Apple's profit margin is likely to come under pressure in the next couple of years, as the smartphone business fully matures and high-quality, low-priced phones become ubiquitous. And margin pressure generally does not bode well for stock prices. Disclosure: I'm still an Apple shareholder (iPhone 6, baby!) SEE ALSO: Sorry, Folks, Rich People Don't Create The Jobs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthNovak Djokovic of Serbia kisses the winners trophy after defeating Roger Federer of Switzerland in their men's singles final tennis match at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships, in London July 6, 2014.Good morning! Who needs weekends? Here’s what you need to know as the week begins… 1. It’s an important week for the Australian economy  with some data releases that will shed light on whether the scratchy data from May – including a shock fall in retail sales – was just a blip, or something more material. Tomorrow morning we get the NAB survey which will give us a picture of business confidence and investing intentions, and then on Wednesday there’s the important latest release of the Westpac Consumer Sentiment index, which dipped sharply around the federal budget in May. On Thursday morning there’s the Australian jobs report, with the market expecting 12,000 jobs added for June. This morning we get the Performance of Construction Index from AiG, which gives us a read on the health of the construction sector which is vital to the transition of the economy as the resources investment falls away. 2.  The Australian rebound  that everyone will be looking for was addressed by Scott Haslem and the economics team at UBS in a note out on Friday, which shows a dramatic bounce in one indicator of retail activity. The green line shows that brutal fall in May retail mentioned above, but the BDO data appears a good leading indicator on future moves. Haslem expects a strong rebound in the ANZ job ads data out today and conclude that their “super-leader” numbers “suggest activity hasn’t continued to weaken post May, and that the domestic economy has recovered somewhat through the month of June.” 3. Japanese PM Shinzo Abe starts a state visit to Australia today, which will take in an address to a joint sitting of Parliament (the first by a Japanese PM), the signing of the new free trade agreement brokered on Tony Abbott’s trip to Japan earlier this year. Abe will be accompanied by a powerful business delegation, including the Mitsubishi chairman Yorihiko Kojima. It’s an opportunity for Abbott to underline his international relations credentials, and it will likely take some of the focus off the wrangling that has surrounded the federal budget in recent weeks. Amid ongoing tensions over incursions by the Chinese military into Japanese airspace, there’s an important strategic to this visit in terms of Australia’s relations in the region that can’t be overlooked. 4. To the markets, and with the US closed on Friday for Independence Day there isn’t the usual pointer from Wall Street for the region’s trading day. So it looks like being a slow start to the week. The ASX September futures contract is up 13 points to 5493 after the physical market finished up just over 0.6% last Friday. The Nikkei was up a similar amount while Shanghai and the Hang Seng were relatively flat. This week we get FOMC minutes from the June meeting out of the US on Wednesday, and the Bank of England rate decision on Thursday. More here. 5. Macquarie Bank could be drawn into the financial planning scandal that has engulfed the Commonwealth Bank, with Nationals Senator John Williams telling the AFR there are “a lot more questions for Macquarie Wealth to answer”, after the Senate committee “had individuals from Macquarie give evidence to us in camera, which unfortunately we are not able to discuss. But needless to say, there are still serious questions for them to answer.” 6. Google CEO Larry Page has a rather French proposal for how society can deal with the inevitable loss of jobs as people are replaced by robots in various industries (the latest example being journalism). Page suggests companies should consider hiring two part-time workers to do one full-time job. 7. A Voice Kid breaks down. This had to happen sooner or later. Poor Romy, 12, couldn’t get a single judge to turn for her smooth rendition of Adele’s Turning Tables… and it hurt. The judges rushed on stage to console Romy as she crumbled, while Twitter – the self-appointed social conscience of our time – took them, Romy’s mum and dad and the show itself to task for allowing kids to be put in such a tough public arena in the first place. 8. Finally, the Internet of Things has a tangible innovation that everyone can understand. The connectivity of everyday objects is greatly hyped but aside from being able to switch on your lights or control the aircon at home remotely, the real-life benefits have been somewhat unclear. But now it can help you brew the great beer – with Brewbot alerting your smartphone on the different actions required at different times to make the perfect beer at home. 9. He’s Rick James… Rock ‘n roll autobiographies are eternally locked in a struggle to top each other when it comes to decadent, crazy lifestyles. But this is Rick James, the original Super Freak. The New York Post has a great look at Glow, James’ posthumously published autobiography, in which he recounts how he met Jim Morrison halfway through a suicide attempt, and avoided being murdered by Charles Manson. 10. Novak Djokovic is the men’s Wimbledon champion. The Serb eventually won 6-7 (7-9) 6-4 7-6 (7-4) 5-7 6-4 for his second Wimbledon title, but it was far from one-way traffic against 17-time Grand Slam event winner Roger Federer. The Swiss veteran was anything but as he reeled off five games in a row to win the fourth set from 5-2 down, but couldn’t keep momentum through the final set. As far as finals go, it was a classic for the ages, with some glorious strokeplay proving a welcome relief from two weeks of brutal aces. Bonus item: The story around this incredible video is trending on Business Insider this morning – a very close call between a jet landing and another crossing the runway at Barcelona Airport. The pilot aborts his landing attempt when the other jet strays onto the runway – and it was all caught on camera.   This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
via DVDBeaverThe world’s leading insurance market has reported a sharp increase in companies seeking insurance cover from hackers stealing customer data and cyber terrorists shutting down websites to demand a ransom. Geoff White, underwriting manager for cyber, technology and media at Lloyd’s syndicate Barbican, said the market for cyber insurance had “increased dramatically”, with gross written premiums rising sharply every year since 2009. In 2012, gross written premiums totalled an estimated $850m (£500m), increasing to $1.3bn last year, and are expected to be well above $2bn in 2014, he added. Cyber attacks on business are the driving force behind the rapid rise in the insurance market. “We saw a very quick influx of US retailers looking to increase their insurance limits by quite sizeable amounts. In some cases they were purchasing three or four times the limit, as a result of the Target data breach,” said Mr White. US retail giant Target was the victim of one of the most sophisticated and co-ordinated cyber attacks ever during the busiest shopping day of the year over the Black Friday holiday weekend in November last year. A criminal gang collected bank card information from about 40m Target customers as they swiped their cards at the till, in a technique known as “skimming”. Despite the rise in insurance cover, however, many UK companies are still exposed, with nine out of 10 UK small companies suffering from a data breach, according to the Government’s 2013 Information Security Breaches Survey Report. “A lot of companies don’t feel the cyber threat is relevant to them, they still think this is a problem for big business. However, if you use email or have a smartphone or a computer then there is a risk,” Mr White added. Perversely, it is improved technology that is the biggest risk to business, according to Prof Peter Sommer, a cyber security expert. “Most of the people in an organisation feel they don’t want to get left behind, but all too often they don’t think through the security implications. If you look in particular at cloud computing, some of the contracts that people are signing seem to leave businesses extremely exposed.” . “Across the board people are taking appalling risks and they don’t know what they would do if something went wrong,” Prof Sommer warned. Prof Sommer is concerned the insurance market may be unable to cope with claims. “When it comes to cyber there are lots of risks and they keep changing, and you have a general absence of actuarial material. The question for the underwriter is how on earth do I cover this?” he said. The Barbican syndicate is already insuring US utility companies and there has been an increase in interest from UK utility companies, which would require cover in the billions, according to Mr White. “I would suggest right now we haven’t got a billion of capacity as a market overall, but we are working to understand the needs of utility firms,” said Mr White. “I would look at insurance as only part of the risk management solution, really companies need better education.” As UK business surges ahead in the race for new technology it could be undone by an age old problem. “The human element is huge, with the greatest will in the world you can have the best firewalls and antivirus, but if a socially engineered email comes through to you and you click on the link you have been breached,” Mr White said.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsArchimedesMathematics is an increasingly central part of our world and an immensely fascinating realm of thought. But long before the development of the math that gave us computers, quantum mechanics, and GPS satellites, generations of brilliant minds — spanning from the ancient Greeks through the eighteenth century — built up the basic mathematical ideas and tools that sit at the foundation of our understanding of math and its relationship to the world. Here are 12 of the most brilliant of those minds and some of their contributions to the great chain of mathematics. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Daniel MunozIt's been five years since the beginning of the financial crisis forever changed the trajectory of American banking — and American history. The plot lines of the financial crisis are well-documented, but it should still give any market watcher pause to stop and think again about the events as they unfolded. From Lehman's collapse to AIG's bailout, September and October of 2008 were, simply put, absolutely nuts. To celebrate the 5-year-anniversary, we take a walk down memory lane with a cast of familiar faces. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - With all the hoopla over the Dow topping 17,000 out of the way, the market's next focus will be whether the fast-approaching earnings season can justify U.S. stocks climbing further into record territory. Many factors point to second-quarter earnings poised to surprise substantially to the upside. There is a slight chance that profits for S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; companies could return to double-digit growth for the first time in nearly three years. After Thursday's strong U.S. employment report, some economists have begun talking up prospects for a 4.0 percent annual growth rate in gross domestic product for the April-through-June period, a dramatic snap back from the first quarter's contraction of 2.9 percent. [ID:nLNS3IEAIF] "It's a strong report that capped off a strong quarter. Everything in the report points to 4 percent growth in the second quarter," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh, referring to June's jobs data. Analysts polled by Reuters are calling for earnings growth for the second quarter of 6.2 percent, and a return to double digits in the third and fourth quarters: 10.9 percent and 11.9 percent, respectively. The last time that S&amp;P 500 earnings achieved double-digit percentage growth was the third quarter of 2011, when the rate was 18 percent. But some signs suggest the 10 percent handle could be breached a quarter earlier by the time all of the second-quarter numbers are in. "There is a chance that earnings could see double digits this quarter, but only a very slim chance. The strong jobs report can translate to better earnings after a period of time, but it can't be immediate," said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer at Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New York. This week, aluminum producer Alcoa Inc &lt;AA.N&gt; will get the earnings season started on Tuesday with second-quarter results after the closing bell. Family Dollar Stores, Inc &lt;FDO.N&gt; will report quarterly results on Thursday. On Friday, earnings will be released by Fastenal Co &lt;FAST.O&gt;, a supplier to the construction and manufacturing industries, and Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt;, the largest U.S. mortgage lender. SIGNS OF THINGS TO COME First among the encouraging signs of profit growth: Earnings pre-announcements have the most positive skew in six quarters. Of 133 pre-announcements from S&amp;P 500 components so far, 97 have been negative, 24 positive and 12 in line with existing forecasts, according to Thomson Reuters data. That puts the negative-to-positive ratio at 4-to-1 for the second quarter, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2012. Moreover, that compares with 5.9-to-1 in the first quarter and 5.5-to-1 a year earlier in the second quarter of 2013. Second, actual earnings growth tends to exceed forecast growth by a sizable margin because companies and the analysts who track them tend to underestimate profits. Since 2009's fourth quarter when profit growth returned after the recession, actual S&amp;P 500 earnings growth at the end of each quarterly cycle has exceeded the growth forecast at the start of each reporting period by an average of 5.7 percentage points. Even factoring out the outsized profit growth rates in the first six quarters following the recession, earnings have come in an average of nearly 3 percentage points higher than the forecast at the start of each reporting season. For the first quarter, for example, the profit growth rate on April 1 was pegged at 2.1 percent. When the numbers from all 500 companies in the index were tallied, though, growth was actually 5.6 percent. With the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 in record territory and an S&amp;P 500 price-to-earnings ratio of 15.6, the highest in nine years, a substantial break to the upside on earnings would be a welcome development for investors. On Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average &lt;.DJI&gt; closed above the 17,000 milestone for the first time, and the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 came within 1 percent of piercing through 2,000. For the short week, the Dow rose 1.3 percent, the S&amp;P 500 gained 1.25 percent and the Nasdaq advanced 2 percent. The U.S. stock market was closed on Friday for the Fourth of July holiday. For the year, the Dow is up 3 percent for the year, while the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq are both up 7.4 percent.[.N] "We've had such a big move to this point that good data just isn't enough to drive this market much further. It's really coming down to company earnings. That's the only thing left that can lead this market higher," said Rick Meckler, president of LibertyView Capital Management, an investment advisory firm in Jersey City, New Jersey.   (Reporting by Angela Moon; Additional reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Dan Burns and Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarOut of the 25 units sold at One57, over half are anonymous buyers through trusts. Some of them may never see the apartment.Here's a stunning fact: 30% of all apartments between 49th and 70th Streets and between Fifth and Park Avenues are vacant at least 10 months of the year, according to a Census Bureau estimate provided to New York Magazine. And since 2008, around 30% of condo sales in large-scale Manhattan developments have been by buyers with overseas addresses or through secretive LLCs. Those figures are especially shocking considering New York City residential real estate costs are at an all-time high, affordable housing is still a major issue, and homelessness in New York City is the worst its been since the Great Depression.  So why are all these apartments in midtown and elsewhere — many costing millions of dollars — sitting empty? In this week's issue of New York Magazine, Andrew Rice explores the influx of foreign wealth into the New York real estate market and why it's a great place to stash money while maintaining privacy. Rice writes (emphasis ours): ... while New York real estate has significant drawbacks as an asset—it’s illiquid and costly to manage—it has a major selling point in its relative opacity. With a little creative corporate structuring, the ownership of a New York property can be made as untraceable as a numbered bank account. And that makes the city an island haven for those who want to stash cash in an increasingly monitored global financial system. “With everything that is going on in Switzerland in terms of transparency, people are being forced to pay taxes on their capital that they used to hold there,” says Rodrigo Nino, the president of the Prodigy Network. “Real estate is a great alternative.” In short, Manhattan condos are the new Swiss bank accounts. And there's a lot more that goes into setting them than up than opening a real estate trust and buying through that entity. Rice explains the murky layers that can obfuscate a major purchase: Behind a New York City deed, there may be a Delaware LLC, which may be managed by a shell company in the British Virgin Islands, which may be owned by a trust in the Isle of Man, which may have a bank account in Liechtenstein managed by the private banker in Geneva. The true owner behind the structure might be known only to the banker. These layers also make property investment a great way for people to launder or hide their money, whether legally or illegally, Rice writes. After all, real estate is a big value investment that obscures real ownership relatively easily, and allows owners to generate “clean profits” such as rental income or capital gain. Courtesy of Extell Development CompanyA rendering of the $90 million penthouse at One57.Whether it's in the name of privacy or something more sinister, buying through a web of corporations is a common move among the global wealthy, Rice writes. For example, 14 of the 25 of closed sales at One57, the new, ultra-luxury skyscraper skyscraper rising 90 stories below Central Park were purchased by entities with unnamed owners. And such purchases aren't even illegal: Sending money to offshore bank accounts is an everyday occurrence for the über-wealthy. In Great Britain, there are laws that require the attorneys to disclose suspicious activity, but the U.S. doesn't have these same regulations. And while there are occasional stories of properties being seized as evidence in cases involving foreign corruption, Rice points out that these are not only hard to prove, but exceptionally rare. So with such high returns and seeming stability in NYC's real estate market — especially compared to other luxury markets like Hong Kong, Singapore, or even London — foreign investors will continue to flock to U.S. shores. And unless the laws change, we can expect a lot more anonymous foreign buyers who may never open the door of their luxury penthouses. Read the full New York Magazine piece here. FREE AppDownload
We sorted through data from the Social Security Administration for every person born in 1984. Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
In many of America's towns and cities, housing costs are putting a huge burden on residents. Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies has a huge report out on the state of the housing market. One of the big things they looked at was housing affordability. Using data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey, the Harvard researchers were able to find how many people in each metropolitan or micropolitan area in the country faced a significant housing-cost burden, defined by the researchers as paying at least 30% of their income on housing costs. The study includes a really cool set of interactive maps, where for each metro area you can find info on the area's housing situation. One thing that jumps out from the maps is that renters across the country are more likely to experience financial stress from their housing costs than homeowners. Here's Harvard's map showing the percentage of owner-occupied households paying at least 30% of income on housing costs: Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies And here's the same map for renter-occupied households: Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies While there are definitely some hotspots for homeowners facing a cost burden, it's clear from looking at these maps that in a large number of America's cities and towns, over half of renters have to spend more than 30% of their incomes on housing costs. Check out the interactive versions of the maps here, and the full study here. FREE AppDownload
The Economist Seventy years ago this month, 730 delegates gathered in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire to reopen an old debate. Global commerce has long faced a fundamental tension: the more certainty countries create around exchange rates, the less room they have to manage domestic economic affairs.  Thirty years before Bretton Woods a war wrecked the world’s first stab at the problem — the gold standard — and the attempt to rebuild it in the 1920s led to depression and another war. The exchange-rate system agreed at Bretton Woods lasted only a generation. After 150 years of experimentation the world has yet to solve its monetary problem. Most monetary systems have been the product of accident rather than design. The classical gold standard developed in industrializing Britain. Its economic success encouraged others to transact on its terms. Germany’s adoption of gold in 1871 put Europe’s two leading economies on one standard; others quickly followed suit. The gold standard’s priority was the lubrication of global trade. Exchange rates were fixed across economies and capital flowed without any regulatory hindrance. Though the free flow of capital left currencies vulnerable, the system survived for decades thanks to governments’ iron commitment to gold. That, in turn, was built on the relatively feeble political influence of working people and the relative strength of creditors. Central banks refrained from destabilizing actions and lent to each other in times of crisis. The first world war changed all this. Belligerent countries instituted capital controls and printed money to pay for the war. Europe tried to patch up the system after the war but it no longer worked well. Gold reserves grew increasingly unbalanced; France and America built growing hoards, while Britain and Germany ran short. Central bank solidarity was also in short supply. America, which at times controlled 46% of the world’s gold, could have rebalanced the system by expanding its money supply and allowing prices to rise. Yet it refused to do so thanks to domestic worries, chiefly a desire to limit a Wall Street boom. The revived system broke under the strain of depression. Struggling economies were forced to choose between saving domestic banks and defending their currencies’ pegs to gold. Central bankers met repeatedly to discuss ways to contain the crisis, but failed to recapture the cooperative spirit that prevailed before 1914. Austria and Germany dropped out of the system in 1931. By 1936 the gold standard was dead. At Bretton Woods, the world took another crack at a universal system. Yet the compromises of the 1944 conference yielded a patchwork of policies. Countries fixed their currencies’ values relative to the dollar, which was in turn pegged to gold. But pegs could be adjusted in extraordinary circumstances. The IMF was created to help manage crises; the World Bank was designed to lend money to poor countries. The conference also paved the way for the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade: a forum for trade talks and forerunner of the World Trade Organisation. In their first years the Bretton Woods institutions flirted with irrelevancy. The World Bank’s lending to Europe between 1947 and 1953 amounted to just 5% of American aid under the Marshall Plan. As controls on capital and trade were lifted, tensions became apparent. When governments splashed out on welfare states and military adventures, trade imbalances and inflation ballooned, reducing confidence in currency pegs. By the late 1960s these strains became unmanageable. In 1967 Britain was forced to devalue, shaking confidence in the system. And in 1971 President Richard Nixon opted to drop the gold peg and devalue rather than make swingeing cuts to balance budgets and control inflation. Most big countries dropped out of the system and floated their currencies. The repeated collapse of fixed exchange-rate regimes did little to shake faith in the idea. In Europe, leaders introduced the European Monetary System in 1979 — the ancestor of today’s euro zone. Yet markets repeatedly found reason to question peripheral economies’ willingness to subordinate domestic policy to the demands of the system. A bout of skepticism fuelled attacks on British and Italian pegs, driving them out of the system in 1992. Italy nonetheless signed up for deeper monetary integration in the euro zone. The euro’s recent crisis is a variation on an old theme. Developing countries also found pegs hard to resist. Fixed exchange rates can encourage monetary discipline and tame inflation — a common emerging-world problem — while reducing borrowing costs. Yet too often pegs ended painfully, as overindebted economies found it impossible to maintain the discipline needed to protect them. Markets pounced, initiating crises and forcing devaluations — most dramatically in the Asian financial crisis of 1997-8. Despite this history, floating exchange rates remain unpopular. Emerging economies have instead shifted toward managed rates maintained through market intervention. China, the world’s second-largest economy, is a particularly energetic manipulator of its currency, and has at times used an outright dollar peg. As a result over half of global economic activity is concentrated within two massive single-currency blocs. Less than a tenth of emerging markets allow the market to set their exchange rate. The aversion to floating is a puzzle. Fixed rates can reduce borrowing costs, but the result is often a debt-binge and crisis. Modern technology reduces currency transaction costs. IMF research finds that flexible exchange rates reduce vulnerability to both macroeconomic and financial crises. And Joseph Gagnon of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a think tank, finds that economies with floating currencies did better in the global financial crisis and its aftermath. History suggests that monetary arrangements last only as long as the political economy that supports them. Given the dramatic changes in the global economy marked by the rise of the emerging world, it is hard to imagine that prevailing currency alignments can survive. Indeed, China claims to be gradually freeing its capital account and encouraging trade denominated in yuan. That may finally bring down the curtain on the dollar era initiated by Bretton Woods. Yet in practice China is reluctant to give up the perceived safety of a managed exchange rate. Gold habits are hard to break. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
Saturday we explained why it increasingly looks like the U.S. is finally going to get some inflation after a long stretch of weak pricing growth and disinflation. Excess capacity or "slack" in the labor market and the industrial system is diminishing as the economy kicks into higher gear, and this looks likely to lead to higher prices (shortages = price increases). Now here's another big area to watch, from the real estate world. The apartment market just had its best quarter since 2001. From Axiometrics: Effective rent growth was 2.4% on a quarterly basis nationwide in April-June 2014, the highest quarter-to-quarter rate since the 2.9% of July-September 2000. Occupancy in the second quarter of 2014 was 95.0%, the strongest since the 95.6% of January-March 2001. Both rent growth and occupancy exceeded expectations. Effective rent growth was soft in January and February, perhaps because of the major winter storms and bitter cold temperatures that gripped much of the nation during the early part of this year. But March, April and May was one of the strongest three-month stretches we’ve seen in the 19 years Axiometrics has been tracking apartments. Here's the chart showing rising occupancy rates and surging rent prices. Axiometrics FREE AppDownload
1.  a bitter contest or confrontation. "the age-old man versus Nature smackdown"2.  a decisive or humiliating defeat or setback. The term “smackdown” was first used by professional wrestler Dwayne Johnson (AKA The Rock) in 1997. Ten years later its use had become so ubiquitous that Merriam-Webster felt compelled to add it to their lexicon. It may be Dwayne Johnson’s enduring contribution to Western civilization, notwithstanding and apart from his roles in The Fast and The Furious movie series. All that said, it is quite the useful word for talking about confrontations that are more for show than actual physical altercations. And so it is that on a beautiful July 4 weekend we will amuse ourselves by contemplating the serious smackdown that central bankers are visiting upon each other. If the ramifications of their antics were not so serious, they would actually be quite amusing. This week’s shorter than usual letter will explore the implications of the contretemps among the world’s central bankers and take a little dive into yesterday’s generally positive employment report. BIS: The Opening Riposte The opening riposte came from the Bank for International Settlements, the “bank for central banks.” In their annual report, released this week, they talked about “euphoric” financial markets that have become detached from reality. They clearly – clearly in central banker-speak, that is – fingered the culprit as the ultralow monetary policies being pursued around the world. These are creating capital markets that are “extraordinarily buoyant.” The report opens with this line: “A new policy compass is needed to help the global economy step out of the shadow of the Great Financial Crisis. This will involve adjustments to the current policy mix and to policy frameworks with the aim of restoring sustainable and balanced economic growth.” The Financial Times weighed in with this summary: “Leading central banks should not fall into the trap of raising rates ‘too slowly and too late,’ the BIS said, calling for policy makers to halt the steady rise in debt burdens around the world and embark on reforms to boost productivity. In its annual report, the BIS also warned of the risks brewing in emerging markets, setting out early warning indicators of possible banking crises in a number of jurisdictions, including most notably China.” “The risk of normalizing too late and too gradually should not be underestimated,” the BIS said in a follow-up statement on Sunday. “Particularly for countries in the late stages of financial booms, the trade-off is now between the risk of bringing forward the downward leg of the cycle and that of suffering a bigger bust later on,” the BIS report said. The Financial Times noted that the BIS “has been a longstanding sceptic about the benefits of ultra-stimulative monetary and fiscal policies, and its latest intervention reflects mounting concern that the rebound in capital markets and real estate is built on fragile foundations.” The New York Times delved further into the story: There is a disappointing element of déjà vu in all this,” Claudio Borio, head of the monetary and economic department at the BIS, said in an interview ahead of Sunday’s release of the report. He described the report “as a call to action.” The organization said governments should do more to improve the performance of their economies, such as reducing restrictions on hiring and firing. The report also urged banks to raise more capital as a cushion against risk and to speed efforts to deal with past problems. Countries that are growing quickly, like some emerging markets, must be alert to the danger of overheating, the group said. The signs of financial imbalances are there,” Mr. Borio said. “That’s why we are emphasizing it is important to take further action while the time is still there.” The B.I.S. report said debt levels in many emerging markets, as well as Switzerland, “are well above the threshold that indicates potential trouble.” (Source: New York Times) Casual observers will be forgiven if they come away with the impression that the BIS document was seriously influenced by supply-siders and Austrian economists. Someone at the Bank for International Settlements seems to have channeled their inner Hayek. They pointed out that despite the easy monetary policies around the world, investment has remained weak and productivity growth has stagnated. There is even talk of secular (that is, chronic) stagnation. They talk about the need for further capitalization of many banks (which can be read, of European banks). They decry the rise of public and private debt. Read this from their webpage introduction to the report: To return to sustainable and balanced growth, policies need to go beyond their traditional focus on the business cycle and take a longer-term perspective – one in which the financial cycle takes centre stage. They need to address head-on the structural deficiencies and resource misallocations masked by strong financial booms and revealed only in the subsequent busts. The only source of lasting prosperity is a stronger supply side. It is essential to move away from debt as the main engine of growth. “Good policy is less a question of seeking to pump up growth at all costs than of removing the obstacles that hold it back,” the BIS argued in the report, saying the recent upturn in the global economy offers a precious opportunity for reform and that policy needs to become more symmetrical in responding to both booms and busts. Does “responding to both booms and busts” sound like any central bank in a country near you? No, I thought not. I will admit to being something of a hometown boy. I pull for the local teams and cheered on the US soccer team. But given the chance, based on this BIS document, I would replace my hometown team – the US Federal Reserve High Flyers – with the team from the Bank for International Settlements in Basel in a heartbeat. These guys (almost) restore my faith in the economics profession. It seems there is a bastion of understanding out there, beyond the halls of American academia. Just saying… Yellen’s Counter-Riposte On July 2, two days after the release of the BIS report, Janet Yellen took the stage at the IMF conference and basically said (translated into my local Texas patois), “Kiss my grits.” She was having nothing to do with risk and productivity and spent her time defending the low-rate environment she has been fostering in the US. With just a brief hat tip to the fact that monetary policy can contribute to risk-taking by going “too far, thereby contributing to fragility in the financial system,” she proceeded to maintain that monetary policy should “focus primarily on price stability in full employment because the cost to society in terms of deviations from price stability in full employment that would arise would likely be significant.” (You can read the speech here if you have nothing else to do and your recent entertainment options have been limited to watching the microwave cook.) In other words, Janet has her dual mandate, and the rest of the world can go pound sand. When she did allude to the risk of financial instability, she hastened to say that it was not something that would require a change in monetary policy but would instead call for what she termed a “more robust macroprudential approach.” In fact she used that word macroprudential no fewer than 29 times. For those not fluent in Fedspeak, what she meant is that we can deal with financial instability through increased regulation procedures, whatever the hell that means. Exactly what did macroprudential policy do for us during the last crisis? Hold that thought as we move on to Mario Draghi, who piled on the next day, as if to reemphasize that the leading central bankers of the world are simply not going to pay any attention to increasing financial instability risk. (Interestingly, the voice recognition software that I use to dictate this letter insists upon transcribing Draghi as druggie. Given what he is pushing, maybe it knows more than the typical software package.) Immediately following a European Central Bank meeting, Mario gave us the following statement: The key interest rates will remain at present levels for an extended period ... [and] the combination of monetary policy measures decided last month has led to a further easing of the monetary policy stance. The monetary operations to take place over the coming months will add to this accommodation and will support bank lending. My friend Dennis Gartman summarized the actual meaning of Draghi’s comments quite succinctly: In other words, European-style quantitative easing is now the course that the Bank shall take. As we understand it ... and this is a bit confusing and shall take a while to fully comprehend what the ECB has done and shall be doing ... the Bank will be making as much as €1 trillion available to the banks in two early tranches and will make that money available for the next four years as long as the money is being used for direct lending operations. Mr. Draghi made it clear that the new program is complex and shall take some time for everyone to understand the program but said that he is quite “confident that banks will quickly understand” the program’s details and will embrace it. My own interpretation is that Mario said, “I’ll see the Fed’s tapering and raise it by €1 trillion.” Wow! A double-teamed double smackdown! Even The Rock would be impressed. The Coming Liquidity Crisis The next crisis is shaping up to look a lot like the last one, just with a different cause. It is going to be a liquidity crisis. What was the cause of the last crisis? Everybody points to subprime debt, but that was really just a trigger. What happened was that everybody in the financial world became distrustful of everybody else’s balance sheet and so decided to go to cash, but there was so much debt and so much invested in illiquid assets that everybody couldn’t get out of the theater at the same time. It is happening again today. The intense drive for yield is driving down interest rates and volatility, pushing up assets of all kinds, and setting us up for the same song, second verse of the 2008 crisis. While I have been hinting around about that possibility for some time, it really crystallized for me this last week as I read about the enormous drop in quality of fixed-income paper of all types, coupled with the huge increase in junk paper. Then I read that that Kenya had just broken the African record for a sovereign debt sale. They raised $2 billion for “general budgetary purposes” and at a rate lower than they anticipated (6.875% for ten-year maturities). A commentator in the Financial Time noted wryly, “Kenya’s gotten really, really lucky with the yield…. There’s very strong global demand for African sovereign paper.” You bet there is, and on the corporate side of things, covenant-lite loans now amount to more than half of all corporate bonds outstanding, notes Barclays (and a dozen other sources). And meanwhile, the spread between AAA and subprime auto loans is the narrowest since 2007. “People just have to reach further and further,” says fund manager David Schawel to Bloomberg. “The objective now is to reach a certain yield target instead of feeling good about the underlying credit.” French ten-year bonds (OATS) are paying 1.7%. Spanish (2.68%) and Italian (2.83%) debt are paying roughly the equivalent of US debt. German debt, at 1.27%, pays less than half of US debt at 2.64%. Somewhere in that equation, sovereign debt is spectacularly mispriced. Rated ten-year corporate bonds are paying between 3% and 3.4%. That is less than a 1% premium for bonds that are only single-A. Seriously? The life insurance market is creating special-purpose vehicles (SPVs) for offloading their risk that are then guaranteed by the parent company. This is the subject of a very sobering report from the Minnesota branch of the Federal Reserve. Up to 25% of such debt may be subject to self-guarantees, and this debt is getting very high ratings. Whom are we kidding? (This is actually a very serious problem and needs an entire letter devoted to it. There’s just not enough time on a Friday afternoon, with the grill beckoning.) And we are going to have to deal with a run on everything, very similar to what happened last time, armed only with “macroprudential policy”? Precisely what additional rules are we going to enact? You are not allowed to sell what you own? Except if you say “Mother may I, with sugar on top?” A liquidity crisis cannot be dealt with by means of any regulatory policy I can think of, short of draconian limits on markets – really nasty limits, which sort of undermines the whole concept of a free market. But then, maybe I just have no imagination. If I could sit down with Chairwoman Yellen and ask her a few questions, chief among them would be: “What can macroprudential policies do in a liquidity crisis brought on by a reach for yield encouraged by your bank? Can you tell me exactly what those policies are?” There is a bull market in complacency. The illusion of central bank control is in full force. And one of the chief ironies is that a bull market can last longer than any of us can reasonably expect – and then end more abruptly than even the most cautious bulls suspect. The St. Louis Fed Financial Stress Index is at its lowest ebb since they began calculating the index. How much lower can it realistically go? The answer is that no one really knows.  I don’t know what the trigger for the next debt crisis will be, but whatever it is, it will result in an even deeper liquidity crisis than we saw in ’08. That is just the nature of the beast. You need to look into your portfolios, deep into your portfolios, and see what your various investments did back in 2008-09. Then take a deep, long, serious look in the mirror. Ask yourself, “Can I withstand another shock like that?” Do you think you are smart enough to pull the trigger to get out in time? Do you have automatic triggers that will cause you to exit without having to be emotionally involved? Are there illiquid assets in your portfolio that you want to own right on through the next crisis? (Let me note that there are a lot of assets about which you might answer positively, with a full-throated yes, in that regard.) Would you rather be biased to cash today, when cash is in a true bear market and at its lowest value in years, if that cash will give you the buying power to purchase assets at prices that will once again look like 2009’s? Think about how you will feel in the wake of the next crisis, when cash will be king! You should be thinking of cash not as cash per se, but as an option on future deep-value trades. There are few truisms in the investment world that are really valid, but one of them is that you make your money when you buy. That you sold at a profit is just another way of saying that you were smart to buy when you did. There is going to come a time when buying opportunities are once again going to be all around you. A Few Thoughts on the Nonfarm Payroll Number First, this was a continuation of a five-month run of relatively good nonfarm payroll numbers. You can see the GDP recession in the January and February reports which gave us lower payroll numbers. That recession is gone away. There are no wage pressures in the latest report, with earnings rising a meager $0.06 an hour, or the more positive sounding 0.2% y/y. Unemployment fell to 6.1%, but the broader unemployment measure, U-6, barely budged, at 12.4%.  Joan McCullough ran U-6 down for us: Including this from EPI (Heidi Shierholz) who runs this calculation every month called “Missing Workers”, a/k/a/ those who have dropped off the radar screen for a host of reasons. June 2014:  *5.98 mil (*roughly half of that number are of prime working age.  Aint’ that grand?  SOS.) UE Rate if you add those back into the labor force:  9.6%   Compare that number to the official rate of 6.1%  Ms. Shierholz also estimates that “even if we saw June’s rate of job growth every month from here on out, we still wouldn’t get back to health in the labor market for another two and a half years.” … http://www.epi.org/publication/missing-workers/ That is still not be enough to take the bloom off the rose, but we should note that buried in the data is something that I’ve noted anecdotally among my own children and their friends (and which Joan again highlighted to me): Now here’s the big joke of the whole deal: Employed persons at work part time: Part time involuntarily                                    +275k Because hours cut back                                  +72k Because that’s all they could find                   +111k Part time voluntarily                                       +840k That is seriously pathetic and makes me wonder about the Retail adds +40k and the Leisure &amp; Hospitality adds +39k. Low-paying, less than 40 hour a week jobs?  You bet.  Ditto Health care and social assistance, which clocked in with a hefty 33.7k.  But it also explains why, with 288k bodies added, the average workweek is not budging.  Translation:  they are hiring more workers instead of increasing the hours of existing workers.  Which suggests that maybe this is more of what we have seen already:   the quest to hire part time employees to avoid the benefits baloney. Use your head.  If we really created 288k jobs.  And 275k folks were made involuntarily part-time, then this suggests that there are still way more candidates than there are openings. When some of us pointed out, when the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) was being debated way back in 2010, that the bill would result in an extraordinarily large number of temporary and part-time workers, we were called delusional and told we were just using that argument to oppose the ACA. It turns out, Mr. Krugman et al., that we were right. An unintended consequence of the ACA is a dramatic increase in part-time employment, especially among young people. There is no disputing this, unless you are willing to ignore the clear data from the BLS. Precisely when young people are starting their careers and should be able to land “starter jobs” and look forward to establishing themselves, they now have to hold down multiple part-time jobs in order to simply survive. Gods forbid they have a kid or two. I don’t know when the topic of reform of the ACA will actually be allowed to come up in the House, let alone the Senate. I don’t think there is anyone who thinks the increase in part-time jobs due to the ACA is a good thing. There are at least two or three different ways to fix it, but until both parties are willing to address some seriously needed reforms, we are stuck in a world where our kids will suffer because of the stubbornness of both the Republicans and the Democrats. This is one of those topics where I wish both parties could simply see past the forest to say this particular tree needs to be trimmed, and we will worry about the other trees later when one party gets enough power to adopt some further changes. For now, our kids and those with fewer skills are paying the price. But it is July 4 as I wrap up this letter, and we are celebrating our independence. From taxation without representation, from overbearing government, from government in some distant locale unconcerned with our local problems and our personal concerns. From a government concerned with its own internal re-election interests rather than with real on-the-ground problems of the people. Sigh. In any case, it’s time to hit the send button as my family beckons and the grill awaits my magic touch. Nantucket, New York City, Maine, San Antonio, and China(?) I leave for Nantucket Island next Wednesday for a private conference. I’ll be there four days and then on to New York City for a little media and lots of meetings, with a few dinners with friends, of course. Then a few weeks later, my youngest son, Trey, and I will head off to Grand Lake Stream, Maine, for our annual fishing trip at Leen’s Lodge and Camp Kotok. This will be our eighth year to attend the gathering and get together with the many old friends who have made this weekend a very special part of their lives. It is hard to believe that Trey was just 12 when we first started going. He has grown up with these guys (and, lately, ladies). I’m sure we will rejoin our traditional fishing duel, which I won for the first time last year (by a rather small fish), but the memories are far more important than the fish. I’m scheduled to speak at a rather intriguing Casey Research conference up in the Texas Hill Country near San Antonio. It is quite the beautiful venue, and they have a rather remarkable lineup of speakers. I have been a regular there for a few years and enjoy getting to catch up with old friends without having to be responsible for the conference. It is really quite the relaxing time for me, and I actually get to sit down and enjoy some of the other speakers. Join me. I am thinking about going to China sometime in September or October. I know I have a lot of readers in the region, and I would be interested in meeting key people who can give me insights into what is going on in the country. Drop me a note if you can help. Sunday night my old friend Tony Sagami arrives in Dallas, and we get to spend the next few days together. I’m sure Tony remembers (he doesn’t ever seem to forget anything) that we met sometime back in the mid-’80s on the conference circuit. We bonded over sushi and sake and have been blood brothers ever since. We have worked together for years on various projects and have seen our careers intertwine, but the real foundation is a true friendship that has stood the test of time and distance, as Tony keeps traveling to parts farther and farther afield. He now resides (more or less) in Bangkok; but Skype, email, and Facebook keep us connected; and we try to get together as often as possible. He is a remarkably good writer and a very astute investment analyst. I have learned a lot from Tony over the years. Ed D’Agostino (President of Mauldin Economics) is flying in the next evening to oversee a video that Tony and I will do together and will make available to you for free in the next few weeks. As usual, the Mauldin family gathers just a tad bit late, but we all seem to eventually get in one place, sit down, and enjoy a meal with each other. I hope you are going to have a weekend with family and friends as well. I am off to grill steaks, and then we will watch multiple fireworks displays all over the city from the balcony of my high-rise apartment. (Last-minute note: we counted over a dozen major firework events – very cool!) Not quite the same as being right there, but more relaxed and no traffic getting home. You have a great week! Your still a little kid who loves fireworks analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Leroy W. Demery Jr.Macau is home to the biggest, most lavish casinos in the world. Among the crazier facts about Macau recently: growth has averaged around 19% for a decade; in 2006 Macau’s casino revenues  surpassed those of Las Vegas; and the Sands Macau, opened in 2004, recouped its $265 million construction costs in one year Today, Macau is in a bit of a crisis. This April, a shareholder in the Kimren Group, one of Macau's top high-roller promoters, took $1.3 billion worth of the company's money and vanished, causing a tidal wave of fear to wash over the Chinese province. Publicly traded junkets, which bankroll gambling rooms, have fallen as much as 11% since the Kimren incident. That may sound dire. But the story of Macau's boom remains one of the most remarkable economic stories in history. In the summer of 1980, Leroy W. Demery, Jr., an expert in Asian transportation, visited the country (then still a Portuguese protectorate) and documented his journey.  He posted his copyrighted photo collection to flickr, and with his kind permission we have reproduced the snapshots here. Here is his introduction to the collection: I traveled by overnight ferry from Hong Kong to Macao, spent the day (1980 July 16) in Macao, then returned to Hong Kong by overnight ferry. "Overnight ferry" for a 60 km distance? Yes, one boarded the vessel about 10 p.m. The fare included a bunk in an air-conditioned dormitory - "Spartan" but very comfortable. The vessel sailed after midnight and certainly arrived within 3-4 hours. Passengers were awakened at about 6 a.m., as I remember. Yes, catamarans and jetfoils were much faster, but fares were higher, and the overnight ferry permitted one to save the cost of overnight accommodation. Macao, in 1980, was quiet. Very quiet. It had a distinct "small town" atmosphere that contrasted sharply with the Central District of nearby Hong Kong. Much has changed since then. Remarkably, the land area has nearly doubled, from about 16 square km to nearly 29 square km. Many of the images in this set are certainly "vanished scenes." I regret that do not have a 1980 street map of Macao, and so am not able to locate some of these images. Anyway, read on to take the journey to Old Macau. FREE AppDownload
WikipediaArchduke Franz FerdinandIt is early July 1914 and the financial markets are calm. Traders assume that the recent assassination in Sarajevo is a localised event that will have no lasting ramifications. There have been disturbances aplenty in the Balkans since the turn of the century and the expectation is that the death of Archduke Franz Ferdinand will be like all the others: a footnote in history. It was only later in the month, after Austria delivered its ultimatum to Serbia, that the markets woke up to the threat of a war involving the great European powers. Bond yields rose; there were fears that debts would go unpaid. The stock market in London closed in early August and did not open again until early the following year. In Britain, the Bank of England and the Treasury managed to avert a full-scale panic but things were never quite the same again. Although nobody knew it at the time, the six weeks from Sarajevo to the outbreak of the first world war marked the end of the first era of globalisation that had London and the gold standard at its heart. There had been occasional panics, some of them serious, but the international economic order seemed as stable and secure as the international balance of power. The next 30 years saw the demise of the gold standard, the collapse of global trade, a marked reduction in migration flows, the rise of protectionism and the biggest depression the world has ever experienced. Annual growth rates per head of population in the 12 biggest western European countries fell from 1.33% between 1870 and 1913 to 0.83% from 1913 to 1950. The decline could have been even more pronounced had it not been for technical progress. The first half of the 20th century saw the arrival of new products – such as the motor car and the aeroplane – and the wider dissemination of advances pioneered in the second half of the 19th century – such as electricity and modern plumbing – that had the potential to boost growth by increasing productivity. But these innovations were only fully exploited once the right infrastructure was in place. That meant both the physical infrastructure – the interstate roads and the suburbs – and the financial architecture, including reform of the banks, the International Monetary Fund and the Bretton Woods fixed exchange rate system based on the dollar. Between 1950 and 1973 GDP per head in the 12 biggest western European nations increased by 3.93% a year on average. Roll forward 93 years from 1914. It's July 2007 and there have been a few tremors in the financial markets. A couple of hedge funds have had problems with their investments in US sub-prime mortgages but most traders are blissfully unconcerned. The assumption is that any difficulties are minor, localised and soluble. There is nothing to suggest this will be any more serious than the peso crisis in Mexico, the south-east Asian meltdown, the Russian default or the collapse of the dotcom bubble. Again, the optimism was unfounded. When the financial markets froze up in early August 2007 it created the conditions for the near-collapse of the western banking system 13 months later. Certain conclusions can be drawn from these two incidents. We know far less than we think we do. In retrospect, it was obvious that the financial markets were in a highly fragile state in 2007, just as historians can find umpteen reasons why the assassination in Sarajevo led to war. Warning signs were ignored, with disastrous consequences. Edward Grey was right with his famous 1914 warning: it was a long while before the lights came back on again: more than three decades of war, slumps, and rule by brutal regimes ensued before it could be said the crisis was over. The after-effects of the crash of 2007-08 also linger on. The question is what happens next. The default assumption is that the global economy has had its near-death experience but is now on the mend. The financial system has been repaired, public debts are being reduced, the eurozone has been saved. Apart from the fact that most of us are a bit poorer than we were in 2007, life goes on as before. There has certainly been much less of a root-and-branch re-think of the prevailing economic model than there was after the first oil shock in 1973. There are, though, some who worry that 2007-08 was merely the warmup act for an even bigger crisis, made all the more inevitable by the failure to embrace more radical reform. The former prime minister Gordon Brown is one concerned by the failure to understand that global problems – growth, financial stability, climate change – require global solutions. A second crisis would certainly make a long period of turbulence much more likely. What would emerge at the end of such a period? There are those who think the events of 2007-08 mark a watershed, the end of a period of phoney growth made possible only by debt, over-exploitation of the planet and the last gasp of technologies reaching the point of becoming obsolete. Larry Summers, a former US treasury secretary, says we may be facing secular stagnation. The US economist Robert Gordon says the new wave of technological advances, such as IT, are not nearly as significant in boosting productivity as the big advances of the late 19th and early 20th century – running water, electricity, the internal combustion engine. Gordon believes US growth could be as low as 0.2% a year by 2100. Gerard Lyons, once chief economist at Standard Chartered before becoming an adviser to London's mayor, Boris Johnson, has a rather more upbeat view. While not playing down the many risks – including growing inequality and climate change – Lyons argues in his new book, The Consolations of Economics, that the global economy can eventually emerge stronger from its recent travails. Lyons makes a strong case, and he has history on his side. The global economy has regenerated itself before and it can do so again. It is premature to say that the new wave of innovations will have less impact on productivity than those identified by Gordon as having a transformative role in the first half of the 20th century. It is certainly not too early to identify a reconfiguration of the global economic balance of power: with Asia, Africa and Latin America all becoming relatively stronger while Europe and North America become relatively weaker. But the lessons of the 1914-45 period are that this rebirth can be a long and painful process. And it will only happen if the fundamental weaknesses of the model are addressed. The mood now is like that of the 1920s, with a hankering for the lost days of Edwardian summer. • The Consolations of Economics by Gerard Lyons; Faber &amp; Faber; £16.99 This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA clerk counts Chinese 100 yuan banknotes at a branch of China Construction Bank in Hai'an, Jiangsu province LONDON (Reuters) - A flurry of initiatives by China to open up its currency, stock and bond markets inside and outside the country has failed so far to allay international investor concerns about performance, accessibility and liquidity. China has been working increasingly rapidly to liberalize its capital markets, with the eventual aim of making its currency fully convertible, giving it a larger role in the global economy. As its markets open up, they can offer a similar appeal to investors to those enjoyed by many frontier markets - an appreciating currency over the longer term and potentially high returns for those willing to take an early punt. Launched just four years ago, the overseas yuan bond market - or dim sum market - has already reached $120 billion, for example. But the market has centered heavily around Hong Kong, even though countries such as Britain have made a concerted push to grab a share of this potentially lucrative market. "The development of a significant secondary market for renminbi (RMB) bonds has yet to happen," a recent survey commissioned by the City of London said. "There have been major issuances in London ... but the secondary market, after a flurry of activity in 2011 and 2012, has practically ceased," the report added, recommending more discussion between Britain and China on how to boost the market. Recent developments include the appointment of China Construction Bank &lt;601939.SS&gt; as a yuan clearing bank in London, designed to aid liquidity in this market, the introduction of yuan/sterling trading and plans for yuan/won trade in Asia. China has also expanded its quota system to enable international investors to buy China's onshore yuan, stock and bond markets. Outstanding quotas approached $100 billion last month. And a Hong Kong-Shanghai stock investment program, due to be introduced later this year, will allow stock trading between the two cities, opening up access to China for international investors with a Hong Kong presence. China should be able to make the most of the worldwide hunt for yield, and its dim sum bond market has had a bumper first half. Total new issuance - mainly but not exclusively from Chinese borrowers - of 358.6 billion yuan ($57.7 billion) this year is already close to the 2013 full-year total, according to Thomson Reuters data. International investors don't need a quota to invest in this market, unlike the onshore market. "It's a good easy first step for foreign investors," said Gregory Suen, investment director with HSBC Asset Management in Hong Kong. Research by David Spegel, head of emerging markets sovereign and credit strategy at BNP Paribas, showed dim sum made up the bulk of this year's international emerging market debt issuance denominated in local currency. China's decision this year to widen its yuan trading band, so adding more two-way trade into the market, has also indicated greater commitment to market forces. But it has unnerved investors seeking a carry trade play on yuan appreciation - the currency &lt;CNY=CFXS&gt; has only recently started to reverse this year's falling trend. In addition, looser monetary policy has cut the appeal for some investors, with dim sum yields of 4.4 percent below the average for emerging market local currency debt &lt;CNHI=HSBC&gt;. "Given financial repression in China, and low to negative real yields ... we do not have a positive view on Chinese bonds at the moment," said Bryan Carter, lead portfolio manager for emerging debt at Acadian Asset Management in New York.  At a market capitalization of close to $4 trillion, the Chinese onshore A-share market is far larger than the H-share Hong Kong-listed market for Chinese shares, with a market cap of around $600 billion. Emerging market fund Ashmore was the first asset management firm outside Hong Kong to gain a more flexible Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (RQFII) license to invest in mainland China. "The local market is big, it's deep, it's broad, it's a much more diversified starting point than just the H-share market," said Julie Dickson, portfolio manager at Ashmore. "More and more investors are looking at it for the first time." A-shares have slightly cheaper valuations than H-shares, investors say, and offer a much broader exposure - to smaller businesses, internet companies and others focused on China's consumption story. But Chinese markets are also notorious for underperforming the economy's growth trajectory, which while slowing is still topping an annual 7 percent. Chinese stocks have fallen again this year, depressed in part by the launch or expected launch of initial public offerings (IPOs), where most emerging stock markets have risen. And in a sign that most investors are not yet ready for onshore Chinese markets, index compiler MSCI, with around $1.3 trillion benchmarked against its emerging markets index, last month suffered a setback in its plans to announce the inclusion of A-shares in the index. Resistance from investors who did not have quotas to invest in this market mean the shares remain under review. Peter Elam Hakansson, chairman of East Capital which has an investment quota for Chinese markets, said the restrictions of the quota system meant most investors were not yet ready for benchmarking against an index containing A-shares. "Maybe it was slightly too early," he said. (Additional reporting by Michelle Chen in Hong Kong; Editing by Ruth Pitchford and Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
The average mutual fund investor is missing out on 2 percentage points of annual returns by making one terrible psychological mistake: They're putting more money into funds after periods of strong returns, and then they're yanking their money out of funds when performance is weaker. YiLi Chien, Senior Economist at the St. Louis Fed, has a short paper up about Return-Chasing Behavior, which is basically what's described above, the tendency of investors to react to the latest moves of the market, rather than hold tight. This chart shows the phenomenon. As you can see, when quarterly mutual fund returns (orange line) are higher, people put more money into mutual funds (blue line). When returns are lower, investors pull money out. St. Louis Fed Investors shouldn't be reacting to the past like this. They should just be holding steady through the market swings. The study's conclusion: To assess how much return-chasing behavior costs investors, I compared the actual realized return of return-chasing behavior in our sample to a simple buy-and-hold investment strategy (a strategy in which investors simply buy equity and hold it for an extended period of time).  We set the holding period of the buy-and-hold strategy to five years.  (The result would be even stronger if the holding period was longer.) Return-chasing behavior involves the size of investors’ equity positions changing over time, so the returns of both investment behaviors were evaluated in terms of so-called asset-weighted return.  Note that the asset-weighted return of the buy-and-hold strategy simply equaled the time-weighted return during the holding period, which is the standard definition of average equity return reported on financial statements. The result shows that return-chasing behavior had a significant impact on the performance of return.  The buy-and-hold strategy earned an average annual return of 5.6 percent in the sample period, while return-chasing behavior only realized 3.6 percent.  In other words, chasing returns caused the average U.S. mutual fund investor to miss around 2 percent return per year, which is very significant. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserJonathan Bush, chairman and CEO of AthenaHealth Inc.Athenahealth CEO Jonathan Bush is enthusiastic.  Watch his recent talk at Google, or his TEDMED talk from last year, or any of his many appearances on CNBC, and you immediately notice that he isn't like most public CEOs. His hands and body are up and down and back and forth, his speech is peppered with asides and off-color comments. Bush is the kind of CEO that says his company's stock is worth $1,000 a share before backing off that comment and admitting that, well, who knows what its really worth? Bush has huge goals for Athenahealth, saying the company's ambitions are nothing short of building the healthcare internet. Bush even wrote a book about it: "Where Does It Hurt? An Entrepreneur's Guide to Fixing Health Care."  Wall Street has been on his side for the last few years, but recently some have started to wonder what the deal is with Athenahealth. So have we. Athenahealth is headquartered in Watertown, Massachusetts, and was cofounded by Bush and Todd Park in 1997. The company began as a women's health company that offered an alternative, holistic approach to maternity care. YouTubeToday, Athenahealth markets itself as a software-enabled service company. In 2013, the company's revenue totaled $595 million, and at $130 per share Athenahealth's market cap is just below $5 billion.  The company's software helps medical practices manage care, process billing, and communicate with patients. Steve Rubis, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, told Business Insider that, basically, Athenahealth helps doctors get paid.  Athenahealth is primarily used by doctors in ambulatory settings or in small doctors' offices where patients are treated as outpatients.  The idea is that care providers sign up to use Athena's network, and Athena gets a cut when they use the network to, say, get reimbursed from an insurer or communicate directly with patients. A physician using Athenahealth's services will collect a patient's copay, bill an insurer, and get reimbursed for services all using the apps, instead of mailing these forms out for processing and waiting for reimbursements to be mailed back. "Revenue cycle management," is what Rubis called this process in a conversation with Business Insider. Epic and Cerner are two giants in the healthcare-software space that provide IT infrastructure for healthcare providers and hospitals using enterprise software. Almost everything Bush says about Athenahealth is an effort to position it as the anti-enterprise. But Athenahealth's ambitions are very real. In a talk at MIT last year, Bush said, "What we think we're doing is building the healthcare internet." In interviews and speeches Bush has talked about how the current healthcare system "isn't an expression of our humanity." Bush says that if Americans are going to spend 18% of every dollar they earn on healthcare, they ought to be able to decide how they spend those dollars. The system today, Bush argues, prevents this from happening. And it's this system that presents problems for Athenahealth's ambitions. YouTubeAthenahealth is after a complete reinvention of how healthcare is dispensed, received, and selected. Bush speaks a lot about his experience driving an ambulance in New Orleans, and how treatment options seemed too limited, as patients often just needed treatment that could, but wasn't allowed to be, dispensed outside of a hospital. Bush and his team driving the ambulance also got paid for driving a patient to the hospital, not for treating them even if they could. The incentives, Bush argues, were not in line with what seemed to be the goal: helping people. The problem with Athenahealth's ambitions, however, is that the entire healthcare system works within a number of accepted practices that are hard — if not seemingly impossible — to change. Currently, when you go to the doctor any proposed treatment is assigned a procedure code that is sent to an insurer and either accepted or declined. There are thousands of procedure codes. Athenahealth wants to streamline an industry that is averse to streamlining. In his talk at Google, Bush says the success of the Massachusetts healthcare system over the last twenty years ultimately created institutions that are, "the personification of the problem."  In Massachusetts, Bush says, there is too much healthcare that is too expensive, and now with an outsize workforce, too politically influential.  Bush says this is a problem not only for healthcare in the U.S., but for how Athenahealth can become the company Bush thinks it can be — a lean, flexible, cloud-based healthcare services company. Athenahealth debuted on the Nasdaq on Sept. 20, 2007, just about one year before the financial crisis sent the markets tumbling. For most of its first three years as a public company, Athenahealth traded in the $20-to-$30 range. When the calendar turned to 2012, things really started to get interesting for the stock. By the end of 2012, Athenahealth had seen shares trade from about $50 to more than $90, eventually starting 2013 at about $75. By the end of 2013, those shares would be worth $130. This chart shows Athenahealth stock from the beginning of 2012 through 2013. Google Finance Early this year, the stock was bid up to $195 before violently selling off amid weakness in shares of internet-based companies, with the stock's decline eventually punctuated by hedge fund manager David Einhorn's short presentation, or bet that the price of the company's shares would fall, at the Sohn Investment Conference in early May. Here's Athenahealth's year-to-date performance, and you can see the sharp rise through February and subsequent tumble to its early May lows. Google Finance In his short presentation on Athenahealth, Einhorn said it "is an excellent company with an excellent product, run by a well-meaning and honest, though occasionally promotional, CEO." Einhorn added that the world may be better off if Athenahealth succeeds, and said, "I am in no way rooting for it to fail." But looking at the company from a purely financial and performance-based perspective, the justification for nearly $200 stock did not make sense. Einhorn highlighted the following slide from a 2012 Athenahealth presentation. At the top it says "our goal" is 30% annual revenue growth. And this is an aim that the company often repeats. But it's a goal, not guidance, or a projection from management about what they expect their financial performance to be in upcoming periods. Athenahealth Einhorn subsequently points out that Athena's revenue and earnings goals, as well as its margins, have disappointed.  "I'm not giving guidance of 30%," Bush told CNBC's Jim Cramer last month. "It's worth a shot every year and some years we've grown more than 30% and some years less." In his talk at Google, Bush said that the next generation of companies aren't going to grow "like a Google," but will grow faster than companies did in the past. A 30% growth trajectory, it them would seem, is almost a necessity for a company looking to entrench itself in an industry as staunch as healthcare. Last month, Steve Rubis at Stifel Nicolaus initiated coverage on Athenahealth with a "buy" rating at a $155 price target. Rubis wrote that, "Given the company's underpenetrated addressable market in terms of revenue and physicians, we believe the company is poised to drive growth for the next several years." YouTube Rubis notes that in the physician, hospital, and patient communication markets, the company has penetration of about 5.7%, 2%, and 3.6%.  In his TEDMED talk given last year, Bush cites the success of Whole Foods cofounder and co-CEO John Mackey, who has a great company and a great brand ... and has 2% market share in the grocery space. Bush's central argument: If you build the best product, customers will find you. In his research note, Rubis writes that, "Over the long term, we believe the company's primary focus lies in developing the digital backbone of healthcare information exchange." Rubis told Business Insider that Athenahealth sees enterprise services offered by companies like Epic and Cerner as commodities. It's Athenahealth's apps services that the company hopes will be layered over that. According to data from Bloomberg, of 27 Wall Street analysts covering Athenahealth, only two have a "sell" or equivalent rating.  One of those is Bret Jones, an analyst at Oppenheimer who maintains an "underperform" rating on shares.  Like Einhorn, Jones still likes Athena's business model generally, writing that he views its business model as superior to traditional BPOs, or business process outsourcing firms. Jones writes, "We believe Athena's margins are structurally disadvantaged relative to pure SaaS companies and Street growth expectations are simply too high." A good company with a good business, but a valuation that is overheated. Since Einhorn's presentation, shares of the company are roughly unchanged, up about 3%. But even after a steep decline, Athenahealth shares are still expensive for a company that earned a profit of just $0.07 per share last year. Athenahealth was among the market's highest flyers in 2013 and into the early part of this year, but after a more than 40% peak-to-trough loss, and a very public short presentation, people have begun to take notice. After a steep decline in its share price, and a public short presentation by Einhorn, the spotlight will now squarely be on Athenahealth and its charismatic, if sometimes enigmatic, CEO. Stay tuned. FREE AppDownload
Corcoran Group Real EstateRich people. They're doing well these days! For proof, look no further than the Hamptons, the fancy collection of towns on the Eastern tip of Long Island, where the region's elite spend their summer weekends. Josh Brown points us to a note from Nick Colas of Convergex which lays out a few facts about how well things are going in the area. Here's a few bullets from Nick: · The newest and nicest hotel in the Hamptons at the moment is the Topping Rose House, refurbished in 2012 after a long period of disrepair and also substantially expanded. Rooms here during the summer go for $2,000/night and often have a 2-3 night minimum. They are sold out this weekend. · The most popular aspirational real estate site in New York is www.hreo.com – the common listing service for the Hamptons. A few clicks and you’ll find that there are +2500 entries for houses that will cost you over $1 million. Yes, there are a few dupes, so let’s cut that number in half. That still makes for 1200 houses out there at $1 million and up. Want to live like an old school Wall Street mogul? The original Merrill house (yes, that Merrill) is on the market for $98 million. Bad news – the property abuts a public beach parking lot. For $100 million…. And yes, the place is rock star amazing. · Pierre’s in Bridgehampton has had its ups and downs in terms of service quality over the past few years, but the food has always been like a quick trip to Antibes or Cannes. They ship their own special rose wine over from France for the summer season – it’s usually all gone by early August. They have availability for dinner at 5:45 or 6:00 pm, which for many French restaurants is almost lunch hours. So book early, book often, order the blue bottle of rose and wait for the rest of the world to shuffle in at 8pm… · There are a total of 16 houses and apartments available from the Shinnecock Canal to the Montauk town line for less than $325,000 – the average price of a home in America. One is a mobile home. The others are condos or small cottages of 700 square feet or so. There are 3,400 listing over this price point on hreo.com. Good times! FREE AppDownload
As discussed earlier (see post), home price increases in the US are slowing. One of the reasons for the slowdown is the continuing weakness in wage growth. The latest data seem to indicate that in spite of the overall improvements in job creation, wage growth remains subdued - hovering around 2% per year over the past 3 years or so. FRED And wage growth is a key determinant in home price valuation. Merrill Lynch for example shows that current home prices may already be above where they should be, based on Merrill's "fair value" index (that is driven to a large extent by wages). BAML The other issue holding back home prices from accelerating is credit. Credit conditions for mortgages remain relatively tight and in fact have worsened for non-traditional mortgages. FRED That's why it remains challenging for the housing sector to maintain momentum, as we see residential construction spending stall. FRED Of course this is the situation for the nation as a whole. Underneath all this we have quite a bit of variability. Skilled workers are more likely to have higher paying jobs, are able to get mortgages, and are buying homes. House prices in certain areas are rising much faster than what we see in the national averages. In many cases there are simply not enough homes. Yet in other areas, the situation remains stagnant in terms of wages, credit, and the housing market. This divergence, although not visible at the national level, is growing. FREE AppDownload
