REUTERS/Carlos Barria A businessman looks at his mobile phone as he walks in the financial area of Pudong in Shanghai May 30, 2013.The data out of China so far has been disappointing, and has prompted economists to cut their 2014 GDP forecasts. Bank of America's Ting Lu was one of the economists that lowered his 2014 GDP forecast to 7.2%, from 7.6%. He also cut his Q1 forecast to 7.3%, from 8.0%. In a new note to clients he argues that the slowdown we've seen in the Jan-Feb period is largely because of Beijing's crackdown on pollution and corruption. From Ting: "There were some early warning signals including a declining PMI in Jan-Feb, weak commodity prices which suggested weak investment demand, and falling CPI inflation which implied weak consumption demand. In hindsight, weak growth in Jan-Feb could be due to the government’s much more serious anti-pollution measures which shut down many small cement and steel mills, an escalation in the ongoing anti-corruption and anti-vice campaign which slowed consumption, cyclical slowdown of the property sector which boomed last year, the lagged impact of appreciating currency and rising rates in 2H13, and the government’s efforts in controlling local government debt and some shadow banking practice. "However, after the weak start, we expect improvement in sequential growth in March and in the next couple of quarters thanks to existing and incoming policy adjustments. Despite our growth forecast cut, we believe there will be neither growth hard landing nor financial crisis." Ting does write the he also lowered his forecast because the government which has a 7.5% GDP target, could lower its floor to 7%. He anticipates this because it would give policymakers more room to pursue structural reforms. As for the chatter about a reserve requirement ratio (RRR) cut. Ting argues that the People's Bank of China will eventually cut the RRR rate, which currently sits at 20%. But he thinks it won't happen "at the moment" because of the low interbank rates. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoThis weekend the People's Bank of China announced that the yuan-dollar daily trading band would be widened to 2% on either side, from 1%. China last widened the band to 1%, from 0.5% in April 2012, and to 0.5% from 0.3% in May 2007. "The primary purpose is to disentangle monetary policy from FX policy," Societe Generale's Sebastien Galy writes. A market-determined exchange rate  is a long-term goal for the central bank. "The hope is a market price for a key macro-economic variable will encourage greater efficiency in resource allocation," writes Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik. "Two-way fluctuations will also discourage speculative inflows and give the central bank greater scope to set an independent monetary policy, ending the low interest rates that have fueled runaway lending and asset bubbles. While this is an important step towards internationalizing the renminbi and establishing market-based exchange rate, the move was largely anticipated by markets. The recent "unexpected and rapid depreciation of the yuan in the past few weeks," only fed into the expectations, according to Societe Generale's Wei Yao. This was part of the central bank's efforts to "prepare the market for two-way volatility," she writes. But markets are now looking for a more meaningful reform out of China. Yao argues that the band-widening was an easy move for the PBoC, what we need to see is how much control the PBoC would be willing to relinquish with regards to the exchange rate. "We think that, as the next move, the PBoC needs to be more elusive by moving to weekly or monthly setting of reference rates. Or at least, the trajectory of the daily reference rate should be less directional."Bank of America's Ting Lu also thinks that any further band widening would be of little consequence, and that "a much more important and meaningful reform is to change the rule on setting the daily fixing of CNY/USD." Ting expects China to eventually shift to a market-determined foreign exchange regime. "As an intermediate step, China could peg yuan to a basket of currencies weighted by the importance of its trading partners," he writes. "More specifically, the Singapore’s BBC (Basket, Band and Crawl) regime seems to be favored. A reform towards a real managed float such as the “BBC” system requires a group of more confident and pragmatic political leaders who are true believers of markets." A change to the daily reference rate could be the central bank's next move. Let's wait and see. FREE AppDownload
Photo by David Silverman/Getty Images"What's the safest airline in the world? There's no question. It's El Al, Israel's national airline."-- CBS So states the television news magazine 60 Minutes, in an unequivocal endorsement of Israel's national airline. There are many factors that make El Al the No. 1 airline to fly if you don't want to worry about terrorism -- stringent security measures for all passengers, sky marshals aboard every plane, steel doors securing the cockpit. All of these reduce the risk that terrorists will make mischief inside a plane. And now, Israel is taking the lead in adding a new level of security to eliminate the risk of having terrorists try to take a plane down from outside. The threatIn 2002, terrorists armed with Russian Strela-2 surface-to-air missiles, or SAMs, attempted to shoot down an Israeli passenger liner taking off from the airport at Mombasa, Kenya. They missed, but Israel isn't trusting to the bad aim of terrorists to keep its planes safe in the future. For years, Israeli defense contractor Elbit Systems (NASDAQ: ESLT) has been developing a system of on-plane anti-missile defense that offers affordable protection to any civilian airliner. The solutionDubbed C-MUSIC, Elbit's system detects and warns a plane's aircrew of an incoming SAM, tracks the missile with a forward-looking infrared camera, and blasts it with a powerful laser to disable the missile -- causing it to detonate at a safe distance. Configured as a "pod" that can be attached to an airplane's fuselage, the entire system measures roughly 9 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet, and weighs about 350 pounds. Israel has been testing C-MUSIC for several years now, and recently greenlighted the system for deployment. All 38 airplanes in El Al's air fleet with soon be equipped with C-MUSIC. Then, all planes operated by all Israeli airlines. The costHow much will this cost, and how much could C-MUSIC be worth to Elbit? According to published reports, the system will cost about $3 million per unit. At that price, outfitting all 100-odd civilian airplanes in Israel with C-MUSIC should generate enough revenue to make up 10% of Elbit's annual sales. Internationally, Elbit's biggest foreign customer is Brazil, which ordered C-MUSIC systems to install aboard its military KC-390 aerial refueling tankers. What would be truly terrific news for Elbit, though, would be signing a major U.S. commercial airline to purchase C-MUSIC. The roughly 1,000 planes in American Airlines Group's (NASDAQ: AAL) fleet, for example, would be worth a year's sales to Elbit, while the 700-odd planes in the Delta (NYSE: DAL) or United Continental (NYSE: UAL) fleets would be nearly as lucrative. The competitionWinning a U.S. airline customer may be tough for Elbit, though. For one thing, the airlines would be loath to incur the expense of C-MUSIC absent a compelling threat. For another, there's a U.S. defense contractor angling for the same market. C-MUSIC's rival is the "Guardian" anti-missile system, manufactured by Northrop Grumman(NYSE: NOC) . Guardian resembles C-MUSIC in form, function, and price -- except for one detail. While Northrop says its system would cost $3 million per plane to install initially, the company believes that if ordered in scale, efficiencies of production could allow it to push Guardian's price down to $1 million per unit. At that price, American airlines could defray the cost of the system, and provide peace of mind to flyers, for the cost of perhaps $1 extra per ticket. And the big question: When will Americans get to tune in to C-MUSIC?That doesn't seem like a high price to pay for peace of mind -- not in an age when travelers routinely fork over $5 to the airlines for an on-board meal that used to be free. Yet to date, no U.S. airlines have expressed interest in equipping planes with either C-MUSIC or Guardian. If you want to fly safe from terrorist missiles, and can't book a flight on El Al, your best bet is to move to Germany, Oman, or Qatar -- and get yourself elected president, sultan, or emir, respectively. Why? Because all three countries have reportedly ordered the militarized version of Northrop's Guardian system for their heads of state. As for the rest of us, we'll just have to take our chances.   FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Petar KujundzicOn Saturday, the People's Bank of China announced a historic economic policy shift — it widened the daily trading band around which the value of the Chinese yuan is allowed to deviate from the daily reference rate to 2% from 1%. The announcement comes on the back of a PBoC-engineered weakening of the yuan (via lower reference rates) over the past several weeks — largely designed to shake out carry-trading speculators following an extended, multi-year period of sustained appreciation against the U.S. dollar — and is seen as a significant step in liberalizing China's current account and internationalizing its currency. The wider band may allow for greater volatility in the dollar-yuan exchange rate, and as such, many believe the yuan may continue to depreciate — at least in the near term, especially as signs of weakness have emerged in economic data points released in recent weeks. "While we maintain our longer-term view of further CNY appreciation, the potential shorter-term risk of capital outflow (given the softening economic backdrop) must be acknowledged," says Geoffrey Kendrick, head of Asia rates and FX strategy at Morgan Stanley. "Such flow saw USD/CNY spot trade to the top of the then new 1% band in mid-2012. In 2014, the probability of capital outflows in the CNY space will be determined by local data (which have been weakening) and credit concerns (note large trust product maturities between May and September)." The question is whether the PBoC will continue to guide the reference rate lower and allow the yuan depreciation that has characterized market action in recent weeks to resume. "The minority view (to which I adhere) is that Chinese policymakers will not want the widening to be accompanied by a sharp move to the weak-CNY side of the band," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "They will want the move to be seen as confidence that they have economic and financial conditions under control. Nothing forced them to widen the band this weekend, so it will be see as continuation of long term policy." In offshore markets, the Chinese yuan (CNH) is trading around 6.16 per dollar to begin the week, about 0.1% below Friday's closing levels. The exchange rate is now in an area where many strategists say depreciation could accelerate given the proliferation of options bets designed to profit from an appreciating yuan and attendant hedging needs. "For CNH, the 6.15-6.20 zone is critical for structured products, above which a topside move could become non-linear," says Morgan Stanley's Kendrick. "With the new USD/CNY band of 6.01-6.26 (off Friday, March 14’s fix), USD/CNH no longer needs to trade above USD/CNY to reach this point of non-linearity." Despite recent volatility, however, the prevailing view seems to be that the depreciation in the yuan is a temporary development. Kit Juckes, head of currency strategy at Société Générale, relays this sentiment in a blog post describing meetings with clients in Asia over the last week. "Singapore is the private banking hub for Southern Asia, and benefiting from the combination of an ever-appreciating [Chinese yuan] and higher yields than are on offer in either U.S. or Singapore dollars is one the most popular investment strategies for their high net-worth clients," he says. "The general view or hope of these investors is that the current PBoC-induced volatility in the USD/CNY rate is just a blip, which will not stand in the way of their investment strategy." More interesting, though, was his experience in meetings with clients in Beijing. "When the talk turned to the domestic currency, I sensed nervousness and uncertainty. That is unusual in Beijing, a place where there is usually certainty about the authorities' goals and little doubt that they will be successfully achieved," says Juckes. "I was asked how far I think the USD/CNY rate may rise and retorted that if the idea was to reduce the appeal of the 'carry trade', then what I learned in Singapore is that those buying the [Chinese yuan] are not feeling dissuaded yet. The glib remark that from the current 6.15, we are more likely to see the rate at 7 than 5 in the coming years caused real concern until I qualified it by saying that neither of these levels is likely. What I did learn is that a 2.5% depreciation is causing more anguish than a fall that magnitude should. And by association that there is more leverage in the trade than I had realised. That increase in leverage makes me concerned, particularly in the wake of the announcement this weekend that the daily trading band for USD/CNY is being widened." FREE AppDownload
Global financial markets are re-opening around the world to begin the week of trading, and so far, the latest developments on the geopolitical front seem to be having an impact on asset prices. S&amp;P 500 futures have turned lower and U.S. Treasury note futures are essentially unchanged from Friday's closing levels. The U.S. dollar is down slightly against the euro and the Japanese yen and up slightly against the Australian dollar — the latter a popular market proxy for China sentiment. Gold futures are up about 1.0%, trading around $1392.50 per ounce, while copper futures are down about 0.6%, trading around $2.93 per pound. Two major weekend developments are capturing the attention of market participants. Ukraine's Crimea region, an area home to many ethnic Russians, decided today through popular referendum to declare independence from Ukraine. Western powers previously stated that they would not recognize such a decision. On Saturday, Russian troops encroached on Ukrainian territory outside of Crimea for the first time since the crisis started, suggesting escalating military tensions. Traders are anxiously awaiting the West's response, with the focus on the potential for economic sanctions against Russia. "The threat from the West is durable financial stress," says Sebastien Galy, a senior forex strategist at Société Générale. "The threat from Russia is to widen the problem. Neither has much to gain beyond playing Mad Men, and the odds are that this crisis will peak and recede soon enough once the panicked headlines go by." The perhaps bigger story was news on Saturday that the People's Bank of China would widen the daily trading band around which the value of the Chinese yuan (CNY) would be allowed to deviate from the specified reference rate to 2% from 1%. The announcement comes on the back of an engineered weakening of the yuan over the past several weeks designed to shake out carry-trading speculators following an extended, multi-year period of sustained appreciation against the dollar, and is seen as a significant step in liberalizing China's current account and internationalizing its currency. "Chinese policymakers will not want the widening to be accompanied by a sharp move to the weak-CNY side of the band," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "They will want the move to be seen as confidence that they have economic and financial conditions under control. Nothing forced them to widen the band this weekend, so it will be see as continuation of long term policy. I would see as slightly risk on. Small positive for AUD and KRW, small negative for JPY — but again, a second order impact." The charts below show price action across various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, gold futures, and copper futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott OlsonAs usual, investors are nervous. The S&amp;P 500 is just 2% below its all-time high. Meanwhile, harsh winter weather continues to distort economic data, which are only providing a murky look at what's going on in the economy. Meanwhile, the tension on the Russia-Ukraine border has some saying we're facing the worst east-west crisis since the Cold War. Among other things, this week's schedule will be highlighted by the Federal Reserve's two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. Fed members led by Janet Yellen continue to be under pressure to unwind easy monetary policy as the threat of inflation lingers. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Earlier this month, Citi U.S. equity strategist Tobias Levkovich offered some guidance on how investors should think about the crisis in Ukraine. From his March 3 note: "Geopolitical risks are always a concern but direct impact is needed to undermine equities in a significant way. The history of international conflicts having much impact on US equities is very limited and thus a much larger conflict would be needed to have considerable negative impact. The Russian invasion of Afghanistan in the late 1970s, for example, generated a grain embargo from the US that had severe consequences on the American farm economy that took years to unwind and recover from, but the Georgian conflict, the Iraq-Iran War, Kosovo and even the current Syrian civil war have had very marginal impact..." Investors in U.S. stocks appear to have much less to worry about than investors in Russian stocks. "[T]he worst case scenario that Russia becomes uninvestible (capital controls, such as in Malaysia in 1998, and even the expropriation of foreign owned assets in Russia) with Russia kicked out of MSCI GEMs cannot be entirely ruled out," warned UBS's Geoff Dennis. FREE AppDownload
Mathematics is all around us, and it has shaped our understanding of the world in countless ways. In 2013, mathematician and science author Ian Stewart published a book on 17 Equations That Changed The World. We recently came across this convenient table on Dr. Paul Coxon's twitter account by mathematics tutor and blogger Larry Phillips that summarizes the equations. (Our explanation of each is below): Larry Phillips, via @paulcoxon on Twitter Here is a little bit more about these wonderful equations that have shaped mathematics and human history: Shutterstock/ igor.stevanovic  This relationship, in some ways, actually distinguishes our normal, flat, Euclidean geometry from curved, non-Euclidean geometry. For example, a right triangle drawn on the surface of a sphere need not follow the Pythagorean theorem. 2) Logarithms: Logarithms are the inverses, or opposites, of exponential functions. A logarithm for a particular base tells you what power you need to raise that base to to get a number. For example, the base 10 logarithm of 1 is log(1) = 0, since 1 = 100; log(10) = 1, since 10 = 101; and log(100) = 2, since 100 = 102. The equation in the graphic, log(ab) = log(a) + log(b), shows one of the most useful applications of logarithms: they turn multiplication into addition.  Until the development of the digital computer, this was the most common way to quickly multiply together large numbers, greatly speeding up calculations in physics, astronomy, and engineering.  3) Calculus: The formula given here is the definition of the derivative in calculus. The derivative measures the rate at which a quantity is changing. For example, we can think of velocity, or speed, as being the derivative of position — if you are walking at 3 miles per hour, then every hour, you have changed your position by 3 miles. Naturally, much of science is interested in understanding how things change, and the derivative and the integral — the other foundation of calculus — sit at the heart of how mathematicians and scientists understand change. Wikimedia CommonsIsaac Newton Newton's gravity held up very well for two hundred years, and it was not until Einstein's theory of general relativity that it would be replaced. 5) The square root of -1: Mathematicians have always been expanding the idea of what numbers actually are, going from natural numbers, to negative numbers, to fractions, to the real numbers. The square root of -1, usually written i, completes this process, giving rise to the complex numbers. Mathematically, the complex numbers are supremely elegant. Algebra works perfectly the way we want it to — any equation has a complex number solution, a situation that is not true for the real numbers : x2 + 4 = 0 has no real number solution, but it does have a complex solution: the square root of -4, or 2i. Calculus can be extended to the complex numbers, and by doing so, we find some amazing symmetries and properties of these numbers. Those properties make the complex numbers essential in electronics and signal processing. Wikimedia CommonsA cube. 6) Euler's Polyhedra Formula: Polyhedra are the three-dimensional versions of polygons, like the cube to the right. The corners of a polyhedron are called its vertices, the lines connecting the vertices are its edges, and the polygons covering it are its faces. A cube has 8 vertices, 12 edges, and 6 faces. If I add the vertices and faces together, and subtract the edges, I get 8 + 6 - 12 = 2. Euler's formula states that, as long as your polyhedron is somewhat well behaved, if you add the vertices and faces together, and subtract the edges, you will always get 2. This will be true whether your polyhedron has 4, 8, 12, 20, or any number of faces. Euler's observation was one of the first examples of what is now called a topological invariant — some number or property shared by a class of shapes that are similar to each other. The entire class of "well-behaved" polyhedra will have V + F - E = 2. This observation, along with with Euler's solution to the Bridges of Konigsburg problem, paved the way to the development of topology, a branch of math essential to modern physics. economicshelp.orgThe normal distribution. The normal curve is used in physics, biology, and the social sciences to model various properties. One of the reasons the normal curve shows up so often is that it describes the behavior of large groups of independent processes. 8) Wave Equation: This is a differential equation, or an equation that describes how a property is changing through time in terms of that property's derivative, as above. The wave equation describes the behavior of waves — a vibrating guitar string, ripples in a pond after a stone is thrown, or light coming out of an incandescent bulb. The wave equation was an early differential equation, and the techniques developed to solve the equation opened the door to understanding other differential equations as well. 9) Fourier Transform: The Fourier transform is essential to understanding more complex wave structures, like human speech. Given a complicated, messy wave function like a recording of a person talking, the Fourier transform allows us to break the messy function into a combination of a number of simple waves, greatly simplifying analysis.  The Fourier transform is at the heart of modern signal processing and analysis, and data compression.  10) Navier-Stokes Equations: Like the wave equation, this is a differential equation. The Navier-Stokes equations describes the behavior of flowing fluids — water moving through a pipe, air flow over an airplane wing, or smoke rising from a cigarette. While we have approximate solutions of the Navier-Stokes equations that allow computers to simulate fluid motion fairly well, it is still an open question (with a million dollar prize) whether it is possible to construct mathematically exact solutions to the equations. 11) Maxwell's Equations: This set of four differential equations describes the behavior of and relationship between electricity (E) and magnetism (H).  Maxwell's equations are to classical electromagnetism as Newton's laws of motion and law of universal gravitation are to classical mechanics — they are the foundation of our explanation of how electromagnetism works on a day to day scale. As we will see, however, modern physics relies on a quantum mechanical explanation of electromagnetism, and it is now clear that these elegant equations are just an approximation that works well on human scales. 12) Second Law of Thermodynamics: This states that, in a closed system, entropy (S) is always steady or increasing. Thermodynamic entropy is, roughly speaking, a measure of how disordered a system is. A system that starts out in an ordered, uneven state — say, a hot region next to a cold region — will always tend to even out, with heat flowing from the hot area to the cold area until evenly distributed. The second law of thermodynamics is one of the few cases in physics where time matters in this way. Most physical processes are reversible — we can run the equations backwards without messing things up. The second law, however, only runs in this direction. If we put an ice cube in a cup of hot coffee, we always see the ice cube melt, and never see the coffee freeze. Associated PressAlbert Einstein General relativity describes gravity as a curving and folding of space and time themselves, and was the first major change to our understanding of gravity since Newton's law. General relativity is essential to our understanding of the origins, structure, and ultimate fate of the universe. 14) Schrodinger's Equation: This is the main equation in quantum mechanics. As general relativity explains our universe at its largest scales, this equation governs the behavior of atoms and subatomic particles.  Modern quantum mechanics and general relativity are the two most successful scientific theories in history — all of the experimental observations we have made to date are entirely consistent with their predictions. Quantum mechanics is also necessary for most modern technology — nuclear power, semiconductor-based computers, and lasers are all built around quantum phenomena. 15) Information Theory: The equation given here is for Shannon information entropy. As with the thermodynamic entropy given above, this is a measure of disorder. In this case, it measures the information content of a message — a book, a JPEG picture sent on the internet, or anything that can be represented symbolically. The Shannon entropy of a message represents a lower bound on how much that message can be compressed without losing some of its content.  Shannon's entropy measure launched the mathematical study of information, and his results are central to how we communicate over networks today. 16) Chaos Theory: This equation is May's logistic map. It describes a process evolving through time — xt+1, the level of some quantity x in the next time period — is given by the formula on the right, and it depends on xt, the level of x right now. k is a chosen constant. For certain values of k, the map shows chaotic behavior: if we start at some particular initial value of x, the process will evolve one way, but if we start at another initial value, even one very very close to the first value, the process will evolve a completely different way. We see chaotic behavior — behavior sensitive to initial conditions — like this in many areas. Weather is a classic example — a small change in atmospheric conditions on one day can lead to completely different weather systems a few days later, most commonly captured in the idea of a butterfly flapping its wings on one continent causing a hurricane on another continent.  17) Black-Scholes Equation: Another differential equation, Black-Scholes describes how finance experts and traders find prices for derivatives. Derivatives — financial products based on some underlying asset, like a stock — are a major part of the modern financial system.  The Black-Scholes equation allows financial professionals to calculate the value of these financial products, based on the properties of the derivative and the underlying asset. REUTERS/Frank PolichHere are some traders in the S&amp;P 500 options pit at the Chicago Board Options Exchange. You won't find a single person here that hasn't heard about the Black-Scholes equation.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoA Russian army MI-35 military helicopter patrols the area as Ukrainian servicemen guard a checkpoint near the village of Strelkovo in Kherson region adjacent to Crimea, March 16, 2014.Russian media is reporting that 93% of voters on the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea have voted to secede to Russia. The big question, now that Russia has effectively annexed Crimea (even though the international community does not recognize the move), is what happens next. Here's what Crimea's pro-Russian deputy prime minister told Richard Engel of NBC News:  Crimean Deputy PM Rustam Temirgaliev on referendum: "It's the first step. I really think so. I think second step will be with east Ukraine." The Kremlin used the same argument for its low-key invasion of Crimea. In a phone call with German Chancellor Angel Merkel, Russian President Vladimir Putin "expressed concern over tensions in eastern and south-eastern parts of Ukraine" while pro-Russian demonstrators in the eastern city of Donetsk smashed their way into public buildings and burned Ukrainian-language books. Putin reiterated this claim to U.S. President Barack Obama, saying that unrest is being instigated by radical groups in connection with the new government in Kiev. In this context, Ukrainians fear a full-on Russian invasion. A more likely reality in the short-to-medium term may be a slow subversion of order by pro-Russian groups in the eastern part of the country. The optimistic view is that the Russians will back off after capturing Crimea and accept Kiev's new government. But all signs currently point the opposite direction. "It is Russia's military movements and escalatory steps that are raising the greatest concern," a senior U.S. State Department official told Reuters on Sunday. In any case, the Ukrainian soldiers in Crimea guarding their bases are getting very uneasy as the Russians continue to surround them after the referendum. On the troops: "Do they have to leave?" asks .@RichardEngel about Ukrainian military. "Yes," says Crimea Deputy PM. FREE AppDownload
Although we have made great strides toward women's equality over the last few decades, men and women still spend their time in different ways. The Bureau of Labor Statistics runs an annual survey of Americans asking how they use their time. The survey results are broken down into a number of different demographic groups. Women still spend more time doing household activities — a little more than two hours a day, versus about an hour and fifteen minutes for men — and taking care of family members — 40 minutes for women, against 20 minutes for men. Men spend about an hour and fifteen minutes per day more than women at work and work-related activities, and men have about fifty minutes more daily leisure time than women. This divide is even more noticeable when one looks at the subcategories of household activities. Women spend almost an hour per day on housework and about forty-five minutes on food preparation and cleanup. Men spend only about seventeen minutes per day on each of these activities. While things have gotten more egalitarian, these data still show echoes of 50s-style gender roles. BLS made this chart showing how men and women vary in their time use, based on the 2012 survey results.  Census  (Via Derek Thompson)   FREE AppDownload
In fact, Reuters reports that in 2009 there are 7.8 million millionaires in the United States. That’s a lot of people and the odds are one or two of them are living near you. Heck, one of them might even be your neighbor. In fact, the odds are very good that it is your neighbor. But, Len, you don’t know my neighbor.  That guy doesn’t look anything like a millionaire. Well, guess what? A millionaire who is truly financially savvy won't be easily recognizable.  1. He always spends less than he earns.  In fact his mantra is, over the long run, you’re better off if you strive to be anonymously rich rather than deceptively poor. 2. He knows that patience is a virtue. The odds are you won’t become a millionaire overnight.  If you’re like him, your wealth will be accumulated gradually by diligently saving your money over multiple decades. 3.  When you go to his modest three-bed two-bath house, you’re going to be drinking Folgers instead of Starbucks.  And if you need a lift, well, you’re going to get a ride in his ten-year-old economy sedan.  And if you think that makes him cheap, ask him if he cares.  (He doesn’t.) 4. He pays off his credit cards in full every month.  He’s smart enough to understand that if he can’t afford to pay cash for something, then he can’t afford it. 5. He realized early on that money does not buy happiness.  If you’re looking for nirvana, you need to focus on attaining financial freedom. 6. He never forgets that financial freedom is a state of mind that comes from being debt free.  Best of all, it can be attained regardless of your income level. 7. He knows that getting a second job not only increases the size of your bank account quicker but it also keeps you busy – and being busy makes it difficult to spend what you already have. 8. He understands that money is like a toddler; it is incapable of managing itself.  After all, you can’t expect your money to grow and mature as it should without some form of credible money management. 9. He’s a big believer in paying yourself first. Paying yourself first is an essential tenet of personal finance and a great way to build your savings and instill financial discipline. 10. Although it’s possible to get rich if you spend your life making a living doing something you don’t enjoy, he wonders why you do.  Life is too short. 11.  He knows that failing to plan is the same as planning to fail.  He also knows that the few millionaires that reached that milestone without a plan got there only because of dumb luck.   It’s not enough to simply declare that you want to be financially free. 12. When it came time to set his savings goals, he wasn’t afraid to think big.  Financial success demands that you have a vision that is significantly larger than you can currently deliver upon. 13. Over time, he found out that hard work can often help make up for a lot of financial mistakes – and you will make financial mistakes. 14. He realizes that stuff happens, that’s why you’re a fool if you don’t insure yourself against risk. Remember that the potential for bankruptcy is always just around the corner and can be triggered from multiple sources: the death of the family’s key bread winner, divorce, or disability that leads to a loss of work. 15. He understands that time is an ally of the young.  He was fortunate enough to begin saving in his twenties so he could take maximum advantage of the power of compounding interest on his nest egg. 16. He knows that you can’t spend what you don’t see.  You should use automatic paycheck deductions to build up your retirement and other savings accounts.  As your salary increases you can painlessly increase the size of those deductions. 17. Even though he has a job that he loves, he doesn’t have to work anymore because everything he owns is paid for – and has been for years. 18. He’s not impressed that you drive an over-priced luxury car and live in a McMansion that’s two sizes too big for your family of four. 19. After six months of asking, he finally quit waiting for you to return his pruning shears.  He broke down and bought himself a new pair last month.  There’s no hard feelings though; he can afford it. So that’s it.  Now you know what your millionaire neighbor won’t tell you.   FREE AppDownload
How much housing you can buy with a million dollars very much depends on what city you are looking to buy in. According to Knight Frank data cited by CNBC's Robert Frank, a million dollars goes a lot further in Cape Town than it would in Monaco. But what about in the U.S.? We looked at housing list price data from real estate brokerage Movoto.com and real estate marketplace Zillow.com. The diagram below shows the number of square feet of housing that you can buy for $1,000,000, based on the median price per square foot in each city: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Movoto and Zillow With a median list price of $666 per square foot, San Francisco's real estate boom limits a million dollars to buying about 1,500 square feet. On the other end of the spectrum, the median list price in beleaguered Detroit is just $12 per square foot — 55 times cheaper than in San Francisco. Considering all five boroughs, the median price per square foot in New York City is $424. Looking just at Manhattan however, that price jumps to an astronomical $1,538 per square foot, leading to $1,000,000 buying just 650 square feet.   FREE AppDownload
Bradley PageMore than half of New York households are dishing out more on rent than they can afford, according to a report by the state comptroller. Since 2000, the share of renters in the state who put more than 30 percent of their income towards housing costs has increased sharply, from 40.5 percent to 50.6 percent, according to a report by Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, released earlier this week. According to Federal guidelines, housing is not considered to be affordable when costs exceed the 30% threshold. Based on that standard, a full third of of homeowners also can’t afford their mortgages – up from 26.4 percent in 2000, the New York Times reported. In New York City neighborhoods, the percentages are even higher. In the Bronx, about 57 percent of renters pay more than 30 percent of their income for rent and utilities, the report showed. Brooklyn and Queens also had some of the highest percentages of households above the affordability threshold. The lack of affordability can be attributed to rising housing costs coupled with declining household incomes, according to the report. Median housing costs increased 18.6 percent for renters since 2000, and 9.9 percent for homeowners. But median household income for homeowners declined 1.6 percent since 2000, and 7.1 percent for renters. The problem is exacerbated by low vacancy rates, which translate to higher rents, as well as rising property taxes, the Times reported.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway chairman Buffett gestures at the start of a 5km race sponsored by Brooks Sports Inc. in Omaha(Reuters) - Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc has urged shareholders to vote against a proposal that it consider spending some of its $48.2 billion of cash on a "meaningful" dividend. According to a Berkshire proxy filing on Friday, David Witt, a Cincinnati resident who owns nearly $8,600 of Berkshire stock, will propose the payout at the company's May 3 annual meeting. Berkshire has not paid a cash dividend since 1967. "Whereas the corporation has more money than it needs and since the owners unlike Warren are not multi-billionaires, the board shall consider paying a meaningful annual dividend on the shares," Witt's proposal said, referring as Buffett does to shareholders as owners. Buffett was not immediately available for comment. His $58.2 billion net worth makes him the world's fourth-richest person, Forbes magazine said this month. In opposing Witt's proposal, Berkshire's board said it already considers annually whether the Omaha, Nebraska-based company should retain all earnings. Buffett, 83, has long maintained that he can generate better returns through acquisitions such as the BNSF railroad and investments such as Wells Fargo &amp; Co. He told shareholders in 2011 that Berkshire's share price ought to fall if the company decided to pay a dividend. Buffett also wants to keep a $20 billion cash cushion. "Our shareholders are far wealthier today than they would be if the funds we used for acquisitions had instead been devoted to share repurchases or dividends," he said in his March 2013 annual letter. "Though large transactions of the BNSF kind will be rare, there are still some whales in the ocean." Berkshire also urged shareholders to vote against a proposal that it set goals for its energy businesses to reduce greenhouse gas and other emissions. Similar proposals failed in 2011 and 2013. Buffett controls one-third of Berkshire's voting power. Shareholder proposals that Berkshire opposes typically fail by overwhelming margins. Berkshire also disclosed that Buffett's compensation rose 15 percent last year to $485,606. That includes his usual $100,000 salary, plus $385,606 for personal and home security. The company also said it paid most directors an extra $300 last year. That meant Bill Gates, the Microsoft Corp co-founder and world's richest person, was awarded $2,100 last year for his work as a Berkshire director. Gates is worth $76 billion, Forbes said. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York,; additional reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of South Light PropertyWhen it comes to retirement saving, it doesn't matter how old you are, because all generations are in trouble. Whether a baby boomer, Gen Xer or millennial, many Americans find themselves in the same boat: not having a solid plan for retirement. Although different generations are facing different threats, a study conducted by financial-education company Financial Finesse found that most, if not all, Americans might not be able to eventually pack up and head to a retirement community. The study found that the biggest threat overall to baby boomers is retirement preparedness. For example, more than half of employees age 55 to 64 say they have not even run a retirement-plan estimate. The study was based on an analysis of 20,575 responses. Gen Xers are most likely to be in the worst financial shape when it comes to retirement planning. Aside from their being behind other generations in terms of managing dollars and developing solid retirement plans, there are other external factors that will contribute to their retirement difficulties. One big problem: It's currently estimated that by the time Gen Xers hit their expected retirement age, the Social Security lockbox will have run dry. On the whole, millennials are also a long way from putting together actual retirement plans. To that point, 71 percent of millennial participants in the study said they haven't run an estimate on what it would take for them to exit their careers. This poses a problem, as it's conceivable they will be the generation to receive the least assistance from both employers and government. Figuring out how much you'll need to retire is key; running a plan estimate gives you the best shot of calculating those dollar amounts. While you crunch the numbers, there are also some steps you can take—no matter your age—that could help beef up your portfolio and possibly get you across the retirement finish line in time. These include reducing housing costs, seeking out alternative investments and getting in on the exchange-traded funds gold rush. Pack up and moveOne big difference between Americans saving for retirement today and their parents' generation is debt. Investors boosting their 401(k) balances are simultaneously racking up more debt than previous generations. According to a study by financial-tool website HelloWallet, 60 percent of American households are building up debt faster than retirement savings.The majority of debt held by Main Street is comprised of mortgages. The study was based on a panel of more than 50,000 U.S. households. Although real estate is a long-term investment, its return typically keeps pace with inflation, according to Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller. New homeowners are finding that their total monthly payments are on the rise. Real estate foreclosure site RealtyTrac found that Americans who bought a three-bedroom house in the last three months of 2013 are now forking over 21 percent more per month in mortgage payments than homeowners did, on average, one year ago. Reducing housing costs is one way to dump some debt and free up cash for your nest egg. There are two practical ways to slash those expenses, said certified financial planner Tim Maurer: relocating and downsizing. Moving out of an expensive abode in a high-cost area—for example, a $1 million three-bedroom ranch in Alexandria, Va.—to a lower-cost region, such as Charlotte, N.C., allows you to maintain a similar standard of living, keeping that three-bedroom ranch or even upgrading, while significantly shedding costs. "The most powerful thing that a person can do to drastically improve their retirement standing in the shortest period of time is to move," said Maurer, director of personal finance at the BAM Alliance. In the above hypothetical move from Virginia to North Carolina, "the prospective retiree is able to add $500,000 dollars to his or her retirement nest egg, an amount capable of upgrading a seemingly hopeless retirement projection into a comfortable one," he added. But moving to a new state is not always practical. For homeowners in that camp, another option could be to "sell down" or move into a smaller, less-expensive dwelling. Maurer said that by making this type of move, "you still derive the benefit of adding the balance to your retirement proceeds and lessening the costs of home ownership going forward." Seek out alternative investmentsIt's undeniable that any investment comes with risk, and diversification is the most obvious way to protect yourself. Even big endowments—with tens of billions of dollars in assets—use alternative investments as a way to hedge. Investing in alternatives such as real estate investment trusts or master limited partnerships tends to provide steady and consistent dividends. There are not too many of these type of investment options available to the average retirement saver, but they do exist. According to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the typical 401(k) plan offers no more than 12 alternative investment options.  Trevor Shakiba, president of the private wealth Shakiba Group, does warn that savers shouldn't be too eager to invest heavily in alternatives, because markets, more often than not, are a winning bet. Markets have grown 26 out of the last 34 years, meaning "you have a 75 percent chance that it will go up [rather] than go down," he said. Since alternatives often trail healthy markets, Shakiba recommends allocating around 10 percent—and no more than 20 percent—of these types of investments to their portfolios. If you interested in adding some really exotic alternatives, such as art, antiques or wine, to your 401(k) mix, you're out of luck—the IRS prohibits plan sponsors from offering such investments. Get in on the ETF gold rushGlobally, ETFs and exchange-traded product (ETP) assets under management hit a record $2.3 trillion last year, and their popularity among investors continues to grow—mainly due to low fees and healthy returns. Unlike mutual funds, ETFs typically require minimal management, as they tend to follow indices like the S&amp;P 500. This means that, once up and running, the product essentially runs on autopilot; hence, the smaller fees. Despite ETFs' stellar performance, the Investment Company Institute found that only 3.4 million American households are invested in the asset class. That's probably due in part to the fact that most retirement-plan sponsors are not offering the products, and only a handful of custodial partners—such as TD Ameritrade—are offering ETF options. For those who are unable to jump into the ETF game, the best advice at this point is to petition employers to make such options available. "Plan participants should be asking their chief financial officers to provide them with more low-cost and more transparent options than mutual funds," said Hafeez Esmail, vice president of ETF advisory group Main Management. Esmail, who heads up the investment group's 401(k) business, said that—although it might not be the best option for retirement savers—individuals can take matters into their own hands if they truly want to invest in ETFs. "If you want to go out on your own, you can roll over your plan to an IRA and then take it to another investment firm, managing it yourself," he said. FREE AppDownload
WNYCThe latest revelations about the missing Malaysia Airlines 777 suggest that the jet was seized by someone who knew how to fly it and intentionally hide it from radar, and then flown toward (or to) an as-yet-unknown destination. The fact that the latest "ping" from the jet's satellite communication system was picked up 7 hours after the plane's transponder was switched off suggests that the plane could have flown about 2,000 miles from its last known position, a range that could have taken it into central Asia (or, via a southern route, toward islands in the southern Indian Ocean). It seems highly unlikely that someone would go to the trouble of seizing, hiding, and then flying the jet for 7 hours if the goal was merely to kill everyone on board and commit suicide by crashing it into the ocean. Once the person or people involved had control of the plane, if the intention was merely to destroy it, this would have been easy. Instead, the person or people who took control flew the plane in a specific direction for at least 7 hours. Whether they reached their intended destination or not remains unknown. But it seems increasingly conceivable that they might have — and that the plane might now be in the hands of people who have another mission for it in mind. What might the plane's destination have been? WNYC put together the map below of all the runways on which the 777 could have landed that are within the plane's estimated range at its last point of contact. If the plane was indeed seized with the intention of being flown to a destination, that destination could well be on this map. And it's also possible that the jet could have landed in a desert, or anywhere else with 5,000 feet of straight, flat ground that could be used as a runway. (If the goal was for the plane to take off again, it would need about 9,000 feet).    Jeff Wise at Slate argues persuasively that the plane might have been headed toward — and reached — a destination in central Asia. This seems much more logical than the southern route. But why steal a plane a fly it somewhere? And what of the passengers and crew? If the goal was to transport someone or something from Malaysia to somewhere, this seems a mighty complicated way to do it. If mere transportation was the goal, moreover, we might have already gotten some indication of what happened to the plane and crew. If the goal was to use the passengers as hostages to demand something, it also seems likely that the initial demands would have been heard by now. (A whole week has gone by, and the more time elapses between the first part of a plan and the second part, the more likely the plan would be to be foiled. Especially when the plan might involve holding 235+ people and using them as hostages.) Some have speculated that the next mission for the plane might be an attack of some sort. If the plane has indeed been flown somewhere undetected that was ready to receive it, this speculation seems reasonable. And the questions that would follow, of course, would be 1) an attack on what? 2) when?, 3) how? (with a bomb on board – or just the plane?), and 4) with or without the passengers? If you assume that this plan was drawn up and executed with extreme care, which it would have to have been for even the first part to have carried out successfully, it is reasonable to assume that the second part of the plan would have been equally well thought out. So, unfortunately, it does not seem inconceivable that, at some point in the near future, the world might be confronted with the choice of shooting down a 777 loaded with most of its passengers and crew... or allowing it to continue to fly on toward whatever destination it is headed for. Or the plane might have already crashed somewhere in the deep ocean, where it might never be found. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovWBC heavyweight Vitali Klitschko of Ukraine poses.Tensions are high on the Ukraine-Russia border. The forecast for the region include economic sanctions against Russia and an escalating Russian military intervention into Ukraine. Investors who don't care for this uncertainty would probably rather stay out of the region altogether. "[T]he worst case scenario that Russia becomes uninvestible (capital controls, such as in Malaysia in 1998, and even the expropriation of foreign owned assets in Russia) with Russia kicked out of MSCI GEMs cannot be entirely ruled out," warned UBS's Geoff Dennis. It's not just Russian and Ukrainian stocks that investors should be concerned about. There are also the foreign names with exposure in those regions. "The stocks most exposed to Ukraine or Russia include Carlsberg, Nokia Renkaat, BASF, OTP Bank, Raiffeisen," noted Citi's Robert Buckland in a recent note to clients. Here's a table of names Buckland identified. Citi FREE AppDownload
The father has been found in time for his child’s funeral. That would appear to be the sorry state of affairs in the land of Bitcoin, a cypto-currency, if recent press coverage is to be believed. On March 6th Newsweek reported that it had tracked down Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin’s elusive creator. And on March 11th Mt Gox, the Japanese online exchange that had long dominated the trade in the currency before losing $490m of customers’ Bitcoins at today’s prices, once more filed for bankruptcy protection, this time in America. In reality, things are rather different. Evidence is mounting that Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto, whom Newsweek identified as Bitcoin’s father, is not the relevant Satoshi. More importantly, Bitcoin’s best days may still be ahead of it--if not as a fully fledged currency (see next story), then as a platform for financial innovation. Much as the internet is a foundation for digital services, the technology behind Bitcoin could support a revolution in the way people own and pay for things. Geeks of all sorts are getting excited--including a growing number of venture capitalists, who know a new platform when they see one. To understand the enthusiasm in this modern currency, it helps to think about a very old one. Until the early 20th century the people on Yap, an island in the Pacific Ocean, used large stone disks (pictured) as money for big expenses, such as a daughter’s dowry. Being very heavy, they were rarely moved when spent. Instead, they simply changed owners. Every transaction became part of an oral history of ownership, which allowed islanders to know the proprietor of each stone and made it difficult to spend the same stone twice. Bitcoins also don’t move around when they are transferred. They are best understood as entries in a giant ledger, the "blockchain", which contains the transaction history for every Bitcoin in circulation. It is kept up to date with the help of cryptography and copious computing power, provided by a global network of tens of thousands of computers. Again, openness helps the system remain secure: the blockchain is public so every participant can check whether a transfer comes from the rightful owner. The EconomistThis set-up is the first workable solution to one of the more nagging problem of the digital realm: how to transfer something of value from one person to another without middlemen having to make sure that the item is not copied or, in the case of money, spent more than once? And Bitcoin does the trick while being open (unlike conventional payment mechanisms, which aim for security by shielding themselves from outsiders). This means that third parties can make use of Bitcoin’s features without having to ask anyone for permission--as is the case with the internet.   Such "permissionless innovation", in the jargon, should in time result in a cornucopia of applications. Bitcoin’s technology could be used to transfer ownership both in other currencies and of any kind of financial asset. This, in turn, would allow the creation of decentralised exchanges which let asset holders trade directly. And money could be "programmed" to come with conditions: for instance, it might be released only if a third person agrees. Some want ownership of devices--a car, say--to be represented by a Bitcoin, or a tiny fraction of it. The car would work only when turned on with a key that includes the Bitcoin token. This would make managing ownership of and access to physical assets much easier: the token could be sold or rented out temporarily, enabling flexible peer-to-peer car-rental schemes. Such "smart property" would turn the blockchain into a global registry of ownership in physical assets. All that may sound like science fiction, but a growing number of startups are working on bringing such applications to market. Coloured Coins and Mastercoin will soon release software that enables trade in other financial assets, including stocks and bonds. The most ambitious project is Ethereum: it will launch a new blockchain, similar but unrelated to Bitcoin, with a programming language to encode financial instruments and other contracts. Although banks have mostly steered clear of Bitcoin as a currency, they too have started exploring how they could use the technology in other ways. They are unlikely to move fast, but there are plenty of possibilities. Global banks could, for instance, use Bitcoin-like systems to move money between subsidiaries. They could even issue their own crypto-currencies. But turning Bitcoin into a platform comes with risks. Some geeks fret that the network will reach its maximum capacity of 300,000 transactions per day as new applications come online. Another worry is that as the blockchain, which has already trebled in size to 15 gigabytes over the past year (see chart), continues to grow, fewer of the network’s participants will store it. Yet if history is any guide, the blockchain will be fine. Two decades ago, when millions went online after the invention of the web browser, pundits predicted the internet’s collapse. Technical fixes repeatedly saved the day. And even if Bitcoin were to break down, another similar system would most likely take its place. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.     FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderAtlantic City's Water Club is nothing if not deserving of its name. Fountains abound, along with pools, spas, and saunas all within a heavy tropical atmosphere. It feels like a resort, with guests enjoying palm trees poolside without ever leaving the building. But there are parts of the Water Club — a high-end property attached to the behemoth Borgata Hotel &amp; Casino — that most visitors will never see. The hotel's high-roller suites, called residences, are tucked neatly away on their own private floor, far above the pools and restaurants enjoyed by guests. Up in the residences, there is a massive, private hot tub, 24-hour butler service, and a kitchen that serves meals delivered from any of the hotel's gourmet restaurants. The only thing residence guests must leave their rooms for is the casino floor, because that's why they're here at the Water Club in the first place. The residences cannot be rented for any price and are given free of charge to the casino's biggest spenders. That exclusivity is not a joke: The largest headliners to perform at the hotel will stay a couple floors below the Residences in beautiful, but far less well appointed rooms of their own.
Tensions between Russia and Ukraine have have capture the attention of the world, with global markets jittery after Russian troops entered the Crimea region of Ukraine. As the conflict intensifies, investors are wondering what further reverberations it might have. And, because Russia is a major energy exporter to Europe, an armed conflict may jolt the EU, according to Citi economists. "Should a trade embargo (or worse) occur, the volatility of oil and gas prices, and of energy prices in general, will increase markedly," they write. From the note: The global oil market continues to be more integrated than the global gas market, which remains regionally segmented because of the limited reach of pipelines and limited gas liquefaction, shipping and de-liquefaction capacity. Finding alternative sources of supply and alternative markets will be harder for gas than for oil, so gas price volatility ought therefore to be greater than oil price volatility. Because a trade embargo would likely reduce the effective supply for oil and gas more than the effective demand in the short run, this increased volatility should be around a significantly higher level of oil, gas and electricity prices. Sky News' Ed Conway tweeted this chart putting Russian gas exports in perspective. Other than Ukraine of course, Germany and Turkey may get hurt if the conflict continues. Check out the chart: Twitter.com/Ed Conway FREE AppDownload
MIAMISM via Flickr112,498 U.S. properties received foreclosure filings in February, according to RealtyTrac.  This was down 27% from a year ago and was the lowest monthly total since December 2006. In fact, one in every 1,170 U.S. homes received a foreclosure filing in February. But the headline number can be misleading. "Cold weather and a short month certainly contributed to a seasonal drop in foreclosure activity in February, but the reality is that new activity is no longer the biggest threat to the housing market when it comes to foreclosures," said Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac said in a press release. While certain housing markets are recovering, others are starting to see foreclosures pick up. We recently reported that U.S. foreclosure crisis appears to be shifting to the East coast. "The biggest threat from foreclosures going forward is properties that have been lingering in the foreclosure process for years, many of them vacant with neither the distressed homeowner or the foreclosing lender taking responsibility for maintenance and upkeep of the home — or at the very least facilitating a sale to a new homeowner more likely to perform needed upkeep and maintenance," Blomquist said. We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rates. Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate, i.e., one in every X homes received a foreclosure filing. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lee CelanoCrew members look over idle oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico near Port Fourchon, Louisiana August 11, 2010. Of this, there is no debate: The future of Mexico’s oil industry lies offshore, where billions of barrels of crude are locked under the sea floor in the Gulf of Mexico. The country’s deepwater frontier is promising, but successfully extracting offshore oil is expensive and technically difficult, and Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned oil monopoly known as Pemex, doesn’t have the financial resources to singlehandedly exploit the Gulf’s ample resources. So they’re going to bring in outside help. In a dramatic about-face, the Mexican government, which historically has been fiercely protective of its energy assets, has finally concluded that outside help is necessary. Reform legislation signed into law in December will, for the first time in 75years, make it possible—and attractive—for established foreign energy producers to help set those buried hydrocarbons free. The need is obvious in Pemex’s own results: On Feb. 27, the Mexico City-based company posted its fifth straight quarterly loss—76.5 billion pesos, or $5.8 billion, on production of 2.52 million barrels per day in 2013, down from 2.55 million barrels per day in 2012. Output at the Cantarell oil field, the world’s third-largest when it was discovered 38 years ago, has fallen from 2.1 million barrels per day in 2003 to 400,000 barrels last year. The company pays more than 90 percent of its operating profit back to the government, so its losses are hitting the Mexican economy where it counts. To boost production and exploit new deepwater opportunities, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) had little choice but to relax the decades-old laws that nationalized the energy sector, and to open Mexico’s oil fields to foreign investment for the first time in nearly four generations. Pemex currently functions in a vacuum, without a single significant revenue-sharing partnership that would provide access to the new technologies, knowledge and financial resources that could boost productivity. “Mexico has a lot of potential with regard to hydrocarbons,” Rolando Galindo, Pemex’s head of investor relations tells The Financialist. “But these more complex reservoirs have higher costs and technology requirements … and it was getting very complicated for Pemex to do all of this alone.” The reform legislation allows three new types of production contracts. Profit-sharing contracts will award foreign companies a portion of the profits generated by a given oil-and-gas concession; production-sharing contracts allow them to keep a share of the actual oil and gas production; and licenses require them to pay taxes and royalties to the government to explore and extract oil from a specific concession. The licensing and production-sharing contracts represent a sea change, allowing foreign and private investors to book the production from Mexican oil fields as assets for the first time. Until the recent reform, only Pemex could own Mexican crude, whether it was untapped reserves or those extracted at the wellhead. But by loosening the monopoly, the government hopes it can outsource the most technically difficult parts of the job to companies like BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil, and Shell. The potential payoff is enormous. Mexico’s proven reserves stand at around 10.3 billion barrels of oil and 17.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, but the most optimistic estimates of offshore reserves are double that. Pemex CEO Emilio Lozoya thinks that the Perdido Fold Belt in the northwestern part of the Gulf holds between 8 billion and 13 billion barrels of oil-equivalent alone. The state-owned oil company has already drilled 14 commercially viable deepwater wells, and last month it announced the discovery of high-quality light crude at a well in the Perdido Fold Belt. Pemex has also done some initial exploration work in Holok-Temoa, a deepwater natural gas field located in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. If the reforms proceed as expected, Pemex’s Lozoya estimates it could generate about $10 billion in new investment by 2025. For its part, Pemex forecasts oil production will grow 60 percent over the current level of approximately 2.5 million barrels per day by 2025, while natural gas production should double to 14.6 billion cubic feet a day. That, in turn, could boost annual GDP growth by 1 percent annually by 2018 and up to 1.6 percent annually by 2025. Mexico’s 2.1 million barrel-per-day domestic demand is expected to absorb some of the new production, but there are export plans as well. The U.S. buys about 78 percent of Mexico’s oil, but the boom in shale oil and gas production has already reduced U.S. imports and will likely continue doing so. So Pemex has already begun to market its light Olmeca crude abroad, with shipments scheduled to India and the Cressier refinery in Switzerland. Congress is expected to spell out the details of the new production contracts by the end of April. Meanwhile, Pemex has until the end of March to decide which fields it wants to develop on its own and which it will seek partnerships to tap, after which the Ministry of Energy has six months to approve the decision. Galindo said it will likely take until late 2015 or early 2016 to start working on those so-called Round Zero projects. The energy buzz in North America has been from further north of late, whether it’s the Canadian tar sands or United States’ shale fracking. But if things go as hoped, North America’s third-largest economy should soon be enjoying an oil boom all its own. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTemple of Bliss, a Buddhist temple in Harbin.During the National People's Congress, China's policymakers announced that it would target 7.5% GDP growth target for 2014. This is down from 7.7% growth in 2013, and the recent data shows that the economy is clearly off to a slower start to the year. Before we launch into the data, it's important to remember that part of the slowdown is intended by China's policymakers as they try to clamp down on lax lending standards and rebalance the economy toward domestic demand driven growth. But it isn't clear just how much control they are able to exercise over this slowdown. Here's a look at the recent slowdown in charts. First, we got the disappointing manufacturing PMI data. The official number fell to an eight-month low of 50.2 in February, while the unofficial HSBC number reflected contraction, falling to a seven-month low of 48.5. What was striking was the broad based-nature of the decline with most of the sub-indices of the PMI report falling last month. Societe GeneraleExports plunged by 18.1% in February. Many economists blamed the Lunar New Year holiday and the higher base created from over-invoicing last year for the stunning decline. Adjusted for this "fake" trade data, exports were nevertheless up a modest 5% in the Jan-Feb period. Looking at Feb alone, if we excluded exports to Hong Kong "so as to adjust for the over-invoicing problem last year, export growth would still have been a meager 2.4%," Societe Generale's Wei Yao said. Standard Chartered Consumer and producer price inflation cooled in February. Consumer prices declined to 2.0%, from 2.5% in January. Meanwhile, producer prices were -2% in February from -1.6% the previous month. Cooling CPI gives the central bank room to easy policy. But producer prices have been down for two years now, and this is raising concerns about deflation. Societe Generale New bank loans fell to 645 billion yuan in February missing expectations and falling from 1.32 trillion yuan the previous month. Total social financing also missed expectations, falling to 939 billion yuan from 2.58 trillion yuan the previous month. Some economists do expect this data to pick up going forward. But Societe Generale's Wei Yao notes that so far the credit slowdown was "mostly responding to higher interbank rates, as intended by the PBoC." Here on out Yao expects it to be from "regulatory tightening of the Document 107," which is intended to clamp down on shadow banking. BAMLIndustrial production growth slowed to 8.6% in the Jan-Feb period, from 9.7% in December, the lowest reading since April 2009. BAMLYear-to-date fixed asset investment (FAI) growth slowed to 17.9% in the Jan-Feb period, down from 19.6% in December. The real drag came from production capacity and manufacturing investment. BAMLRetail sales slowed to 11.8% growth in the Jan-Feb period, from 13.6% in December. This has largely been attributed to crackdown on corruption and some argue that many consumers now shop online and that isn't reflected in the data. Mamta Badkar/Business InsiderProperty sales slowed in the Jan-Feb period as well. New home sales in floor-space terms were up 1.2% in the Jan-Feb period, down from 7.2% in Q4 2013. And in value terms were down 5%, from 13.1% in Q4 2013. New home starts growth were down 29.6% on the year. Property sales are often considered a key gauge for China's commodity demand. UBS And of course copper prices fell to four-year lows on concerns of both a Chinese economic slowdown and about fears over China's copper-backed loans. Remember, a credit crunch sends money market rates higher. And at times like this, copper imports rise because companies use copper as collateral to obtain loans. Goldman Sachs (via Trach Research) Bank of America's proprietary leading economic activity pulse (LEAP) index slowed to 4.2% in February. This is down from 6% the previous month, and 10% in December. BAML cut its 2014 growth forecast to 7.2% from 7.6%. Bank of America Merrill Lynch This chart from Jeff Gundlach takes a longer view and shows the declining consensus GDP forecasts on China. Gundlach expects forecasts for 2014 to continue falling. DoubleLine Funds "With this set of weak readings in Jan-Feb, the room for data to be worse in March and coming months could be limited. Based on some high-frequency data like daily steel production, we have seen some improvement in activity from late February and we expect a turnaround in March data," writes Bank of America's Ting Lu. But he's part of the group of economists that have started downgrading their GDP forecasts. Societe Generale's Wei Yao isn't quite as optimistic and writes that this is just "the start of China's weak data season." FREE AppDownload
A new wave of coffee drinking has swept across the country. Coffee houses like Stumptown Coffee in Portland, Oregon and Intelligentsia in Chicago and Los Angeles, turned what used to be a simple cup of Joe into something between an exact science and an art form. We stopped by Maialino, a restaurant in Manhattan, where head barista Natalie Czech, showed us what it takes to make a perfect cup of french press coffee, and why being coffee obsessed is worth the trouble. Produced by Robert Libetti. Originally published in May 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
