REUTERS/Lori Shepler With Bill Gross' abrupt departure, PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund has been taken over by Scott Mather, Mark Kiesel and Mihir Worah. Maher, Kiesel, and Worah have just published a Q&amp;A about their investment approach, and what opportunities they see now. Here's the relevant part Mather: Our belief in the New Neutral continues to anchor our views. We believe the Fed has been looking, and will continue to look, to reflate the U.S. economy. Therefore it is likely to be slow to raise policy rates and any increases will be gradual. Meanwhile, central banks elsewhere, particularly in Europe, Japan, and many emerging market countries, are likely to move in the direction of even further monetary accommodation. There are a few implications: liquidity in the global markets is likely to remain ample for some time to come. And although the global economic recovery remains uneven and substandard, it continues at a robust enough pace to provide a supportive background for many spread sectors and pushes out the timeframe for a turn in the risk cycle. Finally, since not all central banks are moving in the same direction there are likely to be many more cross-market opportunities. Kiesel: I agree with Scott. Certainly there are many opportunities in the credit markets. Credit spreads may be relatively tight, but with liquidity likely to remain plentiful and corporate profits still very healthy in many sectors, we don’t see room for spreads to widen significantly. It is important to be selective, but we think there are some great investment opportunities in companies with strong growth profiles and pricing power and in industries with high barriers to entry and improving credit fundamentals. For instance, European banks, US energy, and Asia gaming come to mind. Worah: Central banks are also creating opportunities in the currency and rates markets. Divergent monetary policy is likely to mean continued strength in the dollar, particularly against the euro and yen, and the portfolio is positioned to take advantage of that. Also, though there is currently little inflation, the Fed’s reflationary mindset makes inflation protection via Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) a sensible hedge, since they are quite attractively priced compared to nominal bonds. FREE AppDownload
Hong Kong markets just opened after the startlingly big #OccupyCentral protests over the weekend. Not surprisingly, markets are diving.  The benchmark Hang Seng index is down about 1.2%. Besides the issues of unrest and stability, the Hang Seng has been a particularly bad performer in recent weeks, in part due to the slowdown in China.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture illustration shows U.S. 100 dollar bank notes taken in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar hit a four-year peak against a basket of currencies in early Asian trade on Monday, bolstering Japanese shares, but other Asian shares shrugged off Friday's Wall Street rebound in the face of political unrest in Hong Kong. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; dropped 0.4 percent, hitting a 20-week low. Japan's Nikkei average &lt;.N225&gt; rose 0.7 percent after U.S. shares bounced on Friday from sell-off the day before, with the yen's weakness flattering the export sector. The region's other big share markets were less robust. Australian shares were hit by falls in iron ore prices, while South Korean counters were stung by the falling yen, which favors their Japanese competitors. Australian shares dropped 0.6 percent &lt;.AXJO&gt; while Seoul shares dropped 0.2 percent &lt;.KS11&gt;. The U.S. Commerce Department on Friday raised its estimate of gross domestic product growth to an annualized 4.6 percent, the fastest pace in 2-1/2 years, and accelerating from the 4.2 percent reported last month. The data reinforced the perception that the United States is the brightest spot in the global economy, with the Federal Reserve on course to raise interest rates while other major central banks need to enact more stimulus to support growth. The dollar index rose as high as 85.737 &lt;.DXY&gt;, its highest since July 2010, in early trade after having posted an 11th straight week of gains last week, extending the longest winning streak since its 1971 uncoupling from gold. "Given that the Federal Reserve is on track to normalize its policy, you can can't bid up stocks and bonds too much. In a way, investors had nothing to do but to buy the dollar," said Tohru Yamamoto, chief strategist at Daiwa Securities. The euro dropped to a 22-month low of $1.2667 &lt;eur=&gt; and last stood at $1.2678, 0.1 percent below late U.S. levels on Friday. The dollar rose to 109.52 yen &lt;jpy=&gt;, just shy of Friday's six-year high of 102.54. The Australian dollar dropped 0.4 percent in early trade to $0.8727 &lt;aud=d4&gt;, its lowest level in almost eight months, coming within sight of its January low of $0.8660. Elsewhere, copper futures price fell to three-month lows of $6,666.0 per ton, extending their losses on worries over an expected supply surge and weak demand from top consumer China.   (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons It's already begun. Investors are yanking cash out of PIMCO after the shock departure of Chief Investment Officer Bill Gross, who left on Friday to go to Janus. Gregory Zuckerman at WSJ reports: Pacific Investment Management Co. suffered roughly $10 billion of withdrawals following the Friday departure of co-founder Bill Gross, a person familiar with the matter said, a sign of how quickly Mr. Gross's surprise move is reshaping the bond-investing landscape. PIMCO has about $2 trillion in assets under management, so $10 billion for them is couch change. But you can be sure that outflows — which have already been a problem for the firm — will quicken in the coming days and weeks. For some good analysis of the thinking investment managers are going through, as they consider pulling cash out of PIMCO, read Josh Brown's analysis here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Barria  Want to see how authorities in China view the #OccupyCentral protests in Hong Kong? Look no further than this column in The Global Times (a daily newspaper associated with People's Daily). The column argues that protesters are breaking the law and sullying the good image of Hong Kong, as a destination for finance and fashion. Radical activists in Hong Kong announced early Sunday the launch of the Occupy Central movement, raising the curtain on an illicit campaign earlier than expected. Photos of Hong Kong police being forced to disperse demonstrators with teargas have been widely circulated online across the world. These activists are jeopardizing the global image of Hong Kong, and presenting the world with the turbulent face of the city.  Hong Kong is a financial and fashion hub of the world. As Chinese mainlanders, we feel sorrow over the chaos in Hong Kong on Sunday. Radical opposition forces in Hong Kong should be blamed. US media is linking the Occupy Central movement with the Tiananmen Incident in 1989. By hyping such a groundless comparison, they attempt to mislead and stir up Hong Kong society. China is no longer the same nation it was 25 years ago. We have accumulated experience and drawn lessons from others, which help strengthen our judgment when faced with social disorder.    China Daily's report on the protests goes with this headline: Illegal assembly in Hong Kong leads to clashes. The overall gist: These protests are illegal, have no hope of succeeding, and are only damaging Hong Kong. FREE AppDownload
Stringer/ReutersProtesters flee from teargas fired by riot police, during clashes after thousands of protesters blocked the main street to the financial Central district outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong September 28, 2014.Hong Kong police used tear gas on pro-democracy protesters on Sunday, turning up the heat on an already boiling confrontation between Hong Kong citizenry seeking a greater say in their region's affairs and the Beijing-backed leadership of the island. But what is their face-off really about? Hong Kong is a "special administrative region" within China, having been returned to mainland sovereignty in 1997 by Britain. But having been a British colony since 1842, Hong Kong developed a decidedly more Western form of government and bureaucracy than the rest of China. Its citizens enjoy a greater degree of civil liberties than those on the mainland, due to the "one country, two systems" agreement between China and Britain. Per the terms of the handover, Hong Kong has not had China's socioeconomic model imposed upon it. Instead, it has been granted a "high degree of autonomy as a special administrative region in all areas except defense and foreign affairs," which will last until 2047. The issue is the implementation of a 2007 decree by the National People's Congress of China that promised "universal suffrage." Hong Kong's head of government, the chief executive, is currently elected by a mostly pro-Beijing, 1,200-member election committee. But the 2007 decision declares that the chief executive "may be implemented by the method of universal suffrage" in 2017. In Hong Kong, that was taken to mean that every citizen would be allowed to vote for their chosen candidate for the position in a traditional democratic process. Mainland China does not view the decision the same way, however. In June, it released a "white paper" declaring that Beijing is the grantor of Hong Kong's independence, and it would interpret Hong Kong's Basic Law, the region's constitutional document, as it saw fit. And in August, Beijing announced that "universal suffrage" would be granted in so far as all Hong Kong citizens would be allowed to vote — but only from a list of three candidates selected by an electoral committee. Allowing direct, open voting would create a "chaotic society," Beijing said. The protesters say that the vetting by the pro-Beijing committee would render the vote a "fake democracy," and one not in keeping with "universal suffrage." They began protesting this week, occupying an area next to the government compound in largely peaceful protest, although intermittent scuffles with police have resulted in a few dozen injuries and a few score arrests. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Pro-democracy students scuffle with riot police after hundreds of protesters stormed into a restricted area at the government headquarters, after a rally ahead of the October 1 "Occupy Central" civil disobedience movement in Hong Kong September 27, 2014. It depends in large part on how heavily Beijing and the regional authorities decide to crack down. The police's use of tear gas earlier today briefly broke up the demonstrations, but protesters returned in the tens of thousands in the evening. Michael Davis, a law professor at the University of Hong Kong, told Bloomberg that "Heavy-handed approaches to the students will surely backfire ... Hong Kong people have proven time and time again that if the government handles public concerns badly, the public will mobilize against them.” But The New York Times notes that if authorities "move too gently, and they may give the demonstrators hope." “At this stage, it looks like they will have to show their fist,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, a longtime commentator on Chinese politics who teaches at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said while visiting the sit-in. “If the police mishandle this, then government leaders will also appear ineffective.” The great fear is that the People's Liberation Army gets involved, which would invoke memories of the massacre in Tiananmen Square in 1989, which left hundreds of pro-democracy students dead. Willy Lam told the Los Angeles Times that there have been “credible reports” that the PLA's Hong Kong garrison had been put on alert. “If the Hong Kong police cannot disperse the crowd," he said, "there is the possibility of the PLA getting into the action." FREE AppDownload
The September employment report will be released next Friday, October 3rd, and the consensus is that 200 thousand payroll jobs were added in September and the unemployment rate was unchanged at 6.1%.Here are two forecasts:From Merrill Lynch:  The September employment report is likely to reveal solid job growth of 235,000 with possible upward revisions to prior months. Job growth was disappointing in August, only increasing 142,000, notably below the recent trend. There has been a pattern of upward revisions to the jobs report in August, averaging about 30,000. Our forecast for September combined with likely positive revisions should keep the 3-month moving average for payrolls above 200,000. Among the components, we think government jobs will be up 10,000 while private payrolls expand 225,000. We forecast a strong gain in manufacturing jobs, reflecting healthy improvement in the survey data. Job growth in the retail sector should also be solid after a decline in August. The continued modest improvement in housing construction should continue to support hiring in the sector. We forecast the unemployment rate to hold steady at 6.1% in September. The labor force participation rate fell in August while household jobs were particularly soft. We do not expect the same for September, although there is a great deal of uncertainty in the monthly forecasts of labor force participation. Average hourly earnings are likely to continue to increase at a trend 0.2% mom rate, which will push the yoy rate up to 2.2%. While this is a pickup from the annual pace in August, it is within the recent range for growth in average hourly earnings. emphasis added From Nomura:  Payroll growth surprised to the downside in August. However, incoming labor market indicators released since the last jobs report have been generally more favorable for payroll growth. Initial jobless and continuing claims are still near pre-recession levels. In addition, regional manufacturing surveys released thus far in September suggest that manufacturing employment continued to increase. Based on these labor market readings in September, we forecast a 200k increase in private payrolls, with a 10k increase in government jobs, implying that total nonfarm payrolls will gain 210k. Furthermore, given the solid momentum implied by regional manufacturing surveys, we expect manufacturing employment to grow by 15k. We forecast that average hourly earnings for private employees rose by 0.25% again in September, supporting our forecast of a gradual pick-up in wage inflation. Lastly, based on the improvement in continuing jobless claims, we expect the household survey to show that the unemployment rate fell 0.1pp to 6.0%. CR Note: In August, a strike at Market Basket in New England negatively impacted the employment report. From BLS Commissioner Erica Groshen:  Within retail, employment declined in food and beverage stores (-17,000); this industry was impacted by employment disruptions at a grocery store chain in New England. The disruption ended quickly, and food and beverage employment should bounce back in September. FREE AppDownload
A new week has begun, and the dollar is rallying again. The movements aren't huge, but the dollar is up against the Euro, the Canadian dollar, and the Japanese Yen. Here's a short-term chart, via FinViz, of the dollar pushing higher against the yen. FinViz Again, not too huge, but the dollar strength is one of the biggest stories in the market right now, as it's been on an absolute tear for weeks. The general explanation for the dollar strength is the rise in short-term interest rates in the US (reflecting an improving economy, and belief that it won't be too long now until the Fed can raise rates) FREE AppDownload
There is an old saying that when the tide goes out, you get to see who is swimming naked. It’s the underlying premise behind the latest missive from US fund manager John Hussman titled “The Ingredients of a Market Crash.” Hussman says the emerging divergence that he is seeing in markets — the lack of “trend uniformity” — is a signal that all is not well. Historically, when trend uniformity has been positive, stocks have generally ignored overvaluation, no matter how extreme. When the market loses that uniformity, valuations often matter suddenly and with a vengeance. This is a lesson best learned before a crash rather than after one. Valuations, trend uniformity, and yield pressures are now uniformly unfavorable, and the market faces extreme risk in this environment. He says that last week’s sawtooth pattern in the daily moves of US markets signals to him that investors are now unwilling to support the market. There is no underestimating just how bearish Hussman is at the moment when he says: The most hostile subset of market conditions we identify couples overvalued, overbought, overbullish extremes with a breakdown in market action: deterioration of breadth, leadership, and other market internals, along with a shift toward greater dispersion and weakening price cointegration across individual stocks, sectors and security types (what we sometimes call 'trend uniformity'). The outcomes are particularly negative, on average, when that shift is joined by a widening of credit spreads. That’s a shift we observed in October 2000. It’s a shift we observed in July 2007. It’s a shift that we observe today. We have all been warned. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSUK Prime Minister David Cameron saw another one of his party members defect to the populist, anti-EU UKIP. It was another weekend of creeping signs that Europe is coming unglued. First in the UK, the ruling Conservative party saw a second Member of Parliament defect to UKIP, an anti-EU populist party whose popularity seems to be surging. The defection, by MP Mark Reckless, comes about a month after another MP, Doug Carswell, left to UKIP. The UK is having its next national Parliamentary election next Spring, and the pressure is on the conservatives to fend off the UKIP surge. Meanwhile in France, history has been made in a way that's ominous for the ruling elites: For the first time, a member of the ultra-right National Front has been elected to the Senate. The National Front now has two seats, as the popularity of its leader Marine Le Pen (daughter of the infamous Jean-Marie Le Pen) continues to surge. France's next election won't take place until 2017, but as of now, the popularity of President Francois Hollande is in the toilet — he has just a 13% approval rating. Meanwhile in Spain, the head of the Catalan region Artur Mas has signed a decree to hold an independence vote for the region on November 9 despite the objections of the central government in Madrid, which says that such a vote would be illegal. Some kind of clash is coming. FREE AppDownload
JP Yim/Getty ImagesEven the wealthy and famous have to abide by these money rules. Singer Rihanna earns tens of millions of dollars, but found herself "effectively bankrupt" in 2009. She sued her financial adviser for not doing his job. He offered a legendary response: "Was it really necessary to tell her that if you spend money on things you will end up with the things and not the money?" The first iron rule of money is that wealth is the stuff you don't see. It's the cars not purchased, the clothes not bought, the jewelry forgone. Money buys things, but wealth -- assets such as cash, stocks, bonds, in the bank, unspent -- buys freedom and security. Pick which one you want wisely. According to World Bank economist Branko Milanovic, "the poorest [5%] of Americans are better off than more than two-thirds of the world population." Furthermore, "only about 3% of the Indian population have incomes higher than the bottom (the very poorest) U.S. percentile." And those figures are adjusted for differences in cost of living. The easiest way to judge how well you're doing is to compare yourself to people around you. The curse of living in the United States is that most people are doing well, so your own success looks ordinary. If you want to feel rich, look at the 90% of the world that isn't American or European. You'll realize that feeling rich is just a mental game. Successful investing is pretty boring. Its main requirement is patience and inaction. Most people demand more excitement, so they tweak, fiddle, and adjust their investments as much as necessary to destroy as much of their wealth as possible. If you want to do better than average at anything, you must do something that most people can't. In investing, that means putting up with perpetual boredom. It's a serious skill. Getting rich has little to do with your income and everything to do with your savings rate. And your savings rate is just the difference between your ego and your income. Keep the former in check and you should be fine over time. Most people are bad with money, so being good means doing things differently than they do. You won't spend as much. You'll invest differently. You'll grow wealth slower. This can make you look like a fool in the short run. But who cares what others think? They're probably idiots. As Charlie Munger put it, "Someone will always be getting richer faster than you. This is not a tragedy." Not only is it not a tragedy, but it's a necessity. The ability to not care what other people think about what you're doing is mandatory in achieving abnormal results. You can learn more about money from the person who went bankrupt with a subprime mortgage than you can from Warren Buffett. That's because it's easier and more common to be stupid than it is to be brilliant, so you should spend more effort trying to avoid bad decisions than making good ones. Economist Eric Falkenstein summed this up well: "In expert tennis, 80% of the points are won, while in amateur tennis, 80% are lost. The same is true for wrestling, chess, and investing: Beginners should focus on avoiding mistakes, experts on making great moves." As James Grant put it, "To suppose that the value of a stock is determined purely by a corporation's earnings is to forget that people have burned witches, gone to war on a whim, risen to the defense of Joseph Stalin, and believed Orson Welles when he told them over the radio that the Martians had landed." You might be laid off next week. You can be sued tomorrow. Or win the lottery. Maybe you'll get cancer. Or a huge promotion. Stocks can rally for twice as long as you think and crash twice as fast as you assumed. History is one damned thing after another, most of it involves money, and there's nothing you can do about it.    This article originally appeared at The Motley Fool.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Motley Fool on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
As the new school semester starts, many young people will find themselves mourning the days of college — endlessly combing their social media networks, with envy, for photos of their undergrad-friends at the campus bar or statuses about tailgating before a big football game. There's good news! Life goes on. It's time to embark on the next adventure: starting a career. For those wishing to branch out in a new city, deciding where to settle is tough. To help them make a decision, Livability curated a list of the towns with the most potential for new college grads. To determine the best cities, Livability analyzed factors such as "the number of 25- to 34-year-olds living in each city, the availability of rental properties, unemployment rates, educational attainment levels, use of public transportation, and the types of jobs these places offer." Bonus points were awarded to cities that provide tons of recreational opportunities, nightlife, and a cool vibe. Flickr/dahlstromsIn 2013, Business Insider named Google, based in Mountain View, California, the best-paying company in the U.S. Even if you're not a Googler, the techie dream town of Mountain View contains endless amenities for its amenities, including shoreline pathways, a network of bike trails, and coworking spaces and coffee shops offering Bitcoin ATMS and free WiFi, according to Livability Wikimedia Commons/John D. BuellNaperville's Riverwalk Quarry provides a clear view of Moser Tower, one of four bell towers worldwide that spans six octaves. Located 30 miles west of Chicago, Naperville combines small-town charm and big-city amenities, according to Livability. It's a hotbed of jobs in the technology, energy, and distribution sector — with a low unemployment rate of 5.5% among 25- to 34-year-olds. Flickr/ethankanBuilt in 1925, Fargo Theater is the only remaining vintage movie palace with a vaudeville stage in the area. While you may know it as the wintry town that gave the dark comedy thriller "Fargo" its title, the real-life city is considered one of the safest places to live in the U.S., according to Livability. Nearly 80% of jobs in Fargo are considered non-service and come with high salaries, spanning health care, technology, manufacturing, and financial services.  VasenkaPhotography/FlickrAnn Arbor's Fleetwood Diner heals hangovers with its Hippie Hash, which are hash browns topped with grilled tomato, green pepper, onion, mushroom, and broccoli. So much more than just a college town — and one of the best, at that — Ann Arbor boasts above-averages wages to college-educated workers and a solid track record of successful entrepreneurs, according to Livability. Residents can find ample opportunities in automotive research, software development, and research in life sciences. ShutterstockMore than 50,000 people pass through Hoboken Terminal every day, many of whom commute back and forth to Manhattan for work. Before cracking a Jersey joke, bear with us. There are nearly 122,000 job openings in and around the city, Livability reports, and the unemployment rate for 25- to 34-year-olds is 1.6% — a pretty solid indication that qualified applicants can land a job here.  Facebook/Wild-Rumpus-Books-for-Young-ReadersMinneapolis' Wild Rumpus bookstore has a BYOB graphic novel book club for beer-and-comics-enthusiasts ages 21 and over. According to Livability, the average citizen spends less than 30% of their annual income on housing. This frees up funds for entertainment (Minneapolis has one of the best music scenes outside Nashville, NYC, and LA), eating out at one of the city's four James Beard Award-nominated restaurants, and, of course, retirement. Flickr/donwest48From a low-fat latté to high-end fashion, an exciting collection of shops, restaurants, cafés, and more can be found on Bethesda Row. Considered a Washington, D.C. suburb, Bethesda is home to some of the leading research facilities in the country, including the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Advanced Orthopaedics, Lcokheed Martin, and IBM. Plus, 98.7% of its residents are employed, according to Livability. Flickr/daverugby83Sixth Street, with its bars, music venues, and restaurants, is considered one of the staples of Austin's nightlife. While rapid population growth has sucked some of the weirdness out of Austin, the overgrown college town holds on to creative culture through small businesses, South by Southwest, and a ripe culinary scene. According to Livability, major industries include computer technology, research and development, engineering, and the arts. Flickr/kdavidclarkBellevue Downtown Park is a 21-acre oasis of green in the heart of Bellevue. Home to Lake Washington and Mount Rainier, Bellevue also plays host to a slew of earthy-crunchy companies, including REI, Eddie Bauer, and Outdoor Research. Outdoor enthusiasts can find employment opportunities in industries spanning software, internet, environmental management, and engineering, according to Livability. Flickr/floweregoThe annual membership fee of The Coop, a cooperative bookstore started by students in 1882, is only $1 — just as it was the year it opened. With more than 600 companies and two internationally renowned universities based here, Cambridge is well stocked in jobs, most of which are high-paying compared to the average American salary. The Boston suburb's compact layout, vibrant arts scene, and ample food trucks draws tens of thousands of 25- to 34-year-olds to the area, Livability reports. The top employers are Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Sanofi-Genzyme BioVentures, and Biogen Idec, which Business Insider named the second best employer in America in 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMarc AndreessenNetscape founder and Andreessen Horowitz partner Marc Andreessen has joined the chorus of people warning that startups are taking on too much risk and burning too much cash. The so-called startup burn rate conversation was sparked by Benchmark's Bill Gurley, who recently told The Wall Street Journal that "Silicon Valley as a whole ... is taking on an excessive amount of risk right now." He believes startups are burning a dangerous amount of cash — an amount that resembles 1999 just before the dotcom bubble burst. Here was Andreessen's own warning on Twitter: "When the market turns, and it will turn, we will find out who has been swimming without trunks on. Many high burn rate companies will VAPORIZE."  Over the past few years, it's been relatively easy for startups to raise money from venture capitalists. In some cases, they're raising hundreds of millions of dollars to keep their companies afloat. But behind the scenes, they're plowing through that money either on marketing, overhead, or some other expense, which results in high burn rates. These bloated companies are using their millions to hide serious flaws in their business models. Union Square Ventures' Fred Wilson agreed with Gurley, stating: "We have multiple portfolio companies burning multiple millions of dollars a month. Thankfully its not our entire portfolio. But it is more than I’d like and more than I’m personally comfortable with." Wilson's firm has invested in companies such as MongoDB, Twitter, Foursquare, Zynga and Tumblr. Gurley's has invested in Snapchat, Uber, OpenTable and Yelp. Now Andreessen, who's an investor in Pinterest, Foursquare and Fab, also says the tech world should be worried. High burn rates are dangerous for a few reasons. Andreessen explains:  Andreessen's final message to the tech industry: "Worry." Here's the complete 18-Tweet tweetstorm, below. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Pew Research CenterAmerica's young adults aren't rushing to tie the knot, and findings from a new Pew Research Center report suggest that couples are not getting married because 78% of single women want a partner with a "steady job." Unfortunately, with considerable changes in the labor market, the number of available employed men is a rapidly shrinking demographic. Wendy Wang and Kim Parker from the Pew Research Center write: As the share of never-married adults has climbed, the economic circumstances faced by both men and women have changed considerably.  Labor force participation among men, particularly young men, has fallen significantly over the past several decades. In 1960, 93% of men ages 25 to 34 were in the labor force and by 2012 that share had fallen to 82%. And among young men who are employed, wages have fallen over the past few decades. For men ages 25 to 34, median hourly wages have declined 20% since 1980 (after adjusting for inflation).  Over the same period, the wage gap between men and women has narrowed. In 2012, among workers ages 25 to 34, women’s hourly earnings were 93% those of men. In 1980, the ratio was less than 70%. According to the report based on census data, when millennials reach their mid-40s to mid-50s, approximately 25% of them (a record high share) will most likely still be single. FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/Getty ImagesPeople in Beijing celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year in January, 2014.Recently I’ve experienced what it’s like to sit on the sidelines instead of being in the race. As an avid runner, I’ve rarely missed a day of hitting the pavement. So you can imagine my despair when an injury recently laid me up for eight weeks. In anticipation of my next marathon in a far off place, Africa to be specific, I thought of investors sitting out their own race in emerging market (EM) stocks. While it’s true that the asset class has taken a bit of a beating in the past few years — largely due to the “taper tantrum” and growing concerns about the state of China’s economic health (more on this in an upcoming Blog post) — the race is on. Year to date, broad EMs are outperforming their developed market counterparts in the U.S. and beyond. And though EM inflows have slowed down a bit from early summer highs amid concerns about rising U.S. rates, many investors continue to embrace EMs. Emerging markets can be an important source of growth potential and diversification for many investors’ portfolios, and I fear many people are significantly under-allocated. They are sitting out the race. As I discussed last time, there are a number of reasons my colleagues and I are convinced we’re at an attractive re-entry point for EMs even after the recent rally. I’ll highlight three of them here: While my colleagues and I generally advocate a selective approach to EM given diverging fundamentals and policy outlooks among countries, and we particularly like EM Asia, we know that many investors want to take a broader approach. So how can you nimbly capture the broader emerging markets opportunity? We suggest looking to exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which provide a quick and easy way to gain all types of market exposures. ETFs are simple to trade, relatively low cost and tax efficient. However, it’s important to know that not all ETFs are the same. Factors such as exposure, which is determined by the underlying index, and the portfolio management (yes, index funds have portfolio managers, too) can have a meaningful impact on returns. For example, unlike broad EM ETFs that cover only large- and mid-cap stocks, the iShares Core MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (IEMG) covers large-, mid- and small-cap companies — around 99% of the investable EM market (as defined by MSCI) across 21 countries. The addition of small-caps can make a difference: over the past five years, that segment has outperformed mid- and large-cap stocks. Importantly, the MSCI EM Investable Market Index includes a large weighting to Korea, a country not represented in all EM indexes. IEMG has also never paid capital gains, making it more tax-efficient than comparable mutual funds. At the same time, the fund is backed by the expert risk management and analytics of BlackRock. All in all, we believe the fund is a smart way to get back into the race. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter PARIS (Reuters) - Europe's growth locomotive is on strike. With the euro zone economy stuck in a rut despite European Central Bank efforts to pump money into the system, pressure is mounting for Germany to use its healthy budget position to boost public investment, stimulate demand and spur growth. The answer from Chancellor Angela Merkel so far is an adamant "nein", spelled out firmly to visiting French Prime Minister Manuel Valls last week. If her refusal is final, rather than a tactic to extract more reforms from European partners, it could dash the prospects of a three-way grand bargain sketched by ECB President Mario Draghi to revive the European economy. That could tip the euro zone back into another recession, worsen unemployment and fuel political radicalism. The International Monetary Fund, the ECB, the European Commission, the United States and euro zone partners are all pleading with Berlin to use what economists call its "fiscal space" to stimulate the economy through tax cuts and investment in aging road, rail, energy and telecommunications networks. German officials acknowledge privately that the country has an investment gap, both public and private. It spends less than half as much of its economic output - just 1.6 percent - on public investment as France or Sweden, less even than Greece. Yet the government is determined to stick to its balanced budget strategy, moving faster into surplus than planned, even though its own economy shows signs of slipping into the stagnation already gripping France and Italy. There are political, cultural and economic reasons for the refusal to loosen the purse-strings when most economists think Germany could afford to do so. Berlin makes three main arguments: 1) Germany is determined to set an example by meeting its fiscal targets and running the first balanced federal budget since 1969 with no borrowing. The credibility of the euro zone depends on governments sticking to their commitments. 2) Germany has less fiscal space than outsiders understand because it has an aging, shrinking population and needs to run surpluses to meet future pension and healthcare liabilities. 3) The euro zone's economic problem is largely one of supply rather than demand. Structural reforms of labor markets, legal systems, pensions and welfare to improve competitiveness are the only way to achieve a sustainable recovery. More public spending financed by debt would ease the pressure to make those changes. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble spelled out a stonewall response in presenting the 2015 budget to parliament on Sept. 9: "We must not allow ourselves to entertain the illusion that we can solve our problems using more and more public funds and ever higher deficits." Behind such public arguments, Merkel has a strong political motive for sticking to her course. Alexander Hassenstein/Getty ImagesThe balanced budget is written into her conservatives' coalition pact with the Social Democrats (SPD). Any departure from it could fuel support for the right-wing anti-euro Alliance for Germany, which made big gains in state elections this month. As so often since the start of the euro zone crisis in 2010, domestic politics is tugging Merkel in one direction and European responsibility in another. Her usual tactic is to hang tough until others have made as many concessions as possible, then give as little ground as necessary at the last minute when Europe is on the brink. It's easy to imagine a trade-off now between more French and Italian reform, a German fiscal stimulus, more European public investment with new EU financial instruments leveraging joint borrowing with private sector money, and an expansion of the ECB's easy money policies. Olli Rehn, who was vice-president for economic and monetary affairs in the European Commission until July, calls for just such a pact to avert deflation in an article to be published in the policy journal Europe's World in October. (www.europesworld.org) "If Germany can lift domestic demand and investment while France and Italy are embracing reforms to their labor markets, business environments and pension systems in support of their economic and industrial competitiveness, they will together do a great service to the entire euro zone," said Rehn, now a member of the European Parliament. A German stimulus could also help bring down the euro's real exchange rate and make southern euro zone countries' exports more competitive, he argued. "The key actors - Italy and France, the ECB and Germany – need to work out the details of such a pact this autumn and then agree on it at the European Council in December." German leaders are not monolithic in rejecting the notion. Deputy Labor Minister Joerg Asmussen, a Social Democrat, signed a joint article with ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure this month urging Berlin to use its "budgetary room for maneuver" to support investment and cut taxes on workers' pay. French politicians believe Vice-Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel, economy minister and SPD leader, is broadly sympathetic to their cause, despite his commitment to the balanced budget. "This debate exists within the German government because Gabriel is a supporter of this new European investment policy," said Philip Cordery, national secretary for European affairs in the ruling French Socialist Party. However Paris and Berlin seem to be talking past each other. REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel (R) and French President Francois Hollande attend a meeting with G20 leaders and G20 business leaders in St.Petersburg September 6, 2013.  German officials fear President Francois Hollande is too weak politically to push through far-reaching reforms to France's protective labor laws and generous social benefits, or to take a serious axe to bloated public spending. A strike by Air France pilots that forced the airline to scrap plans for a low-cost European subsidiary highlights resistance to change. They are only slightly more optimistic about Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's drive to loosen labor law, shake up the judicial system and streamline politics and state administration despite entrenched resistance from unions and politicians. If Germany won't fire up its investment engine and France won't risk major reforms, it will be left to the ECB to carry the whole burden of refloating the economy. Even if Draghi were able to overcome German opposition to the central bank printing money to buy government bonds, he told EU lawmakers last week that monetary policy alone cannot have a meaningful effect without structural reforms.  (Writing by Paul Taylor; editing by Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
On September 16th 2014 Vladimir Yevtushenkov, the president and principal shareholder of AFK Sistema, was accused of money-laundering and placed under house arrest by a Moscow court. It is unlikely that the arrest is part of a co-ordinated strategy to revise the relationship between the state and business. Rather, the affair marks an opportunistic attack by a faction within the elite seeking to take control of AFK Sistema's assets. AP / RIA-Novosti, Alexei DruzhininThen-Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, left, and Russian tycoon Vladimir Yevtushenkov, owner of Sistema Holding, during their meeting in Moscow in on Tuesday, May 5, 2009. The arrest has shaken confidence in Russia's business community, which had assumed that loyalty to the Kremlin would protect it from the depredations of law enforcement. The arrest is a worrying sign for businesses, and illustrates that members of the Russian elite are prepared to risk significant damage to investor confidence in order to achieve their aims. On September 25th the court rejected an appeal from Mr Yevtushenkov's lawyers that the terms of his arrest be amended to allow him to go to his office, under bail of Rb300m (US$7.7m). The court also ruled that Mr Yevtushenkov should remain under house arrest until at least November 16th. AFK Sistema is a conglomerate with holdings ranging from oil to telecommunications, including MTS, the leading telecoms firm in Russia, which has over 100m mobile subscribers in Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries. Mr Yevtushenkov is charged with money-laundering in connection with AFK Sistema's purchase in 2005 and 2009 of shares in the oil company Bashneft, the dominant oil producer in the Volga republic of Bashkortostan. AFK Sistema currently holds 85% of the voting shares in Bashneft. The reaction to Mr Yevtushenkov's arrest among the Russian business elite has been sharply negative. Aleksandr Shokhin, head of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Russia's leading business lobby, immediately sent a letter to Vladimir Putin, the president, defending Mr Yevtushenkov. German Gref, the head of Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, and a former minister of economic development, stressed the negative impact on the business climate. Shutterstock.comAleksei Kudrin, who was minister of finance at the time the deals went through, claims that every aspect of those deals was vetted at all levels of government, and announced that he found Mr Yevtushenkov's arrest incomprehensible. Anatoly Chubais, the president of Rosnano, the Russian nanotechnology company, and a former minister of privatisation, warned that the actions had inflicted serious damage on the Russian business climate and "come just at a time when Russia is teetering on the brink of recession and stagnation." The affair is seen by many, including reportedly Dmitry Medvedev, the prime minister, as a violation of the informal agreement between government and business reached after the nationalisation of Yukos, once the country's largest oil company. Under this agreement, big business undertook not to intervene in politics (as Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the owner of Yukos had done), while the government would attend to the interests of business and refrain from re-examining the privatisations of the 1990s. Mr Yevtushenkov has always adhered strictly to those principles and was seen as entirely loyal to the Kremlin. The impact of the affair on financial markets has been dramatic. At the news of Mr Yevtushenkov's arrest, AFK Sistema's shares fell by 36% on the Moscow Stock Exchange. They remain more than 30% below their pre-crisis level. Bashneft's shares fell by more than 20% on September 16th. In London, the market valuation of AFK Sistema's Global Depositary Receipts fell by 39% on the same date. MTS shares also fell by 8% when Mr Yevtushenkov was first arrested. The market disturbance was not limited to AFK Sistema shares-the Moscow Stock Exchange index fell by 2.5% on September 16th. On receipt of the news that the court had refused on September 25th to lift the house arrest, AFK Sistema shares fell by a further 8.8% and Bashneft shares by 4.5%. www.sistema.comSistema, website pictured, has denied all charges of wrongdoing over the oil production deal. The prosecutor in the investigation alleges that Ural Rakhimov, the son of the former president of Bashkortostan, Murtaz Rakhimov, used his position as minister of privatisation of the republic to sell off, at a knock-down price, the assets of a number of state-owned companies, including Bashneft, to private companies that were in fact controlled by himself. These were then transferred to AFK Sistema for a total of around US$2.6bn, in return for kick-backs to Ural Rakhimov. The net income of Bashneft in 2012 alone was US$1.7 bn. There is, however, an alternative version of the history of the sale of Bashneft. In 2003 the authorities in Moscow, concerned at how Bashneft was being managed by the Rakhimov family, started to put pressure on Ural Rakhimov to sell Bashneft to a respectable company. Ural Rakhimov resisted, and it took several years for Moscow to get its own way. Finally, in 2009, a suitable company was found. That company, by agreement between all interested parties going right up to Mr Medvedev, then president, was AFK Sistema. Reflecting the murkiness and complexity of Russian politics, these two versions are not entirely mutually exclusive. It is therefore important to take a cautious approach to the interpretation that sees the arrest of Mr Yevtushenkov as an integral part of a strategic push by Mr Putin to regain control of all the "commanding heights" of the Russian economy. APPutin with Igor Sechin (right)A more plausible explanation is that Igor Sechin, the powerful head of state-owned oil company Rosneft, is seeking to expand his company's oil assets by acquiring Bashneft, possibly to offset the increased costs imposed by US and EU sanctions. Under this scenario, Mr Sechin, the deputy prime minister with responsibility for the oil industry at the time of the negotiations over Bashneft's sale, was unhappy with the deal with AFK Sistema. As a result, there have been repeated attempts since then to bring Bashneft under Rosneft's control. This interpretation can be folded into a broader theory that the Yevtushenkov affair represents a further episode in the running battle between the siloviki-the "strong men" in the Russian elite-and the liberal (at least in economic terms) technocrats. Significantly, all the prominent figures who have spoken out publicly against the treatment of Mr Yevtushenkov belong to the latter group. The Ukraine crisis and international sanctions have empowered the siloviki faction in the Kremlin. This has put the liberal technocrats within the elite on the defensive, and the siloviki may simply be taking their chance to extend their power and influence. It is possible that members of the siloviki faction have an eye on AFK Sistema assets other than Bashneft. AFK Sistema has been hit hard by the arrest. It would be hit even harder if, as is widely expected, Rosneft does eventually take control of Bashneft. Bashneft is a very profitable company, and loss of Bashneft income would put AFK Sistema in difficulties in terms of debt-service, and could force it to sell off some of its subsidiaries, possibly even MTS. Whether or not other parts of the Sistema empire are divided up, the affair illustrates that powerful members of the Russian elite, possibly including Mr Putin himself, are prepared to risk significant damage to investor confidence to achieve their aims. This does not bode well for the future of the Russian economy, given the already very poor perception of the business environment. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
In a new research note on inequality, Morgan Stanley economist Ellen Zentner included this fascinating chart showing that, among OECD countries, the United States has the highest proportion of low-paying jobs. The 2014 version of the OECD Employment Outlook report cited by Morgan Stanley defines low-paying jobs as those for which earnings are below two-thirds of a country's median income. According to the OECD analysis and the Morgan Stanley report, just over a quarter of jobs in the US fell in this low-paying category. In 2013, the median annual income in the US was $35,080, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Employment Statistics program. Under the OECD's definition, then, a low-paying job would earn less than about $23,390. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn airport worker leads JetBlue planes onto the tarmac of the John F. Kennedy International Airport in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - JetBlue &lt;jblu.o&gt; shares have struggled compared with their airline peers this year, but the arrival of a new chief executive could lead to sharp gains at the low-cost airline, Barron's wrote in its Sept. 29 edition. Earlier this month, JetBlue announced that Robin Hayes, its president, would be taking over as chief executive, effective in February. Analysts expect Hayes to focus more on profitability, and "new prices and changes to some amenities could pay off handsomely for shareholders," the financial publication wrote. Barron's speculated that JetBlue shares could rise to $15 if it initiates bag fees and other means of generating revenue, citing Helane Becker, an analyst at Cowen. That target represents upside of about 42 percent from JetBlue's Friday closing price of $10.58. JetBlue could increase the number of seats in some of its planes by 8 percent if it shrinks leg room, "bringing in an additional 18 cents in [earnings per share]," Barron's wrote, citing Becker's analysis. The stock is up 24 percent thus far in 2014, sharply outperforming the S&amp;P 500's &lt;.SPX&gt; 7.3 percent advance, though it has lagged other airline names. Delta &lt;dal.n&gt; is up 33 percent this year, while American Airlines Group &lt;aal.o&gt; is up 42 percent and Southwest Airlines &lt;luv.n&gt; has soared nearly 80 percent. (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/GettyYou've sat through recruiting sessions, and you've networked with bankers. But you're still completely unprepared for what it's actually like to work on the street. Business Insider is here to help. We've put together a list of great advice from Wall Street legends, seasoned professionals and young analysts in order to prepare you for your first year on the street. Maybe take notes if you want to. FREE AppDownload
The EconomistJapanese and South Korean firms are the world's biggest cash-hoarders. This hurts their economies THE odd thing about prudence is that too much of it can be deadly.Timid drivers crawling along a motorway create more risk than they avoid. Children who are over-protected from germs end up with weaker immune systems. Economies are the same: too much saving can lead to a loss of vigour or, as Keynes put it, to a "paradox of thrift".  That is why Japanese and South Korean firms, two of the world's biggest hoarders, need to be cajoled into parting with their cash. Corporate saving has risen across the rich world in recent years. Bosses have felt a greater need to protect themselves against financial turmoil. There have also been fewer opportunities for investment in ageing economies. But East Asia is an extreme case. Japanese firms hold ¥229 trillion ($2.1 trillion) in cash, a massive 44% of GDP. Their South Korean counterparts hold 459 trillion won ($440 billion) or 34% of GDP. That compares with cash holdings of 11% of GDP, or $1.9 trillion, in American firms. If East Asia's firms spent even half of their huge cash hoards, they could boost global GDP by some 2%. Sadly, that kind of largesse is unlikely. Bosses in East Asia are still scarred by bitter experience--in Japan's case by the financial crash that began in the late 1980s, in South Korea's by its collapse in 1997. In both countries, companies learned that banking relationships can sour overnight--a lesson reinforced by the crunch in 2008. What makes sense for a timid boss does not always help his workers or investors. In South Korea, company earnings have grown faster than wages for more than a decade. In Japan wages fell 3.5% between 1990 and 2012, while prices rose by 5.5%. And shareholders should feel shortchanged, too. Japanese firms pay out less of their profits in dividends than any other country in the G7. The dividend yield on Korea's KOSPI index is just 1.2%, the lowest of any big economy. Wikimedia CommonsSeoul, South KoreaAnd East Asia's economies have also suffered. If they had been paid more, Japanese consumers might have spent more. Korean households, struggling with rapidly-growing debt-burdens, have also been squeezed. And the chaebol's hoarding also harms the country's longstanding growth strategy--capital investment to support high-tech exports. Investment growth in South Korea has averaged just 1% since 2008. Politicians in both countries are now trying to bully companies to hoard less, though in rather different ways. Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has called for bosses to grant pay rises above the country's 2% inflation target. He has also introduced a slew of reforms designed to strengthen shareholders' rights, the feeblest in any big rich country. A special new Nikkei index, for instance, includes only companies with strong corporate governance. South Korea's government, in contrast, is poised to introduce a tax on excess profits (see "Taxing corporate cash: A tempting target"). To avoid this levy, firms will have to increase wages, dividends or capital spending--and foreign investment might not count. Mr Abe could certainly do more--for instance, forcing firms to have multiple independent directors (who make up 9% of Japanese boards, compared with around 70% of America's). But his approach is wiser than South Korea's attempt to micromanage firms. Why should Samsung build a factory at home if putting one in, say, Vietnam is more efficient? It would be better to strengthen outside shareholders, particularly in the family-run chaebol, and to open up its banking market. So some solutions are misplaced, but the real scandal is the hoarding in the first place. The message to Japanese and Korean bosses is simple: if you don't know what to do with the cash, give it back to shareholders. It is, after all, their money. Click here to subscribe to The Economist       FREE AppDownload
Earlier this month, fast-food workers around America went on strike for higher wages. While some say we can't afford the pay increase and that it would cause people to lose their jobs, Paul Krugman says in an interview with BI that there is actually not much risk of significantly higher wages hurting the workers. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
"How Google Works""How Google Works" By Eric Schmidt and Jonathan Rosenberg. Grand Central Publishing; 286 pages. John Murray. AS A service, Google has become indispensable to people's interactions online. As a business worth $400 billion after 16 years, its success has been breathtaking. Yet in terms of management, it has set up radically different ways of organising itself from those of traditional businesses. Few people have focused on this. Now two of Google's architects have analysed what they think worked and why. Eric Schmidt, the current chairman and former chief executive (and also a board director of The Economist Group, this newspaper's parent company), and Jonathan Rosenberg, a former senior manager, decrypt the firm's methods for other business leaders to learn from. Most important is thinking extremely big--the "moonshot", as it is called in Silicon Valley. Google's leaders often have to wrest employees away from seeking a 10% improvement and towards finding one that is "10X" (that is, ten times better)--something that requires them to do things in an entirely new way, not just optimise what already exists. Most 10X attempts will fail, but that is accepted. The second insight of the Google method is to "fail fast". That way, people can learn from failure and move on, perhaps turning some aspect of the setback into the seedling of a new success. In this respect, "learning" trumps "knowing", since nobody can foresee the future. "Iteration is the most important part of the strategy," the authors advise. The third element is the primacy of data over experience, intuition or hierarchy in the making of decisions. Other books have explored Google's data fetish, for everything from hiring to choosing the shade of blue in its toolbar, but they have only scratched the surface. Sadly, "How Google Works" also treats this topic superficially. And it passes too fast over the way employees measure their output through a system called OKRs (for "objectives and key results", adapted from Intel, a chipmaker). The core of Google's method is the empowering of employees. Bosses at all firms talk of this, but the search giant takes it to heart. It has devised systems to enable good ideas from any quarter to get an airing. Many of Google's biggest products and features (like Gmail) have emerged from this, and also from a policy that lets staff work on pet projects for 20% of their time. Such a culture places huge emphasis on the quality of employees. Among the authors' best pieces of advice is that companies should ape academe and form hiring committees to vet candidates and make offers. This helps eliminate the biases of line-managers and encourages the staff to think as a team; new hires owe their allegiance to their peers, not only their supervisors. Unlike firms in most other industries, Google has to enfranchise its employees: if they feel stymied, they will simply take their creativity and ambition elsewhere. Mario Anzuoni/ReutersSergey Brin, Eric Schmidt, and Larry PageThough it is not discussed in the book, Google's management philosophy doubtless springs from the careers of the founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page. Their youth, vision and technical genius, together with Google's vast wealth, enabled the company to take risks that others would never contemplate. This is why it vies to photograph every street in the world and scan every book ever published, to say nothing of building self-driving cars and glasses that record almost everything. It would have been interesting for this self-examination to have delved into Google's legal quandaries and the frequent perception that the firm, contrary to its corporate motto, is a source of evil. One way to understand the depth of this problem would be to read "When Google Met WikiLeaks", the transcript of a wide-ranging conversation that took place in 2011 between Mr Schmidt, his colleagues and Julian Assange, head of the controversial whistleblowing site. In Mr Assange's view, expressed in his introduction, Google represents "technocratic imperialism", a "titanic centralising evil" and "the death of privacy". Many European officials think likewise, as Google's regulatory woes attest. Messrs Schmidt and Rosenberg missed an opportunity by failing to discuss corporate difficulties of this sort. In large part Google grew because it threw out the traditional MBA playbook; its success speaks for itself. However, this underscores a shortcoming of "How Google Works". The experience of Messrs Schmidt and Rosenberg is so coloured by Google's accomplishments that many of their recommendations best apply to managing teams of aces in lucrative, fast-growing markets, not to overseeing a wide range of talent in low-margin businesses--the life of most managers. Moreover, the novel advice that the authors offer is occasionally diluted by banalities such as keeping meetings short, teams small and yes-men out. Though the authors do not openly boast, the triumphalism becomes a bit rich: it would be instructive to hear what Google learned from its biggest foul-ups. Google's management practices can be usefully incorporated into all sorts of businesses in all kinds of ways. But most bosses achieve and retain their positions by safely maintaining an organisation, not changing it. Few will transform their firms even if they are armed with the management formula that the book reveals. All the more reason, then, to celebrate Google's unique achievement. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
"How Google Works""How Google Works" By Eric Schmidt and Jonathan Rosenberg. Grand Central Publishing; 286 pages. John Murray. AS A service, Google has become indispensable to people's interactions online. As a business worth $400 billion after 16 years, its success has been breathtaking. Yet in terms of management, it has set up radically different ways of organising itself from those of traditional businesses. Few people have focused on this. Now two of Google's architects have analysed what they think worked and why. Eric Schmidt, the current chairman and former chief executive (and also a board director of The Economist Group, this newspaper's parent company), and Jonathan Rosenberg, a former senior manager, decrypt the firm's methods for other business leaders to learn from. Most important is thinking extremely big--the "moonshot", as it is called in Silicon Valley. Google's leaders often have to wrest employees away from seeking a 10% improvement and towards finding one that is "10X" (that is, ten times better)--something that requires them to do things in an entirely new way, not just optimise what already exists. Most 10X attempts will fail, but that is accepted. The second insight of the Google method is to "fail fast". That way, people can learn from failure and move on, perhaps turning some aspect of the setback into the seedling of a new success. In this respect, "learning" trumps "knowing", since nobody can foresee the future. "Iteration is the most important part of the strategy," the authors advise. The third element is the primacy of data over experience, intuition or hierarchy in the making of decisions. Other books have explored Google's data fetish, for everything from hiring to choosing the shade of blue in its toolbar, but they have only scratched the surface. Sadly, "How Google Works" also treats this topic superficially. And it passes too fast over the way employees measure their output through a system called OKRs (for "objectives and key results", adapted from Intel, a chipmaker). The core of Google's method is the empowering of employees. Bosses at all firms talk of this, but the search giant takes it to heart. It has devised systems to enable good ideas from any quarter to get an airing. Many of Google's biggest products and features (like Gmail) have emerged from this, and also from a policy that lets staff work on pet projects for 20% of their time. Such a culture places huge emphasis on the quality of employees. Among the authors' best pieces of advice is that companies should ape academe and form hiring committees to vet candidates and make offers. This helps eliminate the biases of line-managers and encourages the staff to think as a team; new hires owe their allegiance to their peers, not only their supervisors. Unlike firms in most other industries, Google has to enfranchise its employees: if they feel stymied, they will simply take their creativity and ambition elsewhere. Mario Anzuoni/ReutersSergey Brin, Eric Schmidt, and Larry PageThough it is not discussed in the book, Google's management philosophy doubtless springs from the careers of the founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page. Their youth, vision and technical genius, together with Google's vast wealth, enabled the company to take risks that others would never contemplate. This is why it vies to photograph every street in the world and scan every book ever published, to say nothing of building self-driving cars and glasses that record almost everything. It would have been interesting for this self-examination to have delved into Google's legal quandaries and the frequent perception that the firm, contrary to its corporate motto, is a source of evil. One way to understand the depth of this problem would be to read "When Google Met WikiLeaks", the transcript of a wide-ranging conversation that took place in 2011 between Mr Schmidt, his colleagues and Julian Assange, head of the controversial whistleblowing site. In Mr Assange's view, expressed in his introduction, Google represents "technocratic imperialism", a "titanic centralising evil" and "the death of privacy". Many European officials think likewise, as Google's regulatory woes attest. Messrs Schmidt and Rosenberg missed an opportunity by failing to discuss corporate difficulties of this sort. In large part Google grew because it threw out the traditional MBA playbook; its success speaks for itself. However, this underscores a shortcoming of "How Google Works". The experience of Messrs Schmidt and Rosenberg is so coloured by Google's accomplishments that many of their recommendations best apply to managing teams of aces in lucrative, fast-growing markets, not to overseeing a wide range of talent in low-margin businesses--the life of most managers. Moreover, the novel advice that the authors offer is occasionally diluted by banalities such as keeping meetings short, teams small and yes-men out. Though the authors do not openly boast, the triumphalism becomes a bit rich: it would be instructive to hear what Google learned from its biggest foul-ups. Google's management practices can be usefully incorporated into all sorts of businesses in all kinds of ways. But most bosses achieve and retain their positions by safely maintaining an organisation, not changing it. Few will transform their firms even if they are armed with the management formula that the book reveals. All the more reason, then, to celebrate Google's unique achievement. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Miller SamuelThe density of the Five Points in 1910 was absolutely incredible.  The 2010 population density is much more balanced across the island. NYU’s Marion Institute of Urban Management is offering a free seminar at the New York Public Library called “The Rise and Fall of Manhattan Density” to explain how this happened. This article originally appeared at Miller Samuel Inc..  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Ralph Orlowski/Getty ImagesThis year, the most influential books cover topics from inequality to digital privacy.Each year, dozens of books detailing business strategies and profiling success stories are published, making it difficult to discern which ones are worth your time. Luckily, an esteemed panel of judges for the annual Financial Times' and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award (previously Goldman Sachs was a partner) have released a short list of the six most influential books of the year. The topics range from inequality to digital privacy, and the judges hope they will inspire creative thinking and help readers deepen their understanding of today's world, says Lionel Barber, editor of the Financial Times. Panel members include Steve Coll, dean of the School of Journalism at Columbia University and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine; Steve Denning, chairman of General Atlantic, LLC; and Rik Kirkland, director of publishing for McKinsey &amp; Company. Here are the books that made the list: "Dragnet Nation: A Quest for Privacy, Security, and Freedom in a World of Relentless Surveillance" By Julia Angwin Times Books/Henry Holt "The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies" By Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee W. W. Norton Ltd Amazon"Creativity, Inc. Overcoming the Unseen Forces that Stand in the Way of True Inspiration" By Ed Catmull Bantam Press/Transworld Publishers (UK), Random House (US) "Hack Attack: How the Truth Caught Up With Rupert Murdoch" By Nick Davies Chatto &amp; Windus (UK), Faber &amp; Faber (US) "House of Debt: How They (and You) Caused the Great Recession, and How We Can Prevent It from Happening Again" By Atif Mian and Amir Sufi University of Chicago Press "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" By Thomas Piketty Belknap Press/Harvard University Press The winning book will be announced on November 11. Previous winners have included Brad Stone's "The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon" (2013); Steve Coll's "Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power" (2012); and Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo's "Poor Economics" (2011). FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Fabrice CoffriniCampaign posters promoting a single public health insurance system are seen on September 21, 2014 in GenevaGeneva (AFP) - Swiss voters on Sunday rejected a plan to ditch the country's all-private health insurance system and create a state-run scheme, exit polls showed. Some 64 percent of the electorate shot down a plan pushed by left-leaning parties who say the current system is busting the budgets of ordinary residents, figures from polling agency gfs.bern showed. Going public would have been a seismic shift for a country whose health system is often hailed abroad as a model of efficiency, but is a growing source of frustration at home because of soaring costs. "Over the past 20 years in Switzerland, health costs have grown 80 percent and insurance premiums 125 percent," ophthalmologist Michel Matter told AFP. "This is not possible anymore. It has to change," said Matter, who heads the Geneva Physicians Association, which backs calls to scrap the current system. Campaigners who championed the push for a state-held insurance scheme have said it is the only way to rein in rising premiums and guarantee they are used efficiently and transparently. Sunday's referendum came after reformers mustered more than the 100,000 signatures required to hold a popular vote, a regular feature of Switzerland's direct democracy. The rejection of the plan by nearly two-thirds of voters is a major blow for pro-reform campaigners, given that recent polls had shown the No vote was likely to be 54 percent. In a 2007 referendum, 71 percent rejected similar reforms. The current system, which was used as a model for US President Barack Obama's controversial healthcare reform, requires that every resident in the wealthy nation of eight million hold basic health insurance and offers freedom of choice among the 61 companies competing for customers. In a country where the average monthly net salary is 4,950 Swiss francs (4,100 euros, $5,268), health premiums are around 400 francs per adult per month. That does not include out-of-pocket spending on treatment such as dental care, not covered by basic insurance. Premiums vary by insurer, age and region of residence, and clients can cut them by opting for an annual deductible -- a sum they pay from their own pockets -- of up to 2,500 francs. Critics say the current system is unfair because basic coverage costs a millionaire no more than it does a low-paid worker. Studies show that almost one-fifth of those on low incomes have skipped at least one monthly payment in a country where rents and retail prices are among Europe's highest. The reformers also allege that insurers have too much political clout, with research showing that 14 percent of lawmakers have links to health firms or the sector's lobby groups. But for Switzerland's cross-party government and its right- and centre-dominated parliament, the current system has proven its mettle and is debt-free, unlike the health services of France, Italy or Britain. "We don't have a deficit in Switzerland. It's a healthy system. Of course we can criticise a lack of transparency by some insurers, but state control isn't going to solve such problems," said Ivan Slatkine, a senior party official from the rightist Liberal Radicals. Supporters of the status quo argue that higher premiums are inevitable given an ageing population and costly cutting-edge medical care, and say shifting to a public system would generate few savings. FREE AppDownload
This weekend, thousands of institutional investors, financial advisors and wealth managers are faced with one of the most uncomfortable questions imaginable: Do we need to fire Pimco?  Pimco’s flagship fund, Total Return, can be found in allocations everywhere. From pensions to endowments, from 401(k) sponsors to retirement plans, in the accounts of private investors and insurance companies, wirehouse FAs, bank branch brokers, RIAs – Total Return is ubiquitous. It’s got one of the only mutual fund ticker symbols that brokers call out as though it were a stock, as in “Why don’t you just buy the guy some P-Tax”, a shorthand for PTTAX, the call letters of the fund’s A class shares. As the second largest bond fund on earth and largest active one, it’s also extraordinarily widely held, and this is why the news of Bill Gross leaving the firm (or being pushed out) is such a huge story for the industry. How did Pimco Total Return get so entrenched in the first place? Our story begins, as it often will, with an amazing track record of outperformance. Put simply, whatever Pimco was doing, for a long time, was working. A potent mixture of market-beating returns, marketing savvy, intellectual leadership for the industry and outsized personality fostered a devotion to the firm and its best-known product. Bloomberg TelevisionBill Gross on BloombergThe cult of personality surrounding Bill Gross is unlike anything we’ve seen in this industry since the heydays of Peter Lynch and Bill Miller. The bond fund and its manager have been sold to clients with impunity for two decades. Pimco Total Return has become the IBM of mutual funds, in that “No one ever gets fired” for recommending it. This reliance on Pimco on the part of asset allocators worked very well for years, and, as a result, it became a standard inclusion into portfolios around the world. The regular investor letters and commentaries from Mr. Gross kept professionals up to date with their designated manager’s ongoing take on the markets and the economy. The ubiquity of Mr. Gross in the media was reassuring for the retail investor and more casual shareholders who were invested through a retirement account somewhere. And once the Harvard endowment’s Mohamed El-Erian re-joined in 2007 to become the second face of the firm, it was almost a fait accompli that Pimco would become gigantic. The system worked perfectly – Gross would make wagers on the bond markets and interest rate curves while always having something clever or insightful to say about it publicly. And so long as he was delivering an annual return near or slightly above the benchmark Aggregate Bond Index, the money kept rolling in. Gross delivered a 13% total return in 2000, a year during which the Boomers experienced the first real stock market losses of their adult lives. During the next five years, he delivered above-index returns and cemented the franchise’s industry dominance. Pimco’s orders had grown so large that the Wall Street desks who executed them began to refer to the firm as The Beach, as in, “The Beach wants another $16 million in 5-year swaps at one-spot-nine-three.” So what happened? In hindsight, of course, the first crack in the Pimco story becomes a glaring one when we look back at it. In February of 2011, Gross loudly proclaimed his newest big bet to anyone who would listen: Pimco Total Return had taken its allocation to US Treasury bonds down to zero. As recently as the previous December, Pimco Total Return had been carrying as much as 22 percent of its AUM in Treasurys, so this was a radical shift for such a large fund. Gross compounded the move by being extremely vocal about his rationale – he went so far as to call Treasury bonds a “robbery” of investors given their ultra-low interest rates and the potential for inflation. He talked about the need for investors to “exorcise” US bonds from their portfolios, as though the asset class itself was demonic. He called investors in Treasury bonds “frogs being cooked alive in a pot.” The rhetoric was every bit as bold as the fund’s positioning. It’s really hard to pound the table like this and then be flexible in the aftermath when evidence to contrary begins to surface. Once the market starts to go against a famous manager, and he’s become associated with the wrong trade so publicly, there’s a obvious temptation to dig in deeper or to hunker down. To throw people out of one’s office when they voice dissension. To view the movement of the market as an affront to one’s intelligence or as a debate adversary that must be talked out of its obvious wrongness. For a private investor, this mindset can be dangerous, but for a highly-visible professional investor becomes utterly debilitating. And in 2011, no one was more visible on the rate question than Bill Gross. Or more wrong. Gross’s directional bet on bond yields going higher and bond prices going lower was a disaster. In fact, the exact opposite of what he had called for is what ended up happening. Treasury bond yields plummeted from that February 2011 flag-planting moment. Yields on the 10-year Treasury bond had dropped from an earlier year high of 3.75 percent to as low as 2 percent in the summer. By August, Bill Gross was forced to defend himself in public. He admitted to the Wall Street Journal that he had been “losing sleep” over the bet. He called it a “mistake” in the Financial Times a few days later. By that point in the year, Pimco Total Return had underperformed 84 percent of its peers. For the first time in a long time, the Bond King of Newport Beach had begun to look extremely fallible. This moment is captured in the chart I made below: Reformed Broker As you can see, Total Return has pretty much never recovered from this bet, with the brief exception of a fleeting moment in the fourth quarter of 2012. In 2013, Total Return had its worst year ever, a negative 2 percent return, which trailed the performance of nearly three quarters of its peers. Since the Taper Tantrum last spring, things have gotten tougher for the bond management business in general, but the bleeding of this fund has been especially pronounced: Some $70 billion in net outflows have left Pimco Total Return since its peak AUM of $293 billion in April of 2013. As performance suffered and rate fears began to take hold, the outflows at Pimco Total Return began last spring – and they never stopped. See the below chart from the LA Times: @latimesgraphics Finger-pointing is the constant companion of outflows in this industry. Lower AUM means smaller bonuses which mean stressful conversations at home and belt-tightening at work. Everyone at an investment organization is miserable when this cycle begins, everybody feels it. That’s when the in-fighting begins and stress fractures within a culture start to show. Rumors of tensions within the firm began to make their way into the press and it became harder to sort out which were true and which were exaggerations. In February of 2014, things came to a head when the Wall Street Journal’s Gregory Zuckerman ripped the facade away and put out an extensively-sourced piece about the personality clashes within the firm that had chased out El-Erian and turned Bill Gross into a sort of King Lear-esquefigure within the company. For the first time ever, we were hearing specific snippets of dialog from within the firm and it wasn’t pretty: “I have a 41-year track record of investing excellence,” Mr. Gross told Mr. El-Erian, according to the two witnesses. “What do youhave?” “I’m tired of cleaning up your s—,” Mr. El-Erian responded, referring to conduct by Mr. Gross that he felt was hurting Pimco, these two people recall. For investors who had assumed Pimco’s stewardship was rock-solid and its process was unimpeachable, this was a wake-up call. All of a sudden, the $1.9 trillion asset manager looked vulnerable and human. The psychological impact this revelation had on the investing public cannot be overemphasized. Faith in a manager, once shaken, becomes as fragile as any belief system can be in the presence of too much scrutiny. Business WeekBill Gross’s appearances began to take on an almost performance-art caliber of surrealism. By the time things had come to a head internally and El-Erian announced his departure from daily duties at Pimco this winter, the flight from Pimco was already in full effect. BusinessWeek’s cartoonish Bill Gross cover this April, along with the bizarre keynote speech he did while wearing sunglasses at June’s Morningstar conference were the final straws. Advisors who had been (reluctantly) recommending the fund company to their clients and telling people to “stay the course” finally had the excuse to hit the sell button. Firing a manager is extremely difficult for financial intermediaries to justify, the longer that manager has been a part of the recommended strategy the harder it is to do an about-face. But turmoil at the top or a change in PM almost always gives advisors the cover they need to make a change while maintaining the guise of discipline. “Mr. Jones, as you know, we are long-term oriented, patient investors most of the time. However…” It’s been estimated by Morningstar and others that the events of this past week will lead to Pimco outflows on the order of 15 to 30 percent of the firm’s total assets. Some of the money is expected to follow Bill Gross to his new unconstrained bond fund at Janus. Jeffrey Gundlach’s Total Return product at DoubleLine should also get a big bump, as advisors trade one cult for another and assure their people that Jeff is the real Bond King, the one who got the post-crash period right and with a smaller, more agile fund to boot. But I think a lot of this fleeing cash will find its way to Vanguard (home of the world’s largest bond fund) or to the iShares / State Street cohort of fixed income index funds. Increasingly, investors will reach the conclusion that whatever alpha a manager may generate, it’s not worth the potential drama. REUTERS/Jim Young By recommending a bond manager, even a bond king, asset allocators are inherently putting their stamp of approval on that manager, come what may. And while firing a manager is not the end of the world, there is a limit to how many times you can actually do it. How many times can you call a client and repudiate your own fund picks before the client begins to second guess your expertise? Believe it or not, billions of dollars are currently allocated to bad funds or products because of the very “agency problem” I’ve laid out here. With a bond index fund, this issue goes away immediately. Many investors will opt to do nothing of course. They’ll point to the new CIO and manager of Total Return, Daniel Ivascyn, and the depth of Pimco’s bench as reasons to stay. “The worst is over and finally the firm can focus on performance again with Gross out of the picture.” They may end up being rewarded for this loyalty in terms of future performance, even if they have to go to great lengths to justify sticking around in the near-term. They may be pilloried for neglectfulness and fired by their clients should the fund continue to falter. Anything can happen. And so the question of “Do we have to fire Pimco?” will be the predominant topic at financial firms across the country and around the world. Virtually no large pool of assets in this industry is completely Pimco-free, whether we’re talking about Total Return or any of their other funds and SMAs. The issue cannot be ignored because the end-customers of these investors will have read plenty on the topic this weekend and will have questions and concerns of their own. No amount of reassurance from Pimco can change this fact right now. This is the item that will lead off almost every investment committee meeting on earth tomorrow.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRichard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas,speaks during at luncheon in Hong KongWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas Federal Reserve Bank, said the United States risks falling behind the curve on inflation as wage pressure starts to bubble in some parts of the country. "I think we could suddenly get a patch of high growth, see some wage price inflation," Fisher said on the Fox news program Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo. "I'm not worried about it yet, but I've seen it in my own federal reserve district and I think it could happen to the nation as a whole." Fisher said the U.S. economy was "definitely pulling ahead of the rest of the world" and that "our wounds have been healing". Some areas, such as Texas, have seen explosive growth, he said. The state benefits from a diversified economy and a pro-business government that has lead to job growth and "massive immigration". "We were creating jobs in the second quarter at a rate of 5.8 percent, way ahead of the nation," he said. "If the federal government would only get their act together and be more like us we would be growing as a nation much, much faster." That growth was being accompanied by wage pressure, he said. "We're seeing wage price pressures in our surveys that are the highest since before the recession in my federal reserve district," he said. The Federal Reserve has said it plans in October to end its third round of "quantitative easing" -- a tool used to stimulate the economy. The question, Fisher said, was "how quickly we move to normalize interest rates". Fisher has previously said he expected interest rate hikes to come "sooner rather than later" and on Sunday he said he was worried that "we are behind the curve at the Fed". "Monetary policy works with a big lag," he said. "I don't want to fall behind the curve here." He also warned people to be prepared for when rates do rise. "We've been fueling the markets, and at some point trees do not just grow to the sky," he said. Fisher is a voting member of the Fed's policy-setting body in 2014 and is seen as one of its most hawkish members. Other Fed officials worry that tightening policy too soon could derail the U.S. recovery and risk deflation. William Dudley, head of the powerful New York Fed, said recently that "we need the economy to run a little hot for at least some period of time to push inflation back up to our objective". Inflation unexpectedly cooled in August and is falling short of the Fed's 2 percent target. (Reporting by Toni Clarke in Washington; Editing by Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoA visitor plays pachinko at Dynam's pachinko parlour in Fuefuki, west of Tokyo June 19, 2014.THE gaudy pachinko parlours that disfigure many a Japanese high street are an acquired taste. The country's 12,000 parlours keep players sealed off from the outside world behind a thick wall of noise, smoke and gambler's tension. The pinball-with-prizes machines, with their flashing lights and ceaseless din, induce a trance-like state, prompting Donald Ritchie, an American writer on Japan, to describe pachinko as "cut-price Zen". Pachinko has been in decline for years, yet its revenues last year were put at 19 trillion yen ($175 billion). To give some idea, that was almost twice the Japanese motor industry's export revenues. About one in seven Japanese adults play it regularly. For decades it has thrived in a legal grey zone, just about dodging an official ban on gambling. Now it faces two challenges: a government plan to allow the building of big, legal casinos; and finding a way to reinvent itself for the video-game generation. The second problem is the toughest. To young Japanese, pachinko is a bit naff, something your fusty old uncle wastes his time with. The number of regular players has halved since 2002 and the existing customer base is ageing. Its survival is at risk unless it can attract younger men, and more women, admits Toshiharu Kikuchi, a spokesman for Dynam Japan, the largest pachinko-parlour chain. So, flush with more than $200m from a 2012 flotation on the Hong Kong stockmarket, Dynam plans to open 1,000 new parlours (it currently operates 380). Its new ones are luxurious and air-conditioned, with restaurants and uniformed staff akin to casino attendants. Eventually, says Mr Kikuchi, all Dynam's parlours will be non-smoking--a radical move in an industry so reliant on chain-smoking geezers. Other big operators are also investing in more modern premises. Earlier this year Zent, a rival, opened what it claims is the country's largest parlour, in Nagoya. REUTERS/Issei KatoVisitors play at Dynam's pachinko parlour in Fuefuki, west of Tokyo June 19, 2014. The casino-legalisation law, which the prime minister, Shinzo Abe, wants to pass in the next few months, will not just bring new competition for the pachinko parlours. The aim is to drag casino gambling away from the seedy company it keeps in illegal backstreet dives and put it in big, family-friendly resorts. So it is inevitable that pachinko will come under similar scrutiny, says Takeshi Iwaya, a lawmaker with the ruling Liberal Democrats. Pachinko bosses insist the game is played for fun and for trivial prizes. However, the metal balls that players "win" on the machines can also be swapped for tokens and then for cash, at a separate premises nearby. This contrivance used to be dominated by yakuza criminal gangs, which extorted cash from the parlours' owners. Many parlours are run by Korean-Japanese, some of whom used to send money to the hostile regime in Pyongyang. The authorities have stopped the flow of cash to North Korea, and the police have squeezed out the mobsters--but with unexpected consequences. The industry is now regulated by the Security Electronics and Communications Technology Association (SECTA), a state agency stuffed with retired policemen. Many parts of the industry, such as the makers of the pachinko machines (which are certified and inspected by SECTA) employ ex-cops as consultants. REUTERS/Issei KatoA woman plays pachinko at Dynam's pachinko parlour in Fuefuki, west of Tokyo June 19, 2014. The resulting bureaucracy has caused "more trouble and expense for pachinko businesses than the yakuza ever did," concludes a study by Andrew Rankin, a Cambridge University researcher. And as Colin Jones of Doshisha Law School delicately puts it, the police are now deeply involved in the industry in a way that "may not always be conducive to police integrity." If the government's gambling liberalisation formally legalises pachinko, as looks likely, that would pave the way for taxing it. The finance ministry could look forward to billions of dollars a year. And perhaps a dozen or so big parlour operators could list on the Tokyo stockmarket, raising money to modernise. Dynam's chairman, Yoji Sato, insists his firm is ready to take on the legalised casinos: he thinks the government is likely to allow no more than ten; and that they will mainly draw rich foreign tourists. His working-class customers will stick with their pachinko. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauPARIS (Reuters) - Air France pilots called off on Sunday a two-week strike that had cost the airline more than 280 million euros ($355 million), despite continued deadlock with managers over the development of the firm's low-cost operations. The pilots launched their strike in an effort to force Air France's Franco-Dutch parent Air France-KLM to revise plans to expand its low-cost brand, Transavia, fearing that the project would erode their own pay and conditions. However, they came under increasing pressure to return to work, with France's Socialist prime minister, Manuel Valls, denouncing on Friday the pilots' "egotism". "It is our duty as union representatives to know when to end a strike, when we know there will not be any progress," the main Air France pilot union SNPL said. "We are asking pilots to resume flying, knowing that tensions are inevitable, to allow for the climate to calm down." After the strike was called off, Air France said it planned to speed up the development of Transavia, which it believes is vital for the well-being of the company at a time when myriad low-cost airlines are taking root across Europe. "This ending of the conflict reinforces the company's determination to makes its economic model evolve in order to cement its leadership," Air France said in a statement. It added that the project would create 1,000 jobs in France, including 250 pilot jobs. The walkout has grounded up to 60 percent of flights in recent days and Air France said services already canceled on Sunday and Monday because of the strike would remain closed, with a progressive return to normal only expected from Tuesday. Facing growing price pressure, Air France announced this month that it planned to beef up Transavia, more than doubling passenger numbers to 20 million by 2017 and developing a significant part of the business outside France. The French pilots had tried to convince the company to offer the same contracts to those flying for Transavia as it gives its own pilots, regardless of where they were based. The airline said this was incompatible with the low-cost model. The dispute highlighted discrepancies in wages, labor conditions and welfare coverage between European countries which are theoretically part of a single market for goods and services, but in fact compete with each other for jobs. Air France said it regretted that in spite of lengthy negotiations with the unions, including 15 hours of talks on Saturday, an agreement had not been reached. Valls called on all involved to "reconquer trust" and resume the airline's development "notably through its subsidiary Transavia France which represents an obvious asset in the high-growth market of low-cost" airline travel. The government is a 16 percent shareholder in the group and sits on the board. ($1 = 0.7885 euro) (Editing by William Hardy and Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of solar system installer Bywater adjusting new solar panels on the roof of a house in SydneyMADRID/SYDNEY (Reuters) - A year after Spain, the sunniest country in Europe, issued notice of a law forcing solar energy-equipped homes and offices to pay a punitive tax, architect Inaki Alonso re-installed a 250 watt solar panel on a beam over his Madrid roof terrace. "The government wanted people to be afraid to generate their own energy, but they haven’t dared to actually pass the law," Alonso said as he tightened screws on the panel on a sunny summer day this month. He had removed solar panels from the roof last year. "We're tired of being afraid," he said. Halfway across the globe, in the "sunshine state" of Queensland, Australia, electrical engineer David Smyth says the war waged by some governments and utilities against distributed energy, the term used for power generated by solar panels, is already lost. "The utilities are in a death spiral," he told Reuters by telephone while driving between a pub where he helped set up 120 solar panels to cut its A$60,000 ($53,000) annual power bill and a galvanizing plant which was also adding solar panels to reduce costs. In Australia, he said, solar panels have shifted from being a heavily subsidized indulgence for environmentally-conscious households to a pragmatic option for businesses wanting certainty about what their running costs will be next year. "Not many people are doing it because of emissions or the environment," Smyth said. "It's about the cost." Solar photovoltaic (PV) panels constitute the fastest growing renewable energy technology in the world since 2000. Global capacity has exploded from 1.5 gigawatts at the turn of the century to 136 gigawatts currently, according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency. Meanwhile, the price of solar panels has plummeted 80 percent since 2008 thanks to generous state subsidies aimed at promoting clean energy. It's still less than one percent of energy capacity worldwide, but the surge in installations of rooftop solar panels is beginning to hit utilities and their business model of charging customers on the basis of consumption. Joined by traditional energy companies, they are lobbying governments to reverse decades of subsidies to green, renewable energy such as solar and, in some cases, to tax them. In Europe, Australia and in the United States, energy companies have powerful lobbies that argue that they form a cornerstone of the economy and provide jobs to tens of thousands. Governments are forced to pay heed and in some cases they have acted. REUTERS/Rebekah KebedeRows of solar panels face skywards at the Greenough River Solar project near the town of Walkaway, about 350 km (217 miles) north of Perth October 10, 2012. Australia switched on its first utility-scale solar farm on Wednesday, bringing the country a small step closer to achieving ambitious renewable energy use targets that traditional coal and gas power producers are now fighting to soften. Local Australian governments have slashed rebates for households which feed spare solar energy back into the grid, and approved massive increases to set daily connection fees. In Queensland, Australia's most solar-powered state, one state-owned grid company just raised daily connection fees by 1,142 percent while removing per-unit consumption charges - effectively removing the incentive to switch to solar. Spain's decree, although never converted to law, would force solar-equipped homes and businesses to connect to the grid and pay a tax on each kilowatt consumed. Asked when it might be approved, an industry ministry official told Reuters by e-mail: "It all depends on what the cabinet decides to do in the coming months." Nevertheless, the mere threat of the law was enough to ground solar panel installations to a halt in the country. Fewer panels have been installed in Spain this year than any since the early 2000s, renewable energy experts say. "The draft law was a brilliant move by the government to keep people from going off the grid, delaying competition for the big utilities," said Cote Romero of renewable energy advisors ECOOO. "They’ve paralyzed a whole sector without actually regulating it." And yet, households and businesses find solar energy appealing in an environment where utility bills are increasing. "Current policy is encouraging people to go off the grid,” said Roger Gill, owner of Spanish solar energy company Expert Sistemas Solares. "Most of our clients right now are small businesses, particularly in the farming and fishing industries, who are fed up and want some stability in their energy costs." Although the surge in solar energy may be fueled in part by environmental concerns, it is not being led by environmentalists. Apple Inc &lt;aapl.o&gt;, America's biggest company, powers its biggest data center, in Maiden, North Carolina, with the country's largest privately-owned solar farm which it owns. Google Inc &lt;googl.o&gt;, America's third-largest company, gets a third of the power for its giant Mountain View, California headquarters from its own solar installation. The record for a country installing solar PV in a year was China, in 2013, with 11.3 gigawatts or nearly a third of global installations. China wants 35 gigawatts of solar PV capacity by 2015 and 100 gigawatts, nearly the entire current world total, by 2020.  REUTERS/Rebekah KebedeRows of solar panels face skywards at the Greenough River Solar project near the town of Walkaway, about 350 km (217 miles) north of Perth October 10, 2012. Solar's rapid rise - along with warmer weather, more energy efficient appliances and various geopolitical factors - has pushed down demand for traditional electricity and cut into utilities' profits across the world. Earlier this year, German energy giant RWE AG &lt;rweg.de&gt; blamed plant closures caused by solar demand for its 2.76 billion euro ($3.52 billion) loss in 2013; its first annual net loss in more than 60 years. It and the two other German energy companies - E.ON &lt;eongn.de&gt; and EnBW &lt;ebkg.de&gt; - have seen their combined market value dwindle by an average 54 percent since 2007. A 60 percent drop in wholesale power prices in six years has forced Germany's utilities to book billions of euros in writedowns on their coal and gas plant portfolio. "The low power prices are leaving a trail of blood in our balance sheet," RWE Chief Financial Officer Bernhard Guenther said in May, reporting first-quarter operating profit fell by a fifth. Although U.S. utilities have yet to feel a financial sting from solar's rise, they are leery of a future in which the burden of maintaining their delivery systems is spread among a smaller number of customers. Last year, Arizona became the first U.S. state to introduce a solar tax after the state regulator let its main utility, Pinnacle West Capital Corp &lt;pnw.n&gt; unit Arizona Public Service Co, charge 70 cents per kilowatt, or about $5 per month for most households, to those on the grid who use solar. That is much less than the $100 a month APS wanted, but several other states are considering similar proposals, or have pledged to reform electricity rates to address the rise of distributed generation. "Public utility commissions are all looking at this change in the distribution system and potential change in the business model of utilities," said David Owens, executive vice president at Edison Electric Institute, the trade group for investor-owned utilities in the United States. The experience of Hawaii, which has a far larger percentage of homeowners with rooftop panels than any other U.S. state, offers a window into the challenges other regions may face as they bring more and more distributed generation onto their grids. Homeowners on Oahu – Hawaii's most populous island – need to get the utility's approval before installing solar because some of the island’s power circuits have reached a threshold where it would be dangerous to add more PV without investing in upgrades to the distribution system. In Australia, Queensland state-owned power network company Ergon reported a 5 percent slide in household energy consumption in the 2013 financial year. Last month, the country's No. 1 and No. 2 energy retailers, Origin Energy &lt;org.ax&gt; and AGL Energy &lt;agk.ax&gt;, both blamed solar uptake for declines in underlying profit.  AP Photo/Mike DererGetting the utility companies involved in retrofitting homes and businesses would create jobs at little cost to the government, Clinton argues.So old energy is fighting back. Germany, the world's largest solar market following years of generous state subsidies, imposed a levy in 2014 on small businesses which use self-generated solar power - referred to as the "sun tax". "Those who protect the climate get penalized, those who harm it get cleared," said Carsten Koernig, managing director of German solar campaigner BSW. "Instead of supporting solar power in its transition to become competitive, it is now artificially made more expensive." Australia's Queensland has ruled out a solar tax but promised to re-jig energy pricing so that everyone - solar-reliant or otherwise - pays the same. But that removes the incentive to go solar, and leaves customers at the mercy of later price rises by the utilities. "Distributed generation (DG) could be the end of utilities as we know them today," U.S. investment research firm Morningstar said earlier this year. "Utilities' centralized network monopolies break down when customers become self-sufficient competitors." Romero, the Spanish renewable energy expert, said: "Utility companies know that the future is in renewables, but they're not going to go down without putting up a fight." (Additional reporting by Nichola Groom in Los Angeles, Christoph Steitz in Frankfurt, Rory Carroll in San Francisco and Jose Elias Rodriguez in Madrid; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
Kevin Winter / Getty ImagesDreamWorks CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg.Japan's SoftBank is in talks to acquire DreamWorks Animation, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal. A potential price for the deal was not known, the report said. As of Friday's market close DreamWorks had a market cap of just less than $2 billion. DreamWorks Animation has produced films including "Shrek", "Madagascar", and "How To Train Your Dragon." The report said that a deal for DreamWorks would provide SoftBank — which owns about 80% of Sprint and earlier this year sought to combine Sprint with T-Mobile before abandoning the deal earlier this summer — "another route to try to fulfill [its] ambition of challenging America's top two wireless carriers, AT&amp;T and Verizon." DreamWorks Animation shares are down more than 37% year-to-date, and the Journal said news of a potential deal comes a "crucial juncture" for the company. From WSJ: The development comes at a crucial juncture for DreamWorks Animation and its chief executive, Jeffrey Katzenberg, one of Hollywood's highest-profile executives, who has sought to define a long-term strategy that would help the company counteract a recent spell of mixed box-office results. Since spinning off from DreamWorks SKG and going public in 2004, DreamWorks Animation stock has largely risen and fallen on the box-office performance of its feature films, something Mr. Katzenberg has been trying hard in recent years to change. A string of box-office disappointments has severely depressed the company's share price, forcing Mr. Katzenberg to assure investors that moves in industries like television, digital video and consumer products will help make its stock price less reliant on the two to three feature films the company releases annually. The Journal adds that pursuing this deal makes SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son the first Japanese investor to chase a deal in Hollywood since the Japanese economic bubble of the late 1980s.  Earlier this month, SoftBank said it would book a gain of a bit less than $5 billion on the sale of a portion of its stake in Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that went public in the largest IPO in US stock market history.  SoftBank has a 32% stake in Alibaba, which it first acquired 14 years ago for $20 million; that stake is now worth $71 billion, the Journal said.  (via WSJ) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba CEO Jack Ma.BEIJING (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd has bought a 15% stake in hospitality technology provider Beijing Shiji Information Technology Co Ltd for 2.81 billion yuan ($458.66 million), marking its first major investment since raising $25 billion in a record-breaking initial public offering. Shiji provides IT consulting to hotels and sells software that manages room reservations, purchasing and inventory and point of sales systems. It distributes its products to high-end hotels in China, with clients including Grant Hyatt Hotels, Marriott International Inc, Westin Hotels and Resorts and Sofitel Luxury Hotels, according to its website. The deal was disclosed in a regulatory filing Sunday with the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, where Shiji trades publicly. Alibaba could not immediately provide comment. (Reporting by Gerry Shih and Matthew Miller, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
"Twilight Zone."Imagine a universe where there was no economic recovery.LONDON (Reuters) - On one side of the Atlantic they're trying to refill the punchbowl. On the other they're getting ready to take it away. This week, investors may get a clearer idea why. The European Central Bank will spell out on Thursday its latest attempt to steer the euro zone away from the prospect of damaging deflation, following the latest snapshot of consumer price pressures on Tuesday. U.S. jobs numbers on Friday will probably confirm that the fast-recovering American economy has reached the point where the Federal Reserve can finally halt its massive bond-buying stimulus. The contrast between the U.S. and euro zone economies has grown increasingly stark, adding to the pressure on the ECB and European leaders to revive growth in their corner of the world. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew last week laid bare Washington's long-standing frustrations with the reluctance of European governments to increase public spending. The risk of the euro zone sliding into deflation and deeper stagnation is adding to the drag on the global economy from a slowdown in China, where authorities are trying to rein in lending, and concerns about conflict in the Middle East. But instead of fiscal action by European governments, it is action by the ECB that is the most likely spur for the region. After surprising markets with an interest rate cut at its September meeting and trying to get banks to take cheap loans to boost lending, the ECB on Thursday is due to give details of its plan to unblock corporate credit by buying repackaged loans. Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist with Jefferies in London, said investors wanted an idea of the size of the program to buy asset-backed securities and covered bonds. This would help them gauge when the ECB might start buying government bonds, a much more powerful - and controversial - form of stimulus. Economists have widely ranging guesses as to the size of the program, and Alexandrovich said that the bigger it proved to be, the longer the ECB was likely to hold off from buying government bonds. Reuters reported this month that initial plans for the ABS and covered bond program foresaw up to 500 billion euros ($640 billion) in purchases. ECB President Mario Draghi has said the bank wants to push its balance sheet back up to the levels of early 2012, or about 3 trillion euros, compared with 2 trillion euros now. Tuesday's consumer price data is likely to underscore how close the euro zone is to succumbing to deflation. Inflation in the 18 countries sharing the currency is expected to fall to 0.3 percent in September, its lowest level in nearly five years. Economists at Nomura saw "a clear sign that euro area policy makers are losing their grip on inflation expectations".   WAGE CONUNDRUM In the United States, the challenge for policymakers looks very different with attention focused on when interest rates will start to rise after nearly six years at near zero. The U.S. economy looks to be on course for growth of about 2 or 2.5 percent this year, and the Federal Reserve intends to halt its bond-buying program in October. Data due on Friday is expected to show employers hired 219,000 people in September, a bounce-back from a surprise slip in August to 142,000. "The message from the Fed is 'watch the data' which is why the numbers next week will be very closely watched, maybe much more so than in recent months," said Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. strategist with TD Securities. As well as the jobs data, figures on consumer spending, manufacturing and trade are likely to show the U.S. recovery firmly on track. Even so, earnings have failed to respond much to the pick-up in jobs growth, something pointed out by Fed Chair Janet Yellen and which could delay a first rate hike. Goldman Sachs says that its number-crunching shows that growth in wages is becoming an increasingly reliable indicator of how much slack there is in the economy. Noting how earnings growth lagged behind inflation in the United States, the euro zone, Britain and Japan in the second quarter, the investment bank predicted central banks would take their time to start raising record-low interest rates with the Fed only doing so in the third quarter of next year. The Bank of England is expected to raise rates before the Fed, and upward revisions to the pace of economic growth in 2013 and the first two quarters of this year - which are expected to be announced on Tuesday - will add to the sense of an economy firing on almost all of its cylinders. But like the Fed, the BoE has put weak growth in pay and labor costs at the heart of its thinking and has signaled a first rate hike is only likely to come in the spring of 2015. "While estimates of recent GDP growth may be nudged up, we doubt that these revisions will have major effects on the outlook for fiscal or monetary policy," economists at consultancy Capital Economics said in a note to clients.   (Writing by William Schomberg; additional reporting by Eva Taylor in Frankfurt; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
(AP Photo/Adriana Sapone)In this June 26, 2014 photo, Riccardo Cordi' stands on a terrace in Reggio Calabria, Sicily, Italy with the Strait of Messina in the background. Cordi' was exiled to Messina during a pioneering anti-mafia program for juveniles, a kind of rehab away from the mob. LOCRI, Italy (AP) — First Italy fought its mafia mobsters by confiscating their wealth. Now judges are taking away something more precious: their sons. Riccardo Cordi', a shy 18-year-old scion of one of Italy's most notorious mob families, is a pioneer in a new strategy to fight the mafia by exiling crime clan sons from their homes and families. Riccardo is the first of about 20 sons sent into a kind of rehab away from the mob by juvenile courts in the southern region of Calabria, home to the dangerous 'ndrangheta syndicate. By age 16, Riccardo seemed destined to go the way of his father, a reputed boss gunned down in a turf war, and three elder brothers in prison on mafia-related convictions. Their photos line the wall of the fortress-like Cordi' home in Calabria, seen in an exclusive visit by The Associated Press, in a testimony to the rule of blood in the powerful 'ndrangheta. But when Riccardo was charged with attempted theft and damage to a police car, judge Roberto Di Bella followed up his acquittal with a startling order: The 'ndrangheta family prince would be sent away to Sicily until he turned 18. Di Bella had sent Riccardo's three brothers to prison and wanted to spare the last son a similar fate. He cited legal provisions that allowed courts to remove minors from families incapable of properly raising them. Riccardo's mother seethed, but there was nothing she could do. "If you don't like it, we'll take him away anyway," the judge told her. Riccardo was placed in a Sicilian facility for troubled youths where nobody cared that he was a Cordi'. Rules were rigid, including no going out at night. Everyone made their own bed and sat down for meals at a communal table. "It was tough. I was counting the days," Riccardo said in interviews with The AP. The judge put Riccardo under the wing of a fledgling psychologist, Enrico Interdonato. The psychologist had helped launch a courageous band of youths who encourage Sicilian business owners to stop paying "protection" money to the Mafia. It was an audacious pairing, because the Cordi' crime clan was itself alleged to be in the protection racket. This unlikely mentor helped Riccardo understand the terrible human toll of organized crime, taking him incognito to ceremonies for Mafia victims. If the psychologist acted as a surrogate brother, a construction company owner practically became Riccardo's second father. Mariano Nicotra told Riccardo what happened when he refused to pay protection money: His car was torched, his daughter ostracized. Nicotra even gave away the family dog, because Mafia threats made walks dangerous. Nicotra saw something in Riccardo that few back home even bothered to look for: a normal kid. Slowly Riccardo began to change. Twice a week, he helped out at an after-school center for children from broken homes, even though doing something for nothing is an alien concept in the 'ndrangheta. He moved stiffly, always buttoned up, wearing a jacket even at outings at the sea. But he came willingly, a supervisor recalled. One day, he surprised everybody by clucking like a hen to make the children laugh. Riccardo's exile wasn't all hard work. On Saturday nights, Interdonato took Riccardo out for pizza and beers, and even to discos. There, he earned respect because of his personality, not his name. Just weeks before he was due to leave, Riccardo rebelled. He packed his bags. He wanted out. His mother helped persuade him to stay. On his 18th birthday — Feb. 8, 2014 — Riccardo's exile ended. The after-school center treated him to a birthday cake with strawberries. Soon afterward, he returned home to Locri. In a letter to Corriere della Sera in May, Riccardo made clear he wasn't repudiating his family. But he wrote that he now wants a "clean" life. He recalled how one morning in exile, he went to the sea, from where he could see Calabria. "This time, however, I saw it from another perspective: I was seeing it from another place," he said. "But it was I who was different." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgWelcome to Herzogenaurach.HERZOGENAURACH Germany (Reuters) - Adidas needs world-class designers, brand experts and technical whizzkids to improve its image against U.S. rival Nike, but persuading them to move to its headquarters in rural Germany is difficult. Adidas has been losing market share to the world's biggest sportswear brand Nike, which is seen as far cooler in consumer surveys and is based near the hip U.S. city of Portland, Oregon. Adidas acknowledges it is hard to recruit at its headquarters near the Bavarian town of Herzogenaurach, particularly for design, marketing and digital roles, and admits it missed trends in the U.S. market, where Under Armour &lt;ua.n&gt; has just overtaken it as No. 2 behind Nike. Nike's better than expected earnings on Sept. 25 underscored its ascendancy. Adidas is responding by locating some key design roles in the United States at the same time as investing heavily in new facilities at its home base near the historic Bavarian town where Adidas was founded by shoe maker Adi Dassler in 1949. "We need a lot of that top talent that is cutting edge. Ideally, they are working in the tech industry, in marketing organizations or are coming from top competitors. We need an environment that appeals to them," said Steve Fogarty, who is responsible for employer branding and digital recruiting "Designers tend to gravitate to very large, international cities like Berlin, Amsterdam, London and it is a bit harder to convince them to move to the center of Germany." REUTERS/Michaela RehleInside Adidas HQ.Eric Liedtke, the American who took over as Adidas head of global brands in March, has promoted Paul Gaudio to the role of global creative director and moved him from Herzo to the firm's U.S. base in Portland in a bid to turn around its fortunes in the world's biggest market for sporting goods. Close to 1,000 Adidas staff are based in Portland, compared with Nike's 8,500-strong workforce in the area. Gaudio announced on Wednesday that Adidas will open a small creative studio in New York's Brooklyn district in 2015 to be led by three young footwear designers he has poached from Nike with a mission to explore design direction for the brand. That will complement existing creative centers in Shanghai, Tokyo and Rio, but the vast majority of the company's hundreds of designers for football, outdoor, Originals fashion, training and running products remain based in Herzo. Adidas shares are down more than a third this year, most recently suffering from a third profit warning in a year in July that the firm blamed in part on a disappointing performance in North America, particularly from its golf business. Adidas trades at 17 times expected earnings, at a discount to Nike's 22.5 times and fast-growing Under Armour's 58 times. Despite the new designers in the United States, long-serving Adidas Chief Executive Herbert Hainer, himself a native of Bavaria, remains committed to the company's base in a region proud of its strong economy and companies including BMW, Siemens, Audi, Munich Re and Allianz. About 3,900 of the total Adidas staff of 52,500 work in and around Herzo, about a third of them from outside Germany, and Hainer said last month the company planned to add 100-150 new staff at its headquarters every year. REUTERS/Michael DalderAn engineer runs over a surface with high speed cameras to test an Adidas running shoe at the Adidas innovation laboratory. While Bavaria has a reputation for beer festivals, lederhosen and conservative politics, Nike's home town of Portland is a city of 600,000 that prides itself on its liberal values and environmental awareness, as well as a proliferation of trendy eateries and microbreweries. Based on a campus in Beaverton, seven miles (11 km) outside Portland, Nike's location in the American northwest also raised questions in its early days in the 1960s, with founder and Oregon native Phil Knight saying everybody originally thought it should be located in New England or the South. But Portland has since become a magnet for the global footwear industry, helped by the relatively short hop to Asian production hubs and a youthful talent pool, prompting Adidas to move its North America headquarters there from New Jersey in 1993, and drawing U.S. brands like Columbia Sportwear and Keen. Herzo, by contrast, is a town of just 24,000 people set in rolling fields, though many Adidas staff commute from the nearby university town of Erlangen or the city of Nuremberg, known for its walled old town, gingerbread and sausages but not for the most vibrant nightlife or fashion scene. Nuremberg has an airport with direct flights to many cities in Europe but not further afield and there is no train link to Herzo from Nuremberg or Erlangen, meaning most staff have to commute by car. Herzo's biggest employer is family-owned Schaeffler, which has 9,000 staff in the town, mostly in technical roles producing precision products for the auto and aerospace industry. It is also home to rival sportswear firm Puma &lt;pumg.de&gt;. Conscious that it was not the best location for a big global consumer brand, Adidas considered leaving Herzo in the 1990s when the company was trying to rebuild its fortunes after flirting with bankruptcy following the death of founder Dassler in 1978 and then his son Horst in 1987. But when the departure of U.S. troops from Germany at the end of the Cold War freed up the military base outside Herzo, local authorities persuaded Adidas to stay. It moved its headquarters to the base in 1998 from an overcrowded office in downtown Herzo and has been expanding the campus ever since. Herzogenaurach mayor German Hacker said surveys showed that foreign inhabitants particularly value the high quality of life and security that the town offers. "Herzogenaurach is a sheltered and manageable town. That is its charm, but you can get to big towns in 10-15 minutes if you want," he said. One former employee, who declined to be named because they still work on a contract basis for Adidas, said they left the company because they found living in Bavaria too boring. "It is so odd that this company is in the middle of farmland. It doesn't have anything to do with style," the person said. Adidas recruiting expert Fogarty, who spent three years working in Herzo but moved back to Portland last year, says the vast majority of staff describe working in Germany as an amazing experience once they arrive. He set up a website to extol the virtues of Herzo, featuring employees from around the world praising the rural running tracks near the office, local beer festivals and the proximity to Alpine ski slopes. (http://herzo.adidas-group.com/) Fogarty, who often has to get up at the crack of dawn in Portland to speak to colleagues nine hours ahead in Herzo, said Adidas does not lose staff due to the location of its base as it is flexible about where people work. "While our headquarters is technically in Herzo, the opportunity to work in many locations is already here, so why invest in moving the headquarters?" he said. However, the experience of Puma, founded by Adi Dassler's brother Rudolf after the two split a joint business, shows the pitfalls of dispersing key staff. Puma had based its product management and design team for its lifestyle range in London to be closer to fashion trends, but decided last year to move the division to Herzo as it sought to centralize functions as part of a restructuring program. Puma is in the process of trying to reaffirm its sporting roots after sales tumbled in recent years. Puma had lost its reputation for sports performance gear by moving too far into the fashion business. Despite investing in fashion brands like NEO and Originals, Adidas has so far stayed true to its sporting heritage. Adidas recently announced plans to build two new buildings - with a capacity for 3,600 staff - at its "World of Sports" campus outside Herzo and is about to open a 16-metre-high climbing wall in the grounds. The Adidas campus already features sports fields and stylish buildings including a futuristic low-rise "brand center" clad in black glass that opened in 2006 and a marketing and operations office called "Laces" that opened in 2011 and features criss-crossing walkways above a light-filled atrium. "You can work in a dull office in the middle of Munich or an awesome office two hours north of Munich," said Christian Dzieia, Adidas director of property development. An on-site fitness center with daily yoga and aerobics classes opened last year as well as a bilingual kindergarten for 110 children and a campus canteen revamped with input from German celebrity chef Holger Stromberg. "We're hiring a lot of people with a huge passion for sport whose eyes light up when they walk around the campus," said Fogarty. "You have the best of both worlds, where you can walk onto this international campus with a lot of high-tech facilities and then go have lunch in a thousand-year-old Bavarian village."  (editing by Anna Willard and Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLavrov speaks during a news conference on the sidelines of the the 69th U.N. General Assembly at U.N. Headquarters in New YorkMOSCOW (Reuters) - Moscow called on Sunday for a new "reset 2.0" in relations with Washington, saying the situation in Ukraine that had led to Western sanctions against Russia was now improving thanks to Kremlin peace initiatives. Washington and Brussels accuse Moscow of supporting a pro-Russian rebellion in eastern Ukraine and have imposed financial sanctions, which they have repeatedly tightened since Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea peninsula in March. The conflict has brought relations between Moscow and the West to their lowest level since the end of the Cold War. U.S. President Barack Obama said last week that the sanctions could be lifted if Russia takes the path of peace and diplomacy. In a television interview, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said it was time to repeat the "reset", Washington's name for an attempt to improve ties early in Obama's presidency. "We are absolutely interested in bringing the ties to normal but it was not us who destroyed them. Now they require what the American would probably call a 'reset'," Lavrov said, according to a transcript of the interview on his ministry's website. "The current U.S. administration is destroying today much of the cooperation structure that it created itself along with us. Most likely, something more will come up - a reset no.2 or a reset 2.0," he said. Shortly after Obama took office in 2009, his then Secretary of State Hilary Clinton presented Lavrov with a red "reset" button intended to signal a fresh start to relations that had been strained under Obama's predecessor George W. Bush. In a diplomatic gaffe much mocked at the time, the button bore a Russian label that said "overload" instead of "reset"; the two words are similar in Russian. Lavrov said that thanks to "initiatives of the Russian President", the situation was improving on the ground in Ukraine, where a ceasefire has been in place for several weeks. The Sept.5 ceasefire is largely holding though some fighting has continued in places including the rebel stronghold of Donetsk. "The ceasefire is taking shape, though of course not without problems. Monitoring mechanisms have been introduced, talks between Russia, the European Union and Ukraine have started, gas talks have restarted," Lavrov said. Western countries say thousands of Russian troops have fought in Ukraine and accuse Russia of sending weapons, including a surface-to-air missile used to shoot down a Malaysian airliner over rebel-held territory in July. Moscow denies participating in the conflict or arming the rebels. Lavrov also repeated Russian criticism of the U.S.-led air campaign against Islamic State fighters in Syria, saying Washington was guilty of a "double standard" for refusing to cooperate with Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, a Russian ally. Lavrov said that despite the Western sanctions, Russia did not feel isolated on the world stage. Moscow has responded to the sanctions by banning imports of most food from Western countries. "We feel no isolation. But, having said that, I want to emphasise in particular that we do not want to go to extremes and abandon the European and American directions in our foreign economic cooperation," Lavrov said. "We have no desire to continue a sanctions war, trading blows," Lavrov also said. "First of all, it is important that our partners understand the futility of ultimatums and threats."   (Reporting by Gabriela Baczynska; Editing by Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauBERLIN (Reuters) - Venerable old airlines Lufthansa and Air France know the smart money is in the low-cost market –Ryanair raised its forecasts again on Thursday - but powerful labor unions are keeping them from the bounty. The full-cost airlines were slow to respond to the explosive growth of the likes of Ryanair and easyJet from the late 1990s for fear of cannibalizing their main revenue and because the upstarts were not directly competing on the same routes, and the efforts of Lufthansa and Air France were modest at best. But now, with half of Europe's air travel market seized by the budget airlines, it is no longer a lack of will or foresight that is holding back the two carriers. Air France's big plans to expand its Transavia low-cost unit led to a costly two-week strike by French pilots who fear the project would mean lower pay and jobs moving elsewhere. Air France pilots only agreed to end the strike on Sunday, a union official told Reuters.  "I can confirm that the SNPL (the airline's main union) has decided to put an end to the strike," Julien Doboz, spokesman for the sister Air France pilot union SPAF, told Reuters. Lufthansa, for its part, plans to expand its little-known regional carrier Eurowings, and is considering setting up a new low-cost long-haul arm, but is running into similar headwinds. Lufthansa said on Thursday that pilots had been unwilling to engage in talks in trying to reduce costs on certain routes to Asia, where it has already agreed cost reductions with cabin crew, catering and maintenance staff. The pilots have also taken strike action this year over retirement benefits. Industry experts say the pilots haven't grasped the threat to the legacy carriers from low-cost rivals and fast-growing Middle Eastern airlines. Such threats have already prompted both Lufthansa and Air France to cut their earnings expectations this year, while Ryanair basked in its second uptick in two months last week. "There is a need to generate a better understanding of the tough market realities which they face, namely tough competition and low margins," independent aviation analyst John Strickland told Reuters. While Ryanair has reported an operating margin of between 13 and 15 percent since 2010, Lufthansa's has fluctuated between 3 and 5 percent, and Air France's has been negative. The pressure on margins is only likely to get worse if planemaker Boeing's forecasts are right. It expects low-fare airlines will operate 35 percent of the world's single-aisle planes by 2033, compared with 27 percent today. While costs have risen, it says air fares have come down by about 16 percent since 1995.  GETTING TOUGH Lufthansa gets around half of its revenues from higher priced premium tickets, but Chief Executive Carsten Spohr, who took over in May, says Lufthansa needs to do more to capture the price-sensitive leisure market, which accounts for around 80 percent of short-haul European flights. Since its existing domestic budget carrier Germanwings has turned out too costly to compete, he is aiming to use Eurowings for a new run at low-cost expansion in Europe, as its costs are 20 percent lower. The company placed an order for 10 jets for Eurowings last week.  Fuel is typically the biggest expense for airlines, making up around 30 percent of the cost base, but pay comes a close second, at 20-30 percent. Stripping out fuel, Ryanair has the lowest unit cost in Europe, followed by Spain's Vueling - part of the IAG Group - easyJet and Norwegian Air Shuttle. To stand any chance of competing, that means legacy carriers need to cut staff costs. Industry watchers point to the example of British Airways' parent IAG, which has struck some tough labor agreements, such as with BA cabin crew in 2011 after a protracted period of strikes that cost it around 150 million pounds ($244 million), and more recently with Iberia pilots and ground staff. Analysts estimate BA's labor costs are around 15 percent lower than the average for legacy airlines. "These changes are allowing IAG to invest in new fleet and routes which will help ensure a brighter future for Iberia and its work force. Lessons need to be learned at Air France and Lufthansa," Strickland said. Union Investment, one of the biggest 15 shareholders in Lufthansa, said Spohr has to take a firm line with the unions. "The Anglo-Saxon companies are much tougher, as we saw with British Airways," portfolio manager Michael Gierse told Reuters. Joerg Handwerg, board member for German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit, told Reuters it objected not to cost cuts but to "Lufthansa trying to dissolve collectively agreed pay structures". UNEVEN FIGHT Norwegian Air Shuttle gets around high domestic staff costs by using crew based in Asia to staff its flights between the United States and Europe, but the unions are unlikely to accept that at Air France and Lufthansa, analysts say, especially for the nations' flag-carriers. In such an uneven fight, Gierse doubts the wisdom of Lufthansa even trying to expand its low-cost offering. "Lufthansa should focus everything on their core product, namely flying business travelers around the world," he said. If Air France can't reach a deal with its unions, it too might have to retreat to its more profitable segments. "The backstop position may be to shrink the short-haul altogether," said James Halstead, airlines consultant at Aviation  Strategy. Even if the pair can make headway on cost cuts, the budget market is not standing still. It is becoming more crowded as carriers such as Vueling and Norwegian challenge Ryanair and easyJet. A report by aviation consultancy Prologis shows that Vueling, acquired by IAG in 2013, now serves 129 destinations, a more than fivefold increase since 2009, catching up with easyJet's 130 destinations and the 179 offered by Ryanair. Also, low-cost carriers are evolving to offer more services and fly to bigger airports to attack the legacy carriers' hold on corporate and higher paying travelers. "It's an interesting time in the low-cost industry in Europe," AT Kearney consultant Rene Steinhaus told Reuters. "Where once the low-cost carriers shied away from direct competition, they are no longer doing so." That is troubling news for legacy carriers struggling with high costs and weak margins. "The problem for legacy carriers is the more they are dealing with legacy issues, such as unions, who don't see the way forward, the harder it will be to set up a subsidiary and call it a low-cost airline," Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said at a conference in Germany this week. The CEO of Qatar Airways, Akbar Al Baker, put it more bluntly when talking about the challenges faced by Spohr. "I'm sure he envies me very much because we don't have to take the crap of the unions," he told Bloomberg Television last week.  (Reporting by Victoria Bryan; Additional reporting by Tim Hepher; Editing by Will Waterman and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
By Mike Saechang on FlickrBut does it make sense?(Reuters) - A proposed merger of Internet pioneers AOL Inc and Yahoo Inc could create a nimbler player in Web video, but strong growth, the measure of success in Silicon Valley, would remain elusive. Investors are revisiting one of the most speculated Internet combinations, after activist investor Starboard on Friday pressured Yahoo to merge with AOL. A pairing could help the companies compete in their core advertising business. But even combined, they would remain but a shadow of the Internet powerhouses they once were, analysts and advertising experts said. Cost cutting after a merger would generate plenty of savings, some $1 billion, according to Starboard's analysis. Accelerating business growth would be harder. "Neither company is a leader in ad dollars, and other than cost savings, there is little to gain by combining them," said Erik Gordon, a professor at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. DOING THE MANAGEMENT SHUFFLE A merger would suck up a lot of management time as the companies integrate staff and systems. In the meantime, the combined company could fall even further behind the competition, said Gordon. "You’ve saved costs and you’ve become a more efficient slow-growth company," he said. In mobile, a high-growth area in which Yahoo and AOL have both been playing catch-up, joining forces would create little apparent benefit, analysts said. Yahoo and AOL have a meek and decreasing share of the digital ad market, according to data from research firm eMarketer. Google Inc is expected to command more than a third of the world's $140 billion digital advertising spending this year, with No. 2 Facebook Inc grabbing about 8 percent. AOL's share is less than 1 percent and Yahoo's is 2.5 percent, both down from 2013.   SOME BENEFITS Still, analysts and advertising experts think a tie-up would help when it comes to video programming and newer, automated ways of buying advertising. Last year AOL made its biggest acquisition under CEO Tim Armstrong when it bought an electronic video advertising platform Adap.tv for $405 million. That technology could fit well with Yahoo's recent efforts to deliver more online video programming, such as videos about technology and fashion, along with old episodes of the Saturday Night Live television program. Both companies could benefit from combined content and audience, said Amy Dickerson, vice president, director of digital at Spark, a media agency owned by Publicis. Pairing up would make Yahoo and AOL a strong No. 3 player in the display advertising market, behind Google and Facebook, said Pivotal Research Group analyst Brian Wieser.   SIZE MATTERS "The reason why Facebook's size and Google's size matters and helps them so much is that they are a one-stop shop for so many advertisers," said Wieser. AOL's heavy investment in programmatic advertising that allows marketers to automate the buying and selling of ads is another asset that would help Yahoo. AOL has been reaping the benefits. Last quarter, advertising revenue, almost 75 percent of AOL overall revenue, jumped 20 percent in large part to its programmatic efforts and Adap.tv acquisition. Additionally, AOL ad pricing, meaning what it gets for each ad, is growing while Yahoo's is shrinking, noted JMP Securities analyst Ronald Josey. "AOL is specifically doing better in their core business and Yahoo has room for improvement for sure," he said. Combining two online services is not a sure bet. Yahoo and Microsoft Corp voiced similar logic when they struck a Web search deal in 2009. With Microsoft technology powering searches and search advertising for both companies, the partners hoped to mount a more competitive challenge to Google, the world's No. 1 search engine. But the boost in search advertising prices has failed to materialize so far, and Yahoo has tried to slow the roll out of Microsoft technology on its websites in certain countries.   (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York and Alexei Oreskovic in San Francisco; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
