WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration on Friday issued new law-enforcement guidelines aimed at encouraging banks to start doing business with state-licensed marijuana suppliers, like those in Colorado, even though such enterprises remain illegal under federal law. Administration officials said the policy shift seeks to address problems faced by newly licensed recreational marijuana retailers in Colorado, and medical cannabis dispensaries in other states, that must operate on a cash-only basis, without access to financial services or credit. It remained to be seen whether many banks would feel sufficiently assured by the new policy, which the Justice and Treasury departments outlined in writing to federal prosecutors and financial institutions nationwide. The guidance stopped short of promising immunity for banks. But it said criminal prosecution for money laundering and other crimes is unlikely if banks meet a series of conditions, such as avoiding business with marijuana operations that sell to minors or engage in illegal drug trafficking. If banks turn a blind eye to illegal activity by failing, for example, "to conduct appropriate due diligence of the customers' activities, such prosecution might be appropriate," Deputy Attorney General James Cole warned in the memorandum. The memo builds on guidelines issued in August when the administration promised new leeway to states experimenting with legalization of marijuana, saying it would focus enforcement against pot suppliers found to be operating outside of state regulation or as a front for outlawed narcotics trade. The latest directive is designed to address public safety issues raised by legitimate, state-licensed cannabis suppliers' lack of access to financial services, officials said. Proprietors of state-permitted marijuana distributors in Colorado and elsewhere have complained of having to purchase inventory, pay employees and conduct sales entirely in cash, requiring elaborate and expensive security measures and putting them at risk of robbery. It also has made accounting for state sales tax collection difficult. Last month, Colorado became the first state to open retail outlets legally permitted to sell marijuana to adults for recreational purposes, in a system similar to what many states have long had in place for alcohol sales. Washington state is expected to follow Colorado's lead later this year. The number of states approving marijuana for medical purposes also has been growing. California was the first in 1996. It has since been followed by about 20 other states and the District of Columbia. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last month that the administration was planning ways to accommodate marijuana businesses so they would not always be dealing in cash. "There's a public safety component to this. Huge amounts of cash, substantial amounts of cash just kind of lying around with no place for it to be appropriately deposited, is something that would worry me just from a law enforcement perspective," Holder said on January 23 at an appearance at the University of Virginia. The American Bankers Association expressed skepticism the guidance would make much difference. Pot sales still violate federal law, as the government noted in its memo, so banks are still at risk, said Rob Rowe, a lawyer for the trade group. "Compliance by a bank will still require extensive resources to monitor any of these businesses, and it's unlikely the benefits would exceed the costs," Rowe said in an email to Reuters. A separate memorandum from the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) laid out the due diligence that banks should carry out, both before working with a marijuana business and during the relationship. Financial companies should verify state licenses, understand the normal activity for the business and monitor for suspicious activity, the memo said. "Now that some states have elected to legalize and regulate the marijuana trade, FinCEN seeks to move from the shadows the historically covert financial operations of marijuana businesses," agency Director Jennifer Shasky Calvery said in a statement. FinCEN expects big banks will still be wary about holding the money of pot retailers with state licenses, a senior official at the agency said. Still, after consulting with state banking regulators, particularly those in Colorado and Washington state, federal authorities said they believe the new guidance will get more marijuana money into the banking system. Those most likely to open their doors to marijuana business first would be "probably some of the smaller or medium banks rather than some of the largest ones in this country," a FinCEN official said, adding that some banks were already in the practice of flagging money from marijuana businesses in their filings with regulators. "The amount of money in this business is significant," the official said. Advocates for the marijuana industry said they would continue to press Congress for changes in federal law that would offer more reassurance and that would survive beyond the Obama administration. President Barack Obama is scheduled to leave office in January 2017. "Congress must act quickly to solve the problem before we witness a tragedy," Michael Elliott, executive director of the Marijuana Industry Group, which represents pot retailers in Colorado, said in a statement. The guidance would not protect banks from state laws, and if a wire transfer that moved marijuana-linked money touched a state where the drug is under strict control, a bank that handled the transfer could be open to state prosecution, experts in money-laundering said. Individual banks may have difficulty identifying which state-licensed businesses would run afoul of the federal guidance, said Peter Djinis, a former regulatory policy official with FinCEN, now in private practice in Florida. "These complicated and vague policies continue the uncertainty that banks have in determining whether to take the risk of conducting financial transactions with otherwise legitimate marijuana businesses," Djinis said. (Additional reporting by Aruna Viswanatha, Steve Gorman and Brett Wolf; Editing by Howard Goller, Jan Paschal, Jonathan Oatis and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIn love and economics, words only go so far. That's why we turn to charts... in both love and economics. Elizabeth Fosslien, a chartsmith and analyst at Arc Worldwide, created 14 admittedly cheesy charts that communicate love through economic puns. "Give them one of these (charts) and anything they receive next year will be a step up. It's called expectation management and is the key to a long and happy relationship," she says. Check out these swoon-inducing charts that she created, perfect for telling your true love just exactly how much they mean to you. Thanks to Elizabeth for giving us permission to feature these charts! FREE AppDownload
Screenhot via AnyClipFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. What Investors Need To Consider Before Allocating To Cash (Morningstar) At a time when investors are worried about a stock market correction and rising interest rates, many are wondering how much cash they should hold. "There's some grey area between pricing the market--which is what I think the best value investors try to do, what Warren Buffett talks about doing, when we don't try to time the economic cycle or the market cycle but are looking at price relative to value," says Josh Peters, editor of Morningstar DividendInvestor, "and what's just flat out market timing." "I think it's better to think about your asset allocation, including the piece that you have in cash, about what works best for your own financial needs and preferences, what your risk tolerance is, certain cash outflows, and large bills that you have coming due perhaps like a college tuition in a couple of years. You should have that money in cash; it shouldn't even be in long-term bonds. It's exposed to loss there. You know you're going to need to make the withdrawals. The money that you're able to leave there permanently, you can think more opportunistically, but you don't want to upend your strategy just based on a sense that the market's gone up a lot and can't keep going higher from here." How One Advisor Used The Husband/Wife Dynamic As His Firm's Selling Point (The Wall Street Journal)  Jim Webb an advisor at Dallas-based Webb Financial runs an advisor firm with his wife Connie. In an effort to distinguish himself from others he decided to use their husband/wife dynamic as the firm's selling point. "When I first considered Connie and I doing meetings together, I thought we were doubling the labor cost. It's more expensive to have two people in the meeting," he writes in a new Wall Street Journal column. . But that doesn't consider the depth of the interaction. "I think we're able to provide more value to clients by having two people work with them. Within our broker-dealer environment, our average investible asset is three times what it is for the normal adviser. Our approach helps us go deeper with fewer people and we have gotten more referrals as a result." Stock Market Returns And GDP Per Capita Are Inversely Correlated (Credit Suisse)  It is often assumed that countries with higher growth rates produce better investment returns. But Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton, researchers at London Business School, found this to be untrue. They revisited the subject in the latest Global Investment Returns Yearbook published by the Credit Suisse Research Institute and cited a few key reasons they disagree. 1. "Although past economic growth does not predict subsequent equity market movements, stock prices do predict future economic growth."2. "A strategy of buying the shares of countries that are advancing economically is a strategy of buying companies that are on average becoming less risky, and hence offer a lower expected return."3. "Short-selling can be costly and risky, thereby allowing 'hot' markets to remain overpriced, and to yield disappointing long-run returns."4. "If that advantage is appreciated and already priced in by investors, there can be no expectation of superior investment returns." Companies Are Holding Back On 401(k) Plans (Bloomberg)  "Employers are squeezing their workers' retirement savings, holding back on both the amount and the timing of 401(k) matching funds and dragging out vesting schedules," report Carol Hymowitz and Margaret Collins Bloomberg. For years it was understood that employers would match what workers saved but that appears to be changing. It was thought that 401(k)s were better than pensions and allowed for more flexibility. But the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College found that the median balance in 401(k) and individual retirement accounts for those between the ages of 55 — 64 was $120,000 in 2010.  Investors Are Spilling Out Of The Emerging Markets At A Record-Setting Rate (Morgan Stanley)  Investors pulled $3.05 billion out of dedicated emerging market funds during the week ending February 12, according to EPFR Global data. This was the sixteenth straight week of outflows. The one positive to this is that the pace of outflows is slowing. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBillionaire investor Carl Icahn dumped more than half of his Netflix stake in the fourth quarter, according to a 13F securities filing.  In the quarter ended December 31, 2013, Icahn held 2,665,557 shares in Netflix after dumping 2,875,509 shares in Q4, data compiled by Bloomberg News shows.  He certainly exited the stock at a really nice profit.  Icahn first took a huge stake in Netflix back on November 19, 2012.  At the time, he owned 4,291,066 shares, or a 9.98 percent stake.  He bought the stock at $58 per share, Netflix said in its 8K filing with the SEC. Netflix has been a massive win for Icahn. The stock has surged more 436% since then.  Netflix currently trades at around $435 per share.   FREE AppDownload
andrewfeinberg/flickrNOPE. Lots of major companies and municipalities have touted switching their truck and bus fleets to natural gas in recent years to take advantage of the Great American Shale Boom. The main benefit is that natural gas saves money — up to a dollar per unit of fuel used. But there's been more ambiguity over another claim: that the switch is eco-friendly. A new study suggests a depressing answer: Switching your truck to natural gas doesn't help mitigate carbon dioxide emissions, at all. The findings were published in a new study in the journal Science on Feb. 14 by 16 different scientists and sponsored by a foundation created by George Mitchell, considered the founding father of fracking. Climate-destroying leaks The climate effects arise from methane leaks that come from pumping, transporting, and using natural gas. The more natural gas that escapes before being completely burned, the more negative the impact on the climate. The researchers analyzed 20 years' worth of methane leak studies to determine their true extent when the fuel is used in different ways. Then, they calculated the environmental cost of a switch to natural gas by comparing how much carbon dioxide gets emitted by existing energy sources like coal and gasoline, versus how much "leaky methane" the natural gas production, delivery, and consumption system creates.  The climate impacts of the leaks proved to be different based on the natural gas's intended usage. They found that the leaks used to deliver and subsequently consume natural gas were more harmful than if those vehicles stuck to plain old diesel. They also found the benefits of switching from coal to natural gas are real.  Varied effects Study co-author Francis O’Sullivan, director of research and analytics at the MIT Energy Initiative, explained in an interview with MIT that the study found when a utility company (those that deliver power to homes and businesses) switches their power supply to natural gas it did actually help mitigate the effects of climate change.  ScienceThe comparative leak ceiling natural gas must not surpass to yield a net benefit from switching to it.But the study found that natural gas leaks would have to be practically non-existent for its benefits to outweigh diesel. Power plants have a much higher threshold for leaks for benefits to be seen. Here's the money quote: "While a good move within the power sector, the shift to natural gas may not be positive for other sectors, like transportation. Substituting natural gas for gasoline appears to yield no appreciable climate benefits. In the case of diesel fuel, switching to natural gas would actually be a negative change for climate efforts. That’s quite an important implication." Natural gas prices have spiked this winter on high demand, but are expected to settle lower in the coming weeks. They ended Friday trading at $5.14/mmBtu. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyValentine's Day can be hard for singletons. But in China some of them seem to have had enough of it. Joe at ChinaSmack reports that one such individual took it upon himself to ruin the day for couples by creating a campaign to buy out odd number movie seats at a screening of Beijing Love Story in Shanghai. This obviously would prevent any couple from sitting next to each other. (Unlike, the U.S. many Asian countries have numbered seating at the cinema.) The man who didn't wish to identify himself told the Shanghai Morning Post, that he was doing this as a joke and that he hoped couples would understand. Tom Philips at The Telegraph reported how dogged the man was. When his attempts raised suspicions at the box office he took to crowdfunding: "The self-described “nerd” used his computer to recruit a group of like-minded online accomplices, setting up a crowd-funding site that was used to pool resources and, eventually, book the tickets. Once their mission had been successfully accomplished, “UP” posted an online message, taunting those whose evening he had ruined. “Want to see a movie on Valentine’s Day? Sorry, you’ll have to sit separately,” he reportedly bragged on an online forum. “Absence makes the heart grow fonder. Give us singles a chance.” Hilarious or spiteful? You decide. (via Reddit user: reducx) FREE AppDownload
Instagram/ TheBrownstoneNYHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who runs $14 billion Third Point LLC, disclosed a huge stake in Blackberry Ltd.  In his fund's latest 13F filing, Third Point held 10 million shares of BlackBerry during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2013. BBRY shares closed at $8.98 today, but are up 3% in after-hours trading. Hedge funds only have to disclose their long equity holdings in these securities filings. Also, keep in mind 13Fs are filed 45 days after the end of each quarter.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Michelle McLoughlin SAC Capital's compliance chief Steve Kessler will step down effective Feb. 28, Bloomberg News' Joanna Ossinger reports citing an internal memo to employees.  Kessler, an attorney who has been practicing law since 1978, said he wanted to spend more time with family Kessler was one of three SAC executives to receive a subpoena from a grand jury during the insider trading probe, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal.  SAC, the once $14 billion Stamford, Conn-based hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, was criminally indicted last summer on insider trading charges. Federal prosecutors charged the fund "with criminal responsibility for insider trading offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by institutional practices that encouraged the widespread solicitation and use of illegal inside information." In November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  Right now, the fund is in the process of finalizing its new corporate structure and selecting a new name, Dealbook recently reported. SAC will no longer manage outside capital and will operate as a family office hedge fund managing about $9 billion of Cohen's personal fortune and money from its employees.  FREE AppDownload
Tomas Bravo/ReutersWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration made it easier on Friday for banks to do business with licensed marijuana companies with less fear of prosecution, further encouraging U.S. states that are experimenting with legalization of the drug.  The Justice and Treasury departments were in the process of outlining the policy in writing to federal prosecutors and financial institutions. The guidance would stop short of promising immunity for banks, but make clear that criminal prosecution for money laundering and other crimes was unlikely if they met a series of conditions, officials said. The guidance was intended to increase the availability of banking services, such as savings and checking accounts, to marijuana shops that typically deal in cash. Last month, Colorado became the first state to open retail outlets legally permitted to sell marijuana to adults for recreational purposes, in a system similar to what many states have long had in place for alcohol sales. Washington state is expected to follow Colorado's lead. The number of states approving marijuana for medical purposes has also been growing. California was the first in 1996. It has since been followed by about 20 other states and the District of Columbia. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last month that the administration was planning ways to accommodate marijuana businesses so they would not always be dealing in cash. "There's a public safety component to this. Huge amounts of cash, substantial amounts of cash just kind of lying around with no place for it to be appropriately deposited, is something that would worry me just from a law enforcement perspective," Holder said on January 23 at an appearance at the University of Virginia. (This version of the story corrects the time reference in paragraph 4 to "last month" from "this month".)  (Editing by Howard Goller and Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz John Paulson has released his quarterly securities filing detailing his fund's long equity holdings for the quarter ended December 31, 2013.  Paulson disclosed a new stake in General Motors, the 13F filing shows. Paulson &amp; Co. held more than 5.25 million shares in GM at the end for the fourth quarter.  Also, in Q4, Paulson dumped his entire stake in Citigroup. He held 1,000,000 shares in Q3.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerPeople sit inside the Bitcoin Embassy in Tel Aviv February 2, 2014. The sparely furnished property opened a few months ago to support a community of Bitcoin fanatics, perhaps the most active in the world, who are out to build just that - a next-generation trading system based on the digital currency. Picture taken February 2, 2014. Let me say this up front: I have no stance on Bitcoin. It seems really cool, and it's a lot of fun to cover.  But Bitcoin evangelists are surely deluding themselves if they think this week's hacks were anything less than a huge setback for widespread Bitcoin adoption. The worst part is, everything seemed to be going so well. Many, including us, had noted how January had seen the longest period of price stability in months. Everyone had passed around megainvestor Marc Andreessen's huge op-ed in the New York Times about Bitcoin's imminent takeover.  And while some were spooked at the prospect of the first real regulations coming down from the New York Department of Financial Services, most believed they would be a good thing. Then the hack hit: An unknown entity exploited a glitch in Bitcoin's core protocol to disrupt the entire Bitcoin ecosystem. It actually started late last week with MtGox, but then quickly spilled over into other major exchanges, including the world's largest USD-traded one, BitStamp. All had to suspend withdrawals, though today most resumed. And then yesterday, someone used the same exploit to steal all Bitcoin belonging to the successor to illicit online marketplace The Silk Road.   Bitcoin was supposed to be immune from this sort of thing. It had often been noted that previous hacking attempts had failed. "By all extant metrics in security system review, this system should have failed instantaneously, at every possible layer," infamous "white hacker" Dan Kaminsky wrote in a piece we published last year. "But the core technology actually works, and has continued to work, to a degree not everyone predicted. Time to enjoy being wrong."  Now we know that's entirely true. And it will take a while for mainstream interest in Bitcoin to recover.  Even before the hack hit, we got a warning that Wall Street is not so enthralled with Bitcoin as some have made it out to be. JP Morgan's chief global forex strategist John Normand said investors should limit exposure to it. "As a medium of exchange, unit of account and store of value, it is vastly inferior to fiat currencies. Since governments are quite unlikely to accord it the status of legal tender, Bitcoin or other virtual currencies would not reach the scale and scope to render them worthwhile for widespread commerce, payments or investment." He added that "many market participants would prefer the accountability of known but fallible entities to one based on a mathematical code." As we wrote this week, the committed Bitcoin community refused to see the hack as anything other than a buying opportunity, and said the coming fixes were simply part of Bitcoin's evolution. Even the largest mainstream adopter, Overstock.com, is still all-in. A spokesman emailed us that, "Around here, most people feel that the fact that Bitcoin has managed to withstand these assaults is a good sign of its resilience. I guess we’re a ‘glass half full’ kind of operation."  But if Bitcoin is still evolving, it's probably not somewhere you want to be, unless you truly, madly, deeply believe in it. As Oleg Andreev, a Paris-based programmer, told us in an email:  "Exchanges could be better, personal wallets could be much better, ATMs are highly desired and not widely deployed yet, education is very lacking (technical, economical, political), easy website integration is lacking etc etc etc. Everyone who invests understands that to some degree. If Bitcoin appeared to be 'ready to use by your mom', then it'd be $1000000/BTC already and 20% of the world would use it daily." That does not scream something that's ready for the masses.  Jesse Powell, the head of Kraken, a bitcoin exchange that was unaffected by the hacks, also admitted that, "Bitcoin is complicated — there's a lot that can be screwed up, which is why people should steer clear of amateur operations." He was referring to places like MtGox, which continues to be the singular focus for how it portrayed its problems. But again, Gox wasn't the only exchange forced to temporarily shut down.  It's possible new regulations could smooth over some of these edges. In comments made this week, NYDFS Superintendent Benjamin Lawsky said major Bitcoin businesses may be subject to capital requirements that presumably would help cushion customers from future events like these.  But if even Bitcoin's savviest players are subject to these kinds of vulnerabilities, we are a long way away from the global Bitcoin takeover.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has filed its 13-F for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2013.  In Q4, Berkshire took a new stake in Liberty Global. Berkshire owned 2,948,285 shares as of December 31, 2013, the filing shows.  Liberty Global is the company headed by John Malone, who also heads Liberty Media.  Charter, which is backed by Liberty Media was pursuing a deal with Time Warner Cable.  Yesterday, TWC announced a deal with Comcast instead.  Berkshire also added a position in Graham Holdings.  In Q4, Berkshire held 1,059,684 shares, the filing shows.  During the quarter, Buffett exited his position in Glaxosmithkline (345,819 shares in Q3), the filing shows. He also dumped his stake in Dish (547,312 shares in Q3).   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid2014 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit models (from L to R) Emily DiDonato, Natasha Barnard and Gigi Hadid tour the floor of the New York Stock Exchange February 13, 2014. Stocks are quietly making their move back to all-time record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Google  BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris has turned to an interesting metric in order to discern the impact of an unusually harsh winter this year on the economy: Google searches for the phrase "school closings," which this month hit the highest level on record. A number of marquee indicators — including nonfarm payroll employment, retail sales, and industrial production — have disappointed relative to consensus estimates, and many lay the blame, at least in part, on the weather. Harris, like many other market economists, has found this effect difficult to model, namely because "national temperature and precipitation data don’t fully capture how the weather impacts the economy." "Consider two kinds of weather events with the same temperature and precipitation: light icy rain in Atlanta and light snow in Boston," says Harris. "The first event shuts down a major city; the second event has no discernible impact." So, Harris has turned to Google searches, the usefulness of which he explains in his latest note to clients. "We think this is a good measure of economic disruption because it proxies for working parents staying at home and sharply reduced travel in general," he says. "The data only go back to 2004, so it is hard prove a statistical link to the economy, but the numbers are impressive: this December and January had the most queries about school closings in the nine years of data. We also find unusually high readings for other queries we test, including 'ice', 'weather' and 'flight cancellations'." Given the recent spike in weather-related search queries like these, Harris is saying what many others across the Street are saying as well: investors may have to wait until April, when economic data for the month of March are released, to get a clean read on the economy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth2014 has brought lots of volatility with it. U.S. stocks had a stellar run last year, but got off to a rocky start this year.  Emerging market currencies and bonds have taken a hit. In an environment where the Fed is tapering its asset purchase program, and investors are worried about rising interest rates in the U.S. and an economic slowdown in China, it can be hard to know what to do. Credit Suisse's Giles Keating, head of research private banking and wealth management, is out with his top seven investment ideas for 2014. Private banks and wealth management firms typically cater to wealthy clients with around $5 million in investible assets or more. Foreign currencies or individual overseas stocks may not be appropriate for most investors. FREE AppDownload
Target/ A Bullseye ViewAMERICA leads the world in many categories: shale-gas production, defence spending, incarceration rates and, alas, payment-card fraud. In December Target, an American retailer, said that hackers had breached its network and stolen payment-card details of about 40m of its customers.  A few months before the Target breach, roughly 152m customers had their information stolen in a hack of Adobe Systems. Last month Neiman-Marcus, a department store, reported a similar breach. For crooks, there are rich pickings in such data. Total global payment-card fraud losses were $11.3 billion in 2012, up nearly 15% from the prior year. The United States--the only country in which counterfeit-card fraud is consistently growing--accounted for 47% of that amount, according to the Nilson Report: card issuers lost $3.4 billion and merchants another $1.9 billion. The EconomistA survey released in 2012 by the Aite Group and ACI Worldwide, a research and a payment-software firm respectively, found that 42% of Americans had experienced some form of payment-card fraud in the preceding five years. Nor is it just Americans who are affected: foreigners whose card data is stolen often find the thieves have little trouble waltzing into stores and making purchases with ersatz cards. Europeans rack up more losses in this way in America than in any other country. In part, fraudsters target the United States because that’s where the cards are. At the end of 2013 there were 1.2 billion debit, credit and pre-paid cards in circulation in America--more than in any other region. That is nearly five cards per adult. But America also makes things easy for fraudsters: alone among developed countries, it still relies exclusively on cards with magnetic strips, which are far less secure than the chip-and-PIN technology used elsewhere. This combines a personal code with a microchip from which it is harder to extract data than a magnetic strip. As of 2012, 45% of the world’s payment cards and 76% of terminals were equipped to use chip-and-PIN. By 2011 this technology had brought some forms of card fraud in Britain to their lowest level in two decades. The spread of chipped cards in Canada brought losses from skimming--stealing data from credit cards--from C$142m ($129m) in 2009 to C$38.5m in 2012. At a series of Senate hearings earlier this month, Target’s CFO said it would spend $100m to roll out chip-and-PIN store-issued credit cards and payment devices that accept them. A consumer advocate urged other card issuers to do the same. Though the switch may cost issuers and merchants as much as $8 billion, interest at long last appears to be growing. Many of those costs may be recoverable over time through lower fraud losses. Chip-and-PIN would also harmonise American and global standards, making it easier for Americans to use their cards abroad and foreigners to use theirs in America. It will make mobile payments easier. And because recent banking regulations have reduced the amount of money banks make from interchange fees on debit cards, issuers are looking to trim costs elsewhere. Fraud losses no longer seem as manageable as they once did. Click here to subscribe to The Economist    FREE AppDownload
After closing 2014 at a then-all-time-high of 1,848, the stock market (represented by the S&amp;P 500) has been on a bit of a wild ride since the beginning of the year. It climbed to its now all-time high of 1,850 on Jan. 15, then tumbled all the way to 1,737 on Feb. 5. Turmoil in the emerging markets had market watchers everywhere saying that this was the beginning of the 10% correction we've been waiting for. Others said this was the beginning of the crash. All of that stuff could still happen. But at 1,838 today, the S&amp;P 500 is now only down 0.6% for the year. And at it's lowest point it was down just 6%. We're not making any calls here. We're just observing that the markets can be quite fickle. Here's the year-to-date chart from Bloomberg: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
The press statement issued by the Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV, the Central Bank) accompanying the release of January inflation data stated that inflationary trends were slowing. However, the data showed that consumer prices rose by 3.3% month on month in January, up from 2.2% in December. On an annual basis, inflation reached 56.3%, marginally higher than December's result. The Central Bank's press releases are becoming increasingly politicised, indicating the domination of the executive branch over the monetary authority. The opening two sentences of the January inflation release stated that the government's "economic war" against "speculators" had eased the rise in consumer prices and problems with shortages of basic goods. This refers to the government's decision prior to the December 8th local elections to seize control of a number of retail chains accused of raising prices too aggressively. Yet the data tell a very different story, with the pace of monthly and annual inflation actually accelerating, and the Central Bank's own scarcity index (which measures the percentage of goods that are unavailable in shops) reaching an all-time high of 28%. The government believes that stepping up threats against private businesses will reduce inflation and ease problems with shortages. In early February, the president, Nicolás Maduro, stated that he was prepared to wage "total economic revolution" in order to ensure a continued supply of consumer goods, even if it meant that the authorities would have to expropriate private firms in order to do so. These statements confirm a complete lack of understanding about the problems causing shortages and driving inflation. Retailers have put up consumer prices because their overheads have risen, mainly reflecting a sharp increase in import costs. With the closure of the official exchange agency in late 2013, businesses no longer have access to US dollars at the fixed rate of BsF6.3:US$1. In theory, this forces the private sector to purchase dollars at a rate of BsF11.4:US$1 through an auction system known as SICAD. However, auctions-which were supposed to be held weekly-have been sporadic, forcing some to resort to the black market for US dollars (where the exchange rate is much weaker). The tone of the Central Bank's press release and the government's reaction to January's inflation data reinforces our current forecast that official policy will fail to reduce inflation. We continue to expect it to rise further in 2014. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Garry JonesAfter opening in the red, the U.S. markets are now firmly in the green. The Dow is up 110 points (0.7%). The S&amp;P 500 is up 8 points (0.4%). The Nasdaq is up 4 pionts (0.1%). Interestingly, this comes in the wake of what most would consider bad news. We just learned industrial production unexpectedly fell 0.3% in January, which was much worse than the 0.2% gain expected. Manufacturing production fell 0.8% in what was the worst drop since 2009. "Manufacturing output fell 0.8% and drilling and mining 0.9%, but the Fed said the weakness was "partly because of the severe weather that curtailed production in some regions of the country," leading to weather-related plant closures and disruptions at oil and gas drilling facilities," noted Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "The cold weather drove up utility output by 4.1%, thanks to increased demand for heating energy," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "This matters because the implied jump in energy consumption will feed into real consumers' spending." Today's gains come on top of Thursday's gains, which came despite weaker-than-expected retail sales data. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Will Swanton China's Darci Liu is pictured after her heat at the Swatch Girls Pro China surfing competition in Wanning, Hainan Island October 26, 2011.Although Asia's leading stock markets continue to gyrate nervously with the release of every new economic indicator from China and comment from the US Federal Reserve, the outlook for the region has in fact improved over the past quarter. The Economist Intelligence Unit's forecasts remain broadly in line with those issued three months ago, but downside risks have eased-particularly in India and Indonesia. Little has changed in the global outlook in the past three months. Of the three major developed markets, only the EU has seen any significant change in our forecasts for 2014: we now expect the bloc's economy to expand by 1.4%, compared with our forecast in December of 1.2% growth. Economic expansion forecasts for the US and Japan, at 2.6% and 1.7% respectively, remain unchanged. China's fourth-quarter performance last year was roughly in line with our expectations. Although we fractionally downgraded our forecast for the country's real GDP growth in 2014 from 7.3% to 7.2% in the wake of that data, we plan no further downward revisions as a result of the recent weak numbers from the local manufacturing purchasing managers' index in January and February. The Economist Despite relatively stable performances from the world's main economies, the outlook for Asia has nonetheless grown a little more encouraging in recent months. Much of this is down to an improvement in the prospects for India and Indonesia-the two Asian members of the "fragile five" big emerging markets (which also include Brazil, Turkey and South Africa). These economies are considered particularly vulnerable to a tightening of global liquidity conditions, owing to their sizeable fiscal and current-account deficits. India and Indonesia are still expected to post these twin deficits in 2014, but investor concerns have receded as a result of positive moves by domestic policymakers. India's central bank governor, Raghuram Rajan, raised interest rates again on January 28th, the third such rate rise since he was appointed in September 2013. His aggressive moves have bolstered confidence that he intends to get inflation back under control. This development has been accompanied by progress on a few policy initiatives, such as the auctioning of telecommunications spectrum in February 2014, after two previous efforts to sell it failed. India's current-account deficit has also narrowed, as exports have been boosted by the weak rupee and imports curbed by restrictions on purchases of gold from abroad. In Indonesia, meanwhile, the central bank's decision to abandon a futile defence of the rupiah in 2013 served to assuage investor concerns. Optimism has been further boosted by an impressive fourth-quarter economic performance, and by an improvement in the external picture-Indonesia posted its largest monthly trade surplus in two years in February. International investor confidence has been lifted by these recent developments, and it is notable that neither the rupee nor the rupiah have weakened significantly against the US dollar in 2014, despite the currency troubles in emerging markets like Argentina and Turkey. (Both currencies, of course, remain much weaker than they were a year ago, after their tumble during 2013.) Political uncertainty lingers in India and Indonesia, as important elections are due this year, and both economies will also face a drag from the lagged impact of recent interest-rate increases. However, the downside risks to their economic outlook that had loomed large amid the instability of 2013 have receded. The Economist The good news has not been confined to India and Indonesia. Other big Asian economies have also outperformed expectations. In Vietnam inflation has remained low (by local standards) and the government has laid out a positive economic reform agenda, including plans to privatise-at least partially-many loss-making state-owned enterprises. We now expect the Vietnamese economy to expand by 5.8% in 2014, compared with the 5.6% growth we had projected in December. Meanwhile, in the Philippines, recent data showed that the economy had shrugged off the horrific impact of Typhoon Haiyan (known locally as Typhoon Yolanda) in the fourth quarter of 2013, putting it on a strong footing to continue its firm expansion in 2014. We are set to upgrade our forecasts for Taiwan's economic growth this year, from 2.9% to 3.2%, following an impressive set of fourth-quarter GDP data. The picture remains more complicated in other countries. Although the South Korean economy expanded by a three-year high of 3.9% year on year in October-December, we have become slightly more pessimistic about its prospects for 2014. This is largely because recent growth has been supported by fiscal stimulus measures, which cannot be continued indefinitely. High levels of household debt, lacklustre job creation and disappointing levels of corporate investment will continue to dampen growth prospects. South-east Asia's second-largest economy, Thailand, faces a different set of problems, with political turmoil threatening to stall the economy. The country's business executives are used to a degree of instability, but the absence of effective government is beginning to cause policy problems, at the same time as the ongoing unrest deters potential investors and tourists. Our forecast for Asia's economic growth this year has not changed dramatically in the past three months-indeed, largely owing to the downgrade in China, we now expect real GDP growth in Asia (excluding Japan) to hit 5.6% in 2014, compared our forecast in December of 5.7%. Nonetheless, recent developments have reaffirmed our belief that the region will continue to perform well this year, and downside risks to the forecast have receded. The Fed's withdrawal of quantitative easing may tighten the supply of global liquidity in 2014, and lead to bouts of risk aversion among investors. However, Asia's strong underlying economic fundamentals should ensure that the region can navigate the bouts of market turbulence that lie ahead. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Oleh SlobodeniukNewly engaged couples spend a lot of time dreaming about the future — how many kids they'll have, what kind of house they'll live in, the exotic places they'll explore together. What they don't spend much time talking about is how they'll pay for it all. But according to several studies, not talking about finances before saying "I do" is the single biggest mistake a couple can make. "Money is the number one source of tension in relationships," says Monica Mazzei, a family law attorney at Sideman &amp; Bancroft. Unsurprisingly, a 2012 longitudinal study found it's also the top predictor of divorce, since financial stress and fundamental differences in values tend to put a strain on the marriage.  Despite the importance of hashing out money issues early, only 38% of couples say they plan together for retirement. "We're not taught how to talk about money with other people," Mazzei says. "But it drives a lot of major life decisions." If you're considering tying the knot, the most important thing you can do to increase your chances of having a long and happy marriage is to have a frank, open discussion about money. Here's a guide to the crucial conversations every couple should have. Before there's any talk of joint bank accounts or wedding venues, the first thing couples should do, advises Andy Smith, a CFP and financial advisor at the Mutual Fund Store, is sit down and describe their upbringing. "Start talking about your backgrounds, where you're coming from," Smith says. "Try to get a sense of how the other person approaches money." What are their attitudes toward money? What are yours? What did your parents teach you about spending, saving, philanthropy?  For many people, Mazzei says, this is the first time they've thought about their own money habits, let alone tried to align them with someone else's. It's bound to be uncomfortable to start, but as Smith says, once you're married, "you're going to be in some uncomfortable situations. If you never had that conversation from the beginning, you're fighting two battles: you're fighting the financial battle and you're fighting the emotional one trying to salvage that particular part of the relationship."  To make sure you and your partner are on the same page, Mazzei and Smith recommend tackling three key topics: 1. Financial priorities: Just because you may now have two incomes doesn't mean you can afford everything you want. "There are some needs and wants that are more equal than others," says Smith. Whether it's paying for frequent vacations or owning nice cars, your values won't always match up. Draft independent lists of your wants and needs so you can spot potential conflicts before they arise. 2. Life goals: Does one partner plan on staying home with the kids for a period of time? Is there debt that needs to be paid off? What are you hoping to accomplish in the short term, and where do you want to end up 20 years from now? You may not have a clear timeline sketched out in your head, but the earlier you start talking about your ideas for the future, the more likely you are to achieve what you want. 3. Retirement plans: "When people go from one-income families to two-income families, the temptation is there to start doing some of the things you've always wanted to do or...[rationalize] changing your savings regimen," says Smith. "This is absolutely not the time to do it." Instead, couples should think carefully about when and where they want to retire, and how much they want to have saved up by then. That way, every decision is made with that end goal in mind. In some cases, just the process of asking these questions can cause couples to rethink their engagement, as has happened to two of Mazzei's clients. "They realized they didn't see eye-to-eye," she says. It's better to know early than embark on a marriage that's doomed from the start. Once you've talked about the big picture, it's time to lay out the facts — all of them. "Couples need to be totally transparent about their financial situation," says Mazzei. Whether you've got student loans, child support payments, or a trust fund you never told your partner about, it's time to come completely clean and make sure your partner knows exactly what's in your name in case something happens to you. Here are some essential issues that should be covered: 1. Saving accounts: By the time they get married, individuals often have one or two old 401(k) accounts from prior jobs, a current 401(k) or IRA account, and other accounts created for them by their parents. Sit down with a financial advisor who can go through all of the accounts in your name and determine what needs to happen with them, and make sure your partner has a clear understanding of them in case something happens to you. 2. Beneficiaries: For every existing 401(k), IRA, or investment account, individuals will have already listed a beneficiary in the event of their demise. "Now that you're coming together as a couple," Smith says, "you're going to need to rethink [those beneficiaries] based on what's appropriate for your particular situation." 3. Debt: In the short term, says Dan McElwee, CFP and executive vice president at Ventura Wealth Management, understanding what the debt situation is helps determine what a family unit can afford to spend. "Student loans, car loans, credit card bills, etc. can add up quickly," he notes. It's also important to understand what happens to an individual's debt after they die, a process that varies by the type of debt in question, the state in which they reside, and the name on the loan. Take the time to learn about the property laws in your state so you have a better understanding of what you might be responsible for in the event that something happens.  Once you've spoken with a financial advisor and identified your individual assets, write everything down and keep it in a place where your partner can find it. Include login information, phone numbers, and anything else they would need to access those assets. "The prenup conversation is almost never a fun one," says McElwee. "For young couples without children and few assets entering their first marriage, we very seldom recommend getting one. However, when there are significant assets at stake from one or both partners, or if there are children from previous relationships, having a layer of protection is not a bad idea." In situations where one partner is much wealthier than the other, or when there are special needs in the family, Smith says couples should at least have the conversation even if they decide not to go through with it.   Regardless of whether you get a prenup, Mazzei recommends all couples go to pre-marriage counseling with a therapist who can help them talk about these sensitive issues.  "We see the most successful situations where people from the very beginning start having those conversations," says Smith. "The earlier that you can talk about this stuff, the better. Talk while everybody's healthy. Have these conversations while you're still renting or trying to buy a house. Have these conversations without the kids, before you have all this other stuff."  Start by laying out your personal philosophies toward money and what you envision for your future together. Then sit down with a financial advisor who can itemize your assets and make recommendations about who else you should consult.  If you take the time to have honest financial conversations early, you will set yourself up for a long, healthy marriage to come. FREE AppDownload
Money continues to spill out of the emerging markets. According to EPFR Global data, $3.05 billion came out of dedicated emerging market funds during the week ending Feb. 12. The marks the 16th straight week of outflows with cumulative outflows of $36.60 billion. "Another record set after last week when EM funds broke 2002 record of 14 weeks of straight outflows," observed Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner. The recovery in the U.S. stock market seems to belie what continues to be a troubling situation in these developing markets. Many of these countries rely heavily on financing that comes from abroad. On the plus side, we are seeing some deceleration. "This week’s outflow of US3.05bn is lower compared to the average US$6.30bn over the last two weeks," said Garner. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Vivien KillileaIn honor of Valentine's Day, we've decided to feature some of the hottest power couples on Wall Street.  The range here is wide. We have fund managers who date well-known actresses. We have bankers who are married to attorneys and television anchors. We even have someone who is married to a princess. We wish them all a Happy Valentine's Day.   Now let's meet them.  FREE AppDownload
In the last two weeks or so we've gotten a ton of (sometimes ridiculous) data about love and relationships, but some of it useful, so we're sharing some key stats we got from a survey on how men think about sex and love from lifestyle newsletter, InsideHook. Take note, people, because the purpose of Valentine's Day is a data dump and it only happens once a year. Now, your typical InsideHook reader is in his late 20s or 30s, has cash to throw around, and is striving to be a gentleman of leisure/most interesting man in the world. Naturally, this means all of you (if you're a guy). The full results of the Sex Survey are here, but we've pulled a few of the ones that grabbed our attention. For one, apparently men no longer care if a woman can't cook and the number one turn off in a relationship is rudeness... by a landslide. Inside Hook Surprisingly, only (ONLY) 54% of men would take a male birth control pill if it were invented. Thanks for pulling that weight, guys. Inside Hook Now, this last data point is a hot button issue. And let me preface it by saying that InsideHook Editor Steve Bryant told Business Insider that the publication in no way endorses this view. In fact, he and the rest of the crew at InsideHook think we need to do some serious soul searching on this one. A whopping 77% of men do not think that watching porn adversely affect their dating life. Some think it actually helps. Boys, this delusion is at the very (very) least slightly amusing. Inside Hook   FREE AppDownload
Lots of inconvenient facts for die-hard, inequality worriers. Of course the impact of upper-tail income inequality could change in the future. A lack of GDP growth and good jobs would seem to be the bigger problem right now, though. To focus on inequality is to distract from improving mobility and raising living standards.  So with the economic case against income inequality in ill health, some progressives are switching to a moralistic, emotional one. Here is New York Times columnist Paul Krugman: It’s all very well to talk in the abstract about the dignity of work, but to suggest that workers can have equal dignity despite huge inequality in pay is just silly. In 2012, the top 40 hedge fund managers and traders were paid a combined $16.7 billion, equivalent to the wages of 400,000 ordinary workers. Given that kind of disparity, can anyone really believe in the equal dignity of work? How exactly would we determine “equal dignity of work?” Equal pay for all? Equal incomes for all? Some might suggest that, unfortunately. Scott Hodge of the Tax Foundation calculates that to give household in America the current average income of $82,000 would require taking 74% of the top 20%’s income versus 21% today and redistributing it. I would guess such an income grab would radically change incentives for work and risk taking for that group. Anyway, here is Krugman’s solution: So what would give working Americans more dignity in their lives, despite huge income disparities? How about assuring them that the essentials — health care, opportunity for their children, a minimal income — will be there even if their boss fires them or their jobs are shipped overseas? OK, he’s losing me here. I thought it was the pre-tax, pre-transfer disparity that was immoral? Is this column still about inequality? Now Krugman seems to be saying, what, that a stronger safety net and better schools will restore dignity to the middle-class despite that disparity? All is revealed in this next bit: Conversely, the drive by conservatives to dismantle much of the social safety net, to replace it with minimal programs and private charity, is, in effect, an effort to strip away the dignity of lower-income workers. Oh, I get it. It’s one of those columns by Krugman, the red-meat kind that assumes everyone to his right wants to return to the pre-New Deal, pre-Fed, pre-income tax status quo. This is the kind of column meant to close minds, rather than open them. Some on right fit do fit Krugman’s characterization — just as some on the left might want to radically equalize incomes — but hardly all or even most. Here is my boss, Arthur Brooks: One of the things, in my view, that we get wrong in the free enterprise movement is this war against the social safety net, which is just insane. The government social safety net for the truly indigent is one of the greatest achievements of our society. And we somehow want to zero out food stamps or something, it’s nuts to want to be doing something like that. We have to declare peace on the safety net. The reform conservative movement seeks to strengthen the middle class, reform the safety net, and increase the rewards for low-income work. At the same, it rejects crony capitalist policies that enable vast wealth through government favor rather than innovation. Lots of interesting economic policy ideas are being generated and discussed: wage subsidies, expanded child tax credit, copyright and patent reform, a college completion agenda — just to name a few. Seems like they would make for far more interesting analysis by a Nobel laureate than something meant to confirm the existing biases of readers. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comIn this era of online dating, you'd be forgiven for thinking that finding love has never been easier — but this might not be the case for the 1 percent. Indeed, the dating problems of the super-wealthy was an untapped gap in the matchmaking market, according to Mairead Molloy, who set up an elite dating agency which charges up to $100,000 to help the rich find love. "These affluent individuals were looking for love in the wrong place," Molloy, global director of Berkeley International, told CNBC.  (Read more: Tips for dating on Wall Street—yep, she thinks you're a jerk) "My clients want to meet someone with a certain wealth, from a certain family, who is well-educated – but they were struggling to find them. You don't find these sorts of people in your average bar." The agency's website says it offers an "exclusive, discreet introduction service to find perfect partners and soul mates for our discerning and affluent members." Membership costs between £10,000 ($16,000) and £60,000 ($100,00) each year – somewhat more than mainstream dating websites that typically charge members under £250 a year.  It is certainly tapping into a booming market. According to a survey of Americans by dating website Match.com, the average singleton spends nearly $61.53 a month on dating related activities, or $738.36 each year.  (Read more: Dating in China to heat up? Tinder's on the way) With 111 million singles in the U.S. alone, this means the dating industry in North America alone is worth $82 billion. But you won't find any profiles or pictures of potential partners on Berkeley International's site.  "We interview every single client – we'll travel to meet wherever they are in the world," she said. "There's no profiles or photographs – we connect the people ourselves; it's very personal." he agency's sales pitch appears to be working. Berkeley International already has eight offices across Europe, and is in the process of opening four more in Los Angeles, New York, Hong Kong and Singapore. 'Expectations are higher' Indeed, the fact that the agency offers this long-distance dating is part of its appeal, according to Molloy. (Read more: Technology and dating: Match made in heaven?) "Someone in Geneva will happily date someone in Dublin," she said. "Expectations are higher – people will travel to get what they want." The most expensive membership package covers a global service across all of its offices, psychological profiles and a dedicated service from Molloy herself. "It's more of a personal relationship concierge," she said.  Over the last 12 months, Berkeley International's membership base has grown by nearly 40 percent. The agency does not reveal the names of clients but says high-profile CEOs, tech billionaires and various other "very high profile" individuals are among its members.  "These people have lots of cash to spend, and are choosing to spend it on finding someone who's right for them," she said. "They're investing in themselves and their future." (Read more: Lovers with deep pockets: This for your valentine?) If a member is looking for a specific set of characteristics (their "wish list") and Berkeley International does not have a match on their books, Molloy will go "headhunting" in an effort to find the perfect match.  But Molloy was quick to point out that once a couple had agreed to meet, this meeting was no ordinary date. "You'll get collected by their driver; go to an exclusive location. This isn't the sort of date where you meet outside the train station in the rain," she said. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin withdrawals at MtGox, once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, still have not resumed since the Tokyo-based firm announced its software had failed to account for an unusual, exploitable feature of Bitcoin's key protocol.  As it turned out, the rest of the Bitcoin ecosystem got hacked 24 hours later via the same glitch.  But we explained in depth why MtGox has drawn the singular ire of the Bitcoin community: it is unusually unresponsive to customers, and its relationships with its banking clients remains murky. One Bitcoiner has now attempted to take matters into his own hands. Kolin Burges, a London-based programmer, flew 12 hours to Tokyo to camp outside MtGox's Tokyo headquarters to confront CEO Mark Karpeles about when he would be able to get his money back.   It was a stunt, to be sure. But it shows the degree of frustration MtGox users feel about the exchange. Eventually Karpeles does show up. Their confrontation, filmed by Coindesk's Jon Southurst, proves a bit unintelligible. But asked if he can get his money back, Karpeles replies "We can't right now." Asked if MtGox still has his money in the first place, Karpeles does not respond. Check it out:  FREE AppDownload
Yellen’s most pressing challenge is to hammer home the message that the economy is still recovering, rather than recovered. And there’s ample evidence that it is indeed recovering. Testifying before the House Financial Services Committee Tuesday, Yellen noted that the U.S. economy has added 3.25 million jobs since August 2012. Over the same period, the unemployment rate has fallen by 1.5 percentage points to 6.6 percent. But there is also evidence that it is not yet in rude health: Of the 10.2 million Americans who want to work and cannot find a job, 36 percent of them have been unemployed for six months or longer, something Yellen said was a sign that there is still “a great deal of slack” in the labor market. Here’s where things get complicated. At 6.6 percent, the unemployment rate is just a whisper away from the 6.5 percent rate Fed officials have previously indicated as the threshold at which policymakers would start thinking about raising the benchmark fed funds rate. They’ve tried to communicate that “starting to think” about raising rates is not a promise to do so <U+2015> Bernanke said in both November and December that the bank would likely keep the fed funds rate close to zero “well after” the unemployment rate hits 6.5 percent <U+2015> but Wall Street doesn’t really do nuance, and rates recently started rising in anticipation of that hike, whenever it actually happens. Ten-year Treasury yields rose 23 basis points in December to end the year at 3.04 percent. Credit Suisse’s fixed-income and economic strategists made note of that tension <U+2015> policymakers trying to convince the markets that the fed funds rate would stay parked at 0.25 percent, but the markets not really buying it <U+2015> in an early January report called “It Pays to Fight the Fed.” While several pieces of bad economic news in January caused yields to retreat from their December levels, Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists said in a report leading up to Yellen’s testimony that “it is safe to forecast that the Fed’s commitment to easy policy will be tested again, perhaps multiple times, before this year is through.” The market’s anticipatory movement was due in large part to the fact that even if the Fed held the line on rates in December, it did finally dial back on the great monetary experiment of 2008-2013, having judged the economy healthy enough to start paring back its $85 billion monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. It’s not much of a logical leap to assume that a rate hike is coming down the pike, no matter what the central bank says. Indeed, a recent paper by an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco noted that even though the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee did not change its interest rate projections between September and December, the prospect of tapering changed the market’s expectation of the first rate hike’s timing from September 2015 to March 2015 during that time. Unfortunately, Yellen’s task of convincing market participants that the Fed will keep the fed funds rate where it is has recently gotten easier. The Institute of Supply Management’s January survey of manufacturing activity fell to its lowest level since last May, and the drop in the number of companies reporting new orders was the steepest since 1980. Meanwhile, American payroll numbers were weaker than expected in both December and January. While some, including Yellen, have attributed some of the weak job growth to the frigid weather in the Northeast and Midwest, Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists are skeptical. After all, workers have to miss an entire pay period to go uncounted in the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ monthly survey. “It is increasingly hard to argue that the jobs slowdown is an isolated event,” the economists said in a note released ahead of Yellen’s testimony. “It validates the weak tone seen in the other monthly economic reports.” Credit Suisse’s fixed-income strategists also think that the boom in global industrial production growth has reached a top. Industrial production momentum (the year-over-year change in rolling three-month numbers) in the developed world hit its peak in January near 7 percent, compared to an average of 1.5 percent since 1980. And then there’s China. While Credit Suisse believes that growth in the world’s second-largest economy has been weakening for the last four years – official numbers notwithstanding <U+2015> and anemic official industrial production and GDP readings last month finally rattled investors, resulting in the past few weeks’ emerging-market selloff and a broader risk-off sentiment. “Credit risk appetite has tumbled from euphoric levels,” Credit Suisse’s global fixed-income team wrote in a recent note entitled “What’s Past the Peak.” “Equity risk appetite, pulled down by underperforming emerging markets, began the year negative and has declined. Global risk appetite has reached negative territory for the first time since late 2012.” So what’s a Fed chair to do? So far, Yellen has tried to feed markets both medicine and candy. She took pains on Tuesday to emphasize that she planned to continue Bernanke’s accommodative practices by keeping the fed funds rate near zero well into the future. But she also said the bank would continue to taper asset purchases as long as the labor market keeps improving and inflation moves toward the Fed’s target rate of 2 percent. (The latest inflation reading was 1.5 percent.) Still, even the most carefully crafted messaging cannot hide the fact that central bank support – both in the U.S. and elsewhere <U+2015> isn’t as forthcoming as it used to be. The European Central Bank disappointed some market participants by failing to cut interest rates last week. And while the Bank of Japan is expected to introduce new easing measures to offset an April increase in the consumption tax, it has yet to actually do so. Chinese officials, too, appear more reluctant to offer new stimulus than in the past. Credit Suisse’s fixed-income strategists note that before mid-2011, GDP growth rates of 9 to 10 percent were enough to prompt a policy response, but the trigger now seems closer to 7 percent. “We think growth will need to slow for at least a few months before meaningful easing occurs,” they said. The flood of central bank liquidity has been beneficial to risky asset classes over the last several years. High-yield corporate debt yields, for example, are well below their historical averages. The lowest rated “junk” bonds paid just 8.37 percent in January compared to an average of 17.5 percent since 1988, according to Credit Suisse data. The big question is what’s going to happen to investor risk appetites now that the next move in rates is likely higher, rather than lower, in both the U.S. and the U.K. Given that continued tapering still seems to be the plan, and Credit Suisse does not believe the developed world will see a sharp slowdown in economic growth this year – despite the recent wobble in the U.S. – Yellen’s task of reassuring markets that benchmark rates will remain where they are for some time yet is only going to get more difficult. One way she might do so, say Credit Suisse analysts, is to keep the focus on current low levels of inflation, rather than employment. “Once this period of slowing (global IP) momentum ends, the market will likely turn to focus on the risks of Fed tightening, another potential headwind for risky assets,” the bank’s fixed-income strategists said. “The easy days of above-trend and accelerating growth and a steady stream of dovish policy surprises really does appear to be over.” At least Yellen won’t be alone in trying to maintain her balance – investors may be walking a tightrope of their own. FREE AppDownload
Now that I'm a journalist, I get the point of Valentine's Day. Call me cynical, but having one day a year to express my love to the people that I should express it to pretty regularly has always seemed more like a chore than a holiday. As a 4th grader, I recall purposely signing some Valentine's Day cards (the ones going to kids I didn't care for) with my non-dominant hand to make my signature uglier (I have excellent penmanship). At my current stage in life, it just seems like a time to go through some pretty exhausting, predictable motions that end in overeating and passing out early. But when you're journalist, the mystery of Valentine's Day becomes clear. About two weeks before the holiday your inbox fills with numbers and stats about love, dating, sex, relationships, breakups, divorce, and attraction. You get infographics and charts, and experts are clamoring to tell you what they know. It's a data dump — a sex census — and it's all to let us know where we as a society stand on an idea that people don't often feel comfortable talking about: love. Here's what I learned this week: Technology is totally taking care of long-distance relationships because there is now (finally) a bi-directionally app-controlled sex toy on the market called Lovense. And previously unbeknownst to me, the Hooters girls hand out Valentine's Day cards annually. Solid showing, girls. More important than any of that, though, I got a better idea of what we think is "normal" these days. Not Hollywood Rom-Com normal — No, things like the fact that 10% of employees in Ireland have had sex in their office.  Or on a sadder "normal" note, I learned that divorce lawyer and related information searches rise 40% on legal site Avvo.com in the week before Valentine's Day. So yeah, if you're thinking about a breakup right now, you're not a freak. Humans navigate the world through comparisons. We understand concepts by comparing what we see or who we are, to the way things are supposed to be. Take a simple chair, for example. In your conception of a chair you see a thing with four legs. That's why when the bean bag chair came out, people were like hey — that's a different kind of chair. Love, relationships, sex, etc., those are ideas too, and our society has conceptions of how they're supposed to be. When you compare yourself to that conception, you figure out if you're "normal" or not. But the conception changes, and Valentine's Day is how we keep track of it. So this is important stuff. A lot of it, though, is pretty predictable. For example, according to a survey conducted by men's lifestyle newsletter InsideHook, the two qualities men look for most in a woman are that she's attractive (51%) and smart (44%). Also, 43% of respondents said that they're most self-conscious of their stomachs when they have sex. Boring (unless you're a guy who needs reassurance that all your bros secretly wish for a tummy tuck, too). There's more value here in the outliers. Like in the fact that the number one factor that turns guys off (still according to InsideHook) is a rude woman — 81% of respondents said that. And the real kicker from InsideHook's survey: 77% of respondents said that watching porn has no impact, or a positive impact on their relationship. Only 23% acknowledged that it could be a substitute for dating, or that it gave them unrealistic expectations of sex. That's hilarious. Now I know we need to work on that. You can check out InsideHook's data on men and porn below; the full survey is here. In the meantime, just know that you're probably not a freak unless we all are. Inside Hook FREE AppDownload
Street EasyCharles Bronfman, one of the richest Canadians in business with a net worth of $2 billion, just sold his Fifth Avenue full-floor apartment to hedge fund manager and fellow Canadian David Goel, according to the New York Post. The sale price was $19.9 million.  Bronfman inherited his significant fortune when his father left the Seagram wine and spirits empire to him and his brother Edgar. Since Vivendi bought Seagram for $34 billion in 2000, Bronfman has focused on philanthropy. He serves as one of the main benefactors for the Taglit-Birthright Israel, which sends Jewish youth from North America on educational tours of Israel.  The sixth-floor home Bronfman sold to Goel at 810 Fifth Avenue has views of Central Park, three bedrooms, four bathrooms and a library. Serena Boardman at Sotheby's International Realty handled the sale.  FREE AppDownload
From Federal-Reserve-fueled bubble to debilitating return to reality – reality being a financial calamity – to Federal-Reserve-hyper-fueled bubble: that’s the US housing market over the last ten years. There are many places around the country, including some cities in Silicon Valley, where home values are now higher than they were at the peak of the last bubble. Of course, no one at the Fed or in government calls it “bubble.” They’re talking about the housing “recovery.” But the excesses and speculators are back, and private equity funds and highly leveraged REITs are all over it, buying up every single-family home in sight, and now Wall-Street-engineering firms have come up with a new and improved contraption, a synthetic structured security that on its polished surface looks like that triple-A rated mortgage-backed toxic waste that helped blow up the banks. But this time, it’s different. The securities are backed by sliced and diced rental payments from single-family homes that are, hopefully, rented out [read.... Another Exquisitely Reengineered Frankenstein Housing Monster]. So wither this “recovery?” Foreclosure filings – default notices, scheduled auctions, and bank repossessions – suddenly jumped 8% to 124,419 in January across the nation, according to RealtyTrac. Which left some people scratching their heads. A mild uptick was expected after the holidays, but 8%? And what about the polar vortices – weren’t they supposed to have slowed things down to a crawl?   OK, foreclosure filings were still down 18% from a year earlier, the 40th month in a row that they declined on an annual basis. But it was the smallest annual decline since September 2012. And the 8% jump from December was the largest such increase since May 2012. Crummy as they were, these national averages covered up some, let's say, interesting phenomena in a number of states. “The sharp annual increases in some states shows that many states are not completely out of the woods when it comes to cleaning up the wreckage of the housing bust,” said RealtyTrac VP Daren Blomquist. “The foreclosure rebound pattern is not only showing up in judicial states like New Jersey, where foreclosure activity reached a 40-month high in January, but also some non-judicial states like California.... Ah, my beloved state of California. Housing has been booming, and prices in coastal areas have been soaring – along with rents, to the point that mini-rebellions are breaking out. In this hyped and glorified housing market where the Big Money rules and where first-time buyers have been shoved aside unceremoniously, where foreclosure starts in 2013 had plunged 60% from 2012, and had declined year-over-year for 17 months in a row, or with the exception of five months, had declined four years in a row, well, in this wondrously recovered housing market, foreclosures starts in January suddenly jumped 57%. RealtyTrac It’s not just in California. Foreclosure starts rose 10% from December to hit 57,259 properties across the country. That they on average were still down 12% from a year earlier obscured major annual increases in certain individual states, and not just in one or two, like us crazies out here in California, but in 22 states! And California with its 57% jump in foreclosure starts now suddenly seems tame: In New Jersey, they soared 79%, in Connecticut 82%, and in Maryland 126%! The cynic in me says the sudden and dizzying jump in foreclosure starts, not only in California but in much of the country, must be some kind of data problem. Maybe RealtyTrac’s computers got hacked by some evildoer who was short the housing market or something. But when I contacted RealtyTrac to request permission to republish the chart, there was no word of a retraction, though this would have been a good opportunity, and so the numbers hold. Maybe foreclosure starts in February and March will somehow, miraculously, plunge and return to trend. Maybe January was just a fluke. But that may be wishful thinking. Instead, it could be the indication of a turning point of sorts, like some of the other indications we’ve already observed, and maybe the strange sound that we’re hearing out there is the hot air hissing out of this whole construct, so carefully inflated by the Fed, and so assiduously taken advantage of by private equity funds and other Wall Street outfits with access to the Fed’s nearly free money. Meanwhile, my beloved state of California, whose $2 trillion economy is the eight largest in the world ahead of Italy and Russia, has a new problem: it’s awash in cash. It’s projecting multi-billion dollar surpluses for years to come. The feeding frenzy in Sacramento is a sight to behold. Read.... California MUST Have Magnificent, Endless Bubbles in Housing, Stocks, And IPOs – Or Go Broke Again FREE AppDownload
The slide below comes from BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett's latest note: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy
Hedge fund manager David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital is seeking the name of one of Seeking Alpha's anonymous bloggers, Bloomberg News reports. Greenlight has petitioned Seeking Alpha to reveal the identity of an anonymous Seeking Alpha contributor who allegedly revealed the hedge fund's stake in Micron Technology in a blog post. According to the court documents posted by ValueWalk, Greenlight wants to know the name of the blogger so it can sue them. Greenlight alleges that the user wrongfully disclosed the hedge fund's trade secrets and breached confidentiality.  Greenlight also says that Seeking Alpha has refused to voluntarily reveal the name of the unidentified blogger.  The user, according to Greenlight's court petition, goes by "Valuable Insights" on Seeking Alpha. Here's a screenshot of the user's profile:  Seeking Alpha Greenlight says that it began to amass a stake in Micron Technology on July 2, 2013, which was during the third quarter of 2013. Forty-five days after the end of each quarter, hedge funds of a certain size are required to disclose their equity long holdings with the SEC in a form known as a 13-F.   Greenlight did not disclose its Micron stake in the third-quarter 13-F. Instead, Greenlight requested confidentiality treatment via a "Confidentiality Letter" request filed with the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission on November 14, 2013, court documents show. Greenlight said in the court petition the reason was that it wanted to continue to build its position.  The only folks who were aware of the Micron position were Greenlight employees, counsel, prime and executing brokers and other agents, the court document says. Greenlight claims that before 9:32 a.m. EST on November 14, 2013, before it had filed its "Confidentiality Letter" with the SEC, Seeking Alpha blogger "Valuable Insights" wrote, "Expect one mega hedge fund rock star to show up as [Micron] holder today, not Ackman, Icahn or Loeb...", the court documents show. Greenlight says that the user "Valuable Insights" also posted hints about the identity of the fund manager. Einhorn didn't publicly announce his stake in semiconductor producer Micron until the inaugural Robin Hood Investors Conference on November 21, 2013.  In this case, Seeking Alpha, a network for financial bloggers to post about stock ideas, is a respondent (similar to a witness), not a defendant.  Here's Seeking Alpha's policy on anonymous bloggers (emphasis ours):  While Seeking Alpha editors greatly prefer that our authors use their real names, we recognize that is not always possible. Due to regulations at their workplace or other factors, some contributors are not able to reveal their real names. In addition, many well-known, veteran stock market bloggers (some of the finest, in fact) write under a pseudonym. To allow these writers to reach a broad investment public that's interested in reading and discussing their ideas, Seeking Alpha permits our contributors to remain anonymous to the public if they prefer. Our assumption, as always, is that our readers desire rigorous and insightful research and opinion on the stocks and sectors they follow - the author is ultimately less important than the ideas conveyed. There are firm limits to this anonymity, however: Seeking Alpha holds our anonymous contributors to the same compliance and biographical standards as contributors who write under their own name. We insist on receiving the author's real name and contact information (which we keep confidential) and maintain a correspondence with the author, forwarding the author any questions or concerns that may emerge about their articles. Stock positions held by anonymous authors must also be disclosed. When an author uses a pseudonym, it is clearly stated on the SA author page. If you would like us to forward an inquiry to an anonymous author, please email contributors [at] seekingalpha.com Here's the full court document posted by ValueWalk:   Greenlight Suit by ValueWalk.com  FREE AppDownload
The USGS is out with a really great interactive map showing every major wind farm in the U.S. It shows that, not surprisingly, the largest concentration can be found in flat, wind-swept Iowa. It also shows the large volume of wind installations in Texas, the country's leading wind producer.  The smallest concentration, meanwhile, is around major cities. For instance, the only major farm in the New York tri-state area is the municipal plant in Bayonne. There's also only one in Chicago — but it's on top of a produce warehouse on the city's South Side, which suggests there's nothing inherently limiting about the urban environment for wind farms. Anyway, wind energy growth is up nearly 4,000% from 2001, compared with 100% for natural gas — though growth in both significantly trail solar. Anyway check it out: USGS
Coal mine employment in the U.S. has dropped nearly 20% in the past two years as the industry comes under intense competition from natural gas, according to data from SNL energy.  From a recent high of about 94,000 in Q4 2011, mining jobs have fallen to about 77,000. Last year, natural gas matched coal in providing for U.S. energy needs for the first time on record. Many coal producers have been forced to idle mines or even declare bankruptcy. Recent price weaknesses in export markets have also weighed. The EIA says coal production may see a slight rebound in 2014, but it will be short lived.  Stricter EPA regulations have also been cited. "There's a gross inconsistency, in our view, of this administration's insistence that it wants to create high-wage jobs and more of them, and the reality that their policies are having on the employment marketplace," Luke Popovich, a spokesman for the National Mining Association, told SNL. "You're essentially condemning a lot of unemployed people to a much lower standard of living since in these regions there are no readily available jobs that can offer salaries that compete with a coal mine. It's a pretty dark picture, particularly in that region."  Here's the chart: SNL Energy FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - A Venezuelan court ordered the arrest on Thursday of opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez on charges including murder and terrorism linked to street protests that resulted in the deaths of three people the day before. Using a slogan "The Exit," the U.S.-educated Lopez has for two weeks helped organize sporadic demonstrations around the country to denounce President Nicolas Maduro for failing to control inflation, crime and product shortages. The president accuses him of sowing violence to try to stage a coup similar to the one 12 years ago that briefly ousted late socialist leader Hugo Chavez, though there is little indication that the protests could topple Maduro. "There you have the face of fascism!" Maduro said in a speech to the nation on Thursday night, showing photos and video of Lopez at Wednesday's protest in the capital Caracas, some of the footage set to doom-laden music. "I tell these fugitives from justice: give yourselves up! ... They should go behind bars," Maduro thundered, saying both the intellectual authors of the violence and those who fired shots had been identified by authorities. Despite the government's strong words and a brief visit by police to the headquarters of his Popular Will political party, Lopez, 42, was not arrested on Thursday. Colleagues said he spent the day with advisers at his home in the same wealthy eastern district of Caracas where he was once mayor. After Maduro's late-night speech, he took to Twitter and challenged the president to have him arrested. "Thanks for all your shows of solidarity. I'm fine. I'm still in Venezuela and I'll stay in the streets. Strength!" Lopez tweeted. "@NicolasMaduro: don't you have the guts to arrest me? Or are you waiting for orders from Havana? I tell you, the truth is on our side." Speaking to Reuters on Wednesday, shortly before a court upheld a request from the Public Prosecutor's Office to order his detention, the opposition leader blamed armed government supporters for firing on peaceful protesters. "The government is playing the violence card, and not for the first time. They're blaming me without any proof," he said. "NO MORE BLOOD" While many Caracas residents stayed home on Thursday, there were sporadic student protests around the city. Some groups of demonstrators blocked streets and burned tires. Bands of motorcyclists roamed the streets. And opposition supporters in the wealthier suburbs east of the capital banged pots and bans from windows in a traditional form of anti-government protest in some parts of Latin America. "We want solutions to problems, not endless confrontation and violence," said student Manuel Armas, 19, outside the Alejandro Humboldt University, where around 200 protesters waved banners saying "No More Blood." Scores of government supporters gathered outside the Public Prosecutor's Office building that was vandalized on Wednesday, chanting pro-Maduro slogans and denouncing "fascist violence." Coming almost a year after the death of Chavez, the unrest has been the latest demonstration of the OPEC nation's polarization and the deep mistrust between both political camps. Maduro, a 51-year-old former bus driver and union activist who has staked his presidency on maintaining Chavez's leftist legacy, said further protests would not be allowed. Government supporters would march in Caracas on Saturday, he said. Wednesday's fatalities were Juan "Juancho" Montoya, a community activist from a militantly pro-government neighborhood in the poor west end of Caracas; Neyder Arellano, a pro-opposition student; and Bassil Dacosta, who was identified by fellow protesters as a student but by Maduro as a carpenter. SCORES ARRESTED Some 66 people were injured and 70 arrested after Wednesday's violence, officials said. Some protesters, many with their faces covered, threw stones and lit fires in the streets. Bolivia, Cuba and Argentina, three of Venezuela's fellow leftist political allies in the region, sent messages of support to Maduro's administration. "Cuba condemns the coup intentions ... organized by fascist groups," the statement from Havana read. The protests have exposed rifts within the opposition leadership, with some favoring a more moderate approach and saying marches that turn violent only play into the government's hands as it accuses them of being "saboteurs." Sporadic political protests have become common over the last decade, but they usually fizzle out within days as residents grow tired of blocked streets and the smell of burning tires. Opposition moderates note that their biggest successes, such as turning pro-Chavez strongholds into opposition territory, came from leaders stepping away from theatrical street protests to focus on daily issues for voters such as poor services, widespread corruption and one of the world's worst murder rates. (Additional reporting by Caracas bureau reporters, Javier Lopez in Tachira, Daniel Ramos in La Paz, Daniel Trotta in Havana; Editing by Kieran Murray and Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderThere's no denying the importance of coal in America. The combustible black rock provides about 40% of the United States' electricity and plays a vital role in the economy of places like West Virginia. But there's also no getting around the major health and environmental problems caused by both coal mining and coal burning. One increasingly popular mining method, called mountaintop removal mining, could be the most destructive yet. While traditional coal mining extracts coal from underground, mountaintop removal mining blasts away chunks of mountains to get at the coal beneath. This method also requires fewer workers than others, thus reducing jobs (and the cost of electricity). In January, we went to West Virginia and rented a plane to get a better sense of what mountaintop removal mining does to the people, economy, and landscape.
Ryan Mahoney via YouTubeWeight Watchers International is down 26%, putting the stock at $22.50 early in the trading session.  Weight Watchers posted Q4 earnings of $0.58 per share after the bell on Thursday. This missed expectations for $0.61 per share. The company said its sees full-year earning per share of $1.30-$1.60, lower than estimates for $2.73 per share.  "While we are confident that we are on the right track to execute a successful transformation, 2014 will be a very challenging year as reflected in our 2014 EPS guidance of $1.30 to $1.60," Jim Chambers president and CEO of Weight Watchers International said in a press release. The company is working to reorganize its business. FREE AppDownload
Mike Carter-USA TODAY SportsJan 25, 2014; East Lansing, MI, USA; Michigan Wolverines bench reacts to a play during the 2nd half of a game at Jack Breslin Student Events Center. Michigan won 80-75.The release of the preliminary results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey revealed that sentiment was unchanged in February. The index held at 81.2, defying economists' consensus forecast for a drop to 80.2. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 94.0 from 96.8, while the economic outlook sub-index advanced to 73.0 from 71.2. Inflations expectations one year ahead rose to 3.3% from 3.1%, while inflation expectations 5 years ahead were unchanged at 2.9%. "The current conditions index is little changed since last summer, consistent with the broadly flat trend in jobless claims since, despite wild short-term swings," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "The expectations component responds to stock prices with a lag, so we doubt the gain reported today will be sustained; we expect a clear decline in March. In the short-term, spending and sentiment often do not move together, but it is hard to imagine a robust medium-term improvement without higher confidence." FREE AppDownload
Kyle Bass' Hayman Capital just released its Q4 2013 13F — the SEC filing that discloses a hedge fund's long stock positions. So lets see what Bass, who is mostly known for his macro calls, picked up (and dumped over the last quarter). Hayman Capital dumped its entire stake of over 2.2 million Herbalife shares. The stock has been quite controversial since the end of 2012, when Pershing Square's Bill Ackman disclosed that he was shorting the stock to zero. Hayman also dumped its stake in another stock Ackman was once associated with, JC Penney. It had owned over 5.6 million shares valued at over $50 million. As for notable pickups, Hayman bought over $201 million worth of General Motors.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzJanuary U.S. industrial production data are out. Industrial production unexpectedly fell 0.3% in January. Economists were expecting a 0.2% rise. Capacity utilization slipped to 78.5% from December's downward-revised 78.9% reading. Economists expected it to tick up to 79.3% from the prior 79.2% December estimate. Manufacturing production tumbled 0.8%, missing estimates for a 0.1% gain and marking the worst drop since 2009. Unseasonally cold weather played a role in the setback, according to the release. Below are a few sentences from the report highlighting weather concerns: If much of the weakness reflects bad weather, the setback may prove to be only temporary. "Industrial production usually bounces back after a period of bad weather, as postponed orders are completed," says Paul Dales, a senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics. "With the weather having been just as severe in February, however, this may not happen until March. But it will happen eventually. After all, the fundamentals have not changed. The outlooks for the domestic and global economies are still better than for some time." Jay Morelock, an economist at FTN Financial, has a different take. "It is hard to determine how much January weakness will be reversed when the weather improves," says Morelock. "However, the downward revision to Q4 manufacturing growth may be an early sign demand was already slowing even before 2014 began. Automotive production was one of the biggest contributors to GDP in 2013, but a slowdown in this sector could prove harmful in 2014." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip EastBillionaire asset manager Howard Marks, who runs Oaktree Capital, was on Bloomberg TV this morning. Anchors Stephanie Ruhle and Matt Miller ask him to reveal his biggest investment mistake. "My biggest investment mistake was not being John Paulson," he answered. "John Paulson had the most profitable trade in history. George Soros got famous for making a billion off the weakness of the pound and Paulson made $15 billion."  Back in 2007, Paulson made a grand slam when he famously bet against the subprime housing crisis and became a household name. It was also called the greatest trade ever.  However, in 2011 and 2012, Paulson was criticized for his funds' lackluster performance. Paulson was able to do well in 2013, while many money managers struggled.  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVHoward MarksThe dynamic on Bloomberg TV this morning was both odd and perfect. Anchors Stephanie Ruhle and Matt Miller hosted Howard Marks, the accomplished fund manager at Oaktree Capital, and Noel Biderman, the CEO of adultery-themed dating website AshleyMadison.com. AshleyMadison.com is where married folk go to cheat on their spouses. And it's a booming business. Eventually, Ruhle asked Marks if he would invest in the company. "At a price," he said. Those three words are a triumph in saying nothing. But they also perfectly capture the way any good investor should think. Everyone from Ben Graham to GMO's James Montier are obsessed with the idea of value, and it drives everything that they do. Only at the right price should you invest. But it's not just about dollars and capital appreciation. Ruhle obviously was putting the Marks in an awkward position by asking him to make a call on such a morally-questionable company. The wrong answer could get him in trouble with his investors and probably his family. But if the social and moral costs offset the potential rewards of publicly investing in such a controversial company, then you could argue that the price was right. It's possible we're reading too much into this. Regardless, Marks has us thinking. Bloomberg TVHoward Marks, Matt Miller, Stephanie Ruhle and Noel Biderman FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew WinningA worker on IG Index's trading floor stands at his desk as he looks at his screens while markets tumble, in London, September 22, 2011.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning, and Happy Valentine’s day – US Futures are higher, SPX contracts adding 20bp and not 1% off all-time highs – the S&amp;P is up 5% in 8 days.   Bear in mind liquidity will remain light in the US, as the Northeast digs out of tough weather, all with a 3 day weekend looming large.   Good day over in Europe, led by Italy – who’s news of yet another government is being met by Investor cheer (will accelerate reforms) – Their equity market is up 2% as Bond Yields drop quick (At some point after the EU close, Moody’s will comment on Italy).   The DAX has added 80bp, in slightly better than average volume.   EU fin move remains benign given the backdrop, adding only 75bp – telling me that the US --&gt; EU trade is reversing quick.   In Asia, eyes were on the Nikkei, which lost 1.5% and broke under the 200dma again as the Yen is strengthening on no news - China added 80bp on the back of stable inflation data, and miner optimism continues in Aussie, dragging the ASX up 1%.    EM Markets are stable, with the EM basket of FX gaining against the greenback, and CDS coming off for Hungary, Turkey, Ukraine and South Africa.  The US 10YY is basically flat,  but the DXY is weaker, losing ground to Yen and Euro – as the EU shows better than forecast growth.   This is a natural tailwind for commodities, and we have Gold breaking higher, gaining 1.3% as it gets legs over $1300 – but Silver is “white hot” – gaining 3% and approaching the 200dma, a first in a year.   Copper’s move remains benign, while Lumber is gaining 1%.   Nat gas continues it’s upward trajectory – gaining 2% on the back of a 25% move over the last week.   The Oil complex is under some pressure, with WTI breaking downside $100 yet again.   We get PPI revisions at 8:30 in the US, IP and Capacity Utilization at 9:15, University of Michigan Survey at 9:55 – a small POMO at 11, all ahead of a bid Japan data dump later tonight.    You could also get some whippy single stock movers, as 13Fs are due from the Funds today. FREE AppDownload
Columbia.eduJames MontierStock market volatility has made a big comeback in 2014. After a steady climb to all-time highs in 2013, we've seen the S&amp;P 500 tumble 6% before recovering most of those losses. However, many experts continue to expect at least a 10% sell-off before we can see longer-term gains again.  Others are looking for an outright crash. The experts at GMO are on the more bearish end of the spectrum. "Fair value for the S&amp;P 500 is about 1100 and the expected return is -1.3% per year for the next seven years after inflation," said GMO's Ben Inker in November. "For those interested in the broader U.S. stock market, our forecast for the Wilshire 5000 is a bit worse, at -2.0%, due to the fact that small cap valuations are even more elevated than those for large caps." Much of GMO's call is based on the expectation of mean reversion in valuations. And their preferred measure of stock market value is the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio, which was popularized by Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.  If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16x, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently CAPE is at around 24. A lot of folks haphazardly throw around CAPE charts. But we really like how GMO's James Montier presented it in a 2011 a note titled "In Defense of the "Old Always"." Riddled with annotations, Montiers chart basically argues that no matter what upside and downside surprises we get in the world, market valuations always seem to revert to their long-term means. This might mean earnings climb. But it also might mean we see a big sell-off in stocks. The latter is what happened when the dotcom bubble and then credit/housing bubble burst. GMO via The Big Picture Here's an excerpt from The Big Picture. It is also worth noting that in order for mean-reversion-based strategies to work, it is not required that the mean be realized for long periods of time, but that markets continue to behave as they always have, swinging pendulum like between the depths of despair and irrational exuberance, or, from risk-on to risk-off. As long as markets display such bipolar disorder and switch from periods of mania to periods of depression, then mean reversion should continue to merit worth as an investment strategy. History is littered with the remains of proclaimed, but unfulfilled, new eras. Exhibit 6 shows the long-run history for the Graham and Dodd P/E for the U.S. market. Over this time, we have witnessed some quite remarkable, and quite appalling, things – the deaths of empires, the births of nations, waves of globalization, periods of deregulation, periods of re-regulation, World Wars, revolutions, plagues, and huge technological and medical advances – and yet one thing has remained true throughout history: none of these events mattered from the perspective of value! As Ben Graham wrote, “Let me conclude with one of my favourite clichés – the French saying: ‘The more it changes the more it’s the same thing.’ I have always thought this motto applied to the stock market better than anywhere else. Now the really important part of this proverb is the phrase ‘the more it changes.’ The economic world has changed radically and it will change even more. Most people think now that the essential nature of the stock market has been undergoing a corresponding change. But if my cliché is sound – and a cliché’s only excuse, I suppose, is that it is sound – then the stock market will continue to be essentially what it always was in the past – a place where a big bull market is inevitably followed by a big bear market. In other words, a place where today’s free lunches are paid for doubly tomorrow. In the light of experience, I think the present level of the stock market is an extremely dangerous one.” I simply couldn’t have put it any better! Great stuff. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA Scotland soccer fan waves a Scottish saltire flag with Big Ben seen behind in Trafalgar Square in central London, August 14, 2013.In my previous piece, I explained why, if it wants to be a member of the EU, Scotland cannot simply carry on using the pound without a formal currency union with the rest of the UK (rUK), and why having its own currency within the EU is also unlikely to be viable over the longer-term. Angus Armstrong of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research has challenged the idea that Scotland’s immediately joining the euro, upon accession to the EU (which could presumably be negotiated so as to coincide with exit from the Sterling area) is an option. He contends that, whatever the long-term situation, Scotland would initially have to have its own currency. The reason is that, under the rules of the euro, a country wanting to join must first be a member of the "Exchange Rate Mechanism II" (ERM II) for two years. Since the UK is not going to do that, he claims Scotland would have to have its own currency before adopting the euro. I have two responses to this. First, even if true the only consequence for my other case is that, in addition to the economic losses Scotland would make in switching from the pound to the euro, Scotland would also make intermediate losses by having to convert its currency twice within only a couple of years. Second, although Angus is correct about what the rules say, I do not believe Scotland would, in practice, be forced to establish its own currency and join ERM II, and it is of interest to understand why. The ERMII mechanism is designed to ensure that countries have a sufficiently stable exchange rate that the correct parity (rate of exchange of the old currency into the euro) can be chosen when the euro is joined. Under ERMII countries must demonstrate that they can keep their currency within 15% of the target conversion parity for two years before conversion. But over the past two years, for example, the pound sterling has varied by much less than 15% from its current exchange rate of around 1.22 euros to the pound. Indeed, it has varied by less than 6%. That means that for practical purposes there is much less uncertainty over the correct parity for Scotland’s old currency (the pound) than there was for the Estonian kroon or the Lithuanian litas — both of which sat in ERMII whilst qualifying. To force Scotland to bear the currency conversion costs of creating its own currency simply so it could bear currency conversion costs again two years later to switch into euros would be regarded as perverse and unnecessary by all concerned. Hence, I believe this likely to be a false issue in the event that Scotland obtains instant EU membership. Unless something very odd happened to the sterling-euro exchange rate between now and Scottish independence, if it secured instant EU membership Scotland would be able to convert straight from pounds into euros without needing to create its own currency in between. There is, of course, the risk that Scotland would not be permitted to join the EU immediately upon becoming independent, and would instead face a qualifying period in many areas (not simply currency).Angus' case might well apply then.That could create significant additional disruption and uncertainty for the Scottish economy, which would sit in a strange limbo for years. The statements by George Osborne, Ed Balls and Danny Alexander that no currency union with an independent Scotland would be feasible have exposed a large degree of confusion amongst Scottish politicians and other commentators regarding what the dissolution of a currency union implies. For example, some have made remarks along the lines of "The pound is a shared asset – the English can't deny Scotland its share" or "Scotland is entitled to its claim upon the assets of the Bank of England". Each of those remarks is entirely correct, but have not the slightest thing to do with whether there is a formal currency union with England, rather suggesting that those making such remarks do not understand the basics of currency break-up. When an independent Scotland left the pound to form its own new currency – let's call it the Scotch dollar – it would pass a currency conversion law, changing all debt contracts that fall under Scottish law from pounds into Scotch dollars and, if this were thought necessary, mandating the exchange of all sterling notes and coin in Scotland into Scotch dollars and cents.Scotland would establish its own central bank – say, the Reserve Bank of Scotland, which would inherit the Scottish portion of the assets and liabilities of the Bank of England – e.g. the Reserve Bank of Scotland would get some Bank of England gold and foreign currency reserves and the claim on coupon payments from UK government debt held under QE presumably matching its portion of total UK government debt (which, in political terms at least, it is ludicrous to suggest Scotland could walk away from whilst hoping to become an EU member – does anyone believe Scotland would get into the EU if it repudiated its responsibilities for UK debt?). Thus there is no sense in which refusing to form a currency union with Scotland implies the rest of the UK attempting to deny Scotland its share of the pound or of the Bank of England's assets. These are basic points.The independence debate in Scotland would benefit, considerably, if Scottish politicians and commentators were to grasp them. More on this story:Westminster dynamites Alex Salmond's currency unionIs Cameron an asset or liability against Salmond?There are two men who could help Mr Cameron save Britain Listen to our weekly podcast: listen to ‘Is Edward Snowden a Russian 'useful idiot' just like the Soviet patsies of CND? ’ on Audioboo  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias Schwarz This op-ed is part of TPM's Book Club for "The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies" by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee.  In "The Second Machine Age" we document several tough facts confronting American workers. Median income is lower than it was in the late 1990s. The only people that have seen their real wages rise over the past twenty years are those with at least a college degree, a group that includes less than 40 percent of the labor force. Unemployment since the Great Recession remains stubbornly high, and in fact much of its reduction in recent years comes from people dropping out of the workforce instead of people finding work. Social mobility is going down while the cost of a higher education (the classic American ticket to a better life) is rising. Unfortunately, we could go on. We spend two chapters of our book showing that technological progress is one of the main forces underlying these trends. And we argue repeatedly that we ain't seen nothing yet: the deepest impacts of digital technologies on the world of work are yet to be felt. To see this, just consider what will happen when (not if) a speech recognition and voice synthesis tool like Siri gets hooked up to a powerful question-answering computer like Watson, and both of them move up into the cloud and continue to ride Moore's Law to higher performance and lower cost. Many jobs in customer service, troubleshooting and personal services will be affected by this development. And that’s only one of many breakthroughs we see coming soon. New varieties of robot are rapidly diffusing throughout the manufacturing and logistics industries, high-end professions like medicine and law will be affected by digital discoverers and diagnosticians, and even the stereotypically lousy-but-safe job of "burger-flipper" faces competition from technology: a recently unveiled machine can convert raw materials into more than 300 totally customized burgers per hour. www.amazon.comDespite all this, however, the two of us are mindful optimists about the second machine age that is quickly arriving. We're optimists because, as the old saying goes, technological progress is the only free lunch that economists believe in. It converts the incredible into the commonplace with startling speed, transforming lives in the process. For example, more than 70,000 Americans, more than half of them children, have received cochlear implants allowing them to hear speech, and the FDA recently approved the first implants for those with damaged retinas. Wheelchairs can now be controlled by thought, and autonomous vehicles have been used by at least one blind person to run errands. Technology's benefits are not limited to the disabled. Students everywhere now have access to some of the world's best teachers via online courses, and most of us have much greater access to music, encyclopedia entries, GPS systems, and tools for self-expression and communication than we did just a few years ago. Anyone with an Internet-connected device has access to an breathtakingly large amount of information. While it's true that you can't eat information, it's also true that you can't figure out how to better feed more people without it, and we expect that the absolutely unprecedented amounts of knowledge and computational horsepower now available to people around the world will be a great boon to innovation, and to making progress on our great challenges. We qualify our optimism with mindfulness because we know that the enormous benefits of technology are not inevitable or automatic. Instead, the benefits depend on the choices we make, in our skills, organization and policies. We've faced major technology-induced shifts in our economy and society before, and responded effectively to them. In the early decades of the twentieth century, for example, a great deal of labor moved from the farm to the factory. As it became clear that industrial workers required very different skills than agricultural ones, America led the world in establishing universal compulsory private education. This experience taught us that inequality is, to use Nobel prize-winner Jan Tinbergen's great image, the outcome of a race between technology and education. With inequality very much again on the rise and the median American worker falling behind in important ways, we need to once again substantially revamp our educational system. This requires not simply doubling down on the strategies that worked in the past, but reinventing how and what people learn, using new technologies and data-driving approaches. As we discuss in our three chapters of recommendations, we also need to fix our infrastructure and immigration policies, encourage entrepreneurship, reconsider how and what we tax, and put in place other policies and interventions. We're mindful optimists because, as Winston Churchill is said to have observed, "You can always count on the Americans to do the right thing after they have tried everything else." In the current Washington atmosphere of intense partisanship and stagnation on important issues like immigration reform it's easy to be pessimistic that we can rise to the challenges of the second machine age and come up with ways to better grow and share its bounty. But the two of us believe that if we remind our elected officials often and clearly enough to do the right thing, they eventually will. Andrew McAfee is a principal research scientist at the MIT Center for Digital Business and the author of Enterprise 2.0. Erik Brynjolfsson is the director of the MIT Center for Digital Business and one of the most cited scholars in information systems and economics.  FREE AppDownload
"Less worse" is a weird phrase, but it seems to characterize Greece's pricing problem well. According to new data from ELSTAT, Greece's consumer price index fell 1.5% year-over-year in January. That's right. It fell.  Greece's is an economy experiencing deflation. If there's a positive spin to any of this data, it's that the pace of decline in prices appears to be decelerating (see chart below). Deflation is a scary thing because it encourages consumers to hold off on purchases as prices go lower. Unfortunately, this effectively forces producers to cut prices even further. All of this has the potential to spiral, bringing down wages and the entire economy with it. ELSTAT Greece's economy is just in horrific shape. On Thursday, we learned that the country's unemployment rate hit a record high of 28% in November. A lot of the decline in prices comes from the fact that the Greek consumer just can't afford to buy things. This second chart shows what prices are falling and by how much. As you can see, even Greece can't keep healthcare prices down. ELSTAT While Greece hasn't been dominated the headlines like it used to, it still remains a country in crisis. FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup / Getty Images The project to impose political union is bringing economic ruin, making the legitimacy of the EU project ever more vulnerable On the face of it, they seem worlds apart. Switzerland’s referendum vote against the free movement of labour, the ruling by the German Constitutional Court on the European Central Bank’s (ECB) attempts to save the euro, and the warning to Scotland that it won’t be allowed to keep the pound if it votes for independence – these might seem unrelated, but in truth they are all part of an increasingly explosive stand-off between the forces of national sovereignty on the one hand, and political and economic integration on the other. With elections in May likely to give rise to the most Eurosceptic parliament in the EU’s history, Europe’s long-running financial and economic crisis is threatening to spill over into an all-encompassing political one. According to Berlin and Brussels, Europe’s dark night of the soul – its most serious crisis since the Second World War – is now essentially behind us, with the promise of a slowly recovering economy and renewed political harmony to come. To my mind, it has hardly begun. Europe’s epic attempt to impose political union on widely divergent countries is being broken on the back of economic hardship, popular discontent, and financial disintegration. Virtually all successful currency unions start with political union, and then proceed through shared insurance, institutions, and fiscal arrangements to a common form of exchange. Europe, it hardly needs saying, is trying to do it the other way round; it has forced monetary union on an unsuspecting public, and now, via the resulting financial crisis, hopes to bulldoze through the shared fiscal and political arrangements that might eventually make it work, culminating ultimately in a United States of Europe. Supporters of Scottish independence propose a still stranger approach. They want to scrap what hitherto has proved a relatively successful political and fiscal union but, for the time being at least, keep the pound. Yesterday, George Osborne, Ed Balls, Sir Nicholas Macpherson and other members of the Westminster elite came together to deliver the inevitable verdict: the Scots cannot have national sovereignty as well as monetary union with the rest of the UK, whatever fiscal rules might be put in place to help sustain such an unstable construct. They must choose between self-rule and economic union. It is a similar choice that now faces Switzerland, and indeed, Europe as a whole. Even in Germany, which so far has largely escaped the ravages of the eurozone crisis, the schism is becoming ever more apparent. Last week, the German Constitutional Court did a remarkable thing; it outsourced final assessment of the ECB’s policy of doing “whatever it takes to save the euro” to the European Court of Justice (ECJ). This seemingly innocuous passing of the buck can be read two ways. To believers in the European project, it’s a positive development which removes a key threat to evolution of the single currency into a more sustainable form. Germany seems to have given up its right to veto whatever it deems to be monetary financing of struggling governments, and instead given the final say to the ECJ, which because it nearly always adopts an integrationist approach, is almost certain to give the thumbs up. But there is a less benign way of looking at the German court’s ruling, for it contained a sting in the tail. Yes, the ECJ must decide, but the judges then went on to say that the ECB’s policies did indeed amount to monetary financing and were therefore in all probability illegal. Next to God and the Bundesbank, there is no higher or more trusted authority in Germany than the Constitutional Court, so when the ECJ determines to contradict it, there’s going to be an almighty backlash. German acquiescence in the euro will begin to fracture. In countries more obviously affected by the euro’s financial crisis, disillusionment with the European project and its institutions is already extreme. Traditional centrist parties are finding it ever harder to hold the line. One of the points made in the Treasury’s analysis of Scotland and the pound is that if political commitment to currency union is thought to be lacking, then financial speculation against it will become self-fulfilling, creating capital flight, reinforcing economic problems and increasing the pressures for an exit. In the eurozone, the will among senior policymakers to make the single currency work is undoubted, but they are increasingly out of touch with voters and are steadily losing their legitimacy. This progressive disconnect between the mainstream political class and its support base was at its most evident in reaction to the outcome of the Swiss referendum. Immediate retaliation was threatened. A similar kind of invective is reserved for British proposals to limit labour migration. Yet Europe’s elite must know that all high-income countries would vote the same way as the Swiss given the chance. The arrogance of political leaders who think they know better may have been tolerable as long as Europe was growing. But today they deliver only economic ruin, making their position, and the legitimacy of the EU project, ever more vulnerable. Stir all this together, and we see a possibly irresistible pull back to the principles of national sovereignty at a time when survival of the euro requires the very reverse – greater levels of fiscal, political and economic integration. A titanic struggle looms. And they say the eurozone crisis is over.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon A couple kisses, as the man does push-ups, during a kissing contest held in celebration of Valentine's Day at the Happy Valley amusement park in Beijing February 14, 2014. About 100 couples competed by kissing in various poses during the competition and an iPhone 5S was presented to the winning couple. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr/iowa_spirit_walkerA new report commissioned by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has refuted claims made by Harvard economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff that high government debt levels stifle economic growth. The new research released on Thursday by IMF researchers Andrea Pescatori, Damiano Sandri and John Simon states that they find no evidence that there is any particular debt threshold above which medium-term growth prospects are dramatically compromised. "We find no evidence of threshold effects over any but the shortest-term horizons....the remaining relationship between debt and growth is relatively muted and the magnitude is much smaller than the dramatic figures suggested in earlier studies," the three economists said in the report. (Read More: 1930s-style debt defaults likely, says IMF research) "Furthermore, we find the debt trajectory can be as important as the debt level in understanding future growth prospects, since countries with high but declining debt appear to grow equally as fast as countries with lower debt." In 2010, an academic paper called "Growth in a Time of Debt" released by Reinhart and Rogoff argued that there is a threshold effect, meaning debt above 90 percent of a country's GDP (gross domestic product) is associated with dramatically worse growth outcomes. Their research is frequently cited as one of the inspirations for austerity measures, with high-profile advocates including the Olli Rehn, the European Union's Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, citing it during key debates about the need for euro zone budgetary tightening. In April 2013, "Growth in a Time of Debt" came under attack from an economics doctoral student and two professors at the University of Massachusetts who claimed it contained a mathematical error. Reinhart and Rogoff responded three times to the research paper, accepting the error but rebutting allegations that the error stemmed from "selective exclusion" and explained that it didn't change the key theme of their research. (Read More: Reinhart-Rogoff Error Sparks Austerity Debate) Thursday's paper firmly belongs to the opposing camp, attempting to throw cold water on Reinhart and Rogoff's claims. It also advances the view that the priority for governments should be increasing growth rather than reducing debt and, consequently, that much less short-term fiscal austerity is appropriate. Using a different way of analyzing the data and a sizeable dataset, the IMF paper says that the association between debt and medium-term growth becomes rather weak at high levels of debt. Countries with high but declining levels of debt have historically grown just as fast as their peers, it adds. The paper is not without its warnings, however. It concedes that it still doesn't establish what the underlying structural relationship between debt and growth is. It also states that high levels of debt are weakly associated with higher output volatility which would suggest an association with market pressure or fiscal and monetary policy actions that could destabilize growth. (Read More: Reinhart, Rogoff: Austerity Is Not the Only Answer) "The fact that there is no clear debt threshold that severely impairs medium term growth should not, however, be interpreted as a conclusion that debt does not matter," the report said. "For example, we have found some evidence that higher debt appears to be associated with more volatile growth. And volatile growth can still be damaging to economic welfare." —By CNBC.com's Matt Clinch; Follow him on Twitter @mattclinch81 FREE AppDownload
GettySomali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud addresses the 68th United Nations General Assembly at U.N. headquarters on September 26, 2013 in New York City.NAIROBI (Reuters) - A resignation letter by Somalia's central bank governor sent from Dubai has thrown Western donors into a quandary over supporting a government they need to fight al Qaeda's local allies. Governor Yussur Abrar quit after only seven weeks in the job, alleging she had been pressured to accept arrangements she believed would open the door to corruption. With one email, she sucked President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud into a dispute over the recovery of frozen Somali assets from abroad, embarrassing foreign donors who have pledged billions to rebuild his shattered nation after two decades of chaos. Divisive clan politics have bedeviled Somalia throughout its long civil war and more recent insurgency by the Islamist militants of al Shabaab, the local franchise of al Qaeda. Western governments, determined to avoid another military involvement like in Iraq and Afghanistan, threw their support behind Mohamud, an Indian-educated former university professor and civil rights activist. They also strongly backed U.S.-educated Abrar, a senior international banker, when she became Somalia's first female central bank chief. Now the two have fallen out. Mohamud denies wrongdoing and Abrar provided no documentary evidence to support her complaints in her October 30 resignation letter. Nevertheless, the allegations shocked Western diplomats and United Nations officials who have put so much faith in the president to restore Somalia's stability. Nicholas Kay, the U.N. Special Representative to Somalia, described Abrar's resignation to the Security Council as a "body blow" to donor confidence. It underlined the need for stronger management of public finances, he said. Diplomats said the U.N. Monitoring Group for Somalia, which presents its findings to the Security Council, is now investigating her allegations. Abrar waited until she was in the United Arab Emirates before quitting. In her letter, which Reuters has reviewed, she did not accuse Mohamud of graft. However, she said she had "continuously been asked to sanction deals and transactions that would contradict my personal values and violate my fiduciary responsibility to the Somali people". Without giving names, Abrar said she had been "undermined by various parties within the administration". A former Citigroup vice president, Abrar said she had vehemently opposed a contract with U.S. law firm Shulman Rogers under which it is trying to recover the assets from abroad. This, she said, would "put the frozen assets at risk and open the door to corruption". Abrar also said in her resignation letter that she had been warned by "multiple parties" that her personal security would be at risk if she went against the president's wishes. Sources familiar with Abrar's version of events told Reuters that the pressure on her to sanction the contract had come from the president and his foreign minister at the time. Abrar declined to elaborate publicly on her allegations when asked by Reuters, although she said in an email: "Tackling corruption was vital to create trust with international partners and to move the country forward economically, socially and politically." Mohamud told Reuters he never put pressure on Abrar to sign any contract. "I have a very clear record in government since I came to power," he said on the sidelines of an African Union summit in Ethiopia. A Shulman Rogers representative denied its contract opened the door to graft. "It is as clean a contract and as clean a deal as you can possibly have," he told Reuters. The sources said that according to Abrar, the former foreign minister had also pressed her to open a bank account in Dubai against her wishes. Abrar resigned without opening it. Mohamud told Reuters there had been no time "that I ever asked my governor to open an account in my name". According to Abrar, the assets and money from Middle East donors would be channeled through the Dubai account before transfer to Somalia, the sources said. She believed this account would be controlled by the president, they said, and that money outside the central bank account could not be tracked, leaving it open to corruption and theft. NAIROBI MEETING Abrar resigned only a few months after a conference when governments promised $2.5 billion to help rebuild Somalia, a pledge seen as a collective endorsement of Mohamud's leadership. Four days after she quit, Western ambassadors - who live in Kenya and make only brief visits to Mogadishu as it remains a dangerous city - met in a luxury Nairobi hotel on a Sunday afternoon to thrash out their response. One diplomat who was in the room said many ambassadors who backed Mohamud and the large amount of Western aid for Somalia under his presidency were "extremely angry, feeling betrayed". A few days after the Nairobi meeting, envoys including from the United States and Europe met Mohamud at Mogadishu's heavily fortified airport - the journey to the presidential palace being too dangerous due to the threat of suicide bombers. U.N. minutes of the meeting show envoys made their feelings known in a discussion about Abrar's resignation. "Sweden, Norway, the US and the EU expressed their deep concern about recent events, noting that the confidence and trust in Somalia have been shaken tremendously," said the minutes of the November 7 meeting, reviewed by Reuters. In response, the president said Abrar had given no details of her concerns about the Shulman Rogers contract and that he had never threatened her, the minutes show. Reuters spoke to 12 diplomats involved in Somalia and all said Abrar's version of events was credible. BANK ACCOUNT Abrar's predecessor Abdusalam Omer signed the contract with Shulman Rogers. He resigned in September after a U.N. report said the central bank effectively functioned under his leadership as a "slush fund", with about 80 percent of withdrawals made for private purposes and not for the running of government. Omer rejected the accusations in the report. According to the sources familiar with Abrar's allegations, she said she had come under pressure to approve the arrangement with Shulman Rogers after she became governor. However, the sources said she feared people involved in the search for the frozen assets, but not formally employed by the government or Shulman Rogers, would take a cut of recovered funds. She did not publicly explain the basis for this belief. Shulman Rogers and a presidential spokesman said Somali businessman Musa Ganjab had been involved in the search. However, they denied the law firm or the government would pay him for this work or that he would take an improper cut of the recovered funds. Ganjab did not respond to a Reuters request for comment. According to Abrar, pressure to approve the arrangement came right from the top, including the former foreign minister, Fozia Yusuf Haji Aden, and the president, the sources familiar with her version of events said. "(This) never happened. I never came across it, I never asked, I never heard it, I only heard after she resigned (about) all these things, not before," Mohamud said. Shulman Rogers told Reuters it had spent almost four years searching for the assets, which former governor Omer said included money in private Swiss bank accounts, gold held in foreign central banks, cash and real estate. The sources said the tipping point for Abrar was pressure she says she came under from Aden and other officials to open the Dubai bank account. Saying she believed her safety was at risk, Abrar agreed to co-operate and fly to Dubai to open the account. Instead, when she arrived, she resigned and headed to the United States. Mohamud denied that an account was to be opened in Dubai, adding that he instructed Shulman Rogers to put recovered assets into a central bank account. The U.S. law firm confirmed this and denied the Dubai account plan had existed. Reuters requests for an interview with former foreign minister Aden made through the presidency were declined. However, a presidency spokesman said it was "absolutely not true" that Aden, who lost her portfolio in a January cabinet reshuffle, had put pressure on Abrar over the Shulman Rogers contract or the Dubai bank account. Some diplomats interviewed by Reuters admitted that Western powers were unlikely to hold back aid or military support to Somalia worth hundreds of millions of dollars a year. This, they said, would only destroy the president's authority and boost al Shabaab which wants to overthrow his government. But their trust in Mohamud will be restored only if he gets serious about tackling graft, they said. (Additional reporting by Edmund Blair in Addis Ababa; Editing by Richard Lough, Edmund Blair and David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNEW YORK (AP) — The relentless snow and ice storms this winter have led to the highest number of flight cancellations in more than 25 years, according to an analysis by The Associated Press. U.S. airlines have canceled more than 75,000 domestic flights since Dec. 1, including roughly 14,000 this week. That's 5.5 percent of the 1.35 million flights scheduled during that period, according to AP calculations based on information provided by flight tracking site FlightAware. It's the highest total number and highest percent of cancellations since at least the winter of 1987-1988, when the Department of Transportation first started collecting cancellation data. Mother Nature isn't entirely to blame. A mix of cost-cutting measures and new government regulations has made airlines more likely to cancel flights and leave fliers scrambling to get to their destination. On Thursday, more than 70 percent of flights were canceled in Baltimore, Philadelphia, Washington D.C. and Charlotte, N.C. thanks to a winter storm that paralyzed most air traffic along the East Coast. Ice storms this winter have caused major headaches in typically warm cities like Atlanta, Dallas and Houston. "This year is off to a brutal start for airlines and travelers," says FlightAware CEO Daniel Baker. "Not only is each storm causing tens of thousands of cancellations, but there's been a lot of them." And February still has two weeks left. Making things worse, airlines have been cutting unprofitable flights and packing more passengers into planes. That's been great for their bottom line but has created a nightmare for passengers whose flights are canceled due to a storm. Other planes are too full to easily accommodate the stranded travelers. Many must wait days to secure a seat on another flight. Carol Cummings, 23, was trying to fly Thursday on United Airlines from the Washington D.C. area to Los Angeles to visit a high school friend for the long Presidents Day weekend. The flight was canceled and Cummings was automatically rebooked for a flight on Monday — the day she was supposed to return home. After 150 minutes on hold, United offered to move the trip to another weekend — for an extra $150 — or to refund her ticket. "I am annoyed and surprised at the lack of customer concern I experienced," she says." Cummings is waiting for her refund. This winter is even more painful than 2000-2001, when 66,000 — or 4.2 percent of December, January and February scheduled flights — were scrapped. (Official statistics won't be released for another two months but FlightAware's figures have been historically in line with the government's data.) "As an industry, you are prepared for bad weather but I'm not sure if you are ready for this many events back to back," says Savanthi Syth, an airline analyst with Raymond James. Airlines are quicker to cancel flights these days, sometimes a day in advance of a storm. It's rarer to see planes parked at the edge of runways for hours, hoping for a break in the weather, or passengers sleeping on airport cots and cobbling together meals from vending machines. The shift in strategy came in response to new government regulations, improvements to overall operations and because canceling quickly reduces expenses. In May 2010, a new DOT rule took effect prohibiting airlines from keeping passengers on the tarmac for three hours or more. So, airlines now choose to cancel blocks of flights to avoid potential fines of up to $27,500 per passenger or $4.1 million for a typical plane holding 150 fliers. Additionally, the government implemented a new rule at the start of January, increasing the amount of rest pilots need. That's made it harder to operate an irregular schedule, such as those seen after a storm. In order to have enough well-rested pilots, airlines cancel more flights. "This is another behavior being forced upon them by government regulations," says Andrew Davis, an airline analyst at T. Rowe Price. Not all of the cancelations are tied to regulations. Airlines have learned in recent years that while a large number of early cancelations might cause short-term pain, it helps them better reset after the weather clears. Reservation systems now automatically rebook passengers on new flights — though not always the flight they want — and send a notification by email, phone or text message. Keeping planes at airports outside of the storm's path can protect equipment and thereby get flight schedules back to normal quickly after a storm passes and airports reopen. It also allows airlines to let gate agents, baggage handlers and flight crews stay home, too — keeping them fresh once they're needed again. There are also financial considerations. A plane circling above an airport hoping to land, or even one waiting on a taxiway, burns a lot of fuel. A decade ago, when jet fuel was $1.15 a gallon, that might not have been a major concern. Today, airlines are paying $3.03 a gallon and fuel has become their largest single cost, eclipsing salaries. Flying during a winter storm also requires deicing, a process that takes time and costs the airlines money. The airlines do lose money by canceling flights when travelers like Cummings demand refunds. United recently said that early January storms cost it $80 million in lost revenue. But the sting isn't as bad as you might think. Jim Corridore, an airline analyst with S&amp;P Capital IQ, notes that the United also saved millions in fuel and salaries by not having to fly the canceled flights. And some level of storm-related expenses is already built into airline budgets. "We're not going to have this type of winter, every winter," Corridore says. Hopefully not. __ Scott Mayerowitz can be reached at http://twitter.com/GlobeTrotScott. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Euromonitor, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research In a note to clients this week, Goldman Sachs analysts led by Robert D. Boroujerdi look at merger trends in various industries. One that has gone through substantial consolidation in the last 10 years is the global beer industry. Here's Goldman: The global beer industry has undergone a steady process of consolidation. Ten years ago the global beer industry was highly fragmented with Anheuser-Busch’s 8.5% market share enough to make it the global leader. Since then, a steady process of consolidation via M&amp;A has taken place – often focused around cost-cutting opportunities (e.g. the $60 bn merger of Anheuser-Busch and InBev completed in 2008) or geared towards acquiring attractive emerging market assets (e.g. Heineken’s $24 bn acquisition of Asia Pacific Breweries completed in 2012). Today’s AB InBev, with an estimated 21% market share, has been the driving force behind much of this consolidation. Interbrew’s acquisition of AmBev in 2004 created a new global leader, InBev, with 11% share and the subsequent Anheuser-Busch/InBev merger in 2008 again created a global leader, AB InBev, with 20% market share. Today’s top 5 companies represent more than 50% of the global market (versus 32% for the top 5 players in 2003), and the industry’s HHI has risen to 725 in 2013E from just 276 in 2003. "HHI" stands for Herfindahl-Hirshman Index, a common measure of industry concentration. "The U.S. Department of Justice generally considers HHI levels of 1,500-2,500 to be consistent with moderately concentrated markets, and levels above 2,500 signifying high concentration," explain the Goldman analysts. "The score is calculated as the sum of the squares of the market shares of an industry’s competitors." In 2013, the global beer industry's HHI was 725 — almost three times what it was 10 years ago, but still well below the levels cited above. "Global Beer measures as considerably more fragmented than the other industries in our study," say the Goldman analysts. "The market for beer brands more often tends to be local than global, making it not directly comparable with the HHI scores of other truly global or purely local markets in this study. In the case of our beer study, the direction of the HHI is much more pertinent than the absolute level." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartCharter's biggest sharehold, John Malone, lost out on a major deal. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Talks between Comcast Corp and Charter Communications Inc over how they could together buy Time Warner Cable Inc quickly soured as the two bickered over price and the feasibility of engineering a split of the No. 2 U.S. cable operator. Charter, backed by billionaire John Malone's Liberty Media Corp, had been pursuing Time Warner for months, but was not making any headway as its larger rival - nearly three times its size by market value - asked for $8 billion more than what it had offered. But Comcast actually believed Time Warner Cable's $160 per share counter to Charter's $132.50 per share bid was reasonable, several people familiar with the situation said on Thursday. At the same time, it worried that splitting a public company with assets in multiple markets and millions of subscribers would be tough, made even harder by the acrimony that had built up over the past eight months between Charter and Time Warner Cable. On February 4 Comcast and Charter met in a last-ditch attempt to see if they could work out their differences, the sources said. They could not. So later in the day, Comcast Chief Executive Brian Roberts called Time Warner Cable's Rob Marcus to say that he was ready to make a bid for all of Time Warner Cable at a figure close to the asking price, according to the sources. On Thursday, the two announced a $45.2 billion all-stock deal to create a cable behemoth, with an empire stretching from New York to Los Angeles. The deal is the largest M&amp;A transaction so far this year and the third-largest in the media and entertainment sector of all time, according to Thomson Reuters data. If the deal closes, it could give Comcast unprecedented leverage in negotiations with content providers and advertisers. For that reason it is also likely to come under keen regulatory scrutiny. Representatives for Time Warner Cable, Comcast and Charter declined to comment on details of the negotiations. All the sources asked not to be named because the conversations were private. Interviews with several people who were intimately involved in negotiations, however, paint a picture of what went on behind the scenes over the last few days as the deal came together and how Charter lost a prize that it had worked so hard to win. In some ways, these sources said, the two companies have Charter to thank for the deal. Although Comcast, the top U.S. cable operator, had always been intrigued by the idea of buying Time Warner Cable, a deal was not on its list of priorities until Charter put it in play last summer. In the end, one of the sources said, all Charter did was "wake up the sleeping beast." John Paulson, whose Paulson &amp; Co hedge fund is one of Time Warner Cable's top 10 shareholders, said of Comcast in an interview with Reuters: "They're gentlemen, old school businessmen. But they're also aggressive." Charter's next steps were not clear on Thursday. It had nominated a slate of directors to replace the entire board of Time Warner Cable on Tuesday, but was kept in the dark as its prize was slipping away to another buyer. Time Warner Cable CEO Marcus, in the job for just 44 days, said in an interview that the deal, while good for his shareholders, is bittersweet for him. "I was looking forward to thousands of days, not tens of days doing this job," Marcus said. Still, the former Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison LLP M&amp;A lawyer who over the past eight years had served in various roles at Time Warner Cable, including its top dealmaker and chief operating officer, just pulled off one of his largest deals ever. And thanks to his tenure at the company, he could take home some $50 million after it closes. "Sometimes you don't have control over how things unfold," Marcus said. Things moved quickly over the last 10 days, the sources said. After months of pursuing Time Warner Cable without success and speaking informally with Comcast last year, Charter approached Comcast once again in the middle of January about teaming up. The idea was for Charter to buy all of Time Warner Cable and later sell off select systems to Comcast. Comcast, with a $138 billion market value, dwarfs Charter's $13.43 billion, as well as Time Warner Cable's $40 billion market capitalization as of Thursday. But as the two discussed options, Comcast became increasingly uncomfortable with Charter's hostile approach and more skeptical that Charter would be able to win Time Warner Cable's blessing with its offer, the sources said. Comcast also became increasingly excited about the prospect of buying Time Warner Cable on its own. Comcast felt that it could pay between $150 and $160 per share for Time Warner Cable, the sources said. Initially it was also willing to put cash along with stock into the deal. But one of the sources said Time Warner Cable wanted an all-stock deal and for Comcast to use the cash instead to initiate a large share buyback program after the transaction closed to boost the share price of the combined company. That meant Time Warner Cable shareholders would end up owning 23 percent of the combined company and also not have to pay taxes as a result of the transaction. In return for paying the price, however, Roberts had one demand: Comcast would not pay a reverse break-up fee, or the penalty that a buyer pays to the seller if it fails to close a deal, typically because of regulatory reasons, the sources said. The request was unusual for a deal that was sure to face regulatory scrutiny. A few years ago, for example, AT&amp;T Inc agreed to pay as much as $6 billion as reverse breakup fee, paid in cash and spectrum, as part of its deal to buy T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $39 billion. The deal was shot down by regulators, and AT&amp;T had to pay the fees. Some lawyers said such fees are rare in the cable industry, however. "These businesses operate fairly independent enough and if this deal does not get approved, there is not going to be that much damage to Time Warner Cable," said Robert Townsend, co-chair of Morrison &amp; Foerster's global M&amp;A practice. Comcast CEO Roberts said he did not recall ever agreeing to a reverse termination fee, not even in its $30 billion buyout of majority of NBC Universal in 2009. Time Warner Cable's board determined that the proposed transaction should get regulatory approval because the companies do not operate in the same markets, the sources said. They agreed to Comcast's condition. Talks were further aided by the fact that executives from the two companies knew each other and were friendly, the sources said. They also had worked together on a deal previously. In 2006, the two split up bankrupt cable operator Adelphia Communications in a complicated $17.6 billion transaction. Marcus was Time Warner's lead negotiator on the deal at that time. This time around, the two chief executives, along with Comcast Chief Financial Officer Michael Angelakis and Time Warner Cable's Arthur Minson, negotiated key points of the deal by phone as well as in-person meetings in New York, without relying much on advisers. The two sides agreed a final deal price of $158.82 per share on Monday morning, and the board of each company approved the transaction on Wednesday evening. "Throughout the whole process with Charter, I consistently said one thing - insufficient value. They didn't value the unique asset that was Time Warner Cable," Marcus said. "On the simplest level, the TWC-Comcast merger was superior." (Additional reporting by Nicola Leske; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
The market is all but discounting the nation's ability to obtain the next batch of bailout funds - wherever it comes from - before defaulting. Euronews: - Financial experts have warned Ukraine is on the brink of default with some saying currency reserves are enough for only two months. Russia has provided the first three billion dollar tranche of a loan. With the political stand off the rest has been frozen. There are no easy answers here, as the nation faces a daunting challenge of obtaining cash to run its government for the next few months. Many view the country as a victim of tensions between the West - who prefers to see a certain type of government there - and Russia, who is not too interested in Ukrainian sovereignty. Some analysts warn that Russia could escalate its pressure on the former Soviet republic. WSJ (Stephen Blank): - Behind its coercive diplomacy in Ukraine is the threat of force, either incited by Russia or carried out by it. Recent reports of pro-government militant groups forming in eastern Ukraine, calls in the Crimean legislature for Russia to "rescue" them from Ukraine's anti-government uprising, and repeated discussions in the Russian media about partitioning Ukraine, all point to a pattern of escalating pressure from Moscow—a pattern that paves the way for the use of force. In the mean time, the tensions on the streets are rising, as both sides - the protesters and the authorities - harden their stance (see story). Time is running out for Ukraine. FREE AppDownload
January retail sales, reported Thursday, were down 0.4% month-to-month, partially reflecting bad weather.  But December sales were downwardly revised to minus 0.1%, reflecting poor holiday sales that left retailers with higher than desired inventories that will have to be worked off.  It is important to recognize, however, that retail sales growth has been trending down for some time.  On a year-over-year basis, they peaked in July 2011 at 8.5%, and gradually dropped to 3.2% in March 2013.  After jumping back to 6% in June, it subsequently declined to 3.1% in December.  Payroll employment followed a similar pattern, peaking at 1.9% year-to-year in March 2012 and declining to 1.5% by March 2013.  In December it was 1.7%.  The key takeaway though, is that job growth has never broken out into new high territory during the entire recovery.  It is notable that in prior economic expansions year-over-year job growth has reached between 3.5% and 5% in numerous months, a mark that has not even been closely approached in the current tepid recovery. While weather has undoubtedly been a factor, it seems clear that the economy has been stuck in an approximate 2% growth trend, sometimes slightly more and sometimes slightly less.  Although we could see another minor growth bump as the weather clears, the economy is unlikely to accelerate.  The latest savings rate is down to 3.9%, the second lowest monthly rate in six years, and real disposable income is barely rising.  The Fed’s tapering policy is not based on renewed economic growth, but on the widespread belief that it is losing its effectiveness at the same time that the risks of unwanted consequences are rising.  In sum, we believe that economic growth will continue to be disappointing at a time when QE can no longer be relied upon to provide a floor under the stock market.  It seems to us that the risks are high in the period ahead.    FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Italian GDP rose 0.1% on a seasonally adjusted and workday adjusted basis in the fourth quarter of 2013, marking the first expansion in the Italian economy since 2011. The news comes on the same day that Italian prime minister Enrico Letta steps down from his post, paving the way for party ally Matteo Renzi to form a new government with the aim of speeding along structural reforms many consider to be crucial for the future of the Italian economy. Elsewhere in the eurozone, French GDP expanded 0.3% in Q4 after remaining unchanged in Q3. German quarterly GDP growth accelerated to 0.4% from 0.3%. On a eurozone-wide basis, quarterly GDP growth accelerated to 0.3% in Q4 from 0.1% in Q3. Economists predicted a smaller acceleration to 0.2%. FREE AppDownload
flickr/cliff1066Flight of Europa.LONDON (Reuters) - Evidence of a gradual acceleration in euro zone growth put the region's shares on course for their best week of the year on Friday and pushed the euro to a three-week high. As well as the encouraging economic data, which helped take some of the sting out of Thursday's disappointing U.S. retail and unemployment figures, investors gave a cautious thumbs up to the latest changeover at the summit of Italian politics. Stocks in Milan &lt;.FTMIB&gt; were Europe's best performers by some distance, rising 1.1 percent versus a 0.4 percent higher pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index &lt;.FTEU3&gt;. In the debt market, Italian borrowing costs hovered near 8-year lows. Italian center-left leader Matteo Renzi forced party rival Enrico Letta to resign as prime minister on Thursday after criticizing his government's failure to pass major reforms. That means the country faces its third administration in a year, but the hope is the youthful, sharp-talking Renzi can breathe new life into efforts to streamline the euro zone's third largest economy. "The appointment of Renzi is seen as something positive. He is a new politician who can take decisive action," BNP Paribas rate strategist Patrick Jacq said. "This is not political uncertainty. In fact, the political situation in Italy now is clearer." In the currency market, the euro traded at just under $1.37, within touching distance of a three-week high hit earlier in Asia. Euro zone growth and the positive sentiment towards Italy helped its cause, although a softening dollar &lt;.DXY&gt; on the back of Thursday's lackluster data had an equal effect. The mood was buoyed as fourth quarter economic growth in Germany and France marginally exceeded expectations and offered hope of a more robust 2014. The euro zone-wide number is due at 1000 GMT and forecast to show quarterly growth of 0.2 percent, though given the performance of the bloc's top two economies, it may well exceed those bets. "It (GDP data) will confirm there is a recovery in train in the euro zone which if you are an equity investor should at the margin bolster your confidence that the improvement is for real and sustainable," said Macquarie Capitalstrategist Daniel McCormack. ASIAN GAINS Early futures prices pointed to subdued end to the week for Wall Street though it, like European shares and MSCI's 45-country world index &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt;, was on course for its best week since the end of December. Data from both the U.S. and China have been unconvincing recently but the wobbles have been offset by assurances from the Federal Reserve, European Central Bank and Bank of England that their supportive policies will remain in place if needed. In Asian trading, share markets mostly rose to give MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan&lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; its biggest weekly gain since September. Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; underperformed its counterparts though, tumbling 1.5 percent for its sixth straight weekly losses as the yen continued to make ground against the weaker dollar. "Japanese stocks have trouble advancing as overseas investors have become reticent," said Kenichi Hirano, a strategist at Tachibana Securities in Tokyo. DOLLAR SOFTENS The weaker dollar helped point Asian emerging market currencies towards weekly gains as they continued to recover ground after last month's squalls. The Indonesian rupiah hit a near 11-week high after data showed that country's current account deficit narrowed sharply in the fourth quarter, though both the Russian rouble and Nigerian Naira remained under pressure. &lt;EMRG/FRX&gt; The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes dipped after Thursday's data but climbed back to just under 2.74 percent in early European trade, pulling benchmark European German Bund yields in its wake &lt;EUR/GVD&gt; U.S. yields rallied this week after the U.S. Congress approved an increase in the debt limit and incoming Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen maintained the central bank's commitment to gradually withdraw its stimulus. In commodities trading, U.S. crude slipped about 0.2 percent to $100.13 a barrel after skidding on the previous session's dismal U.S. data. Brent crude also edged down about 0.1 percent to $108.40. Spot gold added about 0.3 percent in Asian trading to $1,306.90 an ounce, after hitting a three-month high of $1,307.80 earlier in the session. The U.S. data gave gold futures a lift and helped them post their eighth straight gaining session - the longest winning streak since July 2011. (Additional reporting by Marius Zaharia in London and Lisa Twaronite in Tokyo; Editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
Reuters(Reuters) - Wells Fargo &amp; Co, the largest U.S. mortgage lender, is tiptoeing back into subprime home loans again. The bank is looking for opportunities to stem its revenue decline as overall mortgage lending volume plunges. It believes it has worked through enough of its crisis-era mortgage problems, particularly with U.S. home loan agencies, to be comfortable extending credit to some borrowers with higher credit risks. The small steps from Wells Fargo could amount to a big change for the mortgage market. After the subprime mortgage bust brought the banking system to the brink of collapse in the financial crisis, banks have shied away from making home loans to anyone but the safest of consumers. Any loosening of credit standards could boost housing demand from borrowers who have been forced to sit out the recovery in home prices in the past couple of years, but could also stoke fears that U.S. lenders will make the same mistakes that had triggered the crisis. So far few other big banks seem poised to follow Wells Fargo's lead, but some smaller companies outside the banking system, such as Citadel Servicing Corp, are already ramping up their subprime lending. To avoid the taint associated with the word "subprime," lenders are calling their loans "another chance mortgages" or "alternative mortgage programs." And lenders say they are much stricter about the loans than before the crisis, when lending standards were so lax that many borrowers did not have to provide any proof of income. Borrowers must often make high down payments and provide detailed information about income, work histories and bill payments. Wells Fargo in recent weeks started targeting customers that can meet strict criteria, including demonstrating their ability to repay the loan and having a documented and reasonable explanation for why their credit scores are subprime. It is looking at customers with credit scores as low as 600. Its prior limit was 640, which is often seen as the cutoff point between prime and subprime borrowers. U.S. credit scores range from 300 to 850. Lenders remain cautious in part because of financial reform rules. Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, mortgage borrowers must meet eight strict criteria including earning enough income and having relatively low debt. If the borrower does not meet those hurdles and later defaults on a mortgage, he or she can sue the lender and argue the loan should never have been made in the first place. Those kinds of rules have helped build a wall between prime and subprime borrowers. Lenders have been courting consumers who are legally easier to serve, and avoiding those with weaker credit scores and other problems. Subprime borrowers accounted for 0.3 percent of new home loans in October 2013, compared with an average of 29 percent for the 12 months ended February 2004, according to Mark Fleming, the chief economist of CoreLogic. With Wells Fargo looking at loans to borrowers with weaker credit, "we believe the wall has begun to come down," wrote Paul Miller, a bank analyst at FBR Capital Markets, in a research note. Lenders have an ample incentive to try reaching further down the credit spectrum now. Rising mortgage rates since the middle of last year are expected to reduce total U.S. mortgage lending in 2014 by 36 percent to $1.12 trillion, the Mortgage Bankers Association forecasts, due to a big drop in refinancings. Some subprime lending can help banks, but it may also help the economy. In September 2012, then Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said housing had been the missing piston in the U.S. recovery. A recent report from think tank the Urban Institute and Moody's Analytics argued that a full recovery in the housing market "will only happen if there is stronger demand from first-time homebuyers. And we will not see the demand needed among this group if access to mortgage credit remains as tight as it is today." Subprime mortgages were at the center of the financial crisis, but many lenders believe that done with proper controls, the risks can be managed and the business can generate big profits. MAKING UP WITH THE AGENCIES For Wells Fargo, one of the critical factors in the new strategy was its clearing up of disputes with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said Franklin Codel, Wells Fargo's head of mortgage production in Des Moines, Iowa. The 2013 settlements for $1.3 billion resolved a few battles in a half-decade war between banks and government mortgage agencies over who was responsible for losses from the mortgage crisis. The bank still has mortgage problems to clear up with the agencies, including a lawsuit linked to the Federal Housing Administration, but Wells Fargo officials believe the worst is over. Wells Fargo avoided many of the worst loans of the subprime era: It did not offer option adjustable-rate mortgages, for instance. But when it acquired Wachovia in 2008, the bank inherited a $120 billion portfolio of "Pick-A-Pay" mortgages where borrowers could defer payments on their loans. Those loans have suffered big losses. One of the reasons for banks being so cautious in mortgage lending now is that Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and the FHA have been pressing lenders to buy back home loans that went bad after the crisis. The agencies guaranteed the loans, and argued that the banks overstated the mortgages' quality, or made mistakes like omitting required documents. Banks feel that the agencies were using trivial mistakes as a club to pressure banks to buy back loans. But after its settlements, Wells Fargo is more confident about the underwriting flaws the agencies consider material and the quality of the documentation needed to avoid such costly battles. "As things become clearer and we are more comfortable with our own processes and controls, it gets easier" to extend more credit, Codel said. Still, Wells Fargo isn't just opening up the spigots. The bank is looking to lend to borrowers with weaker credit, but only if those mortgages can be guaranteed by the FHA, Codel said. Because the loans are backed by the government, Wells Fargo can package them into bonds and sell them to investors. The funding of the loans is a key difference between Wells Fargo and other lenders: the big bank is packaging them into bonds and selling them to investors, but many of the smaller, nonbank lenders are making mortgages known as "nonqualified loans" that they are often holding on their books. Citadel Servicing Corp, the country's biggest subprime lender, is trying to change that. It plans to package the loans it has made into bonds and sell them to investors. Citadel has lent money to people with credit scores as low as 490 - though they have to pay interest rates above 10 percent, far above the roughly 4.3 percent that prime borrowers pay now. A TRAILER PARK IN VEGAS As conditions ease, borrowers are taking notice. Gary Goldberg, a 63-year-old automotive detailer, was denied loans to buy a house near Rancho Cucamonga, California. Last summer he was forced to move into a trailer park in Las Vegas. Going from 2,000 square feet to 200 - along with his wife and two German shepherd dogs - was tough. He longed to buy a house. But a post-crash bankruptcy of his detailing business had torched his credit, taking his score from the 800s to the 500s. "There was no way I was going to get a mortgage," said Goldberg. "No bank would touch me." But in December, he moved into a 1,000-square-foot one-story home that he paid $205,000 for. His lender,Premiere Mortgage Lending, did not care about his bankruptcy or his subprime credit score. That is because Goldberg had a 30 percent down payment and was willing to pay an 8.9 percent interest rate. To be sure, credit is still only trickling down to subprime borrowers. Jamie Dimon, chief executive of the second-largest U.S. mortgage lender JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, said on a conference call last month that he did not envision a "dramatic expansion" of mortgage credit because of a continued lack of clarity from the government agencies on their repurchase demands. But smaller, non-bank lenders are making more loans. One such company, ACC Mortgage in Maryland, is offering a "Low Credit Score Debt Consolidation Program" as well as a "Second Chance Purchase Program." Low credit scores don't matter. Neither do bankruptcies, foreclosures or short sales. "I think that is going to be the wave of the future, basically making non-prime mortgages, carving that out into a profitable niche," said Guy Cecala, publisher of newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. "Right now we're at the infant stage." (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair and Michelle Conlin in New York; Editing by Dan Wilchins, Martin Howell and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyOn Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen promised the House Financial Services Committee "a great deal of continuity" in monetary policy as she fills the shoes of Ben Bernanke. However, Yellen is not Bernanke. And depending on her read on the economy, she will use her powers to influence the direction of monetary policy via the Federal Open Market Committee. So what is Yellen watching out for? Morgan Stanley economists Dane Vrabac and John Abraham answer this question in this new presentation distributed to clients. It's a catalogue of 31 charts that have individually been cited by Yellen as informing her view. Thanks to Morgan Stanley for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
