Thomson ReutersWilliam Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to the audience about Herbalife company in New YorkBOSTON (Reuters) - Billionaire investor William Ackman, whose fund is the largest shareholder in Allergan Inc., and Valeant Pharmaceuticals said the botox maker's Chief Executive Officer David Pyott tried to discredit Valeant as it was making a hostile takeover bid, court documents showed. The court filing made late on Monday in California further raises the tensions between the two sides in a deal that could become the year's biggest if it is completed. Ackman's hedge fund has been working with Valeant for months to craft a deal for Valeant to buy Allergan, but Allergan has rejected all of Valeant's overtures and tried to find other potential partners to avoid a deal. In the filing with the federal court in Santa Ana, California, lawyers said that Pyott provided false and misleading information about Valeant to investors, failed to disclose Allergan CFO Jeff Edward's resignation in a timely manner, and ignored outside advisors' input when he falsely called Valeant's account "opaque" and "problematic." A spokesman for Allergan was not immediately available for comment. The case is Allergan Inc et al v. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc et al, United States District Court Central District of California Southern Division - Santa Ana No. 14-01214       (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLabourers install steel frames to a new food factory in TaiyuanBEIJING (Reuters) - China's economic growth cooled to 7.3 percent between July and September from a year earlier, the weakest expansion since the global financial crisis and reinforcing expectations that Beijing will need to roll out more stimulus to avert a sharper slowdown. With a faltering property market increasingly dragging on manufacturing and investment, the reading was the slowest for the world's second-largest economy since early 2009, when the growth rate tumbled to 6.6 percent. Economists polled by Reuters had expected third-quarter growth to cool to 7.2 percent from 7.5 percent in the second quarter, adding to worries about flagging global growth which have sent financial markets tumbling in recent weeks. On a quarter-on-quarter basis, growth eased to 1.9 percent versus expectations of 1.8 percent and down from 2.0 percent in the second quarter. Other data released alongside the gross domestic product (GDP) report on Tuesday showed factory output rose 8.0 percent in September from a year earlier, beating expectations for a 7.5 percent increase and up from August's six-year low of 6.9 percent. Fixed asset investment, a key driver of the Chinese economy, was weaker than expected. It climbed 16.1 percent in the first nine months compared with the same period a year earlier, below forecasts for a 16.3 percent rise and cooling from 16.5 percent in the first eight months of the year. Retail sales rose 11.6 percent in September from a year earlier, below analysts' predictions of 11.8 percent and down from the previous month's 11.9 percent. A raft of lackluster and at times alarming economic data in recent months presaged slowing third-quarter growth in China, with the growing drag from the property market blunting the impact of stimulus measures which were rolled out earlier in the year. Beijing is expected to announce fresh support measures in response to the weak economic picture as China is on track to miss the official 7.5 percent growth target for the year, analysts said ahead of the data release. However, Premier Li Keqiang has said repeatedly that the government would tolerate growth slightly lower than the target as long as the jobs market holds up. Most economists do not expect more aggressive policy action such as interest rate cuts unless conditions sharply deteriorate.   (Reporting by Shao Xiaoyi and Jake Spring; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
On Monday, IBM CEO Ginni Rometty quietly but firmly stopped the madness that had been a noose around her neck since she took office. As part of IBM's disappointing quarterly earnings, she said the company is not going to hit $20 earnings per share in 2015, as IBM has been promising for years. This was known internally as Roadmap 2015. This wasn't a promise made by Rometty, but by her predecessor, Sam Palmisano, a couple of years before Rometty took the helm in 2012. Palmisano was doubling down on a tactic that had worked for him. In 2007, he said he was going to deliver earnings of at least $10 a share by 2010. The company handily beat that number, delivering $11.52 EPS, and became a Wall Street darling. So, he turned around and promised $20 EPS by 2015. But IBM wasn't entering an era of coasting on past investments. The tech industry is going through a radical change. All of the big tech companies are in make-it-or-break-it-mode, from HP to Microsoft. Companies don't want to buy multi-million-dollar software on contracts anymore, then spend millions more on hardware and consulting services to install it in their own data centers. Especially when so many of those huge projects fail. They want to rent exactly the software they need when they need it, hosted elsewhere, and rent the equipment to run their software. That's called cloud computing. And the leader of the cloud, Amazon, keeps cutting its prices as it finds ever more efficient ways to offer cloud services. As companies shift from buying everything to renting it, IBM's revenues are taking a beating. New cloud revenue can't immediately make up for the loss of hardware/software/services revenues. Cloud revenue is recognized slowly over time, not up front when a new contract is signed. Plus, the biggest cloud providers aren't buying hardware, software, and services from companies like IBM. They are building their own. With falling revenue, Rometty tried to grow profits to keep that $20 EPS promise by trimming expenses and laying off workers. She sold business units. IBM even agreed to pay GlobalFoundaries $1.5 billion to take its money-losing microchip business off its hands. IBM tripled its debt to buy back billions of dollars of its own shares, at one point, spending $8.2 billion in a single quarter on repurchases. (Since 2000, IBM has spent $108 billion buying back shares, $12 billion of that in the first half of this year.) This to reduce the number of shares and make that $20 EPS goal. Ultimately, none of it worked. So on Monday, Rometty and CFO Martin Schroeter had to tell Wall Street that they would not hit the target. "Given our third-quarter performance, the actions we're taking and with only 15 months till the end of 2015, we no longer expect to deliver $20 operating earnings per share in 2015," Schroeter said on the quarterly conference call. Rometty doesn't usually join these quarterly calls, but she did on Monday because of this news, and the unusual agreement IBM made with GlobalFoundaries. A huge IBM selloff followed the news, and the shares dropped 7% in heavy volume. Some analysts on the call then questioned if IBM was in a "crises." But here's the thing. This could really be good news for IBM and Rometty. She's no longer jumping through hoops to meet an arbitrary EPS number selected by the previous CEO from a tactic that made sense in 2007. She is now free to run this company, and implement her own ideas and strategy to start growing revenue, such as the agreement with Apple.  She may still fail. But she didn't really have a chance until now. FREE AppDownload
Reuters//Luke MacGregor Christophe de Margerie The CEO of French giant oil giant Total, 63-year-old Christophe de Margerie, died in a plane accident around midnight on Tuesday in Moscow, Russian news agency TASS reported. De Margerie — who has been dogged by allegations of corruption during his tenure at Total — was in Russia attending a government meeting on foreign investment, according to Reuters. Total is a top foreign investor in Russia.  The Falcon 50 plane that was due to fly to Paris crashed into a snow removal machine during takeoff at Moscow's Vnukovo airport. The crash damaged the plane, so the pilot decided to turn around and land, Russia Today reported.  The plane started sending distress signals while it was still in the air, reporting an engine fire, according to Russia Today, which cited the Russian-language publication Life News. The plane was on fire as it crashed onto the runway, killing everybody on board — including de Margerie and three crew members.  REUTERS/Alexsey Druginyn/RIA Novosti/Pool Vladimir Putin shaking hands with Christophe de Margerie in 2012.  Despite the EU's sanctions against Russia, under de Margerie's leadership Total has made no secret of its plans to continue exploring there. In June, Total signed a deal with the Russian oil company Lukoil to explore the Siberian wildnerness for shale oil, The New York Times reported.  “My message to Russia is simple — it is business as usual,” de Margerie told journalists in June. Last year, de Margerie was one of several defendants acquitted in a high-profile case accusing Total and others of abusing the UN's oil for food program, which let Iraq sell oil in exchange for humanitarian supplies between 1995 and 2003. Total and others were accused of abusing that program by using front companies to buy oil from Iraq, which let Saddam Hussein raise cash. De Margerie could have gone to jail for 5 years if he'd been convicted, Reuters reported in July 2013, noting that his tenure as CEO had been filled with investigations into Total's dealings with Iran and Iraq. Last year, Total agreed to pay $398 million to the US government to settle claims that it had bribed an Iranian official. Also last year, French prosecutors recommended sending de Margerie to trial for corruption and embezzlement related to the company's dealings with Iran.  De Margerie had been CEO of Total since 2007, and he was known by the nickname "Big Mustache" because of his curved mustache, Bloomberg reported. He headed up exploration and production before he was CEO. Total is the third-largest oil company in Europe.    FREE AppDownload
An attraction in Nanjing, China allows dinner guests to wine and dine while suspended 60-feet in the air by a crane.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian and Matt Johnston. Video Courtesy of Associated Press.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Wikimedia CommonsSiege of Namur, June 1692 by Jean-Baptiste Martin le vieuxThe United States stock market has been in bull-market mode for six years now, and some fear the stock market may be running out of steam.  By our count, there have been 25 bear markets in the United States since 1792 and 28 bear markets in the United Kingdom since 1692. Are we about to add to that list? This raises the question, when did that ugly bear first raise its head?  By our analysis, the first fateful year was 1692 when a four-year bear market began in England.  If we take the price of East India Company stock from March 1692 until July 1694, and the price of Bank of England stock from August 1694 until October 1696, the market fell almost 72% for the four years between March 1692 and 1696. The first bear market was also one of the worst. The Nine Years War and the Four Year Bear Market   What was the cause of the world’s first bear market?  Although CNBC wasn’t around in 1692 to tell us the causes, the most likely source was the setbacks the British army and the Dutch suffered at the hands of French troops in the Nine Year’s War (1688-1697), as well as the ongoing controversy over who was the true King of England. The groundwork for the Nine Year’s War had been laid a decade before. Louis XIV, the “Sun King”, emerged from the Franco-Dutch War in 1678 as the most powerful king in Europe, but Louis XIV of “L’etat c’est moi” fame, was not content and wanted to extend his gains. Louis XIV’s revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685 contributed to the deterioration in his military and political dominance outside of France, and when Louis XIV’s troops crossed the Rhine in September 1688, his opponents put together an alliance to stand up to the French King. Queen Mary of England, the Anglo-Dutch Stadtholder King William III, the Holy Roman Emperor Leopold I, King Charles II of Spain, Victor Amadeus II of Savoy and major and minor princes of the Holy Roman Empire formed an alliance to stop Louis XIV. Most of the fighting occurred near France’s borders, mainly in the Spanish Netherlands and the Rhineland. Although there was a fear of a French invasion of England at the beginning of the war, this never occurred, in part because of victory at the Battles of Barfleur and La Hogue between May 29 and June 4, 1692. Nevertheless, Anglo-Dutch forces were defeated at the Battle of Steenkerqe on August 3, 1692, and the Dutch and English suffered defeats at the Battle of Lagos off Portugal on June 27, 1693 (N.S.) and the Battle of Landen near Neerwinden on July 19, 1693 (N.S.). These defeats began to be reflected in the stock market. The expense of the war gradually led to financial exhaustion of the participating countries. To help the King William III fight these wars, the Bank of England was established on July 27, 1694 to provide funds to the crown. In exchange for the establishment of the Bank of England, the king received a loan that would never have to be paid back. After Queen Mary died on December 28, 1694, King William III became the sole ruler of England. When Savoy defected from the Alliance, the Allies and France were eager to negotiate a settlement. The war finally came to an end with the Treaty of Ryswick, signed on September 20, 1697 in which Louis XIV retained Alsace, gave up Lorraine and recognized William III as the sole ruler of England, Scotland and Ireland. From Bear to Bubble During the war, the price of East India Company stock fell from 158 on March 30, 1692 to 38 on November 6, 1696 while Bank of England stock fell from a par of 100 in August 1694 to 60 on October 16, 1696.  From there, both stocks began to rise in value as the Nine Year’s War began to wind down. GFDPeace prevailed in Europe until 1701 when the War of the Spanish Succession was fought over who had the right to succeed Charles II as the King of Spain. The war ended with the Peace of Utretcht in 1713 which recognized Philip V as the King of Spain; however, the war further impoverished France, Great Britain, the Netherlands and other participants.    GFD In part, because of the burden of the war debts and a poorly performing economy, John Law was able to convince the French government to use his plan to convert war debts into stock in the Compagnie des Indes and inflate the economy by issuing paper money.  England followed in France’s footsteps and converted government debt into shares of South Sea Stock. Out of the ashes of the world’s first bear market and the debts that were piled up from the British and French wars, the foundations were laid for the world’s first stock market bubble in the Compagnie des Indes in France and South Sea stock in England.  That, alas, is another story. This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comHouston on a clear dayCity Observatory released a report Monday about how college-educated young people are flocking to cities instead of suburbs.  Well-educated young adults are 126% more likely to move to a city after college than they were in 2000, according to the report, which The New York Times linked to. But they're not just moving to New York or Washington, DC. Denver, Nashville, San Diego and Salt Lake City, among others, are also attracting these well-educated young adults, who are disproportionately concentrated in the country's 51 largest cities.  Here are the 10 US cities where the population of college-educated residents age 25 to 34 grew the most between 2000 and 2012, ranked by % change: There are a number of reasons why young educated people might be drawn to all of these cities — from Austin, Texas's music scene to the abundance of government jobs in Washington, DC. Houston — which saw the highest increase in educated young people — would be a practical place to settle down. It's known as America's No. 1 job creator and houses more Fortune 500 headquarters than anywhere else in the country except New York. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Oil's Future Is Uncertain Following Crashing Prices (Advisor Perspectives) Since June, oil's price has dropped by 26%. The lower prices will help importing countries including Europe, Japan, China, and India, and will hurt oil exporters such as OPEC and Russia. The US is expected to possibly feel a neutral impact (oil-economy states will suffer, but the average consumer will be better off.) "Looking ahead, then, it is plausible that the current oil supply glut will lead to a shortage of oil, and higher prices, by the end of this decade, while actions that could have produced useful alternatives may not occur. The current oil price disruption has many possible causes, objectives, and effects, including challenges to the political stability of Russia and many OPEC nations, as well as the shape of the energy industry," writes Robert Vodra. Because there are many equally likely possibilities in the energy sector, Vodra recommends that financial advisors don't commit their clients to any one specific outcome. Baby Boomers Are Worried About Health Care Costs (Financial Planning) Many baby boomers are going to need financial advisors to help with the costs of health care in retirement. 64% need advisors to "play at least some role in discussions" about the health care, and 15% want advisors to "help create comprehensive health care financial plans" for retirement. "...it shows that clients are aware of the complexities of health care and are looking for advisors to be a resource," says Pat O'Connell, the executive vice president of Ameriprise Financial. Most of all, baby boomers are worried about affordability. A whopping 86% are worried about being able to afford health care during retirement. Anyone Who Wants To Retire Before 60 Should Check Out Roth IRAs (Wealth Management.com) Younger, financially-secure clients are thinking about retiring before 60. "But it's difficult for clients to tap at-work retirement accounts before during 59 1/2, and Social Security isn't available to most people under age 62. So most of these early retirees are going to need alternate funds to cover living expenses before traditional sources of retirement income kick in," writes Kevin McKinley.  Roth IRAs are something to look at. Eligible clients will be able to defer taxes on investment earnings until they reach 59 1/2, "when distributions will ostensibly be tax-free." Plus there's no required minimum distribution at age 70 1/2, "an distributions aren't included when determining if Social Security benefits are taxable," writes McKinley. Additionally, younger retirees should look at Series I savings bonds, zero-coupon tax-free bonds, and tax-advantaged mutual funds. What's "Normal" Monetary Policy (BlackRock Blog) "'Normalization' refers to the two main components of the policy response to the 2008 financial crisis: quantitative easing (QE) and zero interest rate policy (ZIRP)," writes Jeffrey Rosenberg. Specifically, when the Fed talks about normalizing 'quantitative easing' it means that it will be returning its balance sheet to the pre-crisis size. Additionally, we will be seeing the end of the zero interest rate policy. Unfortunately, "history is not kind when it comes to the Fed's track record of exiting policy accommodation. ... Our biggest concern is around areas of the fixed income markets most exposed to where the exit from ZIRP will have the biggest impact: shorter maturity yields," adds Rosenberg. Greece's Problems Might Spill Over To Other Peripheral Markets (AllianceBernstein) Greece's early plans to exit its bailout program and the prospect of an early general election have gotten everyone nervous. Markets aren't reacting well, to say the least. Recently, there's been a huge sell-off in Greek sovereign bonds. "Against this backdrop, we are monitoring closely the potential for spillover to other peripheral markets. While in recent years there has been greater differentiation by investors between Greece and the rest of the periphery, the threat of an early election could reintroduce a degree of contagion," writes Darren Williams. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderApple CEO Tim Cook discussing iPad at the iPad Air 2 launch event.Apple CEO Tim Cook addressed the third straight quarter of declining iPad sales during the company's earnings call Monday. Apple sold 12.3 million iPads during the September quarter, which is down 13% from a year ago. Cook repeated the argument that Apple has sold more iPads in four years than iPhones sold during the first four years. He also said Apple reduced channel inventory for iPads in anticipation of the new models (iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3) that were introduced last week. Still, Cook said he recognized the declining sales and wanted to reverse the trend. "I view it as a speed bump, but not a huge issue," Cook said. "That said, we want to grow. We don't like negative numbers." This chart from Business Insider Intelligence shows how iPad sales have declined: BI IntelligenceApple sales have declined for three straight quarters. He also doesn't think the iPad market is saturated, pointing out that in many markets, up to 70% of iPad buyers were first-time owners. But Cook still seemed unsure about how often people upgrade their iPads. "People hold onto iPads longer than they do a phone," Cook said. "We've only been in this business four years. We don't know what the upgrade cycle will be." He also said Apple's own products could be cannibalizing iPad sales. "I'm sure some people look at the Mac and the iPad and decide on the Mac," Cook said. "And I'm fine with that by the way. I'm sure some people look at the iPad and iPhone and decide to get an iPhone." But in the long run, Cook said the iPad can still be successful. "Over a long arc of time, the iPad has a great future. I'm very bullish on where we can take the iPad," Cook said. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockIs the recent crude oil selloff a sign of a coming crisis in the US energy industry? A new Citi credit research note on “The coming energy recession” suggests the possibility is there. That said, the headline is stronger than Citi credit analyst Jason Shoulp’s more nuanced position in the text, which is only slightly bearish. He suggests the probability of the price of WTI crude could fall lower than $75 in 2015 is growing due to a jump in US supply and a decline in global demand. He predicts smaller revenues in 2015, writing “...there seems to be a strong possibility that the energy industry might see top line revenue contract by 2-3% in 2015 if current oil prices were to persist, which would mark the first time that revenue has declined since the end of the recession.” However, he stops short of predicting a credit crisis that sees investment grade bonds fall to junk, and junk bonds go into default. “For now we’re inclined to move to neutral after previously advocating an overweight, and while admittedly something of a cop out, focus instead on relative value in the wake of such indiscriminate selling,” he said. Shoulp isn’t alone in wavering. Jeffrey Currie at Goldman Sachs writes that “while looking into 2015 we have sympathy for these medium- to longer-term bearish views that have driven [crude oil] prices lower, we believe it is too much too early.” Martijn Rats at Morgan Stanley expects prices to recover somewhat. “...recent declines seem to overstate the fundamental weakening. Over the medium term, we see oil prices stabilising at levels above current spot prices.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark BlinchThe AbbVie-Shire merger is officially dead. In an announcement on Monday, Illinois-based AbbVie and Shire said that they've terminated their proposed merger after AbbVie's board reconsidered its support for the deal following a September 22 notice from the US Treasury Department.  The deal was originally structured as a "tax inversion" deal that would've seen AbbVie move its headquarters overseas to avoid paying US taxes on sales made abroad.  In a press release, AbbVie said it, "conducted a thorough review of the September 22, 2014 notice to explore available options to preserve the transaction. This review included the advice of external tax, legal, and financial advisors in both the U.S. and the U.K. The executive management team ultimately concluded that the transaction was no longer in the best interests of stockholders at the agreed upon valuation, and the Board fully supported that conclusion." Terminating the deal will require AbbVie to pay Shire a $1.6 billion break-up fee. Monday's announcement comes after the companies last week said they were reconsidering the deal. Following that news, Shire shares fell more than 25% as the market interpreted the deal as essentially off at that point. That drop in shares saw John Paulson's hedge fund take an absolute beating, with Business Insider's Julia La Roche finding that Paulson likely suffered paper losses in excess of $700 million after that decline. In after hours trade on Monday, US-listed shares of Shire were down about 1% while AbbVie shares were fractionally lower. You can read the full release from AbbVie here » FREE AppDownload
BusinessWeekBarron's latest cover is looking bullish — and for some that's a sign to sell. Traders and investors routinely freak out over bullish headlines, convinced they're signs of bullishness going mainstream. Barron's cover story features a similarly "scary" tale and also the bullish results of the biannual Big Money poll. "It's going to take a lot more than the past month's 5%-plus sell off in the stocks for America's money managers to change their upbeat tune," writes Barron's Jack Willoughby. "Based on their mean forecasts in the Big Money poll, the bulls see the Dow Jones industrials topping 18,360 by the middle of 2015, and the Standard &amp; Poors 500 index hitting 2173," Willoughby added. While this may rattle some nerves, magazine cover risk is total nonsense, as Josh Brown once noted. Magazine covers are just magazine covers — not economic indicators. We decided to comb through the history of the Dow and the S&amp;P from the 1960s to today to see exactly what happened in the markets following bold headlines. Take a look. (Many thanks to Barry Ritholtz, Invictus, and Josh Brown for digging up some of the older headlines. Editor's Note: Former Business Insider writer Rob Wile contributed to the original version of this feature.) FREE AppDownload
APApple CEO Tim Cook introducing the Apple Watch.Apple announced during its earnings call Monday that it will change the way it reports product sales moving forward. Instead of its own category, devices like Apple TV, iPods, and Apple Watch will be lumped together in one category. Apple will continue to report iPhone, iPad, and Mac sales separately. That's pretty shocking, especially because it means we may never know how many Apple Watches Apple ends up selling after the launch in early 2015. The Apple Watch will be the first major Apple product to launch under CEO Tim Cook. In a way, it'll be a test for whether or not Apple can make innovative new products people want to buy following the death of Steve Jobs. But now, we may never know the answer to that critical question. On a call with analysts, Cook said he doesn't want to report Apple Watch sales because he doesn't want rivals to see that data. It's a similar strategy Amazon uses when it declines to give sales figures for Kindle tablets and readers. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA recent working paper from the National Bureau for Economic Research suggests that high infant mortality in the US is a problem that disproportionately affects poor women with infants who are between a month and a year old.  Infant mortality rates in the US are 3 deaths per 1000 greater than in Scandinavia, and the reasons for that are still not very well understood. The authors of this study looked at microdata from the US, Finland, and Austria, and found that the differences in infant mortality between the US and the two European countries are almost entirely accounted for by looking at infant deaths between the first month and the first year after birth. Cumulative infant mortality rates are higher in the US at every stage — at birth, in the first month, and in the first year — but the authors find that the differences are relatively small in the first two time periods (the US is actually just a touch ahead if you isolate outcomes between the age of 1 week to 1 month). Then it goes downhill. The study finds that "despite starting with very similar conditions at birth and the same neonatal outcomes, Austria vastly outpaces the US starting at 1 month of age." In an appendix, the authors did a similar study using data from the UK and Belgium and found very similar results.  The authors think the cumulative difference in rates, therefore, have less to do with acute health problems just after birth and more to do with SIDS, sudden death, and accidents.  NBER Figure 5 from the NBER paper, showing the much higher mortality rates for poor women in the US than for any other groupThe data suggests that the higher infant mortality in the US comes almost entirely from the deaths of babies born to poor women. Once they broke down the data into income and education levels the researchers found that, somewhat unsurprisingly, the infants of well-off, educated white women are just as likely to survive as their counterparts in Europe. They also found that the data was unchanged if they excluded black infants from the US sample (n.b. there is a documented black-white gap in infant mortality rates, but the authors find that it doesn't seem to be a mechanism here). Thus, the conclusion is that this is about class. Poor women in the United States see their infants die at an alarming rate, given the medical technology available in this country.  The paper doesn't have much in the way of a solution, but the authors do suggest that it's worth it to spend money on reducing this gap, and specifically suggest a program of home nurse visits for new mothers in the first year after birth, which are available widely in both Finland and Austria but only on a very small scale in the US, might be the place to start.  The authors don't get into who should pay for this, but it's likely not a coincidence that these European countries have robust public healthcare systems.  As an aside, earlier today, Bruce Bartlett suggested on twitter that this means high infant mortality rates are a result of income inequality. That's not exactly right. It's certainly possible, but this paper doesn't really look into that. It narrows down where the high infant mortality rate is coming from, but there's no evidence to suggest that rates have increased with inequality (in fact, rates have gone down a lot, particularly in the first week of birth, as medical technology has increased).  FREE AppDownload
APThis guys is one of the 39 million who bought a new iPhone last quarter. Apple earnings for the third quarter of 2014 are out. The big number everyone has been waiting for: iPhone sales, especially since these numbers reflect the first few weeks of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus sales. This is Apple's most important and profitable business. Apple sold 39.3 million iPhones last quarter versus the 38 million analysts were expecting. That's a solid beat, likely due to record iPhone 6 sales. This chart from Business Insider Intelligence shows iPhone sales growth: BI Intelligence As for iPads, Apple sold 12.3 million, versus the 13 million analysts were expecting. It's another miss for the iPad. It'll be interesting to hear Tim Cook's explanation for the declining sales during the earnings call at 5 p.m. Eastern. Here's a look from Business Insider Intelligence at the iPad sales decline over the last few quarters: BI Intelligence Meanwhile, Mac sales are growing, which would've seemed crazy a few years ago following all the talk that the iPad was poised to cannibalize the Mac. Apple sold 5.52 million Macs last quarter, which is up 21% from a year ago.  FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Rick Wilking Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is again one of America's biggest land owners.America's 100 biggest landowners increased their private holdings by 500,000 acres in the past year, according to The Land Report, which just released its annual list of landowners by acreage. That's slightly down from 2013, when the top 100 added 700,000 acres to their holdings. Even so, it means these land tycoons control more than 30 million acres, or almost 2% of America's land mass. Media tycoon John Malone, who owns 2.2 million acres — more than twice as much land as the state of Delaware — tops the list for the fourth year running. We're taking a closer look at the top 25 land owners. You can download the full report here. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Chipotle InstagramChipotle just reported earnings of $4.15 on comparable store sales that grew 19.8%. Expectations were for earnings per share of $3.83 with comparable store sales expected to rise 17.2%, according to data from Bloomberg. Chipotle also reported revenue of $1.08 billion, which compares to expectations for $1.06 billion.  With its last quarterly report, Chipotle said that it expected full year comparable store sales growth in the mid-teens with plans to open 180-195 new stores this year. On Monday, Chipotle affirmed both of these outlooks. In 2015, the company expects to open 190-205 new restaurants and sees comparable store sales rising by low to mid-single digits.  In its earnings announcement, Chipotle said food costs were 34.3% of revenue, an increase of 0.7%, driven by increased prices for beef, avocados, and dairy, partially offset by the menu price increase. The company added that restaurant level operating margin was 28.8% in the quarter, an increase of 2% from the third quarter of 2013. The increase was primarily driven by favorable sales leverage, partially offset by higher food costs, primarily for beef, avocados and dairy. In after hours trade following the results, shares of Chipotle were down more than 1%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Catherine BensonStocks finished the day higher on Monday as the Dow closed with the smallest gains as a more than 7% decline in shares of tech giant IBM dragged down the index. Both the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq opened the week with gains. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. IBM had a big earnings miss on Monday morning and the stock finished the day down more than 7%. IBM reported earnings per share of $3.68, missing expectations for $4.32, on revenue of $22.4 billion, which also missed expectations and was a 4% decline over last year. IBM shares were down about 7% in pre-market trade and stayed there for most all of the trading session on Monday, and the decline in IBM weighed on the Dow, which falls 6.42195 for every 1-point move in one of the index's stocks. 2. The IBM decline wasn't just about the numbers, which were disappointing, but also about the commentary from IBM CEO Ginni Rometty, who said in the company's earnings press release that the company, "saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry." Back in July, hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller said that IBM was the "poster child" for poor corporate behavior that engaged in financial engineering rather than investing in their business. 3. The Robin Hood Investor Conference was held Monday in New York, and among the big hedge fund names who gave some investment thoughts were David Einhorn, who recommended SunEdison, as well as going long Greek banks Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank, according to Business Insider's Julia LaRoche. Einhorn also said being short French debt. 4. In an interview with New York Magazine, noted tech investor Marc Andreessen said that the American middle class is an accident of history, as it was the only major industrial country that wasn't bombed during World War II. You can Andreessen's full comments from Business Insider's Shane Ferro here.  5. Apple is set to report earnings after the market close on Monday, and per Business Insider's Jay Yarow, expectations are for earnings per share of $1.31, revenue of $39.85 billion, iPhone sales of 38 million units, iPad sales of 13 million units, with expectations for the company's fourth quarter currently at $63.52 billion. BI will have full live coverage of the report after the market close.  6. In a note to clients over the weekend, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin said that a potential pause in the pace of corporate buybacks could explain the recent pullback in the S&amp;P 500. "Most companies are precluded from engaging in open-market stock repurchases during the five weeks before releasing earnings," Kostin wrote. "For many firms, the beginning of the blackout period coincided with the S&amp;P 500 peak on September 18. So the sell-off occurred during a time when the single largest source of equity demand was absent." Kostin still sees the S&amp;P 500 finishing the year at 2,050 as buybacks pick up into year-end.  7. Monday marks the 27-year anniversary of Black Monday, the day the Dow fell more than 22% in the worst single day drop in its history. Here are some memories of the event from Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg, who said it was the scariest thing he's seen in his time on Wall Street, and a quick recap of how Nightly Business Report covered the crash.  Don't Miss: Goldman Sachs Now Has A Stock-Picking Model Inspired By The Stats Behind 'Moneyball' » FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Justin SullivanThe face Tim Cook probably makes when he sees iPhone sales.Apple reported another rock solid quarter this afternoon. "We're selling everything we make," said Apple CEO Tim Cook during the earnings call with analysts when asked about iPhone sales.  Revenue was better than expected thanks to those iPhone sales. Net income was a record for the September quarter at $8.5 billion.  Despite the strong report, the stock was up just over 1% in after-hours trading on the news. Here are the numbers, more analysis is below: The story of this earnings report is that the iPhone is strong, and the Mac is better than ever.  The iPhone 6 is a smash hit and it will fuel Apple for the next couple of quarters. On the company's earnings call, CEO Tim Cook said demand for the iPhone is far stronger than supply right now. He said the two aren't even "on the same planet".  Cook was asked about the mix between the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. Since Apple is selling everything it makes, Cook says it's hard to tell. Over time, when supply and demand are in balance, it will be easier to figure out the mix. Cook says it varies from region to region, which is what Apple expected. The Mac is the surprise of the quarter. Apple sold more Macs this quarter than any other quarter in its history.  Two years ago, the smart set thought the iPad was going to kill the Mac. That's not happening. The iPad was down, yet again. But it's okay for Apple, as long as the iPad and the Mac balance each other out. And right now, they do. The Mac + iPad revenue was up 4.5% on a year-over-year basis. The Mac was up 21% on year-over-year basis, and Cook says Apple will have its highest share of the PC market since 1995. Repeatedly he said that this feels great since the PC market is contracting on an overall basis. On the call, Cook addressed the weakness with the iPad. Cook said some people look at buying an iPad and a Mac, and opt for the iPad. He says some people look at the iPhone and the iPad, and opt for the iPhone. And that's okay by him. He said that in the first four years the iPad has been on the market it's sold twice as many units as the iPhone did in its first four years. He says the market for tablets is not saturated. He says that in the weakest market, 50% of people buying iPads are buying their first iPads. In stronger markets, 70% of people buying iPads are buying their first iPads. So, what's up with the iPad? Cook's best explanation: This product is only 4 years old, and it seems that people hang onto the iPad much longer than the iPhone. As a result, the upgrade cycle could be slower.  In the "long arc of time," Cook thinks the iPad will continue to be a giant business.  That's about it for the major themes of the report.  There was one small surprise: Apple doesn't plan to break out Apple Watch sales as its own product line in future earnings. Apple has always reported its product line, with break outs on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod. The Apple Watch will not get the same treatment. That will obfuscate revenue and unit sales for Apple. Here's a look at the results in chart form, via BI Intelligence: BI IntelligenceBI IntelligenceBI IntelligenceBI Intelligence And here is Apple's handy table with all the data in it: Apple FREE AppDownload
Pascal Le Segretain/Getty ImagesBarron Nicholas Hilton, Kathy Hilton, Nicky Hilton, Paris Hilton and Rick Hilton attend the Chopard 150th Anniversary Party at Palm Beach, Pointe Croisette during the 63rd Annual Cannes Film Festival on May 17, 2010 in Cannes, France. It's been a good couple of years to be a Hilton. Last year the company, mostly now owned by private equity firm Blackstone, went public in a massive $2.35 billion IPO — the biggest for a hotel company ever. Just this month, the company sold New York City's Waldorf Astoria to a Chinese insurance company for an eye-popping $1.95 billion. Plus it seems Paris Hilton has really taken to her new calling as a DJ. It's a lot of great success and of course it didn't come out of thin air. The Hilton family brand is a dynasty generations in the making. This is the story of how it all started. FREE AppDownload
Over the weekend we highlighted some memories of some market pros who were there on the day, and an almost eerily accurate call from one of the top strategists at the time. But if you dig into the YouTube archives, you'll also find some amazing video in the form of the full Nightly Business Report broadcast from October 19, 1987. Before CNBC came on the air in 1989, Nightly Business Report was broadcast daily on public television, and was the main way the public was able to stay abreast of developments in the financial market. Today, we can only imagine what a similar decline would be like given the real-time nature of financial television (though current stock market regulations are designed prevent a 22% single-day decline).  But either way, the Nightly Business Report broadcast from Monday, October 19, 1987 is great snapshot of a huge moment in stock market — and US — history.  Here are some highlights from the report. Neil Cavuto, from way back, reporting from outside the New York Stock Exchange. YouTube Paul Kangas has several minutes giving an incredible rundown of the damage across the stock market. YouTube Brutal. Given the Dow's current level, it would take a point drop of about 3,600 points in one day to replicate the 22.5% decline in the Dow on Black Monday.   YouTube Volume on Black Monday was a massive record, and the market still hadn't settled at broadcast time. YouTube Those breadth numbers are insane. YouTube   Every index got crushed. YouTube Widely held companies in 1987. How many are still around? YouTube Kangas: "Just mindless selling all the way around here." YouTube Gold miners were about the only stocks that had a good day. YouTube Sometimes, it almost seems impossible that the Fed Funds rate was north of 7%. YouTube Dean Shepherd, Linda O'Bryon, and Paul Kangas sign off.  What a day. YouTube You can watch the first part of the Nightly Business Report broadcast below, and parts two and three here and here.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Sam RoBossam as prepared by Sungchul Shim at Food & Wine's NYC Wine and Food Festival. My mother has always loved to cook with pungent ingredients like fermented soybean paste and dried anchovies. These are things you find in everyday Korean cuisine. But for a kid growing up in Kentucky, where familiar foods include corn-on-the-cob and fried chicken, this meant being confronted by classmates who thought my clothes smelled funny. And so I went all the way into my 20s with a quiet love-hate relationship with Korean food, which I considered lowly and unsophisticated. After living in New York City for the past nine years, I'd say my palette has become much more developed and discerning. I get excited when I hear words like reduction and dry-aged. I love well-executed classics like steak and pasta. But I don't have any qualms about ordering less kid-friendly foods like bone marrow or steak tartare. Still, I've found myself increasingly gravitating back to this lowly Korean food. Not because it's comforting. But, for something else. I finally figured out what that something else was when Chef Sungchul Shim served me his take on bossam, a dish that represents everything I had wrong about Korean food all my life. Bossam is a classic in Korean cuisine. It's braised pork belly wrapped in a leafy green with a sauce called ssamjang. Long before P.F. Chang's and The Cheesecake Factory began mass-producing Asian lettuce wraps, Korean moms were serving their families all sorts of ssam. Korean Food Foundation"Ssam carries the meaning of wrapping up and eating good fortune," said a representative of the Korean Food Foundation. "Koreans wrap ssam with almost anything that can be spread out on the palm — vegetables, wild greens, and even seaweed are commonly used." What makes ssam distinctively Korean is the ssamjang. Jang is the Korean word for sauce, and ssamjang is blend of three sauces: gochujang, a sweet and spicy chili paste; doenjang, a fermented soybean paste; and ganjang, or soy sauce. Ssamjang is a deeply complex rustic sauce, oozing with umami from the doenjang balanced with the sweet heat from the gochujang. As with American barbecue sauce, every region, cook, and mother has a unique tweak to ssamjang. But you always know it's ssamjang. The Korean Food Foundation invited me to visit its booth at Food &amp; Wine Magazine's 2014 NYC Wine and Food Festival. Sponsored by the Korean government, the KFF hosts events around the world aimed at raising awareness of Korean food, or "hansik." Korean Food FoundationChef Shim carefully spoons his ssamjang.The KFF recruited Sungchul Shim, executive chef at NYC's Neta, to prepare his take on bossam for the world. And Shim is no slouch. He has worked in the prestigious kitchens of NYC's Le Bernardin, Aureole, and Gordon Ramsay. Most recently, he served as saucier at Per Se, winner of three Michelin stars and arguably the finest restaurant in NYC and perhaps the world. Shim plated his bossam first by spooning his ssamjang, which consisted of his ratio of doenjang, gochujang, and ganjang. Shim's ssamjang also included yuzu honey. Shim's ssamjang wasn't chunky like most rustic Korean sauces. "I blended it with soft tofu," he said. Mixed with sesame oil, Shim's ssamjang was as robust in flavor as it was silky in texture. His green was a perilla leaf, pickled in soy sauce and sprinkled with toasted sesame seeds. Perilla's flavor is like a cross between the mintyness of basil and the pepperyness of arugula. Shim placed on top of that a generous slice of pork belly, which he braised in doenjang for an hour. That was then topped with black garlic powder and a thin slice of deep-fried lotus root. To get the full experience, you must eat it in one bite, Shim said. I took Shim's advice, and it was indeed an experience. First was the crunch of the lotus root, followed by the unbridled lusciousness of the pork belly. Unlike most chops of meat, you don't bite into pork belly. You sink your teeth into it. Pork belly is unapologetically fatty in an almost forbidden way. Korean Food FoundationChef Shim's bossam.The ssamjang brought to life all of the sweet, salty, and spicy receptors on my tongue. I could almost feel hair raising on my arms. With each chew, I crunched through the lotus root, which reminded me of the pickled cabbage, radish, bean sprouts, and other vegetables that typically serve as banchan with any Korean meal. And then I got punched with the perilla leaf, which offered a deep, almost minty finish. Korean food isn't lowly and unsophisticated. It's the exact opposite. The flavors are extremely complex and wide-ranging. And the varying textures only elevate the sensory experience. As a kid, hearing the ingredients for seolleongtang and soondae sounded gross. But as a more experienced eater, I'm now forced to rethink two dishes that translate to bone marrow stew and blood sausage, respectively.  Perhaps the most surprising thing about Chef Shim's bossam was how true it was to traditional ssam. Because of his resume, I expected him to be more heavy-handed with a French or other contemporary interpretation. However, he didn't add trendy ingredients or fuse it with other cuisines. Rather, he just made subtle tweaks to focus the flavors and he plated it gorgeously like one would in a Michelin-starred kitchen. Shim effectively let me try for the first time a dish I grew up with. He let me try it without the prejudgment of my childhood classmates. He enabled me to approach it with an open mind and the respect a complex dish deserves. Thanks to Shim, I'll revisit Korean dishes with the excitement I have with any new cuisine. Maybe you will, too. Korean Food FoundationChef Shim and his team. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevA man walks past a closed McDonald's restaurant, one of four temporarily closed by the state food safety watchdog, with the Kremlin seen in the foreground, in Moscow, August 21, 2014. Russia has expanded inspections at McDonald's restaurants around the country as the stand-off between the Kremlin and the West worsens, Bloomberg reports. The latest round of inspections will take in more than 200 of the fast-food chain's outlets, nearly half of all McDonald's in Russia, and will probe hygiene and finance. Russian courts have already shuttered nine McDonald's restaurants across the country since Moscow annexed the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine in March, sparking widespread international condemnation and a wave of economic sanctions from Western powers. Russia's consumer safety watchdog regulators cited sanitary violations at the restaurants that have already been closed down, which include the country's first outlet at Pushkin Square in Moscow. The iconic branch first opened in 1990, while Russia was still part of the Soviet Union. There are around 450 McDonald's restaurants in Russia. More than 100 are located in the Moscow region while more than 60 are in the St Petersburg region. Many analysts believe that political reasons are behind the decision to target McDonald's, as the United States and the European Union have slapped a range of sanctions on Russia. Western powers have restricted Russian access to global financial markets, while a number of senior officials with close ties to the Kremlin have had their assets frozen and been subjected to travel bans. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Allergan Inc. shareholder Paulson &amp; Co. is urging the Botox maker to merge with the specialty pharmaceutical company Shire Plc as a potential alternative to a deal with hostile bidder Valeant Pharmaceuticals, according to two people familiar with the matter. The hedge fund, which is Allergan’s third-largest shareholder, told Allergan CEO David Pyott that it would support a deal with Shire, the sources said. The deal would not be structured as a so-called tax inversion, the people said. It was not immediately clear whether Allergan would pursue such a deal. Back in June, Paulson had a totally different view on whom Allergan should merge with. At CNBC's Delivering Alpha Conference, Paulson said Allergan should sell itself to Valeant, a deal that is also supported (financially) by Paulson's fellow hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. So far, Allergan has resisted Valeant's advances and indicated that it is looking for another buyer. Allergan argues that Valeant has no organic growth and uses its acquisitions to hide that fact. Short-seller Jim Chanos has made the same argument, calling Valeant an accounting rollup. Paulson’s new plan for Shire comes as fellow pharmaceutical company AbbVie’s $54 billion deal to buy Shire is close to unraveling after the US government changed the rules governing tax inversions. Paulson suffered over $780 million in paper losses after that news broke last week.  Allergan and Paulson declined to comment. Valeant reported earnings Monday morning, and much of the following conference call was spent discussing whether Ackman — who was in the company's offices the night before — and the company would up their bid for Allergan. Earlier this month it was raised to $191 a share from its original April bid of $177 a share. Ackman and Valeant CEO Michael Pearson have said that they will not overpay for the stock. FREE AppDownload
Twitter.com/rediamondjr Nell Diamond, a former Deutsche Bank analyst who now works for Louis Vuitton, was married to Ted Wasserman, a managing director at Deutsche Bank and Head of Equity Derivatives Flow Sales. The photos on Instagram posted under the hashtag #nellandteddy are absolutely breathtaking. Bob Diamond Tweeted for the first time and included the hashtag and a photo of him and his daughter preparing to walk down the aisle. Even a few people who've never heard of Nell Diamond are raving about the photos. Put #nellandteddy into Instagram and look these pictures of their wedding, I have no clue who they are but that it cool asf   That #nellandteddy hashtag on Instagram is a killer <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A9>   We checked out the hashtag and agree. It's amazing.  Here's a quick rundown of some of the day's highlights:  The ceremony took place at the gorgeous Hotel Du Cap Eden Roc in Antibes, France.   Need a smellagram. (TYVM @shaunleelewis ) #nellandteddy  View on Instagram the best <f0><U+009F><U+008C><U+00B8><f0><U+009F><U+008C><U+00BA><f0><U+009F><U+008C><U+00B8> @dior <U+2728><U+2728> cc: @hone_in_on @taylornyc<p style="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</ The dress!<b style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;"><U+2728><U+2728><U+2728> @oliviertheyskens #nellandteddy<p style="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</ style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;"><U+2728>heaven @ eden<U+2728> @nelliediamond <U+2728>thank you immensely for asking me to do your wedding dress <U+2728>#nellandteddy<p style="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</ style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;">Nellie in Wonderland <f0><U+009F><U+0090><U+0087> @nelliediamond #nellandteddy<p  tyle="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</d ather of the bride, Bob Diamond, escorts his daughter. <bl tyle="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;">hi dad #nellandteddy<p  tyle="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</d he couple exchanged vows at sunset.<bl tyle="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;"><U+2728><U+2728> teddy <U+2728><U+2728> #nellandteddy<p  tyle="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</d Simply stunning. <bl tyle="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;">heaven #nellandteddy<p  tyle="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</d or the reception, Nell Diamond was radiant in a Prabal Gurung gown.  <bl tyle="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;">The bride, her band, her cake and the gown !! @nelliediamond love you #nellandteddy<p  tyle="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</d f course, there were fireworks. <bl tyle="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px; word-wrap: break-word;">Most magical night. #nellandteddy<p  tyle="line-height: 32px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; padding: 0; text-align: center;"> View on Instagram</d     tyle="font-family: Helvetica Neue, Arial, sans-serif; color: white; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 100; line-height: 20px; margin-top: 23px;">FREE AppDownload</d
Daniel Torres Bonatto/flickr Legendary hedge fund manager Carl Icahn thinks Apple stock should be trading at $203 per share based on his earnings expectations for next year. That’s more than double the stock’s current price. If Icahn is anywhere near right, investors should be racing to gobble up shares before Apple reports its third quarter of the calendar year on Monday after the close. Let’s do a quick check on Icahn’s math to see if what he says makes sense. Earlier this month Icahn wrote an open letter to Apple CEO, Tim Cook, laying out his argument on why Apple shares are worth $203 a pop. If you know anything about Carl Icahn, it shouldn’t come as much of a surprise that he used his valuation as justification to insist upon another stock buyback. Estimize Ichan states at the end of the letter that he expects 2015 earnings per share to come in at $9.61. That would be quite a feat given that contributing analysts on Estimize only expect Apple to report 2015 full year earnings of $7.60. But Icahn gave us another clue which implies that he has extremely high expectations for Apple’s 4th fiscal quarter of 2014, which it will report this afternoon. Icahn wrote that he is forecasting Apple to increase its profits by 25% in fiscal 2015 and to grow its revenues by 44%. By dividing $9.61 by 1.25 to account for 25% growth, then subtracting out the 3 previously reported quarters this year we can figure out Icahn’s 4th quarter estimate for 2014. It’s $2.68. That’s more than double the Wall Street consensus, and nearly 2x the forecast from Estimize. Most analysts must be about to get blindsided by the success of the iPhone 6 launch if Apple is going to report earnings of $2.00 per share or more. Carl Icahn’s Fiscal 2015 Expectations Icahn estimates that 2015 earnings will be $9.61 per share. (~25% gain) $181.339B * 1.44 = $261.13 billion total revenue (44% gain) Estimize Fiscal 2015 Consensus Expectations 2015 EPS = $7.60 EPS = 19% year over year gain 2015 Revenue = $207.13 billion = 14% year over year gain Wall Street Fiscal 2015 Consensus Expectations 2015 EPS = $7.27 EPS = 14% year over year gain 2015 Revenue = $205.42 billion = 13%year over year gain The Takeaway Icahn’s projections look crazy. He claims to believe that Apple will bring in roughly $261 billion next year, 26% more revenue than analysts on Estimize anticipate. He also touts that Apple will report earnings of $9.61 per share, $2.01 (again 26%) more than the Estimize community is forecasting. His letter didn’t give us enough information to break his estimates for next year down quarter by quarter, but if you extrapolate his 25% and 44% year over year EPS and revenue growth rates evenly out to each quarter, here’s where his estimate stands for the critical holiday quarter which will be reported in 3 months. Estimize If the Holiday quarter gifts Apple with a 25% yoy EPS increase and the 44% revenue gain Ichan predicts, that means Apple will report EPS of $2.59 and revenue of $72 billion. This is represented in the scatterplot above as the red dot. For the holiday quarter Carl Icahn is comparable to the most aggressive analysts on Estimize. If he is correct about his earnings projections, the share price of Apple is likely to rise in the future as his estimates are way more optimistic than the Estimize consensus. Icahn uses his insanely aggressive estimates for next year to come to a conclusion about the stock’s valuation. Icahn notes that Apple is trading at about 8x his forecast for next year after adjusting for net cash. That’s based on his projection of 25% profit growth in 2015 and a monstrous 4th quarter to wrap up fiscal 2014 this afternoon. He compares Apple’s 8x forward price to earnings (PE) ratio to average ratio of the S&amp;P 500 Index, which is 15x. By that comparison Apple is absurdly cheap. But there’s good reason why Apple isn’t trading at 15x his expectation. If the earnings estimates that Carl Icahn laid out in his letter are anywhere near accurate, then yes his conclusion that Tim Cook should be racing against investors to buy shares of company stock are justified. However, as shown throughout this piece, his numbers look to be out of touch with reality. Disclaimer: THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT THE INFORMATION WE CONSIDERED IS ACCURATE OR COMPLETE, NOR CAN THERE BE ANY ASSURANCE THAT OUR ASSUMPTIONS ARE CORRECT.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerJim Rogers, author, commodities investor and co-founder Quantum FundsBack in 1973, investor Jim Rogers took a 75% pay cut when he left an investment bank to start a hedge fund. Writing in "Street Smarts," he explains how he made this decision and why he thinks everyone should adopt the same philosophy: [T]he money was irrelevant to me. The advice I give everyone, the advice I will give my children, is this: before asking how much you are going to get paid for a job, first decide whether it is the right job, whether it is the right place for you, because if it is the right place and you do the job right, the money will come. The money will find you, I assure you. The money should be the least of your questions. In Rogers' case, the money certainly found him. Quantum Fund, which Rogers founded alongside George Soros, gained 4,200% in the next 10 years by tapping into emerging markets and shorting a lot of popular investments. His advice about following your interests is widely agreed upon. For instance, strategy guru and angel investor Tim Ferriss advises that young people "optimize for learning, not earning," with an eye toward greater earnings in the future. Similarly, Apple founder Steve Jobs famously told college graduates to "find what you love." Read more from Rogers in "Street Smarts: Adventures on the Road and in the Markets." Want your business advice featured in Instant MBA? Submit your tips to tipoftheday@businessinsider.com. Be sure to include your name, your job title, and a photo of yourself in your email. FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesDavid Einhorn just finished presenting at the annual Robin Hood Investor Conference, and he recommended a Europe trade — long Greece, short France. Einhorn recommended going long Greek banks, Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank using warrants, our source says.  Last week investors in Greece got absolutely demolished. The Athens Stock Exchange fell 7.3% before staging a big rally on Friday. Bank stocks were the brightest spot that day, gaining 6.4%. There were two main reasons why Greece got clobbered, both were political. First, the market got uneasy about the rising popularity of Syriza, an anti-austerity radical political party. Second, the country's Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, said he wanted to end the Greek bailout early without taking over $8 billion more dollars available. France was no picnic last week either. The country has a serious demand issue — as in there isn't enough. Unemployment is high. Deflation is at 0.4% with core inflation at 0. It's got a big debt problem, and the country's economy simply isn't growing. The CEO of UK retailer John Lewis recently said the country was "finished." To change all of this, France would have to implement serious reform. Greece, on the other hand, needs to stay the bailout course to stabilize, at least relatively.  It isn't hard to see why the latter may be more likely than the former. FREE AppDownload
Calculated RiskI frequently hear stories from prime borrowers about their horrible experiences getting mortgages right now. Yes, the process is difficult because of all the extra checks because the lenders are afraid the loans will be put back to them in a few years. At the same time, loan officers are telling me it is easy for prime borrowers to get a loan.  This isn't a contradiction - an onerous process isn't "tight credit", it is just risk management. But that is for prime borrowers. First, here is a piece today from Mark Fleming, chief economist at CoreLogic, writes: Is Credit Too Tight, Too Loose or Just Right? One of the most pressing issues in housing finance today is the availability of credit. The lack of access to credit has been cited as a reason for the slower-than-hoped-for growth in home sales. The often cited Federal Reserve Loan Officer Survey tells us whether lenders are tightening or loosening credit, but tells us much less about the overall level of availability of credit. Furthermore, terms like tight credit or loose credit imply a normative goal of the right amount of credit. In fact, when discussing this topic, one can’t help but think of Goldilocks and the Three Bears: one bed is too hard, another too soft, and the last one is just right. In order to determine whether credit is too tight, too loose, or just right CoreLogic has developed the Housing Credit Index (HCI) that measures the range and variation of residential mortgage credit over time and multiple housing credit underwriting attributes. The index includes attributes that are relevant to the assessment of credit risk for a borrower applying for credit.  So is credit currently too loose, too tight or just right? In Figure 1, the HCI is shown from 1998 to early 2014 measured on the left axis along with the overall serious delinquency rate measured on the right axis. In the refinance boom of the early aughts, credit availability expanded significantly and then declined, but to a level moderately elevated compared to before the refinance boom. The result of increased credit availability was a modest rise from about 1 percent to 1.25 percent in the overall serious delinquency rate. The mid-aughts saw the significant expansion of credit to double the normal level and the very quick and dramatic contraction with which we are all far too familiar. Credit availability reached its tightest point in late 2010 at only one-third the normal level of the late 1990s. It is safe to say that credit was too tight. Of course, this was a natural response to the quickly rising serious delinquency rate that turned upward dramatically starting in 2006. Since 2010 credit availability has eased in fits and starts with the utilization of modification and refinance programs aimed at struggling homeowners. Most recently, the index is indicating a slight easing, but remains tight by historic standards. Emphasis added.  According to the CoreLogic index, credit is easing a little, but remains tight.  Below are some other measures. Note: Some less qualified borrowers are using FHA, but that involves high fees (high G-Fees), and the share of FHA loans is at the lowest level in 5 years according to Campbell/Inside Mortgage Finance HousingPulse. But most less qualified borrowers just can't qualify now. Two indicators of this are: This graph from Black Knight's mortgage monitor shows the share of purchase and refinance originations with credit scores at or above 720.  Calculated RiskAs Black Knight notes: "The share of purchase originations with high borrower credit scores is at an all time high".  This suggests credit is tight for less qualified borrowers. The second graph, also from Black Knight's mortgage monitor, shows that the recent loans are performing very well.  Calculated RiskThis graph only includes loans originated in 2005 through 2014, but older data shows the recent loans are the best performing ever. The loan performance suggests lending is currently tight (I believe this is better loan performance than even during the 2001 through 2005 period when house prices were rising quickly). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Richard BernsteinBroad financial market volatility has resurfaced and investors, as is typical, are running away. Our August report entitled “Toward the Sound of Chaos” showed that emotional investing rarely pays off because it leads to buying at peaks and selling at troughs which has historically been a sure path to underperformance. Volatility can destroy the best of financial plans. Simply doing nothing can be a fine strategy in the face of short-term volatility, but the tension associated with market downdrafts makes both institutional and individual investors feel that doing nothing is not an alternative. However, decisions made under duress are typically decisions that should not be made. Rather than getting caught up in the market’s gyrations, we prefer to examine fundamentals. In that light, we encourage investors to consider the following points: 1)    Initial jobless claims, a very good leading indicator of the economy, recently hit a 14- year record low. Employment might not be robust, but it continues to meaningfully improve. 2)    The 2014 budget deficit was just reported at 2.8% of GDP. It wasn’t that long ago that people were comparing the US fiscal situation to Greece’s. The recent budget data clearly demonstrate that such fear mongering was unjustified. 3)    Although deflation is the topic of the day, the Core Crude Material PPI just hit its highest rate since December 2011. That’s important because this measure of pricing is very highly correlated to profits growth, and the most recent reading suggests investors might be underestimating future profits growth. 4)    Many investors are concerned about growth outside the US as evidenced by the weakness in copper and other commodities. However, smaller capitalization stocks usually have less exposure to non-US economies than do larger capitalization stocks. Small stocks seem to have been indiscriminately sold, and there may be bargains within this group. 5)    Gasoline has become significantly cheaper. That often happens when the economy is weakening because demand weakens, but employment continues to improve and demand is healthy. Improving employment and lower gasoline prices seems very bullish to us. 6)    Interest rates have fallen as employment as improved. The odds seem high that this mix will be good for housing and the associated multiplier effects. 7)    Tax revenues continue to increase. That’s partially behind the smaller budget deficit, but it is also positive for municipal finance. 8)    Turmoil and uncertainty around the world seems constructive for our American Industrial Renaissance theme. US-based industrials are likely to continue to gain market share. 9)    Volatility almost always signals a change in leadership. Maybe there is more risk to the “disruptor” stocks than investors believe? 10)    The combination of a strong dollar and falling inflation expectations typically is a bad ..environment for gold, but a good one for financial assets. It’s certainly true that the eventual outcome of the Ebola scare will not be known for some time, and that could weigh on the financial markets. However, it seems hard to characterize the disease as a black swan when it is in the news every few minutes. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Billionaire hedge fund manager David Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, just pitched his best ideas at the Robin Hood Investors Conference—one of the most stacked investing events of the year. It's closed to the media, but we have a source inside the conference.  According to our source, Einhorn pitched SunEdison (SUNE) as a long. The solar power semi-conductor's stock has jumped about 5%, and has been the best performing solar stock of the year.  According to our source, Einhorn said the stock's mispriced now.  Einhorn also mentioned Terrform Power (TERP) as a long. That stock's up about 10% today. We're told that Einhorn also talked about Greece. He mentioned Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank. Einhorn said get long with warrants, our source says. He said to short French debt.  Here's a chart of SunEdison:  Yahoo! Finance  Here's a chart of TerraForm:  Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
Stay laser focused on China for the next 60 hours. What happens over that time period could significantly shift what happens in that country both economically and politically. On the economic side, the country will release data on three crucial metrics — GDP, retail sales, and industrial production. This is key in understanding whether the Chinese economy is staying its rough course to normalization, or veering off the rails. Politically, Communist party leaders are gathering for the Fourth Plenum. In this meeting they'll discuss the legal future of the country — or, as the party put it, issues related to 'governing the country according to law.'  The numbers will come out at or around 10:00 PM EST. If they're generally good, expect the Communist Party to continue to allow the country's economy to slow as it has been. It means that the 2014 7.5% GDP growth target is still within reach and there's nothing to see here. Move along. But there plenty of reason to believe these numbers won't be good. In September, China got its worst data dump since 2008. Retail sales, property, foreign investment — everything was incredibly weak. Add to that a cash crunch for already flailing Chinese corporations — flailing due to thinning margins and deflating producer-price index — and banks that are sidled with tons of debt. It's not a pretty picture.  So far the Chinese government has maintained that it will only engage in "targeted easing" measures — like pumping a measly $32 billion into banks. If things are bad, that won't be enough. Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao argues that what's really needed is a full-scale restructuring of the corporate sector, not a few dozen cash injection band-aids. But restructuring isn't really on the table here. What is on the table is a return to what China was doing before, lowering interest rates and turning on the money spigot to keep cash flowing through the economy. In other words — we're going to get a sense of China's threshold for pain. On the political side, we're about to get into something even deeper — China's sense of self. Is China going to remain a country dominated by the elite of the party — or, even more increasingly, dominated by those connected to President Xi Jinping — or is there going to be a legitimate move toward an equitable rule of law. Here's how the party put it in a statement:  "Governing according to law holds the key to the CPC's leadership, the people's well-being, deepening reform and long-term stability". Moreover, it emphasized that "Governing according to law has become more significant in the entire agenda of the Party and the nation, due to new circumstances, and the rule of law is crucial to modern governance". "China enters a critical phase in realizing a moderately prosperous society, and as reform sails into uncharted waters, the CPC is confronted with unprecedented challenges, risks and conflicts, above all, the balancing of reform, development and stability". The CPC should "pool social resources, balance social interests, readjust social relations and streamline social activities, so that society will be orderly and thrive while undergoing profound changes" according to the statement. Whether this happens or not is a story that will take a long to play out, but China-watchers have noticed some troubling trends. The must-read China piece of the weekend was written by Fordham Professor Carl Minzner for the LA Times. It was called 'China Is Turning In On Itself.' In it, Minzner details a significant shift in the Chinese political dialectic, indicating the regime's intention to change the country's identity from the top down. The shift is a return to embracing Chinese tradition ancient legal culture. Yes, the country will continue to embrace capitalism (think: former market-friendly ruler Deng Xiaoping) but foreigners — and foreign ideas — will not have the same place in China. "China is again slowly turning in on itself," Minzner wrote. "New party slogans stress “traditional” culture and values. The language of Confucianism is increasingly being invoked to legitimize a new dynasty of red emperors. Windows are being shut. State researchers are being warned against foreign collaboration. Archives previously open to Western scholars are being closed off. And Beijing is reaching for a fly swatter — or a hammer — to deal with influences it perceives as threats. Liberal public interest lawyers are being subjected to a chilling crackdown; Christian churches in Zhejiang province to a selective demolition campaign; Hong Kong pro-democracy media to increasing intimidation." Xi's China is one of "corruption" crackdowns, but will this concern for the rule of law serve to put these "red emperors" on more equal footing with the masses, or simply thing their ranks to those who agree with Xi and only Xi? Hold that thought. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeStanley Druckenmiller.Back in July, we highlighted comments from hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller, who called IBM the "poster child" for what was wrong with modern corporate behavior.  Druckenmiller said IBM's financial-engineering practices, which include tripling its debt to repurchase stock, were exactly what had been wrong with the economic recovery. But there was something else Druckenmiller nailed that is an even bigger problem for Big Blue: revenue is falling. In Druckenmiller's comments back in July, he said that despite a stock price that had, to that point, risen more than 50% since the 2008 stock market bottom, IBM's sales were identical to what they were six years ago.  And on Monday morning, it got worse, as IBM reported earnings that declined 4% year-over-year to $22.4 billion.  In morning trade on Monday, shares of IBM were down about 7%.  According to data from Yahoo Finance, Wall Street expects IBM's annual revenue in its fiscal-year 2014, which ends in December, to decline 2.3% to $97.4 billion. Those expectations are not yet adjusted for Monday's results, which disappointed by about $1 billion, so the Street's annual expectations are likely to be pared further.  And comments from IBM CEO Ginni Rometty certainly didn't do much to engender a great deal of confidence. "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior," Rometty said, "and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry."  Overall, Druckenmiller's comments were in the spirit of highlighting the problems he believed had been created by Fed policy, in particular thwarting capital spending and encouraging companies to engage in financial engineering rather than to invest in their business.  At the end of September, IBM had $1.4 billion remaining on its share-repurchase authorization. The company said it expected to request an additional repurchase program at its October board meeting. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Harrison McClaryOndraya Frick from U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) train U.S. Army soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), who are earmarked for the fight against Ebola, before their deployment to West Africa, at Fort Campbell, Kentucky.It is becoming clear that overcoming the challenges in the fight against Ebola is related to the size of an economy. The very poor countries face the greatest difficulty. The African countries hit hardest by Ebola this year are Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Liberia. Those three African countries are poor. Their combined output estimated in gross domestic product (GDP) numbers is small. They have the bulk of the Ebola cases, about 9000 cases combined this year.  Half of those infected have died (World Health Organization).  See:  http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/case-counts.html . There are a few cases in neighboring countries. Senegal has one case and zero deaths. Nigeria has had 20 cases, eight deaths. Those countries each have greater GDP relative to the combined three poorer ones. There are isolated cases like those in the US (three cases, one death) and Europe (one case in Spain, no death). It seems to us that as long as Ebola remains transmissible in its current form (contact with the bodily fluids of an infected and symptomatic person), countries with larger GDP will have a smaller Ebola threat because they have the means to address it effectively. Let’s set aside the media hysteria. The same media musters no fear-mongering headlines over the 3,300 to 49,000 annual US deaths associated with influenza during non-pandemic years (http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6249a2.htm). Let’s put the three most heavily infected African countries in economic perspective. Vermont currently has the smallest state GDP of the 50 United States. Yet its GDP is more than double the combined GDPs of the three African countries with the bulk of Ebola cases and deaths. The US and European Union each account for about one-fourth of the world’s $75 trillion GDP. The three African countries, meanwhile, have a GDP of one-eighth of Puerto Rico’s. Other than the islands of Malta, with a GDP of about $10 billion, the GDP of the three African countries combined is smaller than that of any member of the Eurozone. The GDP of Cypress is about one and a half times as large. When the television is turned on, the viewer sees that Ebola is a deadly disease. However, the resources to contain and treat Ebola clearly exist in relation to the size of the economies where the disease occurs and spreads. In the modern interdependent world, where economies are more and more integrated, resources determine how little or how much damage is done. We think the financial markets over-discounted the Ebola threat as an emotional reaction to the media news flow. This is an assumption that will remain valid as long as the current transmission mechanism remains unchanged. Cumberland Advisors is moving beyond the Ebola scare when it comes to strategies for portfolio management. Cash reserves have been reduced and deployed. This is a change in strategy; we have raised the allocation to the US stock market. Last week’s market riot provided an entry point. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP Images Here are the most interesting things that Andreessen had to say:  The American middle class is a myth Andreessen thinks the American middle class of the mid-20th century is an accident of history, created because much of the industrialized world was bombed out of existence during World War II. "The one major industrial country that wasn’t bombed was the United States. So the United States became the monopoly producer of industrial goods." However, by the late 1960s, Germany and Japan had rebuilt their economies, and it started to fall apart. "It was an accident of history." We need a fairly robust social safety net Capitalism mostly works, he says, but high taxes and a "vigorous safety net" are important, too. "I believe at the individual level, these changes are real and they matter," he says. The new economy — even low-paid jobs — is an improvement "The old farming jobs were f--king terrible jobs. I mean, farmers wake up at 6 in the morning and work 14-hour days. Industrial jobs — people would get killed in these factories all the time. Coal miners — people are trying to protect coal-mining jobs. They’re terrible, terrible jobs ... In developing countries, everybody’s dying to get into modern factory jobs, because the alternative is far worse." Disruption is part of natural economic cycles "We have this new magic machine that cleans hotel rooms, but we’re not going to use it because we want to keep the maids in business. Well, in the old days there used to be a job at the hotel called the guy who lights the coal fire ... If you follow that logic, you would unwind all the way back to where it all started, which was subsistence farming." Silicon Valley disruption is dismantling cartels Speaking specifically about the music and publishing industries, Andreessen says that it's not a bad thing that producers make so much less than they did a generation ago. For example, he says, "... recorded music was an oligopolistic cartel. The only reason why musicians were getting paid what they were getting paid in the 1990s off CDs was because the record labels were price-fixing."  Specifically about the music industry, he notes that live music has become a much bigger industry and has become the main source of revenue for a lot of producers. As for whether musicians should get paid more when people listen to their songs online he says: "That’s when we get down into the sticky situation, which is, is our work actually worth what we think it is?"   Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Ezra Shaw/Getty ImagesOakland A's general manager Billy Beane, left, is widely seen as the first baseball executive to embrace Sabermetrics and advanced statistics.Sabermetrics has come to stock-picking. As if we didn't have enough ways to measure stocks against one another, Goldman Sachs equity analyst Robert Boroujerdi is out with a note to clients ahead of the World Series that takes three popular baseball "sabermetrics" and turns them into metrics for picking stocks. Sabermetrics, or advanced stats, is the method of evaluating baseball players popularized in Michael Lewis' book "Moneyball" that evaluates players based on stats other than popular measures like batting average, home runs, and RBIs. The sabermetric baskets Goldman divides stocks into are proxies for DER (defensive efficiency ratio), VORP (value over replacement player), and OPS (on-base-plus-slugging percentage). Basically, DER stocks have strong free cash flow, VORP stocks earn excess returns on their invested capital, and OPS stocks have strong operating cash flows plus a commitment to dividends and buybacks.  Goldman finds nine stocks for each basket. Goldman's DER stocks are:  Goldman's VORP stocks are: And Goldman's OPS stocks are: It's all kind of a stretch, which is very much how some people feel about sabermetrics.  Some popular baseball sabermetrics include WAR (wins above replacement), BABIP (batting average on balls in play), and PECOTA (player empirical comparison and optimization test algorithm). These are not made up (by me at least, I mean someone made them up).  And these odd names for sabermetrics stats make for a long-running "smart" baseball writing vs. "dumb" baseball writing internet debate that might be more popular than actual baseball. The World Series, which pits the San Francisco Giants against the Kansas City Royals, starts on Tuesday night.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gretchen ErtlThe weekend is over and stocks in the US are mixed, with IBM dragging down the Dow. In early trade on Monday, the Dow was down 78 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up 2 points, and the Nasdaq was up 15 points. The biggest story on Monday is IBM, which reported worse than expected quarterly results and in early trade on Monday was down about 8%.  The Dow, which is a price-weighted index — meaning that the price of a company's stock, not its market cap, determines its weigh in the Dow — every 1-point decline in an individual stock takes 6.42195 points off the broader index.  IBM was down a bit over $13 on Monday, making it responsible for roughly 85 points of the Dow's decline. For its fiscal third quarter, IBM reported earnings per share of $3.68 against expectations for $4.32, while the tech giant also reported revenue that decline 4% year-over-year to $22.4 billion. The worst part of IBM's report, however, was the comment from IBM chairwoman Ginni Rometty that said, "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry." IBM also announced that GLOBALFOUNDRIES would acquire its Microelectronics Business for $1.5 billion.  Also in tech earnings, Apple is set to report its quarterly results after the market close on Monday. You can read Jay Yarow's full preview here.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterIBM shares are tumbling after the company announced disappointing Q3 earnings. The business services giant announced $3.68 per share of operating earnings from continuing operations, which is much weaker than the $4.32 expected by analysts. Revenue fell 4% year-over-year to $22.4 billion. "We are disappointed in our performance," CEO Ginni Rometty said. "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry. While we did not produce the results we expected to achieve, we again performed well in our strategic growth areas — cloud, data and analytics, security, social, and mobile — where we continue to shift our business." This is concerning, not just for IBM investors. As a global provider of business software and services, this could be reflective of problems in the global economy. IBM reported declines in all markets: America's revenue fell 2%, Europe/Middle East/Africa revenue fell 2%, and Asia-Pacific revenue dropped 9%. Management said revenues in its so-called "growth markets" fell 6%, with Brazil, Russia, India, and China revenues falling 7%. Shares of IBM were down by about 7.3%, or $13.30 per share, in premarket trading. IBM is a component of the Dow, and every 1-point move in a Dow stock moves the Dow by 6.42195 points. In other words, IBM's sell-off is hacking off about 85 points from the Dow. FREE AppDownload
Ever since the financial crisis, S&amp;P 500 companies have spent about $2 trillion buying back shares of their own stock. Some market experts have warned that a pullback in buybacks would cause stock prices to fall. Goldman Sachs' David Kostin believes a temporary pullback may explain why the S&amp;P 500 has tumbled from its all-time high of 2,019 on Sept. 19. "Most companies are precluded from engaging in open-market stock repurchases during the five weeks before releasing earnings," Kostin notes. "For many firms, the beginning of the blackout period coincided with the S&amp;P 500 peak on September 18. So the sell-off occurred during a time when the single largest source of equity demand was absent. Buybacks dip during earnings reporting months, which have seen 1.2 points higher realized volatility than in other months during the past 25 years." The bulk of Q3 earnings announcements will be out by the end of October, at which point Kostin believes buying will pick up again. "We expect companies will actively repurchase shares in November and December," he writes. "Since 2007, an average of 25% of annual buybacks has occurred during the last two months of the year." Kostin believes the comeback in buybacks will drive the S&amp;P to 2,050 by year-end. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
AP Images"One thing she was wrong on — If I didn't drink coffee or smoke cigars like my dad — those would both stunt my growth — I would be 6 feet tall." The 86-year-old told Business Insider it was because his grandmother told him not to drink it. She was actually the source of a lot of valuable advice growing up.  "Everything she told me as far as advice was concerned pretty well played out like she said it would," Pickens told Business Insider. "You know, work hard, you get results. Always, if you tell somebody you're going to do something, always do it. Things like that." In his book "The First Billion Is The Hardest," Pickens details the relationship he had with his grandmother. His grandmother gave him advice that has remained with him throughout his career. "It becomes part of your personality and your life when you're taught early," he told Business Insider.  In his book, Pickens tells a story about how he found a man's wallet while on his paper route as a young boy. He returned the wallet to its rightful owner. The man gave Pickens a dollar as reward. When he got home he told his grandmother, mother, and aunt about the dollar he received.  "[My grandmother] made me return the dollar I got. 'You're not going to be paid to be honest. That ain't the way it's going to work,'" Pickens recalled. "'No, no, he wants me to have it,'" he remembered telling his grandmother. Pickens got on his bicycle and left to return the money to the man. On his way home, he got caught in a downpour.   "I almost drowned coming back," Pickens said. "I wanted her, my aunt and mother to see me pitiful when I came back on my bicycle and feel sorry for me. None of that at all. I came in and said, 'I almost drowned when I crossed Burgess Street.'"  His grandmother told him, "If you had gone when we told you to, you'd have been back before it rained."  His grandmother was right. But Pickens says she got one thing wrong. "One thing she was wrong on — If I didn't drink coffee or smoke cigars like my dad — those would both stunt my growth — I would be 6 feet tall. I never had a cup of coffee to this day. Never tasted coffee. I never smoked a cigar either."  "I went to her when I was 20 and I said, 'I didn't drink coffee and I never smoked a cigar either and I'm not going to be 6 feet tall," he said. "She said, 'Sonny, if you had, you might not be 5 feet tall.'"  Pickens is 5-foot-10 and in good shape. To this day, he continues to work out with his personal trainer every morning at 6:30 a.m.  See, grandmothers really do know best.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims circumambulate around the holy Kaaba during the ritual pilgrimages of Haj and Umrah at the Grand Mosque. The largest bank in Saudi Arabia has decided to turn itself into a fully Islamic bank in the next five years after coming in for criticism from the country's Islamic scholars. The state-run bank's decision came amid a $6 billion initial public offer -- the largest ever equity sale in the Arab financial world. National Commercial Bank, or NCB, which has assets worth $116 billion, according to Reuters, works along Sharia-compliant Islamic banking guidelines but also follows certain Western banking conventions. NCB's decision to transform itself into a fully Islamic financial institution comes after some members of the Council of Senior Scholars, the country’s highest religious body, said that it will not be possible to invest in the bank’s share offer because too much of its business was non-Islamic. "Religion comes above everything," Sheikh Abdullah al-Mutlaq, one of the council members, told state television, according to Reuters. While securities analysts said that such criticism of the bank’s policies will not hamper the bank's public listing, NCB held a meeting on Thursday to discuss with the components of its board, such as the bank's chief executive, chairman and other officials, on how to make it Sharia-compliant. By June, two-thirds of the bank’s assets were Islamic in nature while the remaining was conventional, according to Reuters. The Sharia board has certified that 78 percent of NCB's financing deals, 92 percent of its liabilities and 73 percent of its income, were Sharia-compliant. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Lam Yik FeiThis is a guest post from Sammy The Walrus IV, a frequent commenter at Business Insider, and a sharp tweeter on all things Apple. It was originally published on his site, AAPL Orchard, and is republished with permission.  Revenue: $39.8 billion (AAPL guidance: $37-40 billion range/Consensus: $39.9 billion) Gross Margin: 38.0% (AAPL guidance: 37-38% range) EPS: $1.32 (Consensus: $1.31) Product Unit Sales and Commentary Macs: 5.0 million (9% yoy growth) iPad: 12.4 million (12% yoy decline. Consensus is closer to 13 million.) iPod: 1.7 million (50% yoy decline) iPhone: 36.5 million (8% yoy growth. Consensus is closer to 37-38 million.) I expect Apple’s earnings to come in close to consensus demonstrating continued EPS growth from stronger net income and a lower share count resulting from share buyback. In terms of 1Q15 guidance, I am expecting approximately $56-60 billion of revenue (consensus is around $63 billion) and 38.0-39.0% margins (which would equate to EPS of approximately $2.25, or a 9% increase from 2014). It is important to remember that weaker iPad mini sales, as a result of stronger iPhone or iPad Air sales, will actually help Apple’s financials as the iPad mini’s lower ASP and margins weighed on Apple results.  I exclude foreign exchange impact from results given its non-operating nature. Apple is hedged against significant foreign exchange moves, but nevertheless there may be some impact flowing for the results.  The primary Apple story over the next few months will be the iPhone 6 rollout and corresponding implications on margins (iPhone 6 Plus running with a higher margin than iPhone 6, with both models positioned stronger than iPhone 5).  FREE AppDownload
Gluskin SheffDavid Rosenberg.Monday is the third Monday in October, marking the anniversary of "Black Monday," the day of the 1987 stock market crash that saw the Dow fall more than 22%, its worst day in history.  It was sheer panic on Wall Street. David Rosenberg, now chief strategist at Gluskin Sheff, told Barry Ritholtz on his Masters in Business radio program back in September that "Black Monday" was the scariest thing he had seen in his time on Wall Street. "I've been through the savings &amp; loan crisis, I've been through what happened in 1994, the tech wreck, I was there on Wall Street between New Century Financial, and Bear Stearns, and Lehman, and AIG, but I'll tell you something: the palpable fear, there was nothing like Oct. 19, 1987," Rosenberg said. "People actually thought that the world was going to come to an end." Black Monday also happened to be Rosenberg's first day on Wall Street. On that Monday, Rosenberg joined the Bank of Nova Scotia as an economist after working for the Canada Housing and Mortgage Corporation, which Rosenberg said was like the Canadian equivalent of Fannie Mae. "It was my first day on the trading floor, and it was pure pandemonium," Rosenberg said. "If somebody had offered me a ticket back to my cushy civil servant job in Ottawa, I probably would've taken it." "So many things happened at around that time that shaped my thinking at a whole range of levels." Amid this panic, Rosenberg remembers, the economists who brought him on to work at Bank of Nova Scotia went around to every part of the bank — including the CEO's office — and remained totally calm. This past Wednesday, amid choppy trade and historic volatility in the bond market, we highlighted comments from Rosenberg, who reminded investors to take a deep breath and remember what is important for building wealth. FREE AppDownload
Flick / Michael McDonoughNew York City The fallout from the Great Recession continues to reset America’s economic geography. Larger, denser metros have performed considerably better, according to a recent analysis that charts metro employment growth since the economic crash. The study, by Josh Lehner of the Oregon Office of Economic Analysis, used county-level jobs data to compare employment growth in large metros (with over one million people), medium-sized metros (with populations of 250,000 to 1 million), small metros (those with less than 250,000 people), and non-metro areas from 2007 through 2013. The chart below, from Lehner’s analysis, shows the trend. The lines for all four types of metros slope steeply downward with the onset of the economic crisis, from roughly 2008 through 2010. While the bright blue line (for large metros) exhibits perhaps the steepest decline, it also rebounds the most sharply, rising steadily and ultimately eclipsing the lines for the other three types of metros in early 2012. Notice the yellow line for smaller, non-metros areas, which remains the flattest of the bunch. CityLab / Josh Lehner The second graph below, also from Lehner’s analysis, charts the performance for these four groups of metros between 1980 and a projected 2015. Over this broader period, smaller metros and non metro areas generally outperformed larger ones up until the mid-1990s. Large metros did well in the economic boom of the late 1990s through the downturn of 2001, after which they performed roughly the same as smaller and mid-sized metros. In the current period, they’ve rebounded. Josh Lehner / CityLab Lehner suggests that the housing boom of the mid-2000s may well have been the savior for smaller and medium-sized metros, artificially boosting their performance. “The case could…be made that the housing boom was an equalizer in which small and medium sized metros outperformed due to a stronger population growth and the associated housing demand and activity that went along with it,” he writes. “This stronger growth also may have pulled some away from the larger cities at the same time.” More recently, the pattern may have returned to more normal conditions that seem to favor large metros. “[G]ood economic things—agglomeration effects, knowledge spillovers, clustering, etc.—happen in certain locations, which are usually bigger cities,” Lehner adds. Larger metros, it seems, are the main beneficiaries from the ongoing clustering of talent, industry and investment that are part and parcel of our increasingly spiky and unequal geography. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Albert GeaIBM Chairwoman and CEO Virginia "Ginni" Rometty."We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry." CEO Ginni Rometty said this in IBM's Q3 earnings announcement, which revealed tumbling revenue and profits at the company. The statement is troubling because as a global provider of business software and services, IBM is a bellwether of business spending. And a boom in business spending is central to the bullish outlooks of many economists and market strategists. IBM reported declines in all markets: Americas revenue fell 2%, Europe/Middle East/Africa revenue fell 2%, and Asia-Pacific revenue dropped 9%. Management said revenues in its so-called "growth markets" fell 6%, with Brazil, Russia, India, and China revenues falling 7%. Shares of IBM are down by over 6% in premarket trading. FREE AppDownload
A war is always brewing for your coffee dollars between Starbucks, McDonald's, and Dunkin' Donuts. We bought three coffees from each of these establishments on 23rd Street in New York City. We recorded the prices and compared the size and caffeine content of each cup. The results may surprise you. We used caffeine data from Caffeine Informer. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonGood morning! Here's what you need to know.  2 Japanese Cabinet Ministers Have Resigned Amid A Corruption Scandal. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe suffered a double setback Monday with the resignations of two female cabinet ministers over claims they misused political funds. IBM Earnings Disappointed And The Share Price Is Crumbling. Shares are tumbling in premarket trading after the company announced disappointing Q3 earnings. The business services giant announced $3.68 per share of operating earnings from continuing operations, which is much weaker than the $4.32 expected by analysts. Major European Markets Are Down. France's CAC 40 is down 1.42%, Germany's DAX is down 1.58%, and the UK's FTSE 100 is down 1.04%. But Japan's Nikkei climbed 3.98% during trading.  China’s Slowdown Is Going To Be Faster Than Expected. Chinese growth is set to be slashed in half in the next decade according to the Conference Board.   The Boston Fed’s President Says Rates Might Not Rise Until 2016. The recent volatility in financial markets reinforces the need for the Federal Reserve to be patient with its policy stimulus, according to Eric Rosengren. Nigeria Is Officially Free Of Ebola. The World Health Organization has declared Nigeria Ebola-free, after a 42-day waiting period that represents twice the maximum incubation period of 21 days.  Investors Want To Buy Reebok. A consortium of investors from Hong Kong and Abu Dhabi is interested in buying the Reebok brand from Adidas for 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) Germany’s Tax Income Is Still Rising. Monday's monthly Finance Ministry report showed the government's September tax income up 4.7% compared with a year earlier. Lufthansa Just Grounded Thousands of Flights. The German airline canceled 1,450 flights after a pilots union called for a strike on Monday and Tuesday, adding to travelers' misery after millions were left stranded by a weekend-long train drivers' stoppage. Big Economic Data Is Out From China Later. At 10 p.m. ET, retail sales and industrial production figures will be released by the Chinese government. Analysts expect GDP growth of 1.8% between the second and third quarters of the year.  FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz of Jones Trading has the top topics about which traders are talking about today: Good Morning!   US Futures are mixed, and coming off the best levels of the overnight as IBM comes in light – Russell continues to lag, giving back some of last week’s outperformance – as the bears hope this is a “Red Flag” – It could also be the absence of small-cap buybacks into earnings (many big-caps don’t leave the market) – This is the Busiest week of earnings season, with results due from 128 S&amp;P 500 companies, including six Dow components.   Despite the ECB starting their Asset Purchase Plan Buying French Covered Debt, all Euro markets are under decent pressure.   The DAX is worst off, losing 1.55%, but in very light volume.   Earnings the main culprit, as SAP cut forecasts and Phillips missed #s.  Lack of a Russia-Ukraine deal adds angst, but MICEX is off only small despite the Moody’s downgrade on Friday.  Tech companies the weakest in Europe, losing 3% on average.  It was a bullish session in Asia, the GPIF news had Japan up 4%, biggest rally in 16mos, while Taiwan jumps 1.7% as export orders this morning came in strong, and Samsung helped South Korea add 1.5%.   Shanghai rose 70bp on China’s central bank’s plan to inject $33 billion into the banking system. 7:17 The 10YY in the US is off small, while 5Y Breakevens are holding Friday’s rally.   With demand still strong for German bunds, we are watching allocation flows from equities into Credit persisting, look for possible reversal around the EU Close.   The DXY is off small, as the $/Yen fails to hold 107, and the greenback loses ground to the Euro.   Despite reports Saudi/Kuwait close a 500kbpd Oil field, Brent is off 70bp, while WTI seems to be holding near unchanged - The “Growth” trade will be in focus into China’s GDP print tonight, and Copper is getting hit for 1% while Moody’s is warning on mounting Ore production.   Very quiet on the Catalyst Calendar today – with ECB's Constancio Speaks on Banking Regulation at 7:50, Fed’s Powell speaks on community banking, and a decent sized POMO at 11.   HAL, HAS, IBM, and VFC all are out pre-open while AAPL, CDNS, CMG, and TXN are after the close.   Remain focused on the Travel Stocks - WHO Declares Nigeria Ebola-Free, and quarantines are lifted in Dallas for associates of the 1st Ebola death there FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingMarijuana-infused sour gummy bear candies (R) are shown next to regular ones at left in a photo illustration in Golden, Colorado October 17, 2014.All anyone is talking about these days is the spike in market volatility. "It has been an insane week for stocks, that's for sure," NYSE floor governor Rich Barry said. "The market traded down 747 points from Monday's highs to Wednesday's lows — then reversed by 545 points from Wednesday's low to [Friday]'s session-highs... Amazing." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Despite the market volatility, money managers don't seem to worried. Indeed, according to Barron's just-released "Big Money" poll, 59% of money managers are bullish or very bullish. That's up from 56% in the spring. "Based on their mean forecasts in the Big Money poll, the bulls see the Dow Jones industrials topping 18,360 by the middle of 2015, and the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index hitting 2173," Willoughby continued. "While their targets, which imply a gain of about 12% for the Dow and 15% for the S&amp;P 500, might seem aggressive after last week’s rout, their commitment to U.S. equities remains intact." Then again, some folks would argue this is actually a very worrisome development. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert ShillerIn an accelerating world, I find it necessary to always be learning if I hope to survive. With markets exhibiting notable volatility, I would urge all enterprising investors to focus on two important questions that may lead to greater understanding. Will the Future Look Like the Past? In his always insightful column in the Wall Street Journal, Jason Zweig interviewed Robert Shiller, a Nobel laureate in economics and the developer of the cyclically adjusted price/earnings ratio (CAPE). In the interview, there is a particular bit of wisdom for all of us who are condemned one way or another with the task of predicting the future. Shiller said that while the current CAPE level “might be high relative to history . . . how do we know that history hasn’t changed?” The real wisdom is in asking that question. Hopefully, I’ll be able to provide some comparable wisdom of my own in this post. There are at least two reasons to question the validity of the CAPE. The first reason is that we live in a very dynamically changing financial world. Many trends are old: This is not the first time that governments and their central bank servants have been manipulating interest rates or money. Even in ancient times, monarchs reduced the amount of gold and silver in coinage. But some trends are also very new. The trading markets have changed considerably due to the use of capital restrictions, fragmentation of markets, increased use of lightly capitalized derivatives, and the communication of investment methods. The second reason to question the utility of CAPE or any price/earnings ratio measure comes from my experiences at the race track. Bettors who put enough of their money on a particular horse to make the horse the favorite often focus on one statistic, almost to the exclusion of any others (Favorites typically win only about one-third of the time). With this background, you can sense my apprehension upon entering the analytical business where there is a need to briefly sum up the reasoning behind an investment decision. Often it boils down to communicating with a shorthand term or a simple label with the caveat that people must still fully understand the limitations of the investment, the intricacies of its construction, and the history of its misapplication. Since almost every argument to do something in the stock market relies on a P/E ratio, I am increasingly suspicious of its utility. I prefer to understand operational revenue and pre-tax, “pre-other” income growth. In addition, I look at net cash generation after debt service as a comparative measure before focusing on an evaluation of management’s ability to handle future opportunities and problems. Furthermore, because of changes in accounting reporting policies, in many cases earnings a few years back might look very different from today’s version. The calculators of CAPE use reported data for the S&amp;P 500 companies, which is just not good enough for me in the fight for investment survival. What Are Markets Telling Us? While I am very sympathetic to Shiller’s concern that history is not an absolute guide to the future, I do pay attention to technical market analysis. I have received separate, thoughtful warnings from analysts based in Chicago, New Jersey, and London, each using individual tools and data, that we are heading into the late stages of a long bull market. They seem to agree that it is likely that the current “correction” will be followed by a rapid rise led by the late-stage large-cap stocks. Nevertheless, one analyst has highlighted the following important levels to watch in the S&amp;P 500 if selling accelerates: As frightening as these numbers are, they do not include a once-in-a-generation decline of 50%, which could take us below 1000. Compare this to today’s level of 1906.13. The nice thing about market analysis is that you do not have to know what causes people to sell, just that they are selling in increasing volume and there is not a lot of incentive to buy. All three analyst sources have noted the deterioration of numerous global markets. For example, the German DAX is down 12.4% already. These market participants sense future problems that the various major governments and their central banks are not addressing. Perhaps the markets are suggesting that the emperor is marching naked. Current moods of businesspeople and investors are much more cautious than national statistics would indicate. An example may be helpful: Large-cap growth stocks were up 2.21% in the quarter. But the much more economically sensitive small-cap value stocks dropped 6.39%. In order to survive, I have been paying attention to the market analysts and have adjusted most portfolios that have a five-year or shorter time horizon to be more cautious. But each of these bright market analysts sees that we are setting up, in the long run, a major expansion of stock prices and somewhat higher interest rates. I agree with their assessment, but this expansion could be delayed by the political forces utilizing inaccurate data and trying to create a recovery instead of recognizing that they are a main cause of the current malaise. We may need new global leadership. Last week I suggested that some of the money planning to leave PIMCO should consider reducing its allocation to bonds, and investors might have been listening: The flows this week into money market funds were unusually high. I would hope that, as equity ratios decline because of falling prices and other disappointments, new capital can be prudently introduced into expanded equity holdings. Do you have plans to increase your investments in stocks? FREE AppDownload
AP/Darko BandicThis July 28 photo shows Jakob Denzinger's portrait on the tombstone of his empty grave in Cepin, eastern Croatia.Former Auschwitz guard Jakob Denzinger lived the American dream. His plastics company in the Rust Belt town of Akron, Ohio, thrived. By the late 1980s, he had acquired the trappings of success: a Cadillac DeVille and a Lincoln Town Car, a lakefront home, investments in oil and real estate. Then the Nazi hunters showed up. In 1989, as the US government prepared to strip him of his citizenship, Denzinger packed a pair of suitcases and fled to Germany. Denzinger later settled in this pleasant town on the Drava River, where he lives comfortably, courtesy of US taxpayers. He collects a Social Security payment of about $1,500 each month, nearly twice the take-home pay of an average Croatian worker. Denzinger, 90, is among dozens of suspected Nazi war criminals and SS guards who collected millions of dollars in Social Security payments after being forced out of the United States, an Associated Press investigation found. The payments flowed through a legal loophole that has given the US Justice Department leverage to persuade Nazi suspects to leave. If they agreed to go, or simply fled before deportation, they could keep their Social Security, according to interviews and internal government records. Like Denzinger, many lied about their Nazi pasts to get into the US following World War II and eventually became American citizens. Among those who benefited: —armed SS troops who guarded the Nazi network of camps where millions of Jews perished. —an SS guard who took part in the brutal liquidation of the Warsaw ghetto in Nazi-occupied Poland that killed as many as 13,000 Jews. —a Nazi collaborator who engineered the arrest and execution of thousands of Jews in Poland. —a German rocket scientist accused of using slave labor to build the V-2 rocket that pummeled London. He later won NASA's highest honor for helping to put a man on the moon. The AP's findings are the result of more than two years of interviews, research, and analysis of records obtained through the Freedom of Information Act and other sources. The Justice Department denied using Social Security payments as a tool for removing Nazi suspects. But records show the US State Department and the Social Security Administration voiced grave concerns over the methods used by the Justice Department's Nazi-hunting unit, the Office of Special Investigations. State officials derogatorily called the practice "Nazi dumping" and claimed the OSI was bargaining with suspects so they would leave voluntarily. Since 1979, the AP analysis found, at least 38 of 66 suspects removed from the United States kept their Social Security benefits. Legislation that would have closed the Social Security loophole failed 15 years ago, partly because of opposition from the OSI. Since then, according to the AP's analysis, at least 10 Nazi suspects kept their benefits after leaving. The Social Security Administration confirmed payments to seven who are deceased. One living suspect was confirmed through an AP interview. Two others met the conditions to keep their benefits. Of the 66 suspects, at least four are alive, living in Europe on US Social Security. In newly uncovered Social Security Administration records, the AP found that by March 1999, 28 suspected Nazi criminals had collected $1.5 million in Social Security payments after their removal from the US. Since then, the AP estimates the amount paid out has reached into the millions. That estimate is based on the number of suspects who qualified and the three decades that have passed since the first former Nazis, Arthur Rudolph and John Avdzej, signed agreements that required them to leave the country but ensured their benefits would continue. Long-living beneficiaries can collect hundreds of thousands of dollars in payments. AP/Darko BandicIn this July 28 photo, Jakob Denzinger looks from his apartment window in Osijek, eastern Croatia. A single male who earned an average wage of $44,800 a year and turned 65 in 1990, the year after Denzinger did, would receive nearly $15,000 annually in Social Security benefits, according to the Urban Institute, a nonprofit public policy group in Washington. That's $375,000 over 25 years. The amounts are adjusted for inflation. The Social Security Administration refused the AP's request for the total number of Nazi suspects who received benefits and the dollar amounts of those payments. Spokesman William "BJ" Jarrett said the agency does not track data specific to Nazi cases. A further barrier, Jarrett said, is that there is no exception in US privacy law that "allows us to disclose information because the individual is a Nazi war criminal or an accused Nazi war criminal." The agency also declined to make the acting commissioner, Carolyn Colvin, or another senior agency official available for an interview. The Justice Department declined the AP's request for an official to speak on the record. Spokesman Peter Carr said in an emailed statement that Social Security payments never were used as an incentive or as a threat to persuade Nazi suspects to depart voluntarily. "The matter of Social Security benefits eligibility was raised by defense counsel, not by the department, and the department neither used retirement benefits as an inducement to leave the country and renounce citizenship nor threatened that failure to depart and renounce would jeopardize continued receipt of benefits," Carr said. The department opposed the legislation in 1999, Carr acknowledged, because it would have undermined the OSI's mandate to remove Nazi criminals as expeditiously as possible to countries that would prosecute them. Speed was a key factor. Survivors of the Holocaust who made the United States their home after the war had been forced to share it with their former Nazi tormenters. That had to change, and fast, the OSI's proponents said. If suspects were to stand trial, they needed to be found and ousted while they were alive. The OSI and its backers didn't want death to cheat justice. Yet only 10 suspects were ever prosecuted after being expelled, according to the department's own figures. At his home in Osijek, Denzinger would not discuss his situation. "I don't want to say anything," he told the AP in German as he rested on his walker in the hallway of his apartment. But Denzinger's son, who lives in the US, confirmed his father receives Social Security payments and said he deserved them. "This isn't coming out of other people's pockets," Thomas Denzinger said. "He paid into the system." Plus his father is paying 30 percent in taxes. "They should be taking out nothing," he said. Another former Nazi camp guard, longtime Montana resident Martin Hartmann, lives in Berlin and also is collecting Social Security, according to a person with knowledge of Hartmann's finances who requested anonymity because the person did not want to be associated with Hartmann's Nazi history. Hartmann, 95, left the US in 2007, just before a federal judge issued an order to revoke his citizenship. The loophole also means new suspects, including former SS unit commander Michael Karkoc, whom the AP located last year in Minnesota, could retain benefits even if removed to another country. German prosecutors opened an investigation after the AP uncovered documentation showing Karkoc, 95, ordered his unit to raze a Polish village during the war. Dozens of women and children were killed in the attack. Via Flickr The American public did not become fully aware until the mid-1970s that thousands of Nazi persecutors had immigrated to the US after World War II, with estimates ranging as high as 10,000. They were shocked to learn their former enemies could be living next door. Congressional pressure led to the creation of the OSI in 1979, and it had a single purpose: track down and expel Nazis who played a role in the persecution of civilians. But because their crimes were committed outside the US and almost always against non-Americans, Nazi suspects could not be tried in US courts. The only other option available was to prove they lied to immigration authorities about what they did during the war, to strip them of their citizenships through a lengthy legal process, and then to attempt either deportation or extradition. But almost no countries were willing to accept them through deportation, and few pressed charges that would have forced extradition. So the Justice Department devised a strategy to overcome these difficulties, including encouraging them to leave voluntarily, which meant they would avoid the messy process of deportation but keep their retirement benefits. The OSI regularly trumpeted its successes, and boasted in 2006 that its work had led to more Nazi expulsions from the US in the previous 25 years than all other countries in the world combined. "We really did want people to give up and go," said a senior Justice Department official, who defended the practice as a way of avoiding deportation proceedings that could last as long as 10 years. "The goal is still to remove these people as quickly as possible, and the fact that as soon as we move to the deportation stage they run the risk of losing their benefit(s) is still an encouragement to leave," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the department's thinking on the matter. The OSI even went so far as to encourage several suspects to use US passports for legal travel to allied countries, like Germany or Austria. Once there, they would renounce their US citizenships and still be able to collect Social Security benefits. This practice became known as "Nazi dumping" within diplomatic circles and stoked outrage at the State Department and in capitals in Europe. The path for the OSI's approach opened when Congress passed legislation making "participation in Nazi persecution" grounds for deportation. But the Social Security Act was not changed to make such crimes also grounds for the termination of benefits. An internal memo drafted in 1984 by State Department officials discussed how deals were made behind the scenes. To get suspects to renounce citizenship, the OSI would delay legal action and "refrain from seeking in any way to limit the subject's receipt of US Social Security benefits," the memo said. The criticism triggered a bitter back-and-forth between the two agencies, with each accusing the other of being un-American. Decades later, the acrimony lingers. "It was not upfront, it was not transparent, it was not a legitimate process," said James Hergen, a former State Department legal adviser who once described the OSI's approach as a "cynical publicity ploy." ''This was not the way America should behave. We should not be dumping our refuse, for lack of a better word, on friendly states." Neal Sher, who was OSI's director from 1983 to 1994, said the State Department put a higher priority on diplomatic niceties than holding former members of Adolf Hitler's war machine accountable. "State always wraps itself in the flag. Unfortunately, it's not the American flag," said Sher, recalling a complaint voiced by a former colleague. One of the first instances of "Nazi-dumping" involved Rudolph, a celebrated rocket scientist, and set off a diplomatic firestorm. Rudolph was brought to the US after the war because of his technical brilliance. NASA awarded him a Distinguished Service Medal for achievements that included his central role in the Apollo project that put a man on the moon. Decades later he was accused of "working thousands of slave laborers to death" in the Nazi factory that built the V-2 rocket, and he faced the loss of his citizenship and deportation. Rudolph and Avdzej, another Nazi war crimes suspect, became the first to voluntarily leave the United States under the OSI's "renunciation program." When they arrived in Germany in 1984 and forfeited their US citizenships, a furious West German government filed a formal protest. Amid State Department objections, the OSI came up with a "new scheme," said an internal memo, obtained by the AP, to then-Secretary of State George Shultz. The difficulty in finding cooperative countries, according to the May 1987 memo written by senior State Department officials, "has led OSI to resort to bargains with Nazi persecutors which permit their voluntary departure from the US." Another diplomatic uproar ensued when Austrian authorities learned about a deal with Martin Bartesch, a former SS guard at the Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria. Prisoners were forced to work at Mauthausen as slave laborers. At least 95,000 died from gunfire, gassings, or starvation. Unlike most guards against whom little incriminating evidence survived, captured Nazi records used by American prosecutors showed that Bartesch shot and killed a French Jew at the camp in 1943. Bartesch's family denied he had done anything wrong at Mauthausen. In 1987, Bartesch landed, unannounced, at the airport in Vienna. Two days later, under the terms of the deal, his US citizenship was revoked. The Romanian-born Bartesch, who had immigrated to the US in 1955, was suddenly stateless — and Austria's problem. The fallout forced US Attorney General Edwin Meese to apologize to the Austrian interior minister and assure him Austria would not be blindsided again. Bartesch received Social Security benefits in Austria until he died in 1989. The State Department continued to protest the arrangement, but to no avail. "Everybody knew there was no profit in opposing it. It was professional suicide," remembered Hergen. "Why would the White House want to be tagged with stopping the deportation of these Nazi monsters? You were the devil if you opposed it." The year before Bartesch died, Congress amended US law so that individuals deported for aiding in the Nazi persecution also would lose their Social Security benefits. But if a Nazi suspect left before a final deportation order was issued, the benefits could continue. AP/Darko BandicThis July 28 photo shows Jakob Denzinger's portrait on the tombstone of his empty grave in Cepin, eastern Croatia. The Clinton administration in 1997 began internal discussions over whether to terminate benefits to Nazi suspects when they were stripped of their citizenship, which is called denaturalization, instead of when they were deported. That would have lowered the threshold for terminating a suspect's benefits. The acting commissioner of the Social Security Administration at the time, John Callahan, initiated the debate. "Social Security benefits cannot, and should not, be used as a bargaining tool," Callahan wrote in an April 1997 memo to Clinton's domestic policy chief. Callahan did not respond to the AP's requests for comment. Elena Kagan, then a top deputy in the domestic policy office and now a US Supreme Court justice, seemed unmoved by Callahan's plea. "This is a pretty snotty letter," Kagan jotted in the margin of the memo. The Justice Department supported the proposal, albeit tepidly, the records show. But working behind the scenes, a pair of influential Jewish groups succeeded in getting the White House to back down. The World Jewish Congress and the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors threatened to publicly accuse the administration of being soft on Nazi prosecutions if it went forward. Sher, the former OSI chief, boosted the hand the Jewish groups were playing. After a stint with the powerful American Israel Public Affairs Committee, he was now representing the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors. The groups argued closing the loophole would result in greater leniency for Nazi suspects. Federal judges hearing the denaturalization cases, they said, would not see perpetrators of the Holocaust before them, but feeble old men who were on the verge of not only losing their citizenships, but their Social Security, too. That would undercut the primary goal of getting suspects out of the US and to countries willing to prosecute them. Inside the Clinton White House, senior aides found this logic hard to grasp. But it was a fight they did not want. The arguments for preserving the loophole do "not sound fully compelling, EXCEPT that it is impossible to ignore who is raising the concern," a White House staffer wrote in a memo to Kagan. The groups promised to "protest vociferously," it added. The proposal was shelved. Two years later, in 1999, US Rep. Bob Franks, a Republican from New Jersey, introduced legislation to cut off benefits for any Nazi persecutor who left the country voluntarily, whether they were US citizens or not. This time, the Justice Department's stance was unequivocal. The bill, it said, would undercut the OSI's mission. Sher defended the department's stance. Six years to 10 years in litigation costs could be saved if suspects left voluntarily, he said. During that time, they would continue to receive retirement benefits as well as Medicare, Sher said. Not all Jewish groups favored keeping the loophole. Rabbi Marvin Hier, who still heads the Simon Wiesenthal Center he founded in 1977, wanted it shut. There was "no will" in Europe to prosecute Nazi suspects, he said, and the benefits they collected allowed them to live in relative comfort. "Someone receiving an American pension could live very well in Europe or wherever they settled," Hier said. "We, in effect, were rewarding them. It didn't make any sense." Despite attracting nearly 50 cosponsors, the Franks bill failed to pass after running into opposition similar to what the Clinton White House faced. Franks died in 2010. US Rep. Carolyn Maloney of New York, a senior Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said in an AP interview she planned to introduce legislation to close the loophole. "It's absolutely outrageous that Nazi war criminals are continuing to receive Social Security benefits when they have been outlawed from our country for many, many, many years," said Maloney, a cosponsor of the Franks legislation. _____ Many of the former Nazis who came to the US after World War II blended in just as Hartmann and Denzinger did. They worked, raised their families, paid their taxes. They said little about what they did during the war. American immigration law barred entry to members of Hitler's Nazi party, the fanatical SS units, and anyone else tied to a group considered hostile to the US. The rules were amended in the early 1950s. The list of banned organizations was dropped and the focus shifted to keeping out individuals who "personally advocated or assisted in the persecution of any person or group of persons because of race, religion, or national origin." The SS units responsible for guarding the Nazi death and concentration camps were called Totenkopf, or Death's Head, and their troops wore a silver skull-and-crossbones on their uniform collars. They were still generally refused entry after the change. But other SS members designated primarily for combat roles were more likely to be let in. Many got around the restrictions by simply lying about their service in the SS, only to be found decades later by OSI. Others like Rudolph, whose skills as a rocket scientist trumped what officials knew about his background, were intentionally allowed in. In addition to Denzinger and Hartmann, Peter Mueller, 90, a former guard at the Natzweiler camp in France, lives in a nursing home in Worms, Germany. Wasyl Lytwyn, 93, who served in the SS Trawniki unit that took part in the destruction of the Jewish ghetto in Warsaw, is believed to be living in Ukraine. Lytwyn's 1995 settlement agreement stipulates that his Social Security benefits would not be affected by leaving. Mueller would have been eligible for benefits based on the circumstances of his departure, but the Social Security Administration would neither confirm nor deny whether he was receiving payments. Hartmann, the former Nazi SS guard living in Berlin, volunteered for the SS in 1943 and was assigned to the Death's Head unit guarding Sachsenhausen, a concentration camp on the outskirts of the Nazi capital. Prisoners at Sachsenhausen were forced into slave labor, tortured, and subjected to horrific medical experiments that included sterilizations, castrations, and injecting infectious material into a prisoner's body, according to the US Holocaust Memorial Museum. An estimated 30,000 prisoners died of starvation, disease, or exhaustion or were murdered. After the war, Hartmann, his wife and son first settled in Mankato, Minnesota. The family then moved to Helena, Montana, where he worked at the local newspaper, The Independent Record, as a typesetter. He was granted US citizenship in 1961. When the news broke about Hartmann in 2007, Nathan Gasch, an Auschwitz survivor and Hartmann's neighbor in a quiet Arizona retirement community called Leisure World, told reporters of an unnerving visit to Hartmann's home. There, on the wall, was a picture of Hartmann dressed in an SS uniform and wearing a Nazi cap. Gasch did not notify the authorities. "I just let it go," said Gasch, who died last year. Hartmann secured his departure deal in 2007 after reaching an agreement with the OSI in which he acknowledged lying about his Nazi past when he immigrated to the United States in 1955. As part of a settlement reached in US District Court in Washington, the Romanian-born Hartmann agreed to leave the US at his own expense. The court's ruling was based on information provided by the OSI. But the AP uncovered documents through a FOIA request to the National Archives that showed Hartmann did tell American authorities, when he was applying to immigrate, about his service in the SS and as a camp guard at Sachsenhausen. Carr, the Justice Department spokesman, did not specify in an email Wednesday whether the documents were turned over to Hartmann. He said Hartmann admitted making misrepresentations about being at Sachsenhausen. Even if he hadn't, Carr wrote, his citizenship still would be revoked because of the SS connection. ___ Denzinger was born in Cepin, Yugoslavia (now Croatia), a town outside Osijek with a large population of ethnic Germans. In 1942, at age 18, he began serving in one of the Death's Head battalions. His first posting was to Mauthausen, where he trained to be an armed camp guard. He was subsequently stationed in several other camps, including Sachsenhausen and the Auschwitz death camp complex in occupied-Poland where the Holocaust Museum estimates nearly a million Jews were killed. On his immigration visa and, later, his application for US citizenship, Denzinger omitted any references to the SS or death camps, writing only that he served in the German army. His citizenship was revoked by a federal judge in November 1989, a few months after he fled. Thomas Denzinger said his father did not want to put his family through a long and public legal proceeding. "He's made a new life for himself over there," he said. "But he's angry. He claims he was drafted into the army and he did as he was told. You do as you are told or they line you up against a wall and shoot you. You don't have any choice." Croatian authorities this year opened an investigation of Denzinger's World War II service. They would not comment on the inquiry while it was ongoing. In Osijek, a town of baroque spires and cobblestone squares, Denzinger occupies the entire second floor of his riverfront building, and has a live-in helper to attend to his needs. He spends tranquil days gazing out at the marina from his spacious apartment, and he has a routine of riverside strolls and turkey cutlets and Cokes at his favorite Italian restaurant, where he's known as a generous tipper. And the former Auschwitz guard has meticulously choreographed another departure. His gravestone — including a photograph of himself wearing a suit and tie — is already in place in Cepin's Catholic Cemetery about 10 kilometers (6 miles) from his apartment. The black marble slab is polished to a high gloss in the third row of the cemetery, not far from the chapel. It is engraved with an epitaph from his "loved ones": "Proud that we had you; happy that we were with you; eternally sad that we lost you." ___ Herschaft reported from New York and Lardner from Washington. ___ Associated Press writers Gene Johnson in Seattle; Rachel La Corte in Olympia, Washington; Darko Bandic in Osijek; Monika Scislowska in Warsaw; and Eric Tucker and Stephen Ohlemacher in Washington contributed to this report. ____ Contact the AP's Washington investigative team at DCinvestigations@ap.org or the AP in Germany at APBerlin@ap.org. Follow Rising on Twitter at http://twitter.com/davidrising and Herschaft at http://twitter.com/HerschaftAP and Lardner at http://twitter.com/rplardner Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe big dive in the 10-year Treasury bond yield last week pushed the 30-year mortgage rate below 4.00% for the first time since May 28, 2013. That drop could revive mortgage refinancing activity, providing another windfall for consumers. In addition, housing starts, which have stalled around 1.0 million units for the past year, might move higher. Even more stimulative for housing activity may be the government’s push to allow Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to lower lending standards and restrictions on borrowers with weak credit. Lenders would also be protected from claims of making bad loans, according to a 10/17 WSJ article. Déjà vu all over again: The government encouraged sub-prime lending during the previous decade, and it ended very badly. In any event, here we go again: The two biggest assemblers of mortgage-backed securities--that will now be explicitly guaranteed by the government rather than implicitly, as before--“are considering programs that would make it easier for lenders to offer mortgages with down payments of as little as 3% for some borrowers.” God help us! More likely, when the next batch of subprime mortgages hits the fan, Fed Chair Janet Yellen will help us. She’ll do it with QE-10. Thank goodness for Fannie, Freddie, and Feddie. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: The Bottom? (1) Manic market. (2) From “the top” to “the bottom” in one month. (3) October selloffs have been buying opportunities. (4) Too many bottom pickers? (5) Less worrisome worry list. (6) Investors love central bankers shooting bullets, even if they are blanks. (7) Bully for Bullard! (8) Fannie, Freddie, and Feddie to the rescue. (9) More jobs and cheaper gasoline boosting US confidence. (10) A bit of good news from Europe. (11) Putin playing a weak hand. (12) Ebola, VIX, and high-yield bonds. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider Paul Krugman comes out swinging in his latest column, slamming the retail giant Amazon for exerting undue market power and essentially being the Standard Oil of the online books business. He notes that Amazon is not playing the role of monopoly (being the sole seller and raising prices) but rather the role of monopsony (being the sole buyer and squeezing booksellers). He specifically keys off of Amazon's hardball tactics against the publisher Hachette. Here's the key part: It’s not just about the money, although that’s important: By putting the squeeze on publishers, Amazon is ultimately hurting authors and readers. But there’s also the question of undue influence. Specifically, the penalty Amazon is imposing on Hachette books is bad in itself, but there’s also a curious selectivity in the way that penalty has been applied. Last month the Times’s Bits blog documented the case of two Hachette books receiving very different treatment. One is Daniel Schulman’s “Sons of Wichita,” a profile of the Koch brothers; the other is “The Way Forward,” by Paul Ryan, who was Mitt Romney’s running mate and is chairman of the House Budget Committee. Both are listed as eligible for Amazon Prime, and for Mr. Ryan’s book Amazon offers the usual free two-day delivery. What about “Sons of Wichita”? As of Sunday, it “usually ships in 2 to 3 weeks.” Uh-huh. Which brings us back to the key question. Don’t tell me that Amazon is giving consumers what they want, or that it has earned its position. What matters is whether it has too much power, and is abusing that power. Well, it does, and it is. Read the whole thing here &gt; NOW WATCH: Krugman Destroys The Argument For Keeping Fast Food Wages Low    Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Federal Reserve Bank of Boston's President and CEO Eric S. Rosengren speaks during the "Hyman P. Minsky Conference on the State of te U.S. and World Economies", in New YorkBOSTON (Reuters) - The recent volatility in financial markets reinforces the need for the Federal Reserve to be patient with its policy stimulus and to clearly tie an eventual interest-rate rise to improving economic conditions, a top Fed policymaker told Reuters. Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said that while it would take a few more weeks to understand the real economic fallout from the market selloff, he could "easily imagine" a scenario in which the U.S. central bank keeps rates near zero until 2016. The sharp week-long drop in global stocks and bond yields abated on Friday, though investors remained on edge over increasing signs of a stumbling European economy and weakness in China and Japan. Amid the financial turmoil, futures traders placed bets on a later Fed rate hike toward the end of 2015. "Patient monetary policy probably makes sense," Rosengren, a dovish Fed official, said in an interview over the weekend. "Certainly the events of the last couple of weeks probably give some credence to thinking about being patient as well as trying to process some of the movements we're seeing." The key, he said, will be identifying any weakness in broader U.S. inflation and workers' wages, and not simply reacting to turbulence in markets like inflation-protected Treasuries, known as the TIPS breakeven rate. Rosengren predicted the U.S. unemployment rate will fall to around 5.25 percent, from 5.9 percent now, by about the middle of 2016. He repeated that a rate rise should come about a year before that "natural" level of joblessness is reached, assuming inflation had risen to near a 2-percent target. "If it starts looking like what we're seeing in financial markets is reflective of more underlying, real trends then there is reason for being more patient (on policy). I don't think we have that evidence today," Rosengren said on the sidelines of a Boston Fed conference on economic inequality. Fed officials meet Oct. 28-29 to decide whether to shelve a stimulative bond-buying program as planned, and what language to use to telegraph when they will raise borrowing costs. The Fed currently says it will wait a "considerable time," though Rosengren and others want a more data- and less date-dependent policy statement. The shifting predictions on the timing of the policy tightening and the sharp market rebound on Friday "just reflects the reason why we should be data-dependent," said Rosengren, who does not have a rotating vote on Fed policy until 2016. Citing weaker food and energy prices, the policymaker predicted lower U.S. inflation over the next couple of quarters. He sees a bit less than 3 percent gross domestic product growth in the second half of this year. Turning to the mechanics of raising rates after six years or more near zero and trillions of dollars of bond purchases, Rosengren said the Fed could make yet more adjustments to its new overnight reverse repurchase facility, known as ON RRP. The facility is meant to mop up excess reserves in money markets when the time comes to tighten policy. Last month, the Fed capped overall lending to the facility at $300 billion. But on the last day of the third quarter, Sept. 30, bidding was intense and the Fed awarded the RRPs at an interest rate of zero rather than 0.05 percent the previous days, raising concerns in the market the limit may have to be raised. "We should be flexible about what makes sense," Rosengren said. "So as we get closer to (rates) liftoff ... we'll have to see how the program works and we should make adjustments if it's not working as we hoped."   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMark Zuckerberg, founder and CEO of Facebook, reacts during an address to a gathering at the Internet.org Summit in New DelhiBEIJING (Reuters) - China's Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management has added three western business heavyweights to its advisory council including Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook Inc founder who has long sought to enter the Chinese market where his social network is currently banned. Zuckerberg - who was named to the board along with Virginia Rometty, the IBM chief executive, and Anheuser-Busch InBev SA CEO Carlos Brito - will attend the business school's annual board meeting in Beijing on Friday, Facebook said. The business school board, with its extensive connections to the central government, has long served as a social network of sorts and an informal meeting ground for Chinese policymakers and international business people seeking closer ties to China. Founded in 1984 by Zhu Rongji, who went on to serve as premier of China, Tsinghua's business school has several dozen board members including Chinese central banker Zhou Xiaochuan, Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein and Apple Inc chief executive Tim Cook. Zuckerberg, who has long stated his desire to enter China as part of his vision to connect the world's population on Facebook, will spend several days in Beijing this week to meet with advertising partners and "China experts" to learn about the market, the company said. The world's most popular social network has been blocked in China since 2009 while the company's Instagram photo-sharing service was also reportedly blocked in the mainland during the recent pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong. Entering China is something "we are always interested in and always studying," said spokeswoman Charlene Chian, who declined to say whether Zuckerberg will hold any formal meetings with government officials. An IBM spokeswoman said Rometty will not attend the board meeting this week but is due in China in November. Rometty has visited China repeatedly over past 12 months to mend the company's image amid calls by some Chinese experts and computing rivals to abandon foreign technology on cyber security grounds. Anheuser-Busch, for its part, has long had extensive business interests in China and owns, among its other properties, Harbin Brewery in northeast China. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stringer The spike in market volatility and the slide in stock prices have people freaked out we're on the verge of a bear market or perhaps even a crash. Worries include the slowing global economy, falling prices, heightened geopolitical tensions, and wild cards like the spread of the Ebola virus. However, the market's optimists have yet to capitulate. Indeed, they have a laundry list of "buts," or reasons why the bull market and economic recovery are far from over. Monday's summary of "buts" comes from Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels in his Sunday Start note: ... but there are some important offsets: lower oil prices are a boon for consumers, bolstering real incomes, and lower bond yields provide some relief for EM economies running external deficits and thus relying on external financing. And the strength of the US dollar versus the euro in recent months is exactly what the doctor ordered for the European economy. Sure, things like falling energy prices and deteriorating currency values are the consequences of economic deterioration. But they often also serve as the stimulus to turn things around. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschLONDON (Reuters) - When Europe announced its latest health check of top banks early last year it promised a "comprehensive assessment" of how well prepared they were to withstand another financial crisis. In practice, a spirit of comprehensive compromise has been just as important.  A series of Reuters interviews with officials, bankers and others involved in the European Central Bank's financial inspection of the euro zone's biggest banks shows that in the seven months since it began, the ECB has had to shoot down countless pleas from banks and national supervisors for special treatment. At the same time, according to sources who spoke on condition of anonymity, supervisors have revised the way they value assets and banks have failed to provide all the data demanded - multiple compromises that could cumulatively threaten the tests' reputation as tough and consistent. The ECB, which takes over as supervisor for the region's top banks on Nov. 4, declined to comment in detail on the issues raised but insisted the exercise was robust and thorough. It will announce on Oct. 26 which of Europe's 130 biggest banks have valued their assets properly and which have not, as well as whether banks need more capital to withstand another economic crash. Anticipation of the results is already affecting bank shares, with Italy's Monte dei Paschi falling to an all time low last week amid fears it would be forced to raise more cash. "This health check...is unprecedented in terms of scale, rigor, severity and transparency," a spokeswoman said. "It provides in-depth information on the condition of the largest banks in 19 countries and aims to strengthen banks’ balance sheets by identifying problems, build confidence and enhance investors’ trust." That said, one of the first compromises of the process came just two months into it, when the ECB privately acknowledged, according to sources with knowledge of the discussions, that there were "real dangers" of negative consequences if the banks were kept in the dark about how they were faring right up until the results were announced. The auditors were then allowed, for the first time, to begin sharing information with the banks they were reviewing. "We would take a file with the largest (loan loss) provision movement (and)... told them why we were uncomfortable with provisioning that area," said one source familiar with the meetings. The banks could then work out the maximum adjustment to provisions they were likely to face, the source said - a key clue to the ECB's final assessment of whether they would have to raise more capital or rein in dividends. "You knew what the major drivers were," confirmed one senior banker who attended meetings for his company. "I don't expect any surprises." Around the same time, Daniele Nouy, the head of the ECB's supervisory arm which is leading the exercise, spoke publicly of the importance of banks being given a 'right of reply' to the ECB's findings. The original process started with just ten ECB employees. More staff and consultants joined the team - which later moved to Frankfurt's only earthquake-proof building - to spend hundreds of hours crunching the numbers. A project manager was hired in September 2013 in the form of Oliver Wyman, a management consultancy headquartered in the United States. A month later, when ECB president Mario Draghi met the chief executives of the banks that would be tested to try to convince them of the exercise's worth, information was still sparse. A draft methodology was finally circulated in January 2014 between some national regulators and auditors, as well as ECB officials and the Oliver Wyman team. Details of what was christened the Asset Quality Review (AQR) were kept secret by personal non-disclosure agreements which included a fine of 100,000 euros for any breach. On February 17, the ECB held its first meeting with the experts who would participate in the AQR. Executives from Oliver Wyman faced a crowd composed of national regulators and consultants in the same room in which the ECB gives its monthly press conference on interest rates. One attendee described the meeting as "antagonistic", with delegates struggling to follow the logic of parts of the approach outlined in a 300-page draft manual. At a second meeting, a few weeks later, patience was in even shorter supply: Two sources present said an Oliver Wyman representative responded to one question with the words: "It is not beyond the wit of man to follow the manual." For the institutions about to be reviewed, it appeared very much to be "the Oliver Wyman show", said one banker who was a central figure in his bank’s engagements with the ECB. "The ECB was relying far too much on its consultant," the banker said. Oliver Wyman declined to comment on any aspect of this article, citing client confidentiality.  There were not many more meetings before the test manual was published in mid-March. "The time pressures the ECB was forced to operate under meant there was not really a lot of scope or time for consultation with banks," said Robert Priester, deputy chief executive of the European Banking Federation. While banks were getting to grips with the level of scrutiny to which they would have to submit, the manual also showed investors why this round of bank tests would be more transparent than previous ones in 2009, 2010 and 2011, sources said. Work got underway. National supervisors settled into their new roles as buffers between their banks and the ECB. The ECB battled for consistency. National authorities pushed for concessions. But the latter had limited power. "The whole process was very prescriptive... (What the national supervisors did) was common sense decision making," one national supervisory source said. Patriotism sometimes intruded. "That is obvious, that you try to protect your own banks," a second national supervisor said. "You would not like to see banks in your country fail." April and May saw the granting of a major concession, three sources said. Working out the value of banks’ collateral, auditors were initially only allowed to consider developments up to December 2013. This was moved to the end of March 2014 for some countries, including Portugal and Belgium - allowing banks to incorporate more recent values of their assets as those values started to rise. "It was a pragmatic view, it was quite difficult to argue with the logic of taking the old value," one source said. Another concession related to shipping loans. In working out their value the ECB originally wanted to discount cash flow models that based a ship's value at how much income it would generate for its owner in the future, and instead value ships based on how much they would sell for. Eventually it agreed to accept the discounted cash flow models so long as the final valuation was reduced by about 10 percent, sources said, below what the bank initially recorded. Almost every bank failed to follow at least part of the methodology the ECB wanted them to use to simulate how they would perform in a crisis, said one source familiar with the exercise. They are hopeful that the ECB will allow them a little wriggle-room, said one banking regulation expert familiar with the process, having seen it become more adaptable as the process went on. "The ECB backed down to some extent. You could also say they became more realistic, because they realized (the) huge resistance among banks," the expert said.    With so much riding on the stress tests, political interest was inevitable. Officials were limited in what they could tell politicians about how the test results were shaping up, so briefings focused on the amount of capital banks had already raised, a sum that totaled 100 billion euros between mid 2013 and September 2014 according to the ECB's estimates The actual scenarios - theoretical economic shocks that banks had to prove they could weather – were not publicly disclosed until April. The detail of the scenarios was devised by the European Systemic Risk Board, a group chaired by ECB president Mario Draghi that was set up to improve financial supervision, in consultation with officials from national euro zone regulators and the EU's banking regulator the European Banking Authority. Those details were hard fought, sources say - in particular the size of the fall in economic growth, property prices and employment that banks should have to prove they could withstand in different countries.  Many thought the ECB's final deadline would have to move, given the almost weekly demand for more data. But it kept the banks in line with a daily traffic lights system showing which banks had fallen behind - a mechanism some bankers told Reuters looked like a kindergarten exercise. But, said one source familiar with the design: "It worked." After a quiet August, the ECB began discussions at the end of September to forewarn banks of major issues that had appeared in the test results - without giving them so much information they would be forced to immediately disclose it to investors. As the exercise draws to a close, most believe that this time around, the results will deliver a convincing verdict on the health of Europe's banks. "This is the fourth exercise and - I hope - the last," said one official. (Additional reporting by Eva Taylor and Andreas Kroener in Frankfurt and by Paul Taylor in Paris; Editing by Simon Robinson and Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Diane JonesThe ASX is ripping higher, up 1% on Monday to 5,326 after the solid lead from the US markets at the end of last week and Friday’s big global surge in stock prices. But given the recent spike in volatility there is no guarantee that today’s euphoria won’t give way to more hand wringing, pessimism and selling either tomorrow or any other time in the next week or weeks. This uncomfortable up-tick in intra-day ranges, and in the saw tooth patterns of consecutive up and down days is a reflection, symptom and cause of a change in investor risk appetites and the rise of risk aversion according to stock market analyst John Hussman in his latest weekly market commentary. Hussman is dismissed by many as an “Uber Bear” but he is warning that the current market set-up is like the 1929, 1973, 1987, 2000 and 2007 markets. Hussman says that market internals are looking weaker and while it is right to focus on longer term valuations which “give us information about the expected long-term compensation that investors can expect in return for accepting market risk.” However at the moment his fear of a steep market fall comes from the increase in risk aversion which “creates an immediate danger of air-pockets, free-falls and crashes… in an environment where risk premiums are inadequate.” US 10 year Treasuries – investing.com It is a concern which seems grounded in the facts of capital flows and market movements of the past week. Money is once again flowing out of Asian markets and even with the recovery in stocks into week’s end US 10's are still toward the bottom of their range for this year and, at 2.21%, except for last week’s low still the lowest level since May 2013. That is the type of price action and price level that just screams uncertainty. Indeed the level of disquiet in the market and the potential for an 1987 style meltdown was neatly summarized in a chart shared by Steve Burns showing the parallels between now and 1987. Remember: anything can happen at any time. $SPY pic.twitter.com/tt0nrQZM6z It’s a risk not a certainty though as Hussman notes. A fresh improvement in market internals would signal an easing of risk aversion or even a resumption of risk-seeking preferences. If that shift occurs following a meaningful retreat in valuations, the combination would represent one of the most constructive investment conditions we identify. So our outlook will shift considerably as the evidence changes. For the moment though he remains worried saying that, “At present, conditions remain unfavorable, and the potential for abrupt and vertical losses should not be taken lightly.” You can read his full weekly commentary here. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Bobby YipA Chinese flag was raised upside down during pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, an international symbol of distress.Chinese growth is set to be slashed in half in the next decade, according to a report on the country’s changing economy covered by The Wall Street Journal.   The report from the Conference Board says China is heading for “a long, slow fall in economic growth,” down to about 3.9% between 2020 and 2024. The government is aiming for a 7.5% expansion currently, but growth was regularly in double figures in the decades before the financial crisis.  The Journal also reports that productivity decline is one of the Conference Board’s major concerns: investment in China doesn’t have the same whopping returns it previously did, and the country’s property sector is looking increasingly shaky. A chart from Insee, France’s statistical agency, shows that Chinese growth has already slowed to near the lowest levels in the past decade. A further decline below 4% would cut the country’s growth to its lowest level in at least 35 years.  INSEE The decline expected by the Conference Board is quicker and more severe than those expected by most international institutions, though most agree that a slowdown is on the cards. International economist Michael Pettis outlined this weekend just how hard China's slowdown could hit the world, given the massive position the country now takes in the global economy. Perhaps the most scary section is here:  I have studied most of the major growth miracles of the past 100 years (and directly experienced some), and in every case there have been pessimists that predicted a difficult adjustment process with much slower growth. In every such case, however, these pessimistic predictions were met with general incredulity (and for some odd reason almost always written off as “wishful thinking”) but while I have indeed found that the pessimists have always been wrong, it always turned out that they were wrong because actual growth turned out to be much worse than they predicted.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/ReebokAdidas could sell Reebok to a consortium of investors, who have expressed their interest in the brand.New York (AFP) - A consortium of investors from Hong Kong and Abu Dhabi is interested in buying the Reebok brand from Adidas for 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion), The Wall Street Journal reported. Sources close to the matter told the business daily that Jynwel Capital chief executive Jho Low was behind the bid, arguing that Reebok would fare better as an independent brand. And funds linked to the Abu Dhabi government plan to communicate soon with Adidas management, the report said. Adidas bought Reebok in 2006 for three billion euros hoping to pile pressure on US rival Nike.  But the German giant still has seen its share of the US market keep shrinking. It has been a tough year for Adidas.  The company slashed its annual net profit forecast to about 650 million euros. That was much lower than previous guidance for between 830-930 million euros. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andres StapffIt's looking as if we didn't see the end of volatility during last week's sell-offs. So far, it's been another rocky morning already Monday, and European markets are down. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.89% Spain's IBEX is down 1.04% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.92% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.32% Germany's DAX is down 1.00% Asian markets are up. After a massive sell-off last week, good news for investors from the world’s largest pension fund drove the Nikkei up 3.98% overnight. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index is currently up 0.30%. US futures are up, too. The S&amp;P is 0.41% higher, and the Dow is up 0.40%. Italian industrial orders for August just out showed a 3.2% drop from the same month last year, and a German release showed a 4.7% increase in tax income for the government this September. But not everything is great for Germany: Lufthansa's pilot strike spread to long-haul journeys Monday and grounded thousands of flights.  There's nothing much data-wise coming from the US on Monday, but after trading, at 10 p.m. ET, there's a series of major releases out of China. Analysts are expecting a 1.8% rise in GDP figures for the third quarter, along with a 7.5% and 11.8% increase respectively for industrial production and retail sales during the year to September.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzGerman chancellor Angela Merkel.Berlin faces cooling growth prospects at home and pressure from abroad to increase spending. Monday's monthly Finance Ministry report showed the government's September tax income up 4.7 percent compared with a year earlier, at 57.3 billion euros ($73.1 billion). For the first nine months, the tax take rose 3 percent to 428.9 billion euros. The figures come ahead of a meeting Monday between the German and French finance and economy ministers. Paris, under pressure to trim its budget deficit, advocates increased German investment. German officials appear determined to keep a promise to halt new borrowing next year for the first time since 1969. They acknowledge more investment is needed but don't want to finance it by borrowing. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
The Nikkei just saw a major rebound after a brutal sell-off last week.  The Japanese stock index bounced back 3.98%, leaving it down just 5.88% since the start of the year. On Friday, it was down 9.48% since January. Bloomberg That's partly down to rumors out of the GPIF, Japan's massive public pension fund. The fund was expected to hike its equities allocation later this year, from 12% to about 20%. However, reports over the weekend suggest the figure is going to be more like 25%, and could go as high as 30%.  The Nikkei ended up at 15,111.23, comfortably above the 15,000 mark it plunged below last week. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLufthansa aircrafts stand on the tarmac during a strike at Frankfurt airport (Reuters) - German airline Lufthansa (LHAG.DE) cancelled 1,450 flights after a pilots union called for a strike on Monday and Tuesday, adding to travellers' misery after millions were left stranded by a weekend-long train drivers' stoppage. Lufthansa said late on Sunday more than 200,000 passengers and two thirds of its scheduled flights - short and mid-length services, mostly within Europe - would be affected by the strike. Both the pilots' and train drivers' strikes hit at the start of a week-long, half-term holidays in nearly half of Germany's 16 federal states. "The Vereinigung Cockpit (pilots union) is trying to turn Germany into a standstill nation," the airline said earlier on Sunday. The union said on Sunday the strike over an early retirement scheme dispute would last from 1100 GMT (12 p.m. BST) on Monday until 2159 GMT (10.59 p.m. BST) on Tuesday. Lufthansa's low-cost unit Germanwings is not affected. If it goes ahead it will be the eighth this year at Lufthansa. The strikes are hampering the national airline in its efforts to expand low-cost operations that will allow them to compete more effectively with budget carriers such as Ryanair and easyJet on short-haul European routes. VC, representing about 5,400 Lufthansa pilots, is fighting to keep a scheme that allows pilots to retire at the age of 55 and still receive up to 60 percent of their pay before regular pension payments start at 65. The union has proposed a plan to cover the costs of the scheme. Management, under pressure to reduce costs, has offered to keep the pension scheme for employees who joined the company before this year, but wants to increase the earliest possible retirement age for new recruits. Meanwhile, train drivers staged a 50-hour strike - their second in a week - starting early on Saturday morning that halted two thirds of long-distance trains in a dispute over pay and negotiation rights. It will end at 4 am (3 a.m. BST) on Monday It left millions of passengers stranded. Although state-owned railway operator Deutsche Bahn introduced a replacement timetable to minimise disruption, only about a third of long-distance trains were running and local services were also hit. The GDL union wants a 5 percent pay rise for 20,000 drivers and a work week of 37 hours from 39. It also wants to set wage deals for around 17,000 train guards and other personnel, also among its members. Deutsche Bahn has promised normal services will resume on Monday. Head of the GDL union Claus Weselsky said there would be a week-long break before any further strikes. "I think we will talk in the next week and that we will have a break of at least seven days," he told ZDF broadcaster.  (Additional reporting by Peter Maushagen; Editing by Janet Lawrence and Susan Thomas) FREE AppDownload
Government of CanadaScientists at the National Microbiology Lab prepare the experimental Ebola vaccine for shipment to the World Health Organization. Welcome back from the weekend! Here's what you need to know for Monday.  1. Two female Japanese ministers resigned on Monday. "Yuko Obuchi, trade and industry minister, resigned over allegations of improper use of political funds, and Justice Minister Midori Matsushima, 58, quit over claims she breached election laws," Bloomberg reports.  2. Dozens of people in Dallas who had contact with Thomas Eric Duncan, the patient from Liberia who died from Ebola, have been declared risk-free of contracting the virus, The New York Times reports.  3. The 44-year-old Spanish nurse who was the first person to contract Ebola outside of West Africa has also tested negative for the virus.  4. The Carnival Magic cruise ship carrying a Dallas health worker who reportedly handled specimens from Duncan returned to its home port of Galveston, Texas, early Sunday morning, after the lab technician tested negative for the virus.  5. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled major economic reforms on Sunday including "a deregulation of diesel prices and a hike in natural gas prices," CNBC reports. 6. The pro-democracy protests that have gripped Hong Kong for roughly a month are becoming "increasingly violent," according to the South China Morning Post, especially after attempts by police to clear the main Mong Kok demonstration site.   7. The United States airdropped weapons and medical supplies to Kurdish forces in the Syrian town of Kobani on Sunday in an effort to help combat Islamic State militants.  8. Lufthansa pilots announced a strike on Monday and lasting into Tuesday, leading to the cancellation of 1,450 flights.  9. Canada is shipping 800 vials of an experimental Ebola vaccine to the World Health Organization in Geneva on Monday.  10. Comet Siding Spring passed within 87,000 miles of Mars on Sunday, an event that won't happen again for another one million years.  And finally ... A team of kids from South Korea won $1 million for playing a video game.  FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - IBM Corp has agreed to hive off its loss-making semiconductor unit to contract-chipmaker Globalfoundries Inc, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. IBM will pay Globalfoundries $1.5 billion to take the chip operations off its hands, WSJ said. IBM issued an advisory on Sunday saying it would make a "major business announcement" on Monday. Talks between IBM and Globalfoundries has been going on for a while. IBM is also scheduled to report its third-quarter earnings on Monday. Representatives at IBM and Globalfoundries were not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
