The CEOs on the Inc. 500, an annual ranking of the fastest-growing private U.S. companies, are as savvy as entrepreneurs come, so it's no surprise then that in our annual survey, a majority (87 percent) of them said they rely on the career network LinkedIn, or that 63 percent keep a social media expert on payroll. With companies such as Google, Apple, and Elon Musk-led Tesla on their radar, it's clear that this year's class of chief execs are keenly interested in staying on top of tech trends. Among the revealing stats: nearly half of the CEOs surveyed (46 percent) said cloud computing will transform their business the most, while 43 percent expect 3-D printing to shake things up. Which will win out? Only time will tell, but Inc. entrepreneur of the year and Box CEO Aaron Levie probably has some opinions on the subject.  Check out the graphic below to see where Inc. 500 CEOs stand on technology. Inc FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Eric NorrisThe main building on Disney's studio lot has seven huge replicas of Snow White's dwarfs holding up its roof, a reminder of how Hollywood does not take itself too seriously. Nor do many outsiders. Film is an eccentric business, filled with egos and excess. For most of their history, studios have had neither the stunning returns of startups nor the steady profits of mature firms. They are famed for blowing vast sums on high-profile turkeys. "Heaven's Gate", an extravagant flop in 1980, crushed United Artists, the studio Charlie Chaplin and other stars founded in 1919. Few business-school professors would ever think to walk the red carpet and use Hollywood as a case study. However, it is time they tuned in to Tinseltown. One reason is that other industries are coming to resemble the film business in some ways. In today's knowledge-based economy, bosses are having to spend more time managing flighty "stars". Food and consumer-goods makers are, as the studios have already done, seeking to focus more on a narrower range of "blockbusters"; and in industries from electronics to carmaking, the pace of product and brand launches is increasing, so Hollywood's ability to create a buzz rapidly about a new film may offer valuable lessons. Furthermore, movie-making is an American success story. It is one of the few remaining industries in which the country's grip on the global market is as strong as it has ever been. China's Chollywood and India's Bollywood do not make films that people in other countries line up to see. America's film and television industry reckons its exports are worth around $16 billion a year. Every company that employs creative people must think about how to harness their strengths for commercial gain without strangling their free-spiritedness. Hollywood has a century's experience in this. Studios recruit a fresh creative team for each film, leaving its members to work intensely together with a minimum of interference, stepping in only when things are clearly going wrong. This gives team members a feeling of control and pride in their project; and to cap it all, everyone has their contribution duly acknowledged in the closing credits. Such teamwork is rare in other businesses, argues Mark Young of the University of Southern California's Marshall School of Business. People work hard and collaborate well in the movie business in part because they have little job stability. Many are freelancers, who will not get hired for the next film unless they prove themselves on the current one. The tough lesson from Hollywood, then, is that job insecurity can lead to greater productivity, as long as workers believe in what they are doing and have their achievements recognised. WikipediaHollywood is a land of retakes. Everyone understands that constant revisions improve the product. In a recent book, "Creativity, Inc.", Ed Catmull, the founder of Pixar and president of Disney Animation, argues that every film starts out as an "ugly baby", growing through countless changes into a graceful adult. "Up", Pixar's hit film from 2009 about a widower who travels around the world with the help of balloons, began with a completely different premise. It was reworked drastically on the advice of the "Braintrust", an internal group set up to give frank feedback. Mobile-app firms can also be adept at adjusting products in response to internal and external feedback, and makers of consumer goods are learning to tweak their products and packaging in response to reviews. But in many businesses, bosses still tend to spurn constructive criticism. Like Hollywood, California's other world-beating industrial cluster, Silicon Valley, has overcome the fear of failure. Films are like tech startups in that flops are tolerated because they are so common, even when the initial idea seemed promising. In both cases, the value of failure as a learning experience is well understood. So in this part of American life, there are second, and third, acts. Studio heads sometimes roll when a film flops, but executives, directors and other talent can find redemption. Perhaps Hollywood's most remarkable skill is in launching brands that achieve global prominence in a matter of days. Each film is a separate product that needs its own marketing, and the stakes are incredibly high: if it has not gained sufficient momentum by its opening weekend, it may sink without trace. Studios spend vast sums on promotional campaigns, often as much as they spend on producing the film itself. Businesses that are sceptical about the value of marketing, and about the possibilities for creating consumer awareness rapidly, should look closely at how Hollywood manages to come up with new brands on a near-weekly basis. The key is to treat the marketing as a core part of the project, rather than as an afterthought. For all the film industry's reputation as a licence to lose money, the media conglomerates that own the big studios nowadays run them more professionally, and keep a closer eye on profitability. Three of the six Hollywood "majors" are now managed by business-school graduates. Film companies no longer have extravagant numbers of projects in development, and focus more on action-packed "franchise" films featuring comic-book characters, which sell well abroad and lend themselves to sequels. Learning from Silicon Valley, Hollywood is relying more on outside financing, which means sharing the profits from hits but also protects against crippling losses when a film flops. No one likes to talk about age in Hollywood, but it has enjoyed remarkable longevity. The studios have survived the threats from new technologies like television and the internet, and "pivoted" repeatedly to adjust their output to audiences' shifting tastes. Few businesses have refreshed their product line-ups so often. And few have restructured so thoroughly: studios have evolved from being vertically integrated groups that owned cinemas and kept actors on the payroll to become asset-light, flexible renters of talent. In the 102 years since the founding of Universal Pictures, the oldest of the majors, Hollywood may have provided plenty of "how not to" examples for business--but it has plenty of positive ones too. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Noah Berger/ReutersYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer.How do CEOs who sleep for only four to five hours daily and manage to function and run multimillion-dollar companies? appeared as a question on Quora. Below we are republishing an answer from Alexandra Damsker, a CEO of a successful startup. I don’t have a multimillion-dollar company (yet), but I’m one of those CEOs who function on three to five hours of sleep. No, there aren’t any drugs involved, nor is there poor management (as far as I know). It’s a variety of things. First, reduce TV. You sleep much better, and do much more work, when you don’t watch much TV. Your brain is actually less active watching TV than when it’s sleeping. This dullness is addictive. My daughter becomes a giant mess when she watches too much TV — huge tantrums, crying, screaming, complete meltdown. She doesn’t want to eat or listen. It’s like she’s addicted, and I’m taking away her drug. My husband is very similar, without the actual crying. He just sort of grunts more. I’m not certain it happens with everyone, but I’d be surprised if most people aren’t highly susceptible to this “one more show” mentality, and the gape-mouthed stare is the death knell for good work, good eating, good sleep or good play. Second, limit carbohydrates. For me, anyway, they just make me sleepy. Third, limit meetings. Same as carbs. Blah blah blah — hate just droning on, or being droned at. Nothing good comes of this. Fourth, I actually have specific hours I need to sleep to do well, not a specific number of hours. It’s a quirk of my circadian rhythm, and it’s been that way since my 20s. If I can sleep from 4 to 8 a.m., I’m very happy. However, my home life doesn’t permit that, so I usually end up sleeping from 1 to 4 a.m., and 5 to 6:30 a.m. I have a hard time sleeping in the early morning hours, and love the morning. Fifth, when I get a few energy slumps, I rely on some tried-and-true solutions: I switch tasks to things I really like (so I save that stuff for sleepy times). I hang out on Quora (dangerous, because I’m on here WAY longer than I should be. There should be a stopwatch or a clock on this thing … !) I go outside. I email or chat with someone personal (not usually on the phone — hate the phone.) I play a set number of solitaire hands. I read the news or one of three gossip sites I frequent (I’m not proud). Or, if all else fails, I take a nap. I usually sleep more on slower days or if nothing is happening on a weekend, but it works out Sixth, and most important, I REALLY, REALLY, REALLY LOVE WHAT I DO. I love it so much! I am so incredibly happy that I get to do my job. I have days that suck. I have strings of days that suck. But they are just sucky days — my life is still pretty spectacularly awesome. Amanda Macias/Business InsiderChallenge yourself to start the day early.It makes me excited to wake up, to take the conference call I had today set at the incredibly ludicrous time of 6:30 a.m., to take calls and go to meetings while visiting family, to get over shyness and speak to the stranger next to me on the airplane, to spend the evening playing with my daughter knowing that I’ll be working on a document until 4 a.m. and begging Kinko’s for something. I mostly just think I am a very lucky person. I have a pretty supportive spouse, a fantastic kid, a wonderful dog. I’m healthy. I’m privileged to run a company that is about to split into 2, with customers that are acolytes that spare me marketing dollars. People believe in me and my ability to lead, they believe in what I’ve created. I do something that I think makes a difference in the world. And today I’m having a pretty good hair day. I don’t really worry about the sleep that I get. I get what I can, and do what I have to do every day. Everyone around me is trying to help me out (for the most part), I keep my priorities in order (my kid never suffers, I can’t make myself sick), and I just focus on what I have immediately ahead and in the near future, and what I need to get those done. I truly believe it will all benefit everyone in the end, and my support group does, too. And that’s how I do it. Quora is the best answer to any question. Ask a question, get a great answer. Learn from experts and get insider knowledge. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+. FREE AppDownload
Gary Kaminsky Early mornings, high-powered meetings, and and peanut butter oatmeal, it's all par for the course in the life of Gary Kaminsky, Morgan Stanley's vice chairman of wealth management and former capital markets editor at CNBC. Kaminsky left CNBC for Morgan Stanley last year, joining the ranks of one of the hottest teams on The Street. It's an increasingly demanding business — wealth management has become one of finance's most profitable sectors — but Kaminsky remains energetic as ever, preparing for his sixth New York City Marathon and putting in those long hours with style. If you would like to participate in our "Day In The Life" on Wall Street series, feel free to send an email and a brief description of why you would be a great candidate to jlaroche@businessinsider.com or llopez@businessinsider.com.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook has a lot more to offer than you may think. From 'pirate language' to turning all baby photos into cute kittens, these 7 features will improve your daily Facebook experience. Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
Brad PageOn April 2, 2014, a protester in Oakland, California, mounted a Yahoo bus, climbed to the front of the roof, and vomited onto the top of the windshield. If not the year's most persuasive act of dissent, it was certainly one of the most memorable demonstrations in the Bay Area, where residents have marched, blockaded, and retched in protest of San Francisco's economic inequality and unaffordable housing. The city's gaps—between rich and poor, between housing need and housing supply—have been duly catalogued. Even among American tech hubs, San Francisco stands alone with both the most expensive real estate and the fewest new construction permits per unit since 1990. But San Francisco's problem is bigger than San Francisco. Across the country, rich, dense cities are struggling with affordable housing, to the considerable anguish of their middle class families. Among the 100 largest U.S. metros, 63 percent of homes are "within reach" for a middle-class family, according to Trulia. But among the 20 richest U.S. metros, just 47 percent of homes are affordable, including a national low of 14 percent in San Francisco. The firm defined "within reach" as a for-sale home with a total monthly payment (including mortgage and taxes) less than 31 percent of the metro's median household income. If you line up the country's 100 richest metros from 1 to 100, household affordability falls as household income rises, even after you consider that middle class families in richer cities have more income. [The graph below considers only the 25 richest US metros to keep city names moderately legible within the computer screen.] Trulia via The Atlantic The line isn't smooth—and there are exceptions—but the relationship is clear: In general, richer cities have less affordable housing. But there's a second reason why San Francisco's problem is emblematic of a national story. Liberal cities seem to have the worst affordability crises, according to Trulia chief economist Jed Kolko. In a recent article, Kolko divided the largest cities into 32 “red" metros where Romney got more votes than Obama in 2012 (e.g. Houston), 40 “light-blue” markets where Obama won by fewer than 20 points (e.g. Austin), and 28 “dark-blue” metros where Obama won by more than 20 points (e.g. L.A., SF, NYC). Although all three housing groups faced similar declines in the recession and similar bounce-backs in the recovery, affordability remains a bigger problem in the bluest cities. Trulia via The Atlantic "Even after adjusting for differences of income, liberal markets tend to have higher income inequality and worse affordability,” Kolko said. Kolko's theory isn't an outlier. There is a deep literature tying liberal residents to illiberal housing policies that create affordability crunches for the middle class. In 2010, UCLA economist Matthew Kahn published a study of California cities, which found that liberal metros issued fewer new housing permits. The correlation held over time: As California cities became more liberal, he said, they built fewer homes. Flickr/Davidlohr BuesoSan Francisco stands alone with both the most expensive real estate and the fewest new construction permits per unit since 1990."All homeowners have an incentive to stop new housing," Kahn told me, "because if developers build too many homes, prices fall, and housing is many families' main asset. But in cities with many Democrats and Green Party members, environmental concerns might also be a factor. The movement might be too eager to preserve the past." The deeper you look, the more complex the relationship between blue cities and unaffordable housing becomes. In 2008, economist Albert Saiz used satellite-generated maps to show that the most regulated housing markets tend to have geographical constraints—that is, they are built along sloping mountains, in narrow peninsulas, and against nature's least developable real estate: the ocean. (By comparison, many conservative cities, particularly in Texas, are surrounded by flatter land.) "Democratic, high-tax metropolitan areas... tend to constrain new development more," Saiz concluded, and "historic areas seem to be more regulated." He also found that cities with high home values tend to have more restrictive development policies. One could attempt tying this together into a pat story—Rich liberals prefer to cluster near historic coastal communities with high home values, where they support high taxes, rent control, and a maze of housing regulations to protect both their investment and the region's "character", altogether discouraging new housing development that’s already naturally constrained by geography...—but even that interpretation elides the colorful local history that often shapes housing politics. I asked Kahn if he had a pet theory for why liberals, who tend to be vocal about income inequality, would be more averse to new housing development, which would help lower-income families. He suggested that it could be the result of good intentions gone bad. "Developers pursue their own self-interest," Kahn said. "If a developer has an acre, and he thinks it should be a shopping mall, he won't think about neighborhood charm, or historic continuity. Liberals might say that the developer acting in his own self-interest ignores certain externalities, and they'll apply restrictions. But these restrictions [e.g. historic preservation, environmental preservation, and height ceilings] add up, across a city, even if they’re well-intentioned. The affordability issue will rear its head." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a sign board of Japanese auto parts maker Takata Corp's Annual General Meeting in TokyoBy Paul Lienert DETROIT (Reuters) - Takata Corp disclosed for the first time that it began making air bags with a recently discovered flaw as early as 2008, in a report to the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that the agency released on Saturday. Takata sent the report to the NHTSA this week, providing details on the defect and the dates of its manufacture, 2008 to 2014. It was the latest revelation related to problems with Takata air bags that have led to the recall of 17 million cars worldwide. The new flaw was discovered in June: a driver-side air-bag inflator may contain a bad part that could cause the inflator to rupture. So far, two manufacturers, General Motors Co and Nissan Motor Co, have recalled a combined 30,867 cars to address the problem. However, those cars came only from model years 2013-2014. In the report released today, Takata said it had been making     the parts from 2008 through June 2014 at Takata's Monclova plant in Mexico. The report also said ruptures in the airbags installed on General Motors vehicles showed a "very different" pattern from those in cars made by other manufacturers that were recalled for similar problems. Takata's latest report does not say how many more vehicles could be affected by the new problem. A Takata spokesman did not respond immediately to a request for comment. While the cause of the rupture in the GM and Nissan cars is different, the result is similar: air bags can explode with excessive force in a crash and send metal shards into the vehicle's cabin. At least four deaths and more than a dozen injuries have been linked to the defective air bags. The latest problem, involving the installation of an incorrect baffle, was uncovered after a lawsuit was filed against GM and Takata in April. That suit alleged that an October 2013 accident left a Georgia woman, Brandi Owens, blind in one eye and claimed her car and driver-side air bag were "defective and unreasonably dangerous." Since 2008, 10 manufacturers have recalled more than 10 million cars in the United States equipped with Takata air bags. The manufacturers have cited a variety of reasons why the air bag inflators can rupture, including design and manufacturing flaws. Takata, meanwhile, is struggling to keep up with demand for replacement parts for the earlier recalls. On Thursday, Takata agreed to add two production lines in January to make more air bag parts. In a statement released late Friday, NHTSA said, "It's unclear yet whether that would be sufficient to meet demand," and called on Takata to contact other air bag suppliers to help speed up production of replacement parts. In June, NHTSA opened an inquiry into whether Takata air bag inflators made from 2000 to 2007 were properly sealed or subject to other defects. It also asked the automakers to recall millions of air bags in certain regions, such as Florida and Puerto Rico, where the parts were exposed to higher humidity that could cause deterioration of the explosive material inside. Critics have said Takata and NHTSA have not moved fast enough on the issue. On Thursday, lawyers for U.S. consumers asked a federal judge in Miami to speed up a class action against Takata and four automakers, saying public safety was at stake.  (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
 On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve finally ended quantitative easing, one of its extraordinary monetary policy measures aimed at stimulating the economy. It was confirmation that the days of the financial crisis are behind us and that the US economy is returning to normal. "Labor market conditions improved somewhat further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate," the Fed said in its FOMC statement on Wednesday. "On balance, a range of labor market indicators suggests that underutilization of labor resources is gradually diminishing." Fed-watchers noticed a word was missing from this characterization of the labor market. Here's what the FOMC statement read back back in September: "...On balance, labor market conditions improved somewhat further; however, the unemployment rate is little changed and a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources..." The exclusion of the word "significant" was no accident, and for monetary policy experts it was a signal that the labor market has improved so much that an initial interest rate hike would come sooner than later. Currently, most economists believe that will come in mid-2015 give or take a few months. "[W]e disagree with the committee’s view on labor market slack," Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius wrote in a note to clients. "While the unemployment rate is now below 6% and the explicit phrase in the FOMC statement that '... underutilization of labor resources is gradually diminishing ...' is factually correct, the implicit notion that underutilization is no longer 'significant' — the term used in the July and September statement — looks inconsistent with the employment and wage data." In his argument, Hatzius highlighted two labor market indicators: the labor force participation rate (LFPR) and the rate of involuntary part-time employment. Here he is on the low LFPR: "Exhibit 2 shows our updated summary of recent studies that attempt to split the drop in the labor force participation rate since 2007 into structural and cyclical factors. The median study finds that structural forces have lowered participation by 1.6 percentage points and cyclical forces have contributed another 1.1 percentage points.2 When translated from a share of the over-16 population to a share of the labor force, this 1.1-point number is equivalent to about 1.6 percentage points. Even if we assume that the gap has shrunk a bit since the publication of the median study in the table, the results suggest that depressed labor force participation remains a very important factor in evaluating slack." Goldman Sachs Investment Research Here he is on the elevated level of involuntary part-time employment: "Exhibit 3 shows that the share of workers who report themselves part-time employed for economic reasons, either because their hours were cut back by their employer or because they could only find part-time work. This share remains about 1 1/2 percentage points above the pre-crisis norm. This is equivalent to an additional 3/4 percentage point when translated into full-time equivalent hours, recognizing that part-timers average about half the hours of full-timers." Department of Labor via Goldman Sachs Investment Research This slack in the labor market would explain the persistently low rate of wage growth. "Partly for this reason, we expect core PCE inflation to remain at 1 1/2% in 2015, which we think would be enough to push the first hike into September 2015," Hatzius wrote. Hatzius sees scenarios in which a rate hike could come as soon as Q1 2015 or as late as some time in 2016. It's not until early to mid-2016 when Hatzius sees labor market slack actually disappearing.  FREE AppDownload
Ray Dalio's $160 billion hedge fund behemoth Bridgewater Associates is suing two former employees for allegedly "lying to the market about their former roles" while marketing their new hedge fund to investors, according to a complaint filed last week in US District Court for the Southern District of New York. Bridgewater's complaint alleges that Wenquan "Robert" Wu and Howard Wang — the founders of Convoy Investments — both lied about their roles at the Westport, Connecticut-based firm.  "Despite having served in only low-ranking roles at Bridgewater with limited responsibility, Mr. Wu and Mr. Wang have tried to pass themselves off in several public forums as former key figures responsible for core aspects of Bridgewater's business," the complaint states.  According to Bridgewater, they were both low-ranking, junior-level employees who worked for a couple of years in Information Technology and Client Services, respectively.  Bridgewater claims that after they confronted Wu and Wang, the two men took down some, but not all, of the statements about their roles. Wu's bio on Convoy's site currently states that he was part of Bridgewater's operations team. His Linkedin page states that at Bridgewater he "was part of a small team that built and oversaw components of back office systems." Both of those profiles mention that Wu is a CFA charterholder. We were unable to locate any records listed under his name in the CFA member directory.  Wang's bio on Convoy's site says that he "spent his career managing portfolios for institutional investors, most recently at Bridgewater Associates where he and Robert first met." His bio also says that he was "part of the investment associates team working with some of the largest and most sophisticated investors in the world, including sovereign wealth funds, pensions, endowments and foundations." Wang's LinkedIn profile also says pretty much the same thing.  Convoy InvestmentsRobert WuBridgewater also claims Wu and Wang "kept their competitive ambitions hidden — telling Bridgewater that they were 'traveling,' 'ballroom dancing,' and only passively advising 'friends and family' on how to invest their money." After the non-compete period was up, Bridgewater said "they began marketing Convoy as 'a global macro investment hedge fund' that caters to the very clients Bridgewater has successfully serviced for years."  Bridgewater is seeking to have Wu and Wang cease making these allegedly "false advertising claims." The hedge fund is also seeking to recover unspecified damages. Convoy Investments made headlines earlier this year for operating as a hedge fund that wouldn't charge a performance fee. Instead, they're only charging a 1.25% management fee. It was a pretty radical approach to the hedge fund compensation structure commonly known as the "2 and 20," which stands for a 2% management fee for total assets under management and a 20% performance fee charge for any profits. "2 and 20" is the standard in the industry (that's what Bridgewater uses), but those numbers can vary from fund to fund.  In recent years, it has become harder for fund managers to justify the fee structure, especially because most funds have been underperforming the broader market.  Wu and Wang declined to comment. A spokesperson for Bridgewater also declined to comment.  Here's the complaint: Bridgewater Complaint by Julia Reynolds La Roche  FREE AppDownload
When Steven Spielberg featured Reese's Pieces in his 1982 blockbuster "E.T. The Extra Terrestrial," the candy experienced a big boost in sales. The only reason Reese's Pieces got the lucrative product placement in the first place was because M&amp;Ms had already refused the filmmakers permission to use its product in the film. This wouldn't be the last time M&amp;Ms passed on a high-profile product placement opportunity.Produced by Graham Flanagan
Cliffs NaturalCliffs Natural CEO Lourenco Goncalves. On Cliffs' earnings conference call on Tuesday morning, Goncalves told Wells Fargo analyst Sam Dubinsky that he wouldn't answer Dubinsky's questions because "you already know everything about my company." "You have a $4 price target and you think we can't sell assets, so I'm going to take the next question, I'm not going to answer you," Goncalves said.  It is a jarring exchange. Here's the audio.  In a note to clients following the report, Dubinsky wrote that Goncalves was "pretty bold" on the earnings call. It was also Goncalves' first earnings call as CEO since being named to the position on Aug. 7.  And the exchange, or really just the shutting down of Dubinsky's questions by Goncalves, shows some of the complications inherent in the relationship between companies and analysts.  It is Dubinsky's job, as a research analyst, to publish his assessment of the companies in his coverage area and, based on this work, publish a recommendation on how he believes the stock will perform going forward.  But as for his assessment of the company's quarter and outlook, Dubinsky wrote: "Cliffs reported upside to Q3 estimates and set a pretty high bar across the board when discussing the outcome of Canada, cost reductions, and dividend safety. We're cautious on shares due to our bearish stance on iron ore pricing, skepticism over asset sales, and the high debt load." He added that there was "too much uncertainty in both the macro backdrop and Cliffs' strategy to change our rating." Dubinsky has an "Underperform" rating and valuation range of $4 to $7 on the stock, though he did raise earnings estimates for Cliffs' fourth quarter. In broad strokes, Wall Street recommendations break down into Buy, Sell, and Hold ratings, which are pretty much exactly what they sound like. And while lots of firms have different names for these ratings, the spirit is the same.  But again, this is just an outline. These recommendations are also usually — but not always! — about a stock's performance relative to a benchmark that isn't uniform across all stocks. But at any rate, this is basically what we're looking at when we're looking at "analyst recommendations." Sometimes analysts also put price targets on shares of a company, which is the price an analyst expects a stock to trade at in 12 months. But this target could also be for more or less than 12 months, which the analyst will specify in a note. (And again, for technicalities sake, Dubinsky's "Underperform" rating and valuation range of $4 to $7 on shares of Cliffs is essentially a "Sell" rating and $4 price target on the stock, but not exactly. Either way.)  A nice example of how this all gets sort of confusing and occluded is from Jay Yarow's recent post on how analysts see Alibaba, which includes a thrice-qualified scenario from analysts at Morgan Stanley.  From Jay's post: JPMorgan Chase put out a 158-page report on Alibaba. It thinks Alibaba has the potential to blast to the moon. In a "best-case scenario" it thinks Alibaba could be worth $178/share. In the "worst case" it could be $60. For now, it has a $114 price target. So, again, this is tricky territory for both analysts and companies. How is Alibaba or Cliffs supposed to feel when an analyst thinks its stock could either: rise 100%, fall 50%, or go nowhere? The idealist answer is that the company is supposed to be focused on its business and let the Wall Street analysts do their Wall Street analyzing. But part of what these Wall Street analysts get, as much as anything else, is access to company management that shareholders (and journalists) can't really get.  Analysts usually get an individual call with company management after their quarterly report, or even more often, and can meet with management during investor meetings, etc.  The idea is that these analysts, because of their expertise, training, and access, are then able to make the best possible assessments of a company.  This paper from March 2013 gives a good overview of how the whole analyst thing works (or doesn't).  But executives are still people, too. And being the CEO of a public company is a hard job with a lot of public visibility and a lot of public stress, and if you look at the stock price of Cliffs over the past year, it probably hasn't been the most fun thing to be in charge of. (The stock is down about 58% year-to-date.) Google Finance So imagine that you're answering to your employees, your shareholders, your suppliers, customers, other executives and board members, and on top of this there is an equity analyst who thinks your company is worth about one-third of its current stock price. Under this outline, it seems easy enough to understand why Goncalves was comfortable dismissing Dubinsky's question in public.  But also, he was dismissing an analyst's question in public.  And while no analyst is ever expected to be a "cheerleader" for a company, or for management, there is also a somewhat tenuous relationship between analysts and companies. In the aforementioned academic report looking at the relationship between companies and sell-side research analysts, one analyst told the researchers that, "We're sort of like a megaphone [for company management]." And so if part of your value, as an analyst, is to let the market know what a company is thinking, wouldn't it be in the best interest of that company that the message be not, you know, terrible? But read any research report and there will be a few pages of disclosures and legal stuff that says, basically, as an analyst this report reflects my view of the company and I won't be paid based on the recommendation made in this report.  For better or worse.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ DEA Ecstasy pills Investment banker Sage Kelly — the global head of healthcare investment banking at Jefferies — is involved in a divorce and custody battle with his estranged wife Christina Di Mauro Kelly, and a recent affidavit she filed about their marriage alleges a lifestyle of rampant drug abuse and extramarital sex. A top Wall Streeter told Business Insider that tons of folks in the finance community have been passing the affidavit around. And even in a place where messy divorces sometimes happen, it's an astonishing read. Perhaps the worst part of all this is that the affidavit also accuses and names a handful of investment bankers and company executives of using drugs themselves. Wikimedia CommonsThe apartment building where Sage Kelly resides.  Christina Kelly alleges Sage Kelly has abused cocaine, alcohol, and other illicit substances such as ecstasy, molly, and mushrooms while their two daughters, now ages 10 and 6, were present in their NYC apartment and Hamptons home. She also alleges that Kelly has been using cocaine for more than a decade and allegedly has a "special" relationship with his dealer. Christina, who was charged with a DWI in the Hamptons back in 2010 that injured her kids, says that she was first introduced to cocaine on her first date with Sage back in 2000. She alleges that it became a central part of their relationship. Sage, who makes $7 million per year, filed for divorce earlier this year. Initially, they were seeking joint custody of the kids.  But since August, Sage has had custody of the children, according to a complaint filed last week by Christina's attorney William Beslow. This was granted to Sage after he says he caught Christina using cocaine in the family apartment with hidden cameras during the last two weeks of July.  This affidavit was filed, in part, to show that Sage does not deserve full custody of the kids. Christina says that she hasn't used the drug since July, has been seeing a psychiatrist and is attending Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. More importantly, Sage, she says, was just as abusive with drugs as she was. She also claims high-level Wall Streeters who belonged to their social group abused drugs. Specifically, Christina accused Jefferies executive Ben Lorello — the global head of investment banking and global markets — of using drugs with her husband. A Jefferies rep told the New York Post that Lorello "categorically denies all the allegations." Christina Kelly also accused Marc Beer, the CEO of publicly traded pharmaceutical company Aegerion, of using cocaine. Bloomberg TV Marc Beer, the CEO of Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, said he does not use illegal substances. She claims that each pair began having sex in their respective beds. She also alleges that Beer suggested that they switch partners. She also alleges that she had sexual contact with Beer's girlfriend, while the two men watched. "Mindful of his goal of securing business from Marc, I felt responsible not to disappoint Marc," Christina says in her affidavit.  "Ms. Kelly’s accusations as to me are categorically false and baseless.  I do not use cocaine or any other illegal substance.  All of the allegations which Ms. Kelly has made regarding me and my girlfriend are ridiculous, baseless and grossly irresponsible," Beer said in an emailed statement to Business Insider.  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals also said that the board supports Beer. "Marc categorically denies the allegations. The board fully supports Marc, and has confidence in his leadership and his character. The board takes its governance responsibilities very seriously, but does not comment publically on internal governance matters," Aegerion said in a statement to Business Insider. There was another instance where Christina alleges that she, Sage, his Jefferies colleague Dung Nguyen and his wife Jessica used cocaine and alcohol and went for a nude swim at the Sag Harbor home. According to her affidavit, Dung went to his bedroom and Sage allegedly had sex with Jessica in the pool, which is located outside one of their daughters' bedrooms. A Jefferies rep for Nguyen told the New York Post that he "categorically denied the allegations made about him by Ms. Kelly." Sage Kelly acknowledged in an August court filing that he and his wife both used recreational drugs in the past, but "the 'Wolf of Wall Street' tale she tells this court is a work of fiction," the New York Post reports. She alleges that were instances where Sage allegedly "passed out at the marital residence — sometimes having defecated in our bed or on the floor next to the bed or having urinated on a bedroom wall."  ZillowHere's a shot of the Sag Harbor home.  "We were all stunned, therefore, at the sight of Sage — with his own blood purposefully smeared on his face in several long lines — walking towards us outside the home. After exclaiming, 'I found the bag!,' Sage popped yet another mushroom into his mouth," according to her affidavit.  A few years before that alleged incident, Christina claims that during another party at the Sag Harbor home Sage ingested Ketamine (a.k.a. "Special K").  "... Sage started to act crazily. At one point, Sage exclaimed, 'Help, help me; I'm dying,'" the affidavit states. "[Our daughter] was very upset. She said, 'Daddy, what is wrong?' Sage held [our daughter] and said that holding her was the only thing that could make him feel better. So, he held [our daughter] for about an hour. Then, thankfully, Sage emerged from the 'K-Hole,'" the affidavit states.  She also alleged that one of Sage's friends left a bag of cocaine on the pool table in the basement of the Sag Harbor home and their daughter put her finger in it. Here's the complaint: Complaint by Adam Leverone   FREE AppDownload
Everyone wants to work in tech these days — especially for big-name companies like Google, Apple, Microsoft, and Facebook. In fact, these tech giants topped LinkedIn's 2014 ranking of the 100 most in-demand employers, taking four of the top five spots. The professional networking site based its ranking on member awareness and engagement on LinkedIn by looking at how many people viewed employees' profiles and how many users followed the company's Company or Career pages within the last year. Here's the full list of this year's top employers, according to LinkedIn: Skye Gould/Business Insider  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe attends a news conference to present the company's 2014 First-Half results in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - French banks should pay only 10 billion euros ($12.5 billion) of the 16 billion they are being asked to contribute to a proposed EU bailout fund, BNP Paribas chief executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafé said in an interview in Le Figaro on Saturday. The size of contributions to the 55-billion-euro fund should be decided "as a function of their risk profile", he was quoted as saying, noting that European Central Bank stress tests showed France had "one of the most solid" banking sectors in Europe. "Following this criterion, our financing contribution to the fund should be around 10 billion euros, whereas we would currently be asked for 16 billion," the chief executive said. "This gap is exorbitant." BNP, France's largest bank, this week said it returned to net profit in the third quarter, rebounding from an $8.9 billion U.S. settlement in June for violating sanctions against Sudan, Cuba and Iran over a 10-year period up to 2012. Under the terms of the settlement, BNP must also clear all dollar transactions in New York and use correspondent banks throughout 2015 for oil- and gas-related business. BNP will "work with five international banks" on dollar clearing, Bonnafé told Le Figaro, without specifying which ones. "All that will be operational by the end of the year."  (Reporting by Laurence Frost; Editing by Louise Ireland) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture taken with the multiple exposure function of the camera shows cancelled flights on a flight schedule board and the logo of German air carrier Lufthansa at the Fraport airport in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) will abstain from industrial action during negotiations with airline Lufthansa over pay and early retirement benefits, Germany's Focus magazine reported. A dispute between Lufthansa and the union has resulted in repeated strikes at Lufthansa this year affecting thousands of passengers. Shares in Lufthansa have lost 15 percent of their value over the last three months due to the strikes as well as concerns over Ebola. "We are currently in talks with Lufthansa. During the talks we will not strike," Ilja Schulz, president of Vereiningung Cockpit, was quoted as telling Focus, according to an advance excerpt of its Monday edition. Vereinigung Cockpit could not immediately be reached for comment.  (Reporting by Edward Taylor; Editing by Gareth Jones) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHere they are: the most important charts in the world. A lot has changed since the last time we published this collection back in July. The economic situation in Europe has deteriorated, the unemployment rate in the US has fallen below 6%, and the Fed looks poised to conclude its quantitative easing program this week. Volatility has returned to markets, with the S&amp;P 500 recently declining more than 9% before sharply rebounding, while the bond market had one of its most volatile days in history as the US 10-year yield fell 37 basis points in just a few hours.  And in the background of all of this is the declining price of oil, which on Monday fell below $80 a barrel for the first time in over two years, and a Russian economy that is looking at a dramatically depreciating ruble.  We asked our favorite economists, analysts, bloggers, and hedge fund managers for the chart they're watching right now. What they responded with was a collection of charts reflecting the increasing market fears about deflation, the economic malaise in the eurozone, and the growing suspicion that maybe the Fed's QE program will be reinstated faster than many people currently expect. And despite the uncertainty, many of our experts offered reasons why we should be optimistic. So without any further ado, here is what some of the sharpest folks on Wall Street are focused on right now.
Did you miss something on the internet this week? No matter who you are, the answer is probably yes. We’re here to help you catch up. Here’s a smattering of excellent posts, both short and long, from the last few days that make for a good weekend read. (Former Fed special advisor) Jon Faust’s farewell to QE. “The patients we’re taking care of on a general medical floor now were the patients twenty years ago we took care of in an ICU [intensive-care unit] with a 2-to-1 patient-to-nurse ratio”: How efficiency turns into hazard in the workplace. — Esther Kaplan Tim Cook came out. The $280 cast iron skillet “is a pretty object for people who have lost sense for the value of money, dressed in a fig leaf of technological improvement.” — Dan McCrum “I wish that we could get past seeing women who do these kinds of things as foolish, brave or weird. Nobody would consider a man doing the same thing as remarkable.” — Maya Rao on moving to the Bakken to write about live in North Dakota oil country. “Why are [Tom] Cruise roles basically counter-cyclical?” - Ryan McCarthy and Jim Tankersley “T.S. Eliot worked in the foreign transactions department at Lloyd’s bank from 1917 until 1925” — Poetry Foundation The I Guess We’re Grown Ups Now podcast: What it’s like to be a professional musician and stay-at-home dad — Kari Halsted and Todd Peters Topical culture interlude: “The Black Cat” by Edgar Allan Poe, even though Halloween is over Self promotion: The hot new threat to Argentina - “acceleration” — Linette Lopez A hedge fund manager vanished after Credit Suisse accidentally wired him $1.5 million — Elena Holodny If you missed the rally, then you just made the most classic mistake in investing — Sam Ro The most important charts in the world — Myles Udland There's a visible glass ceiling for top female earners in these 3 charts — Andy Kiersz Would more diversity among economists have helped prevent the financial crisis? — Me (See also: Maybe) FREE AppDownload
