1 location 2 locations 1 location 1 location 12 locations 3 locations 1 location 3 locations 1 location 2 locations WeWork is a platform for creators. We provide the space, community, and services you need to create your life's work. WeWork membership gives you access to our locations in cities around the world. Cre·a·tor (noun)One that creates usually by bringing something new or original into being. Stay connected and stay productive with our mobile apps anytime, anywhere. 1 location 2 locations 1 location 1 location 12 locations 3 locations 1 location 3 locations 1 location 2 locations
LONDON (Reuters) - The British housing market has "deep, deep" structural problems which pose the biggest current risk to the economy, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney has said in an interview. "The issue around the housing market in the UK ... is there are not sufficient (numbers of) houses (being) built," he told Sky television. In extracts of the interview released by Sky ahead of its full broadcast on Sunday, Carney noted that the number of large mortgages being approved is on the rise and said more houses needed to built in Britain. "We're not going to build a single house at the Bank of England," he said. "We can't influence that. "What we can influence ... is whether the banks are strong enough. Do they have enough capital against risk in the housing market?" Carney said the Bank could also check lending procedures "so people can get mortgages if they can afford them but they won't if they can't." "By reinforcing both of those, we can reduce the risk that comes from a housing market that has deep, deep structural problems." Carney said there was evidence that large mortgages, where house-buyers are given loans up to four times their salaries, are on the rise again. "We don't want to build up another big debt overhang that is going to hurt individuals and is very much going to slow the economy in the medium term," he said. "We'd be concerned if there was a rapid increase in high loan-to-value mortgages across the banks. We've seen that creeping up and it's something we're watching closely." Last week the Bank played down the chances of an imminent rate rise despite fears of a growing house price bubble. "The biggest risk to financial stability, and therefore to the durability of the expansion, centers on the housing market and that's why we're focused on that," he said. Earlier this month, the OECD think tank called on the Bank to impose measures to help slow rising house prices. (Reporting by Stephen Addison; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
With Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s ousting at the hands of the Thai Supreme Court on May 7th, Thailand’s political paralysis is set to restart. The anti-government Yellow Shirts have welcomed the move, but Shinawatra’s zealous Red Shirt supporters have flocked to Bangkok. More ominously, the health of King Bhumibol (Rama IX) continues to decline, presenting a succession crisis before current political turmoil is resolved. The king’s death is sure to reopen a number of fault lines, creating a veritable perfect storm for Thais and international investors alike. Thailand has been deeply split since the ouster and exile of billionaire PM Thaksin Shinawatra in 2006. Thaksin’s brand of populism earned him immense support in the country’s agrarian north, much to the ire of the Bangkok elite and middle-class, who decry the Shinawatras as crony capitalists and dictators. His sister Yingluck mobilized this support in the 2011 elections, becoming Thailand’s first female prime minister. Yingluck’s attempt to pass an amnesty law for Thaksin in November 2013 sparked the current bout of instability, as the opposition contends that she is little more than her brother’s puppet. After months of demonstrations, Yingluck and nine of her cabinet members were dismissed by the Thai Supreme Court after being found guilty of abusing her office. Largely absent from the political drama is King Bhumibol (Rama IX), who has served as Thailand’s deus ex machinain times of national duress. Veneration for the king runs deep in Thailand, both by the Thai public at large and as a semi-sacred figure in the country’s Buddhist hierarchy. Since ascending the throne in 1946, Bhumibol has waded into the kingdom’s toxic politics many times to pull the country back from the edge. Now 86 and in poor health, the king has retreated from the public eye, leaving many to privately speculate on the inevitable succession crisis. Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn is a controversial figure, holding neither the stature nor the respect of his father. Many doubt his ability to hold the Kingdom together as his father has for 64 years. Further complicating the succession issue is lese majestere, the law preventing any criticism of the royal family, which is invoked liberally to stamp out any public discussion of the royal family in general. At a time when Thai society needs to have an open discussion on the post-Bhumibol life, public discourse on the biggest wildcard of Thailand’s political fault-lines is muted and pushed out of mind. The king’s death and subsequent succession crisis will reignite a host of other issues across the country. The Islamist insurgency in Southern Thailand – quiet in recent years – could be given new life as opportunistic militants would seek to exploit Bangkok’s preoccupation with the royal secession. The power vacuum would also create fertile grounds for Thailand’s coup-happy military, and could pave the way for a long-dreaded civil war. The Thai economy is already feeling the heat: Thai stocks have tumbled, consumer confidence has dropped to a 13-year low, and analysts warn that GDP growth forecasts will be slashed. While day-to-day life in Thailand is typically unaffected by the chronic political instability, a full-fledged armed conflict would quickly put an end to this. Thailand’s hugely lucrative rice export industry would be directly threatened. The Kingdom is the world’s top rice producer, and rice subsidies have been a hallmark of Yingluck Shinawatra’s tenure as Prime Minister. The country’s chief rice-producing regions in the centre and the north are Red Shirt strongholds, meaning strife is likely to occur there should the country fall into conflict. Global rice prices would spike, which, as events in 2007-08 showed, could trigger food riots in neighbouring countries where rice is also a staple. This could directly affect regime stability in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia. Thailand’s other cash cow – tourism – would also be affected, after slipping through so many past crises unscathed. Thailand is sitting on a precipice. A host of unresolved issues – political gridlock, class divide, and the insurgency in the deep south – have created conditions that could lead the country into civil war. The king’s death could be the spark to set it alight. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jason ReedBerkshire Hathaway's Warren BuffettDuring the 2014 annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway, Carol Loomis of Fortune magazine asked Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman, about their biggest weakness.  In frank terms, they admitted that they "over-trust" their operating managers. They are slow to remove inadequate managers, and they don't exercise strict control over the operations or finances of subsidiaries. Below are my notes on Carol's question, along with responses from Warren and Charlie.  Carol Loomis: In an interview in April, you said "I hope we'll get questions that'll probe at our weak points." My question is what are your weak points, and what can you do to address them? Warren: That would spoil all the fun for the journalists! We point them out, though. I would say if we executed a sweep account for all our subsidiaries some years ago we'd have a few more dollars now. Who knows what they're doing with some of those balances. We are very disciplined in some ways, and sloppy in other ways. A clear weak point, I am slow to make personnel changes. I like our managers. Charlie and I had a friend, couldn't be a greater guy, we were slow to make a change there. how long would you say we went there, Charlie? Charlie: I don't know, exactly. But returning to the sweep account, reminds me of a friend I knew when I was in the Air Corps. A nurse took blood from a friend of mine, and all of the sudden, the blood stopped flowing. She screamed, and then, all of the sudden, she fainted. Some companies swept every day, but it created a tone that is definitely less desirable than ours. Warren: Our managers are listening here, don't give that illustration! We've waited too long on retirement for some of our managers. We will be slow [to make personnel changes]. There will be times where our lack of supervision, we'll miss something. We think that giving our managers the degree of freedom they enjoy and will also accomplish a lot. Someone will come along some days and say "more checks and oversight." Something will happen that wouldn't have happened, and they'll be right. But they can't measure all the good things that freedom will accomplish. We don't have HR department or in-house legal counsel, which would be unthinkable to others, but on balance it's a benefit. When the downside shows up people will say "well, you should have..." And they'll be right in that individual case only. Charlie: By the standards of the rest of the world, we over-trust. And so far, our results have been far better, because we carefully selected people who should be over-trusted. I think a lot of organizations work better when there is a culture of trust. And in modern organizations, where there are tight controls and monitoring, I think they're going to be worse for it. Of course, as both Warren and Charlie pointed out, this weakness is also a strength. They provide operating managers with a lot of autonomy -- they "over-trust." Of course, this can go visibly wrong -- for instance, a manager could abuse their trust, retain more earnings than necessary, make bad investments, etc... But, it has a lot of unseen benefits. Operating managers that are empowered (and trusted) are more likely to be effective and motivated, and it allows Berkshire to run very lean with a limited corporate staff at headquarters on Farnam Street in Omaha. FREE AppDownload
CensusA big part of the American Dream for many people involves going out and building your perfect home. However, what the perfect home looks like has changed over time. The U.S. Census Bureau provides information on different characteristics of newly built houses from the 1970s to 2012. We looked at how those characteristics have changed over the last few decades. Houses are getting taller, with an increasing share of new houses having at least two stories. Split-level houses, while popular in the mid-twentieth century, have all but vanished: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Houses are also getting more bedrooms. The share of houses built in 2012 with at least four bedrooms reached 41%, nearing the 46% of new houses with three bedrooms: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Going along with the themes of bigger and more, in every year since 1998, a majority of new houses were built with at least two and a half bathrooms: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Basements, on the other hand, have been going out of style. Since 2002, a majority of new houses have been built with a slab-style or other foundation, without a basement or a crawlspace: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Exterior wall materials have dramatically changed over the last few decades. In 1973, 65% of newly built houses had wood or brick exteriors. In 2012, only 30% of new houses had these traditional exteriors. About a third of houses in 2012 were built with vinyl siding: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Central air conditioning has gone from being a rarity outside the South to being nearly ubiquitous: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Along those lines, heat pumps, which can double as heating and air conditioning systems, have become somewhat more common in recent years, although warm-air furnaces are still the most common method of heating a house: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau Fireplaces rose in popularity throughout the 1980s, with about two-thirds of new houses built in 1990 having at least one. Since 2010 however, less than half of newly built houses come with this amenity: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau All these bedrooms, bathrooms, fireplaces, and air conditioning units have more and more space to fit into. Aside from a short dip from 2007-2009 in the wake of the housing bubble and financial crisis, houses have been getting bigger since the 1970s: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIf you follow rail traffic trends there sure doesn’t appear to be any signs of economic weakness there.  The latest rail traffic data showed record gains in intermodal and the highest 12 week moving average since 2011 at 8.5%.  This certainly seems to validate the idea that weather substantially impacted Q1 and we’re starting to see a resurgence in Q2 data.  Current Q2 GDP estimates also appear to validate this view with the consensus at 3.5% as of now. Here’s more detail via AAR:  “The Association of American Railroads (AAR) today reported increased U.S. rail traffic for April 2014, with both carload and intermodal volume increasing compared with April 2013. Intermodal traffic in April totaled 1,316,176 containers and trailers, up 9 percent (108,485 units) compared with April 2013, and the 53rd-consecutive year-over-year monthly increase for intermodal volume. The weekly average of 263,235 intermodal units on U.S. railroads in April 2014 was easily the highest for any April in history and was the second highest for any month in history. Meanwhile, U.S. carload originations totaled 1,481,586 in April 2014, up 6.4 percent (88,801 carloads) over April 2013. Fourteen of the 20 commodity categories tracked by the AAR each month saw year-over-year carload increases in April. Commodities with the biggest carload increases included coal, up 34,502 carloads, or 6.4 percent; grain, up 22,683 carloads, or 27.6 percent; crushed stone, sand and gravel, 10,194 carloads, or 9.5 percent; and petroleum and petroleum products, up 5,316 carloads, or 7.6 percent.” Pragmatic Capitalism FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include May updates for Real Retail Sales and Industrial Production, data through April. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  The April Retail Sales data released earlier this week can now be adjusted for inflation with yesterday's April Consumer Price Index. Nominal sales rose 0.09% month-over-month. However, real (inflation-adjusted) sales declined 0.17%. Year-over-year nominal sales are up 4.05%, but the real YoY is up only 2.05%. For a more detailed analysis, see my latest update on Real Retail Sales Per Capita. April Industrial Production declined 0.6% MoM. Here is the Federal Reserve overview: The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have three of the four indicator updates for the 57th month following the recession. With one data point left for March, the Big Four Average (gray line below) is showing the two strongest advances of the past twelve months. Current Assessment and Outlook The overall picture of the US economy had been one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession, and the data for December and January months documented a sharp contraction. The recovery in subsequent months appeared to support the general view that severe winter weather was responsible for the contraction, and that the slippage was not the beginnings of a business cycle decline. However, April weakness in both real retail sales and industrial production suggests a more cautious assumption about the ongoing recovery.    The next update of the Big Four will follow the releasee of the April Personal Income less Transfer Payments on May 30th. Background Analysis: The Big Four Indicators and Recessions The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique.  Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).  Click for a larger image The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).  Click for a larger image And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.  Click for a larger image History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.  Click for a larger image The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.  Click for a larger image   Appendix: Chart Gallery with Notes Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: Industrial Production The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Personal Income Less Transfer Payments This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image For a visual sense of the relative size of Personal Income and Transfer Receipts (Social Security, etc.), here is stacked area chart of nominal values. Many people assume that Transfer Receipts (Payments) are a larger source of income than they really are. Total Nonfarm Employees There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Retail Sales This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Choi Bu-SeokPromoters pose next to Hyundai Motor's new SUV, Tucson ix, during its unveiling event in Seoul August 25, 2009. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Hyundai Motor Co is recalling more than 140,000 Tucson crossover utility vehicles because the air bag assembly may come loose from its mounting on the steering wheel, according to documents filed with U.S. auto safety regulators. The South Korean automaker said the recall affects 137,500 Tucsons in the United States and 3,500 in Puerto Rico, from model years 2011 to 2014, according to documents filed with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Hyundai said that during assembly, it is possible the two bolts attaching the driver's air bag module to the steering wheel may not have been properly tightened. It said the air bag module might become detached from the steering wheel, which could result in injury in the event of a crash. There have been no reports of accidents or injuries as a result of the defect, the automaker said. NHTSA said Hyundai will notify car owners of the recall, which is expected to begin at the end of June, and dealers will inspect and tighten the bolts free of charge. (Reporting by Eric Beech; editing by Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
The price action has not resolved the question yet, and it remains pertinent.  The dollar did strengthen against the European currencies, but weaken against the yen and dollar bloc.  Swedish krona was an exception to this generalization.  The slightly stronger than expected inflation helped ease speculation about a rate cut next month and this allowed lifted the krona, which was the only major European currency to appreciate against the dollar.  Position adjusting in general, and especially ahead of the EU parliamentary elections and Ukraine's presidential election next week, may be more important than the economic data.  The economic calendar features the flash euro area PMI, the flash HSBC China manufacturing PMI, and the FOMC minutes.   Although some observers are still holding out the possibility that the ECB unveils an asset purchase program next month, we read the official comments as making rate cuts the more likely route.  Some institutional investors had been buying peripheral bonds on the ideas of  European QE and with increased risks then of disappointment began moving back into core bonds (gilt, bunds and Treasuries). However, the widely recognized link between the euro and the peripheral bonds appeared to have weakened.  In addition, some participants may be reducing euro balances to avoid the risk of knock-on effects from the possibility that the ECB adopts a negative deposit rate.   Euro:  Last week's low was near $1.3650, below the neckline of a potential double top found near $1.3675, but just ahead of the 200-day moving average near $1.3630.  It recovered smartly on Thursday, despite the sell-off of the peripheral bonds.  Resistance is seen around $1.3730, but if it goes, the next immediate target closer to $1.3775.   Yen:  We had not expected the US Treasury to rally last week.  That rally, more than any other factor, we think weighed on the dollar against the yen.  The dollar is approaching its 200-day moving average (~JPY101.20). The greenback has not violated this long-term moving average since last October-November period and quickly recovered.  Below the average is the year's low near JPY100.60.  Upticks by the dollar will run into offers, first near JPY102.00 and then between JPY102.20-35.  Sterling:  The March 2015 short-sterling futures contract fell about 20 bp last week, with the help of soft labor earnings data and a quarterly inflation report that appears not to have much confidence in the sustainability of the economic momentum.  Sterling was sold to four-week lows near $1.6730.  The losses were sufficient to push the five-day moving average below the 20-day average for the first time since early April.  However, we would not put much weight on the cross over because sterling was already staging a recover.  Initially, we look for the $1.6840-50 area to check upticks.  If it does take this area out, offers near $1.6900 may prove stronger.   That said, most observers still would see the BOE raising rates before the Federal Reserve.  Canadian dollar:  The US dollar was confined to fairly narrow ranges against the Canadian dollar over the past week:  CAD1.0850 to CAD1.0925. It is difficult to have much near-term conviction and the technical indicators we monitor are neutral.   We will monitor the downtrend line drawn off the March 20 high near CAD1.1280 and the late April and then early May highs.  It comes in near CAD1.0900 area the start of next week and finishes near CAD1.0880.  Unless this trend line breaks, the greenback may have to retest the CAD1.08 lows seen before the disappointing Canadian jobs data.   Australian dollar:  Relatively narrow trading ranges were seen for the Australian dollar as a consolidative phase tightened its grip.  The $0.9400 are remains the key barrier to the upside, but the enthusiasm for the downside has waned.  The Australian dollar may be tracing out an A-B-C correction after the big advance that carried it from around $0.8700 at the end of January to almost $0.9500 in the first half of April.  If this is view is accurate, the Australian dollar should begin to trade more heavily in the day ahead.  A break of the 20-day moving average near $0.9320 would offer confirmation.   Mexican peso:  For the better part of the past three weeks, the US dollar has been trending lower against the Mexican peso.  Participants were quick to sell into the dollar's bounce last Thursday, and this was sufficient to not only check its advance but push it back to the low for the year, set at midweek near MXN12.87.  The MXN12.80 offers the next technical objective.    The MXN13.00 area, which had been support, now should serve as resistance.   Observations from the speculative positioning in the CME currency futures: 1.  The large price swings have been matched by an increase in position adjustments.  In the reporting period that ended on May 13, the net speculative euro position swung short for the first time in three months.  It was largely a function of stale longs exiting.  Almost a quarter of the gross long euro positions were cut (26.3k contracts) to 84.4k, which has now slipped behind the Mexican peso.   The gross shorts rose by 8.4k contracts, which, relative to adjustments in recent weeks, is still substantial. The gross short position now stands at 86.6k contracts.  This is the largest gross short position.  2.  Gross long sterling positions were culled by 12.6k contracts, or about 15%, to 71.2k.  The gross shorts were trimmed by 3.7k contracts to 39.4.  The net result was the smallest long position since March of 31.8k contracts.  3.  The clear pattern during the recent reporting period the was reduction gross long currency positions. The exceptions were the Australian dollar and the Mexican peso.  The gross longs rose by 5.3k to 50.1k contracts.  This, coupled with a small decline in the gross short position (3.1k to 33.0k contracts), is sufficient to lift the double the net long position to 17.1k contracts, which the largest in a year.  The gross long peso position rose 27% to 86.1k contracts.  The gross shorts were shaved by 2.3k contracts to 17.5k.  This created a net long position of 68.6k contracts, which is the largest since last May.  4. Canada appears to be being pulled away from the other majors and toward the Australian dollar and the Mexican peso.  Although the net speculative position is still short Canadian dollars, the gross shorts continue to be trimmed and this leave the net short position of 26k contracts.  This is the smallest since last November.  5. The yen was largely sidelined.  Gross longs fell by almost 3k contracts and the gross shorts rose by 1.1k contracts to 82.2k.  Speculators moved to the sidelines in the Swiss franc, as the net long position was halved to 6.8k contracts, the smallest in two months as both gross long and shorts were pared.     Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
It remains difficult to reconcile treasuries trading at the same yields we saw during the US government shutdown (see post) with broadly stronger economic conditions in the US. Economic indicators suggest yields should be materially above the lows we saw last October. Here are some of the key trends: 1. Leading indices are all stronger - ECRI is at pre-recession levels.  2. Labor markets are clearly improving. Initial jobless claims clocked below the 2006 level this week (see Twitter post).  3. Small business surveys show owner sentiment, which had remained weak for years, finally on the rise.  4. Credit expansion in the US has accelerated.  5. Inflation is picking up (see post) and inflation expectations are higher as well.  6. And even the housing market, which had stalled this year, surprised to the upside today. Both housing starts and permits came in above expectations.  Clearly there are geopolitical tensions over the Ukraine crisis and all the search for yield in the face of the ECB's expected easing action is putting downward pressure on rates globally. The US consumer remains jittery, generating a drag on growth. Furthermore, equity investors are using treasuries as a proven form of downside protection. Yet in the face of strengthening economy and relative to the uncertainty of the US government shutdown and debt ceiling impasse last year, current low yields are difficult to understand. FREE AppDownload
There's no better place than Times Square to find out what people think of an obscure expression used solely in Vermont and Maine.  Check out the entertaining responses we gathered, some of which were surprisingly right on. Camera by Alana Kakoyiannis. Sound by Justin Gmoser. Text by Melia Robinson. Originally published in December 2013.
SBANorth Carolina's Triangle Rock Club team.For the past 50 years, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has celebrated the nation's entrepreneurs and small-business owners during its annual National Small Business Week, which kicks off today. In addition to events, panels, and talks that happen around the U.S., the SBA names winners for Small Business Person of the Year from the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam. From this group of 53 outstanding entrepreneurs, one is chosen as the national winner on May 16. The SBA, which provides American small-business owners with loans, federal contracts, and strategic counseling, selects the winners based on a handful of factors, including the business' staying power, growth in number of employees, sales growth, innovation in the field, and contributions to the community. The SBA defines a small business as one that is independently owned and operated, organized for profit, and, depending on the industry, has a maximum staff of 100 to 1,500 employees and revenue of $500,000 to $20 million. This year's winners are creating jobs, driving innovation, and carving out niche markets. Take South Dakota's Ryan McFarland, who created a safe bicycle alternative for young children that brought in $10 million in sales last year, or the New Jersey-based family business Kiran Gill, an environmental firm that has grown revenue an average of 50% annually to $13 million. These entrepreneurs show that a smart strategy, a little luck, and a lot of hard work can still pay off. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordRed Lobster's customers are too old, and it's a major threat to the restaurant chain's business.  The "early-bird special" mentality of Red Lobster's customers is keeping it from competing with younger, hipper brands, writes Justin Bachman at Bloomberg Businessweek.  The seafood chain "attracts an oversize share of older diners who don’t eat out frequently, while younger and spendier patrons eat their fish at more upscale restaurants — places that can cover rising costs better," Bachman writes.  Parent company Darden Restaurants just sold Red Lobster to Golden Gate Capital for $2.1 billion in cash.  Red Lobster has also been hurt by the rising price of shrimp and the ascent of fast-casual fare like Chipotle and Panera Bread.  In order to attract a more promising demographic, Red Lobster will have to adjust its menu to appeal to a younger crowd.  Here's a chart showing how same-store sales at Red Lobster have declined in recent years.  Starboard FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesTrader Joe's is on fire.  The company famously sells more than two times per square foot than the average grocery chain.  For years, Whole Foods Market was the dominant name in organic groceries.  But the company has recently faced declining sales as more companies offer organic food.  Consumer perception of Trader Joe's is significantly higher than Whole Foods Market, according to a recent YouGov BrandIndex study.  Here are a few reasons Trader Joe's is thriving, while Whole Foods is struggling.  Trader Joe's is cheap. A bag of quinoa is $9.99 at Whole Foods, but $4.99 at Trader Joe's. Meanwhile, gluten-free cheese pizza is $7.49 at Whole Foods vs. $4.99 at Trader Joe's, according to dcist.com. Consumers view Trader Joe's as high-quality, but inexpensive.  Meanwhile, Whole Foods is seen as being too expensive. The grocer even earned the nickname "Whole Paycheck." Whole Foods responded by lowering some prices; however, a recent JPMorgan analyst note says that the company isn't doing enough to market bargains. This means that customers likely don't realize that Whole Foods is getting cheaper.  Private-label products. Eighty percent of Trader Joe's products are in-house, meaning that customers can't get them anywhere else and the grocer can sell them at lower prices. The creativity of the in-house products is also important. Some of the most popular products include Chili-Lime Chicken Burgers, Cookie Butter (a cookie-flavored nut butter), and corn and chili salsa.  While Whole Foods has private-label products, they tend to veer more toward basic. The company also sells a wider variety of organic and healthy brands. As Wal-Mart and other grocers begin to stock these products, consumers have less of an incentive to go to Whole Foods.  Trader Joe's knows its audience. Trader Joe's is focused on product innovation and selling groceries and wine at a cheap price. Because customers know they can get high-quality stuff at a low price, they pack Trader Joe's stores.  Whole Foods has had a harder time differentiating. The company's response to all the competition isn't encouraging, according to a recent Bloomberg Industries report.  "New initiatives at the retailer, including online ordering and broadening the produce assortment to include more non-organic items, may push Whole Foods from unique to mainstream as it seeks a broader customer base to defend against direct competitors such as Sprouts grocers such as Kroger," according to Bloomberg.  In order to stand out, Whole Foods needs to differentiate its products.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/jennie-oSaving for retirement can be simple, but simple doesn’t mean easy. Saving 15 percent of your income is common advice, but almost no one actually saves this much. Even if you can’t save 15 percent of your paychecks right now, here are five easy ways to adjust your spending so you can free up cash to save for retirement: 1. Switch to a prepaid cell phone What's free yet still costs a fortune? The answer is a free smartphone that requires you to accept a 2-year contract at $80 a month. Prepaid phones aren't free, but the savings quickly adds up because of the lower monthly cost. Cell phone plans start as low as $5 a month, with data plans as low as $25 a month. So what does this have to do with retirement? Saving $55 a month by paying $25 monthly for your cell phone instead of $80 may not seem like a lot. However, over 40 years of working that small savings adds up to $144,000 if invested at a 7 percent return. 2. Keep a car 10 years If you must have a car, drive it for at least 10 years. You'll purchase half as many cars over your lifetime as someone who buys a new car every five years, and the savings is enormous. In the book “Deal With Your Debt”, Liz Weston ran the numbers. By driving a car five years longer than a typical car loan, you could save $250,000 over a lifetime of car purchases. And investing the savings with an 8 percent return would result in a nest egg of nearly $2.5 million. Think about that the next time you buy a car. 3. Ditch cable With streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, expensive cable packages are no longer necessary. Networks also offer current programming for free through online streaming. If you reduce or eliminate cable you could significantly boost your retirement savings, and get to watch your favorite TV shows when it suits your schedule. 4. Use a cash back credit card Credit cards offer free money. Whether in the form of cash back, points or travel rewards, plastic can be a simple and easy way to increase retirement savings. A 1 percent cash back card used for $2,500 a month in everyday spending generates $25 a month in rewards. Invested over 40 years at a 7 percent return, 1 percent cash back will get you more than $65,000. This savings can be increased with better cash back cards that pay 2 percent or more on certain purchases. 5. Invest with low-cost index funds Investing costs matter. In a recent paper, Vanguard founder John Bogle found that an actively managed fund with an annual cost of 2.27 percent would provide a 33 percent lower return to the investor than an index fund with a 0.06 percent annual cost, assuming a 7 percent return. Investing in low-cost index funds significantly reduces costs while in most cases increasing long-term returns. 6. Refinance Debt The easiest way to reduce monthly expenses is to refinance debt to a lower interest rate. Refinancing a mortgage offers the most bang for your buck. Refinancing high rate credit card debt to credit cards with no interest for 12 months or longer is another way to save money. Lowering your interest rate not only saves money, but also helps you get out of debt faster. Once out of debt, you’ll have more income to save for retirement. 7. Pick the best retirement accounts  The array of retirement account options is overwhelming for many people, including a 401(k), 403(b), IRA, Rollover IRA, SEP IRA, Simple IRA, Inherited IRA, Individual 401(k) and Roth accounts. Even something as "simple" as a Roth retirement account is complicated. There is a Roth 401(k), Roth 403(b), Roth IRA, Roth Conversion, Backdoor Roth and an Inherited Roth IRA, to name a few. But saving in a retirement account doesn’t have to be complicated. For most people, the first and best option is a 401(k) or 403(b) in which the employer matches some of your contributions. If you’re lucky enough to have an employer match, contribute enough to take full advantage of the match. If you have more to save, consider a deductible or Roth IRA if you qualify. And if you have even more to save after contributing the maximum amount to an IRA, return to your 401(k) or 403(b) to max out your contribution. This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
My colleague, John Mousseau, will discuss this transition in the tax-free Muni market in a forthcoming commentary.  Let me focus on a broader macro view. For the last few years we have been hearing, "The Fed is printing all this money. We will have high inflation. Interest rates will go shooting UP, and the markets and the economy will go in the tank." Guess what. The inflation rate in the US is somewhere between 1% and 2%. And with this low inflation, the 2.5% yield represents the interest rate on the benchmark US dollar government bond. It is reflecting a market-based price of the combined real yield and the inflation premium. Look to countries abroad. In Europe and the Eurozone the inflation rate is somewhere between 0.0% and 1%. The interest rate on the benchmark euro-denominated German government bond is about 1.3%. Big inflation does not seem to be looming there. It does not look as if interest rates will go shooting up or as if a catastrophe in the bond market is happening, either. The real interest rate in the Eurozone, combined with the inflation premium, result in this yield. We conclude that the inflation premium in the US is about 1 percentage point higher than it is in the Eurozone. Intuitively, that makes sense, so intuition and data seem to agree. BTW, both are very low. Consider other credits worldwide – in Japan, the UK, smaller mature European economies like Sweden, and weaker ones like Spain. What do we see? Interest rates on benchmark 10-year government debt and inflation rates are very low.  Low, low, low interest rates are a worldwide event.  Not just here in the US. We get pushback from readers every time we write about this. They say, "What do you mean there is no inflation. Can't you see that the price of gasoline is up to about $4 or more? Don't you go to the store and buy food? What do you mean there is low inflation?" Other readers accuse the government of a conspiracy to keep official inflation numbers artificially low. We completely disagree with the latter allegation. The methodology is very transparent. Any economist can walk through it easily. The folks who do this work in the government are skilled and they are individuals who do their work with integrity. We do not like many aspects of our government, but we do have confidence in the independent data-collecting agencies. We know many of them, work with them in professional bodies, and have decades of experience with their integrity. Let's address the former criticism noted above. Of course the price of gasoline is apparent to this writer since he buys gasoline every week. Of course the price of food is apparent since he eats food every week. Does that mean that interest rates and central bank policies around the world are driven by the price of food and gasoline? No. The US central bank, also known as the Federal Reserve, has no power to grow food. It is unable to drill for oil, process natural gas, build a pipeline, or transport oil from one place to another. It does not know how to process corn or bake bread. There are no free-range chickens running around on the front lawn of the Eccles Building in Washington. Central banks around the world know that the global rate of growth is low. The pressures for changes in the price level are low. Central banks also know that there is an employment gap worldwide. On one side of that gap are cohorts of people who want to work but who haven’t found as much work as they want. There are many who wish to earn more income so they can spend it. On the other side of the gap are the employment possibilities to which they might be matched, in order that they might obtain that income. To the extent those matches do not occur, we have a lack of full participation in the global labor force. When there is a large global overhang of labor that is not earning enough income to cover rising expenses and to make possible a rising quality of life, that labor force does not create an upward inflation pressure. And today we do not see upward inflation pressure coming from labor. It may come in the future, but it is not there now. At the same time, that labor pool has to eat and needs fuel. Rising food and fuel prices, in the absence of increasing labor income, result in economic slowing. One household at a time has to realign its budget in order to continue to cover the costs of its necessities. In the US, every one-cent rise in the price of gasoline equates to about a $1.4 billion reduction in annual discretionary spending. This is our estimate. Other estimates range from $1.2 to $1.6 billion. People pay at the pump for the gasoline to commute to work whether the price of gas is up or down. Simple math!  Drop the price of gasoline in the United States from $4 to $3 a gallon, and the American consumer's discretionary spending in the US will accelerate by $140 billion over the course of one year. Raise the price of gasoline to $5, and consumer's discretionary spending in the US will fall by a similar amount. Food is more complex because of consumer substitutions of one food for another, but the concept is the same. Currently, geopolitical risks in Nigeria, Europe (Ukraine), the Middle East, South America (Venezuela), the South China Sea, and other places around the world combine to maintain the oil price above $100 per barrel (and trending higher). And US politics are such that we cannot even approve a pipeline, a state of affairs which will inhibit the growth of the domestic energy sector. Additional failures in politics, along with weather-induced changes, are resulting in some pressures on food prices. Meanwhile, labor income for many people remains stagnant or is falling, even as necessities such as food and energy are becoming more expensive. In households subject to that predicament, real income (after adjustments for necessities like food and energy) is falling. The takeaways from the bond market rally and low interest rates are that we’re experiencing slow growth and real incomes under pressure. Players in financial markets who do not understand this are on the wrong side of the trade. They bet that the bond markets would fall apart because of central banks. They either went on the short side of the bond trade or sat in cash. Now they do not know what to do. They cannot deploy the cash at the interest rates that were available a few months ago. They are bewildered. Welcome to the middle of May, when financial markets are bewildering. Cumberland has had a terrific run in the bond markets. We thank Investment News for the recognition.  We have been on the longer side of duration. We have captured yields when they were available. We continue to capture the relatively attractive yields in places, sectors, and types of bonds that are spread to the Treasury market. We are not buying Treasury notes and bonds. If we will not buy the 10-year US Treasury at 2.5% with our own money, we certainly will not buy it with a client's money. We are approaching the time when portfolios need to be adjusted – step by step, nuance by nuance, bond by bond –for some shortening of what has been very long duration for a very long period of time. One final note is offered for our clients and their consultants and co-professionals. Do not underestimate the power of the falling federal deficit. We peaked at a $1.4 trillion annual deficit run rate. We are heading to a $400 billion run rate, and the run rate continues to fall. Thus the federal government has a diminishing requirement to finance itself through borrowing. The Fed is tapering while the government deficit is shrinking. So even after the tapering, the Federal Reserve is still financing nearly all the deficit. Both of these trends should continue for the rest of this year. We do not expect any pressures on bond markets from the fiscal side of the United States government. We send this from Sarasota on Saturday morning since we leave for New York tomorrow.  Dinner with some finance, economist and fishing buddy friends Sunday night is followed by the GIC conference on Monday morning at the New York Athletic Club (www.interdependence.org to register).  Registration is still open since a few spaces remain available. As for fishing, the June and August trips to Leen's Lodge are both filled and have waiting lists.  We usually open the Labor Day group since many folks ask "How do I get to visit this place?  Well, it's easy.  Call Charles Driza, 207-796-2929 and come up on Labor Day weekend. Tight lines.   See you Monday in NY. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lucas JacksonAs we reported earlier today, Chipotle has recruited a handful of famous authors and actors to write short essays that will appear on the chain's paper cups and bags.  One of those writers is Michael Lewis, the New York Times best-selling author of "Moneyball," "The Blind Side," and most recently, "Flash Boys."  In his essay for Chipotle, titled "The Two-Minute Minute," Lewis explains his frenetic obsession with managing his time efficiently. Read his essay below. I spend too much time trying to spend less time. Before trips to the grocery store, I’ll waste minutes debating whether it is more efficient to make a list, or simply race up and down the aisles grabbing things. I spend what feels like decades in airport security lines trying to figure out how to get through most quickly: should I put the plastic bin containing my belt and shoes through the bomb detector before my carry-on bag, or after? And why sit patiently waiting for the light to turn green when I might email on my phone? I’ve become more worried about using time efficiently than using it well. But in saner moments I’m able to approach the fourth dimension not as a thing to be ruthlessly managed, but whose basic nature might be altered to enrich my experience of life. I even have tricks for slowing time –or at least my perception of it. At night I sometimes write down things that happened that day.  For example: This morning Walker (my five year old son) asks me if I had a pet when I was a kid. “Yes,” I say, “I had a Siamese cat that I loved named Ding How, but he got run over by a car.” Walker: “It’s lucky that it got killed by a car.” Me: “Why?” Walker: “Because then you could get a new cat that isn’t named Ding How.”  Recording the quotidian details of my day seems to add hours a day to my life: I’m not sure why. Another trick is to focus on some ordinary thing–the faintly geological strata of the insides of a burrito, for instance–and try to describe what I see. Another: pick a task I’d normally do quickly and thoughtlessly–writing words for the side of a cup, say– and do it as slowly as possible. Forcing my life into slow-motion, I notice a lot that I miss at game speed. The one thing I don’t notice is the passage of time. FREE AppDownload

