YouTube / University of Nebraska–LincolnWarren BuffettBerkshire Hathaway has disclosed a $528.7 million stake in Verizon, or 11,022,743 shares. Dan Loeb's Third Point LLC also disclosed a stake in the telecom giant. Verizon shares were up more than 1% after hours Thursday. In its latest 13-F filing, the Warren Buffett-helmed firm also said it had upped its stakes in Walmart, IBM, DaVita Healthcare and U.S. Bancorp. FREE AppDownload
T.J. Kirkpatrick/Getty ImagesScientists have been researching the role of looks in the success of female politicians.Good morning, and welcome to Friday! Here’s what you need to know… Tepper tipper. There was something of a sell-off in the US session overnight, with one analyst partly pinning the blame on hedge fund manager David Tepper, known for his bullishness on stocks, who said this week it was a “nervous time” and the market was “getting dangerous”. (He’s not the only one – Oaktree Capital’s Howard Marks says in the AFR this morning that a “day of reckoning” is coming and Australian super funds should be reassessing their love affair with stocks.) Asia to follow. ASX futures are pointing to fall at the open, with the June futures contract down 30 points, following Wall St’s lead. Shanghai was down 1.12% yesterday on weaker-than-expected growth this week, and the Nikkei was down 0.75% yesterday following a big GDP print for Q1 (4.4% annualized), which reduces the prospect of further BoJ stimulus. The big number for Asian markets is likely to be Hong Kong GDP, and we also get Japan industrial production. The Europe question. The patchiness of Europe’s recovery is clear from the Eurozone Q1 GDP data. The all really about Germany, which grew at 0.8% annualized, just beating 0.7% expected. Portugal clocked in a shocking 0.7% fall against -0.1% expected, while Italy was -0.1% against expectations of +0.2%. The sluggishness explains the big focus on the ECB meeting next month, in which we might see a negative interest rate announced. More here. Vietnam China tensions. Five people have now been killed and 400 rioters detained over anti-Chinese protests in southern Vietnam. China has decided to build an oil rig in disputed maritime territory in the South China Sea. The Paracel Islands are claimed by Vietnam but controlled by China. Protesters have been burning and looting what they believe to be Chinese-controlled factories, and Chinese are now starting to leave the country. Analysts say this is the lowest point in China-Vietnam relations since the 1979 border war, in which thousands were killed. How to change a company. One of the big challenges for an incoming CEO is making their mark on the company quickly. Satya Nadella is a study in this: in just three months, he launched Microsoft into the Internet of Things, ended the war with Apple, got developers making more apps for Windows, let go a couple of senior managers who weren’t all-in with his vision, and changed the Windows 8 business model for the better. The stock is at a 14-year high. Without smoke… “Vaping”, or the use of e-cigarettes, is an important trend. It’s helping thousands of smokers kick the habit, and businesses, especially in the hospitality and airline industries, are having to figure out how to deal with people who use them. Can you do it in a bar? Is it OK to “vape” in the office? There’s a problem, though: they may be a “gateway device” for young people towards actual smoking. Chris Pash has taken a look at the issue here. Note the ads: who do you think they might be targeting? Internal NYT website analysis. An internal memo about the Grey Lady’s web traffic makes for fascinating reading. So much that you wonder if the person who wrote it still has a job. It notes competitors are growing faster, there’s an “inescapable truth” that traffic to the home page is in decline, and, most witheringly, people don’t come back for Paul Krugman. Must-read for anyone in the media or digital industries. Origin blue. It’s just two weeks to go until the first game in rugby league’s greatest series, the State of Origin. An extraordinary situation is unfolding in the NSW camp with coach Laurie Daley having to state his support for his assistant coach Matt Parish, who is going out with the ex-wife of powerful Sydney broadcaster Ray Hadley. Last week Hadley called the NSW CEO to “discuss” Parish, and meetings are being called to discuss the matter. Daley says, unsurprisingly, it is destabilizing the campaign. The Daily Telegraph has the details. Palin comparisons. Scientists have been researching how looks can affect a female politician’s success at the ballot box. They say it requires a delicate balance between voters’ perception of traditional femininity and political competence. The gluten mystery. A key study that provided evidence of non-Celiac gluten sensitivity has been challenged – by the authors of the original report. Gluten sensitivity is a big industry, with gluten-free options now a staple at many restaurants and in supermarkets. In this follow-up controlled study, subjects were asked to report pain, nausea and bloating – the typical symptoms in people who believe they’re allergic to gluten – and found it didn’t matter if there was gluten in their food or not. Bonus item: It’s the question being debated in offices in Australia, with much pausing and replaying of the moment Chris Pyne said, “You’re such a [something]“ across the Parliamentary chamber in Bill Shorten’s direction yesterday. Pyne says it was “grub”. Some people think it’s the c-bomb. (My two cents: there’s no way he would have.) But it sure is close…  Have a great weekend. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why CAPE-Based Concerns About The Stock Market Miss The Point (The AllianceBernstein Blog) In a recent New York Times article titled "Time to Worry About Stock Market Bubbles," Robert Shiller points out that based on his cyclically adjusted price earnings (CAPE) ratio, stocks have only been this expensive three times in the past. The CAPE ratio can be derived by dividing the S&amp;P 500 by the average of ten years worth of earnings. But Joseph G. Paul at AllianceBernstein thinks CAPE concerns are missing the point. "If you look behind the averages and into the historical drivers of earnings and the multiples that investors are willing to pay for those earnings, the picture looks less grim," Paul writes.  This is because 1. "Shiller’s current CAPE multiple of 25 times implies adjusted earnings for the S&amp;P 500 Index of about $75, a full 30% below the market’s current trailing earnings. A drop of that magnitude would take a recession-level collapse in revenues and margins. Is that a plausible expectation?" 2. "The discount rate used to value earnings.  Discount rates are related to the prevailing rate of interest. Today, rates are well below average, whether long term or recent. Lower rates argue for higher multiples."  With that said, Paul writes that "it’s important that investors adjust their perspective to accommodate this new reality and evaluate stocks relative to their alternatives—not simply relative to history—to improve the chances of meeting their long-term goals." Asset Managers Have Been Too Liberal In Their Description Of Alternative Investments (The Wall Street Journal)  Asset managers increasingly claim to offer alternative investments in an effort to attract more investors. But this practice is distorting the true nature of alternatives writes Michael Kitces The term that was once used for distinct asset classes like real estate and commodities, now includes hedge funds, risk parity etc. "While both types of “alternatives” may meet the classic requirement that they have low correlation to traditional investments, to characterize both in the same manner fails to recognize the source of the returns," writes Kitces.  He suggests that people that are invested in an alternative, double check "whether it truly is in your portfolio because it represents an alternative asset class, or whether it’s simply an active manager trying to add value." Mutual Fund Fees Are Falling (Morningstar)  Fund fees fell in 2013, with the average mutual fund charging 1.25% today, down from 1.28% in 2012, and 1.47% in 2013. "Fund fees dropped in 2013 courtesy of the huge stock market rally that year," writes Russel Kinnel at Morningstar. "Market rallies cause the total assets under management of the fund industry to grow tremendously and that in turn triggers breakpoints in mutual fund management fees. Those breakpoints are built into a fund's fee structure so a fund charges less for each additional dollar managed over various AUM thresholds." David Tepper: 'I Am Nervous. I Think It's Nervous Time' (Business Insider)  David Tepper, head of $20 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, expressed some concern about the stock market at the SALT Conference in Las Vegas. "I think we're OK. But, listen, there's times to make money and there's times not to lose money," Tepper said. "This is probably you're supposed to think about preserving some of your money...I think you can still be long, but I think you're supposed to have some cash now." Tepper said he is "nervous," that the stock market is "getting dangerous" and that he's not saying go short, but "just don't go too friggin long." UBS Appoints Paul Hatch As New Group Managing Director (Reuters)  UBS has hired Paul Hatch to oversee its wealth management unit in the Americas, reports Jed Horowitz at Reuters. Hatch comes in at group managing director and head of Advice and Solutions "to consolidate oversight of the products and services the firm's 7,000 brokers to sell to 'high net worth' and 'ultra high net worth' clients'," writes Horowitz. Hatch is an industry veteran, having started his career in the brokerage industry and E.F. Hutton &amp; Co, he then moved to Citigroup in 1993, and stayed with Smith Barney until a few years ago. Hatch's appointment is part of a bigger shake up. FREE AppDownload
Surveys continue to indicate that employers are having a tough time finding workers with the right skills. As such, employers are also saying that they're having to raise pay in order to attract workers from the relatively shallow pool of skilled laborers. But economists are left asking: why aren't reported wages actually rising? For the most part, experts look to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' average hourly earnings data for guidance. And on the surface, the numbers look sluggish. But Barclays' Dean Maki says that the BLS's stats are a poor representation of what's really going on. He argues that by separating the wages of supervisory workers from nonsupervisory workers, you get a more useful picture of what's really going on in pay. Here's a bit of what he wrote last week (emphasis added): "A few years ago, the BLS created a new average hourly earnings series for all employees, not just production and nonsupervisory workers, and this has become the headline wage series. This “all employees” series increased just 1.9% y/y in April and has shown little acceleration in recent years. Because the BLS publishes the weight of the production and nonsupervisory workers (about 83%), we can back out the implied wage growth of the “supervisory workers” included in the “all employees” series. Figure 3 plots the growth rates of the implied supervisory worker series alongside the production and nonsupervisory worker series. The data suggest that supervisors are receiving puny wage increases relative to their employees; the supervisory series was up 1.3% y/y in April, compared to 2.3% for production and nonsupervisory workers. Furthermore, the data suggest this was the case for most of the past year and throughout 2007-11. Thus, these data would seem to suggest that concerns about rising inequality are misplaced, as workers have supposedly been experiencing faster wage growth than their bosses for most of the past seven years." Maki notes that supervisory workers also receive alternative forms of compensation like bonuses and equity, which aren't captured in the BLS's measure. As such, it's best to focus on the production and nonsupervisory worker data, which suggest wages are rising faster than we think. Barclays FREE AppDownload
It could be Cheech and Chong‘s vision of what the future would look like if grownups ever got hold of marijuana. Next week, the first co-working space in the U.S. for grass-related technology and startups will open in Denver. But Green Labs Denver is not a funky place to get high and maybe get some work done. “It was built in 2008, and the owner renovated it,” Green Labs co-founder Dave Pike told VentureBeat, describing the glass-and-polished-wood facility in the RiNo (River North Art District) of Denver. “We’re putting in a glass conference room, and a bar area with seating.” Tonight is the launch party — ah, the refreshments! — and the opening is next week for the first group of eight startups. The idea is to house budding companies sprouting up around the cannabis industry – not growers, sellers, or retailers themselves. “There’s a financial services company,” Pike told us, something pot-sellers need desperately because banks won’t yet take all that grassy cash. Another is a digital marketing consultancy. A customer relationship management (CRM) startup is focusing on developing software for marijuana sellers to relate with their medical and recreational customers. In other words, we’re not talking about how your father’s pot dealer managed customers or cash. With about four dozen desks and two private offices in the space, Pike thinks as many as 30 to 35 startups might be able to fit in here. They also expect to host what Pike unpunningly described as “high-end events,” like a cooking-with-cannabis demo. He and his partner, Michael Looney, are entrepreneurs from outside Colorado. Pike has a company in New York that provides party trollies; Looney started AltSpaceNY. You can also tell them apart by their own relationships with the bud. “The first time I smoked pot,” Looney told us, “was in boarding school in Connecticut, and I had troubles with attention deficit.” He said that grass helped him “enormously to clear my head and focus on things that are essential,” and then he had “to learn to manage [smoking] and not become a stoner.” On the other hand, Pike — whom Looney met when they were both students at the University of Michigan — doesn’t smoke. Their intention, Looney said, is to help the industry “through organic growth,” doing something positive before “Phillip Morris and Marlboro and those guys come in and popularize it their way.” Can workers in a co-working space for marijuana startups light up whenever they want? “We’ll probably allow vaping,” he said. “It’s not as intrusive as smoking, and it’s not something people would be doing constantly throughout a day.” But what about a joint? “Smoke is smoke,” Looney told us, “and I don’t want the place filled with smoke.” But, he added, “maybe we’ll have a smoking room.” This article originally appeared at VentureBeat.  Copyright 2014. Follow VentureBeat on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomber TVDavid Tepper, head of $20 billion Appaloosa Management, cut his SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF stake by over 6 million, to 4,814,613 shares, according to a 13F filing with the SEC.  Still, that ETF represents the largest single holding in the the filing, valued at $900 million as of the end of March 31. His second largest holding was PowerShares QQQ Trust, which tracks the Nasdaq. That position was worth $815 million. Speaking at SALT conference in Las Vegas on Wednesday, Tepper said he is "nervous," that the stock market is "getting dangerous" and that he's not saying go short, but "just don't go too friggin long." Tepper added brand new positions in Facebook (478,500 shares), Expedia (695,837 shares) and Priceline (183,224). Halliburton is one of his top position increases with 4,032,021 new shares to bring his position as of March 31 to 5,024,621. He liquidated his positions in Transocean, Foster Wheeler, EMC Corp, Hartford Financial, Fluor. Tepper also sold 2.8 million shares in MGM Resorts International and now has 3,598,758 shares.  FREE AppDownload
Carl Icahn disclosed some details of his positions in ebay, Herbalife and Apple this afternoon. The activist investor's latest 13-F filing lists a previously undisclosed stake in ebay worth $1.5. He also increased his Apple holdings by nearly 60% to $4 billion stake, and increased his shares in Herbalife by less than 1% to $974 million. Here's the run-down via Bloomberg: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Jason Kempin for Getty Images/Craig F. Walker for the Denver PostChipotle (CMG) shareholders have said no to the executive pay plan. This plan determines how senior executives are compensated and it looks like the burrito chain is against it. More than 75% of Chipotle’s shareholders voted against ratifying the current executive compensation plan. The company made the announcement at its annual shareholders meeting on Thursday. This vote speaks volumes of the compensation plans for senior executives at Chipotle which include schooling expenses for co-CEO Monty Moran’s children and tax reimbursements for both Moran and co-CEO Steve Ells. Ells’ compensation for 2013 is valued at $25.1 million while Moran’s compensation for 2013 is valued at $24.4 million. CMG stock is down over 1.7% Thursday. FREE AppDownload
The significant selloff in tech growth stocks while “cash flows” have rallied over the past couple months, occurring during a period of economic acceleration and spare capacity reduction, has caused me some soul-searching. The two “big hump” generations are Millennials and Boomers. At the moment, Boomers are transitioning from working to retiring and living off their savings, pensions and entitlements. Their need for steady cash flows will only increase from here. On the other hand Millennials are slowly shaking off the ill effects of the past decade, and burdened with student loans while cramped into apartments or their family’s shelter, will see their incomes rise. Initially, and possibly for awhile, that income growth will go into paying down student loans, moving out of their parents’ house, and then eventually save for a downpayment to buy a house, which they’ll see as “shelter” and not “investment.” It may be a solid decade before the impact of Boomer portfolio deleveraging wanes, and before Millennials have enough savings to put into financial assets. So what does this mean for financial assets? One of my favorite “gut check” spreads is the spread between the earnings yield of the S&amp;P 500 (SPX EPS / SPX price) and the Moody’s Baa corporate bond yield. From 1980-2001, using end of year quotes, this spread averaged -3.60%, meaning that corporate bonds yielded 3.6% more than stocks (yes, I’m aware of all the limitations of this — duration mismatch, not apples to apples company-wise, etc). Currently, it’s a bit over 1%, and it’s even spent time over 2% over the past few years, meaning that stocks “yield” more than corporate bonds. What if this persists for 10, 15, 20 years? Imagine it were the end of 1987 and the S&amp;P 500 earnings yield was 6.5% while the Baa yield was 11.3%. If you were a forward-thinking CFO, why wouldn’t you issue a perpetual torrent of low-yielding equity to pay down debt, and once you had done that to build or buy more stuff? It’s what the market was signaling you should do (just ask Mark Zuckerberg). Mid-career Boomers demanded that equity as they built up their 401(k) balances. Now imagine it’s 2014, and who knows, 2019 or 2024, and the Baa yield is sub-5% while the S&amp;P 500 earnings yield is 6%+, and within that index growth appears relatively “cheap” compared to companies with consistent cash flows paying dividends and buying back stock. Why wouldn’t you issue perpetual amounts of cheap debt to buy back stock and/or acquire high growth companies that Boomers can’t afford to buy and Millennials don’t want? You’re swapping low yielding debt that households want for the equity that they don’t. From 1980-2001, the system incentivized corporations to issue equity to buy both growth and bonds (or issue loans, if you will). Boomers wanted to both borrow money and buy stocks. This led to the creation of too much fixed capital and led households to have too much debt. Since 2010, the system is incentivizing corporations to issue debt to buy (or retire/take private) existing capital. Households want to buy that debt (either paying down their own debt/deleveraging or buying fixed cash flows) and don’t want the risk inherent in growthy existing capital. And it’s arguably leading to a fixed capital shortage sometime down the road. In this latter scenario, stocks can do quite well regardless of whether growth is high or how it “feels” to Main Street. It’s all about responding to incentives and how assets are priced relative to each other. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderJohn Paulson's Paulson &amp; Co. Holdings is out with its 13F. Paulson kept maintained his stake in SPDR Gold Trust. As of March 31st he had 10,234,852 shares of SPDR Gold Trust, valued at about $1.3 billion. Paulson, who got rich by shorting subprime mortgages, took a beating on his gold bet in 2013. It's worth noting that Paulson scaled back his bet on miner Freeport-McMoran, he dumped 5,377,882 shares during the period and now holds 10,123,500 shares. Paulson also disclosed some brand new positions including 8,742,725 shares of Verizon and 4,476,600 shares of CBS. FREE AppDownload
AEI screenshotThird Point, the hedge fund run by Dan Loeb, dumped all 8 million of its shares of Yahoo! in Q1. This is according to a new 13-F regulatory filing. The fund also dumped all 3.25 million shares it held of Abbott Laboratories and all 1.5 million shares it held in Gilead Sciences. Meanwhile, Loeb added Verizon Communications to his portfolio, buying 3.5 million shares during the quarter. The fund also increased its existing holding of Liberty Global and T-Mobile, but it scaled back positions in FedEx and AIG. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderFewer honeybees died this past winter than in previous ones, although bees are still dying at a rate that is not economically sustainable, according to a federal report published Thursday. The new survey, issued by the U.S Department of Agriculture and the Bee Informed Partnership, found that nationwide losses of managed honeybee populations from all causes was down to 23.2%, a drop of nearly 7% from the winter before when death rates were at 30.5%. Over the past eight years, beekeepers have reported average winter losses of 29.6%. That's still no reason to celebrate. Beekeepers say they lose money every year that losses exceed 18.9%, according to the USDA. Honeybee die-offs have been blamed on a combination of factors, including pesticides, disease, parasites, poor nutrition, bad weather, and the stress of being trucked from orchard to orchard to pollinate different crops. Colony collapse disorder, a mysterious phenomenon in which bees vanish from their hives, may be triggered by one or a number of these pressures. "Yearly fluctuations in the rate of losses like these only demonstrate how complicated the whole issue of honey bee heath has become," Jeff Pettis, coauthor of the survey and leader of the government's bee research laboratory in Maryland, said in a statement.  The report comes after a Harvard study that found a strong link between the most widely used class of pesticides — neonicotinoids — and colony collapse disorder. Some scientists have dismissed the report, taking issue with the small sample size (only 18 colonies were tested) and noting the pesticides used to treat the colonies were not administered to the bees in a way that would be found in nature. WikipediaVarroa mites on pupae. Rather than targeting pesticides, the government report said there is a "growing consensus among researchers that one of the largest contributors to poor colony health and colony losses is the varroa mite." The mite is an Asian-bee parasite that first arrived in U.S. in 1987. "What is clear from all of our efforts is that varroa is a persistent and often unexpected problem," Dennis van Engelsdorp, director of the Bee Informed Partnership and an entomologist at the University of Maryland. "Every beekeeper needs to have an aggressive varroa management plan in place. Without one, they should not be surprised if they suffer large losses every other year or so." Monsanto, Bayer, and other pesticide companies also "say the bees are being killed by other factors, such as mites," Reuters said.  According to the website, Monsanto, a maker of pesticides, owns one of the companies that collaborated with the USDA on the report.  The survey results are based on self-reported information from 7,200 beekeepers, who represent 21.7% of the country's 2.6 million colonies. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Natalie BehringJC Penney shares were up more than 24% in after-hours trading after reporting higher than expected Q1 sales growth. Same-store sales climbed 6.2%, compared with forecasts for 4.2%. Net sales came in at $2.8 billion, compared with expectations for $2.7 billion. Gross margin for the quarter came in at 33.1%, in line with expectations. Loss per share came in at $1.16 versus forecasts for $1.25. The firm also announced it had received a new, larger credit line. After hemorrhaging sales, along with a CEO, over the past couple of years, Penney seems to have bottomed out. Shares have declined 74% since trading around $25 in 2012, but are up 40% over the past three months. They now trade at about $9.  Retail analyst Brian Sozzi is bullish: …we think when weather has been cooperative throughout the U.S in the first quarter, JC Penney is sucking in a good bit of mall traffic via a combination of effective promotional messaging (we are seeing more consistent promotions in the store, not intra-quarter spikes in worrying “% off signs” as was evident during the holidays), better in stocks on name brand merchandise and basics, and stores that are finally cohesive in terms of layout (home department finagling has concluded). Mash up these store level observations, and considering the stock’s relative outperformance during the recent broader market pullback, and a sensible inference is that the return of the old, somewhat boring JC Penney is enough to deliver a key holiday 2014 performance that removes bankruptcy concerns and the need to raise further penalizing capital.  Such an assumption…not priced into the stock. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart's sales unexpectedly fell today.  But while overall foot traffic and sales were down, there was one bright spot—Wal-Mart's Neighborhood Market concept.  Sales at the markets were up an impressive 5%.  Wal-Mart has about 400 Neighborhood Markets, compared with more than 3,300 Supercenters, notes Kyle Stock at Bloomberg Businessweek. The average store is about 20% the size of a Supercenter.  Big box stores are becoming irrelevant as Americans downsize and purchase big-ticket items like furniture and televisions online.  Wal-Mart's marketplace concept focuses heavily on fresh produce and groceries. While traditional Wal-Mart stores are situated on large patches of land, the Neighborhood Markets are primarily in urban areas.  Wal-Mart shared some photos of its new concept. Chances are, one will be coming to a neighborhood near you in the future.  Here's a Neighborhood Market in California. Note how the store closely resembles a Whole Foods Market.  Wal-Mart Here's a more urban location, in Chicago.  Wal-Mart The Neighborhood Market includes ample "healthy" displays. Wal-Mart There's also an emphasis on local and organic produce.  Wal-Mart Wal-Mart is expanding the concept to more markets.  Wal-Mart FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidWe got a ton of economic data today. But traders are obsessing over something a hedge fund manager said at a conference on Wednesday evening. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jason ReedBerkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett is pictured in the audience as U.S. President Barack Obama addresses the 2010 Fortune Most Powerful Women Summit in Washington, October 5, 2010. Macro fund manager John Burbank of Passport Capital joked that Warren Buffett is "basically a tax evader" at the SALT conference and attendees started clapping and laughing. His argument is not that Buffett is doing anything illegal or anything like that, but that a lot of his success is in investing in a way that results in the lowest tax bill. The discussion took place when fellow panelist billionaire Leon Cooperman of Omega Advisors brought up the Oracle of Omaha's returns after tax.  "I'm not a publicist for Warren Buffett, but when I keep hearing people talk about Buffett's record, nobody mentions his tax efficiency ..." He continued: "About 30 years ago, one of his annual reports went through a hypothetical example of being a terrific money manager if you put the every year's hot stock and made 15% in that stock, sold it and went into the next hot stock in the following year versus owning the same stock at a 15% year for thirty years. He had thousands of times differential after tax. And so I think when the New York Times writes an article saying Buffett underperformed....somebody ought to examine his record after tax returns versus the assumed after tax return on the S&amp;P and the return differential is phenomenal," Cooperman said. "I think he's not going to do it though. I think he's basically a tax evader," Burbank said as audience members laughed and clapped. "I think there's nobody more sophisticated in the tax code if that's what your saying," Cooperman responded. "I just hate when he tells you to pay taxes," Burbank added to more cheers and laughs from the crowd. "That's a different concept. If you're asking me if he's become somewhat hypocritical. I don't want to go there. What I'm saying is his returns after tax are phenomenal. And nobody talks about the fact that he's tax efficient. Political views, etc. I don't want to go there," Cooperman said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriFund fees dropped in 2013 courtesy of the huge stock market rally that year. Market rallies cause the total assets under management of the fund industry to grow tremendously and that in turn triggers breakpoints in mutual fund management fees. Those breakpoints are built into a fund's fee structure so a fund charges less for each additional dollar managed over various AUM thresholds.  The industry also shares some other efficiencies from the greater economies of scale, though they of course keep quite a bit to themselves. The average investor in open-end mutual funds paid 0.71% in expenses in 2013 versus 0.72% in 2012 and 0.78% in 2010. The figure has gradually come down from a peak of 0.95% in 2000. We calculate a figure for the average investor by asset-weighting expense ratios so that big funds count more than small ones. We include all open-end funds except for funds of funds. If we look at the average mutual fund instead of the average investor, the trend is the same but at higher cost. Today the average fund charges 1.25%, down from 1.28% in 2012 and off from a peak of 1.47% in 2003. You can see the long-term trends in this graph. Morningstar If we break the data down by fund group, we see that most of the decline was in equities. The typical investor in U.S. stock funds paid 0.67% in 2013, down from 0.70% in 2012. The average investor in foreign equities paid 0.78% versus 0.80%. The typical sector fund investor paid 0.90% versus 0.92%. In 2013, balanced funds dropped 2 basis points to 0.78% for the average investor. I was a little surprised to see bond-fund expenses drop, as most bond categories were flat for the year. Even so, the typical investor in a bond fund paid 1 basis point less, down to 0.60% in 2013. Municipal bonds remained flat at 0.59% for the average investor. The good news is that expenses will likely come down more for fiscal 2014 barring a huge market swoon in the second half. The reason is that 2013's rally continued toward the end of the year so that the growth in assets wasn't fully captured by 2013's figures, which reflect the 12 months ended October 2013. What's Driving Lower Fees?  Asset growth is by far the biggest driver, as funds typically have breakpoints set to automatically lower fees as assets grow. And the largest part of asset growth will usually be market performance, as in 2013. However, a second component is fund flows. Fund investors have become smarter about buying cheaper funds. Last year, 95% of net inflows went into funds with expense ratios that ranked in the cheapest quintile of their category peers. The two years prior it was actually greater than 100% because you had money going out of pricier funds even as it was rushing into cheaper funds. In the 1990s, investors were less choosy about fees. On average only 56% of net inflows went into the cheapest quintile in the '90s. Low costs generally lead to superior returns, so no doubt some of the money going into low-cost funds also reflects investors following performance as well as expenses. A big component of that move to lower costs is passive investments. But it doesn’t stop there. Money has flowed into lower-cost institutional bond funds that are actively managed, too. And even within actively managed equity funds, quite a bit of the money flowing in ends up in lower-cost funds. The table below illustrates just how much more investors have focused new money on low-cost funds. MorningstarFinding Low-Cost FundsYou can see how a fund's expense ratio stacks up on the fees tab. In our free fund screener, you can search for funds with fees below their category average.  In our  Premium screener, you can search for can choose a maximum expense ratio and screen for only funds that are cheaper than that.  Why You Should CareNext week, I'll explore in depth why costs are important. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Jeffrey Gundlach, chief executive and chief investment officer of DoubleLine CapitalDoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach warns that we may be on the edge of a big bond market rally that could see yields tanking. "If we go down [more] on Treasury yields, we will see one of the biggest short-covering scrambles of all time," said Gundlach on Wednesday in San Diego. This quote is being reported by FA Mag's Dan Jamieson from the Altegris Strategic Investments Conference. Coming into 2014, almost no one predicted the 10-year Treasury yield would tumble to the levels we're seeing today. But bond fund manager Jeff Gundlach did. During a public webcast on Jan. 14, when the 10-year yield was at around 3.0% and Wall Street said it would climb to 3.4%, Gundlach predicted that it could fall as low as 2.5% in the near-term. Today, the 10-year yield fell through 2.5% and got as low as 2.4716%. Gundlach isn't the only one warning of a short squeeze in the bond market. "10y short interest futures (CFTC) data showing a very crowded short," said Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz. "The crowd is rarely right, and now the squeeze is on." Should things intensify, Gundlach's already contrarian prediction may not have been contrarian enough. "If for some reason someone has to cover these shorts, you could actually see the low yields of 2012 get taken out," said Gundlach. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's Would you pay $28 million for this one-ton steel sculpture of Popeye? If you're Steve Wynn, the answer appears to be, why not. The casino magnate was the lone bidder for the 2009 Jeff Koons piece in a Wednesday Sotheby's auction that saw mixed results, with a dozen works, including another Koons piece, a glass case of three basketballs floating in water — going unsold. In fact, Sotheby's now trails rival auction house Christie's significantly — check out this chart from Art Tactic (via Art Market Monitor) showing evening sales levels. ArtTactic The Wall Street Journal recently discussed what's behind the divergence: While Christie's has diversified its customer base in recent years, Sotheby's has doubled-down on the highest-end bidders. It's the old funds-versus-flows debate, and Christie's seems to be winning. Wynn said he plans to display Popeye at one of his Las Vegas hotels. FREE AppDownload
Thankfully, men's bags have evolved past the ten pound hunk of metal your dad rocked in the eighties. Durand Guion, vice president and men's fashion director at Macy's Inc., explains the difference. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderWe're at the SALT Conference in Las Vegas — one of the most prestigious hedge fund conferences of the year with over 1,800 folks from the buyside in attendance.  Outside of the ballroom with all the panels and discussions, is a lounge area with food and several booths for various financial services products and companies.  The coolest booth by far goes to UBS, Hazel Tree and Sungard. They have a Formula 1 race car videogame. UBS managing director Michael Rucci explained that they wanted a "loud way" of getting their message out there. Well, it's definitely a fun way to market yourself.  They're also keeping track of the fastest times. The winner gets an iPad.  Right now, a young consultant is in the lead. That may change throughout the day.  Julia La Roche for Business Insider  FREE AppDownload
Long time CNBC executive  Susan Krakower is leaving CNBC to restart iconic finance show "Wall Street Week" with SkyBridge Capital, says a source close to the situation. Krakower is best known for developing shows like "Fast Money" and "Mad Money." She has been at CNBC since 2002. SkyBridge is a fund of funds and hedge fund advisory firm helmed by Anthony Scaramucci.  It is unclear how this new iteration of "Wall Street Week" will be distributed — on television or digitally. Back when the show first debuted in 1970 it was produced by Maryland Public Television, and then started airing on PBS nation wide in 1972.  The show ran until 2005.  [UPDATE] The press release just came out:   Las Vegas, NV (May 15, 2014) –  SkyBridge Capital (SkyBridge), a global investment management firm and producer of the SALT Conference currently underway in Las Vegas, today announced it has licensed the rights to the iconic financial television program “Wall Street Week” from Maryland Public Television. Susan Krakower and Raymond Borelli, both formerly of CNBC, have joined SkyBridge to oversee creative development, programming and distribution plans for the show’s revival.     The new Wall Street Week will be an extension of the content, people and predictions that have been the hallmark of the SALT conference since its inception six years ago.     SkyBridge will develop a weekly show and ancillary content utilizing the “Wall Street Week” (WSW) moniker. WSW, originally hosted by Louis Rukeyser, was the must-watch program among investors Friday nights on PBS for 35 years (1970-2005). At its peak, the show aired on more than 300 stations nationwide and had over four million weekly viewers.     “‘Wall Street Week’ was once the most powerful name in financial television. We will recreate the premier platform for both retail and institutional investors to tune in for a thoughtful analysis of the markets and other relevant financial topics,” said Anthony Scaramucci, founder and co-managing partner of SkyBridge.      Ms. Krakower will join SkyBridge as Chief Creative Officer on June 2.  Most recently, she served as senior vice president of strategic programming and development at CNBC. In her more than 11 years with the leading financial network, Ms. Krakower was responsible for the creation of numerous programs, including “Mad Money with Jim Cramer” and “Fast Money,” two programs that redefined business news.   Mr. Borelli has joined SkyBridge as a managing director of content this past December. Previously, he was senior vice president in charge of strategic research, scheduling and long form programming at CNBC. Mr. Borelli brings more than 25 years of media experience to SkyBridge, having previously held leadership roles at NBC, Fox Broadcasting and the National Basketball Association.    Victor Oviedo, partner and Chief Innovation Officer at SkyBridge, who originated the SALT Conference commented, “We are excited to welcome Susan and Ray to our team. Their combined breadth of programming and media industry experience will serve as a tremendous asset as we build on this initiative – the first of many to extend the impactful content of SALT year-round.” FREE AppDownload
Eduardo Munoz/ReutersTimothy Geithner’s new book about the financial crisis, “Stress Test,” is basically an argument that the Wall Street bailout succeeded. That’s hardly surprising, given that Geithner was in charge of the bailout when Treasury Secretary (as was his predecessor at Treasury, Hank Paulson), and so has an inherent interest in telling the public it succeeded. Even so, the bailout clearly did succeed, if success means avoiding another Great Depression. But another Great Depression might have been avoided if the crisis had been handled differently — for example, by allowing the bankruptcy laws to do what they were intended to do, and forcing the big Wall Street banks to reorganize under them. In fact, the bailout was a colossal failure in several respects Geithner barely mentions in his book, or avoids completely:   ... and no sane person on or off the Street now believes Washington will ever allow them to fail – which means they’ll continue to make big, risky bets because they know they can’t fail. And they’ll get even bigger because big depositors and lenders know they’ll never fail and therefore demand lower interest rates than demanded from smaller banks. ... which means even more rampant irresponsibility in executive suites as well as even deeper cynicism in the public about the political power of Wall Street. ... who lost billions of dollars in home equity and savings, and the millions more who lost their jobs. The toll was greatest on the poor and the middle class, who still haven’t recovered their losses, even though Wall Street has fully recovered (and then some). Nor have reforms been enacted that will help the middle class and the poor the next time Wall Street implodes. So pardon me if I take issue with Tim Geithner. The bailout was a success in the narrowest terms. Seen more broadly it was a terrible failure. We’d  have done better had we forced the biggest Wall Street banks, including the giant insurer AIG, to reorganize under bankruptcy rather than bail them out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim ShafferNew Jersey was the only state to see an increase in loans in foreclosure on a quarter-over-quarter basis in Q1. This is according to a new report from the Mortgage Bankers Association. New Jersey has fast become a focal point of the U.S. foreclosure crisis. Eight percent of New Jersey's loans are in the foreclosure process, the highest in the country. And there was no silver lining in the decline in loans that were over 90 days delinquent either — because this was driven by loans that entered the foreclosure process. We previously talked about New Jersey taking over the top spot for the state with the most delinquent mortgages in the U.S. This is in part because New Jersey is a judicial state — one that requires court action on a foreclosed home — which inevitably creates a backlog of foreclosures. The process takes about nine months in the garden state.  Slower home price growth, as we've seen in New Jersey, also tends to keep more homeowners in negative equity — when they owe more on their homes that their mortgage is worth. New Jersey is bucking the national trend. The percentage of national loans in foreclosure in Q1 was 2.65%. This was down 90 basis points from a year ago and 21 bps from the previous quarter. This was the lowest foreclosure inventory rate seen since Q1 2008. Meanwhile, U.S. mortgage delinquency rate was 6.11% of all outstanding loans in the first quarter, the lowest level since Q4 2007. This was down 28 bps from the previous quarter, and down 114 bps from a year ago. Here are some other details from the report: "A more stable and stronger job market, coupled with strong credit standards on new loans, has kept delinquency rates on recent vintages low, while the portfolio of loans made pre-crisis is steadily being resolved," said Mike Fratantoni, MBA’s chief economist in a press release.  The rise in home prices have helped push many underwater homeowners into positive equity. Even as the most recent housing indicators point to a slowdown in the housing market the national trend appears to be encouraging. This chart from Calculated Risk shows the percent of loans that are delinquent: Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lucas JacksonAs we reported earlier today, Chipotle has recruited a handful of famous authors and actors to write short essays that will appear on the chain's paper cups and bags.  One of those writers is Michael Lewis, the New York Times best-selling author of "Moneyball," "The Blind Side," and most recently, "Flash Boys."  In his essay for Chipotle, titled "The Two-Minute Minute," Lewis explains his frenetic obsession with managing his time efficiently. Read his essay below. I spend too much time trying to spend less time. Before trips to the grocery store, I’ll waste minutes debating whether it is more efficient to make a list, or simply race up and down the aisles grabbing things. I spend what feels like decades in airport security lines trying to figure out how to get through most quickly: should I put the plastic bin containing my belt and shoes through the bomb detector before my carry-on bag, or after? And why sit patiently waiting for the light to turn green when I might email on my phone? I’ve become more worried about using time efficiently than using it well. But in saner moments I’m able to approach the fourth dimension not as a thing to be ruthlessly managed, but whose basic nature might be altered to enrich my experience of life. I even have tricks for slowing time –or at least my perception of it. At night I sometimes write down things that happened that day.  For example: This morning Walker (my five year old son) asks me if I had a pet when I was a kid. “Yes,” I say, “I had a Siamese cat that I loved named Ding How, but he got run over by a car.” Walker: “It’s lucky that it got killed by a car.” Me: “Why?” Walker: “Because then you could get a new cat that isn’t named Ding How.”  Recording the quotidian details of my day seems to add hours a day to my life: I’m not sure why. Another trick is to focus on some ordinary thing–the faintly geological strata of the insides of a burrito, for instance–and try to describe what I see. Another: pick a task I’d normally do quickly and thoughtlessly–writing words for the side of a cup, say– and do it as slowly as possible. Forcing my life into slow-motion, I notice a lot that I miss at game speed. The one thing I don’t notice is the passage of time. FREE AppDownload
APSenate Majority Leader Harry Reid amped up his crusade against the Republican megadonor Koch brothers Thursday,  backing an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to undo recent Supreme Court rulings on campaign finance. In a speech from the Senate floor, Reid said a vote on the amendment would be held sometime in the summer, after the Senate Judiciary Committee marks up the amendment in the coming weeks. Reid also said there would be hearings on the amendment, giving Democrats a chance to elevate the campaign-finance issue to a higher profile in the thick of campaign season.  "Every American should have the same ability to influence our political system," Reid said Thursday. "One American, one vote. That's what the Constitution guarantees. The Constitution does not give corporations a vote, and the Constitution does not give dollar bills a vote." Democrats announced the amendment, which is being sponsored by New Mexico Sen. Tom Udall, late last month. It would give back authority to Congress and state governments in regulating campaign spending, and also would allow Congress to pass campaign-finance reform legislation that withstands constitutional challenges.  In doing so, the amendment would reverse some major recent Supreme Court decisions on campaign finance, including 2010's Citizens United case and the recent McCutcheon v. FEC ruling. Those decisions have eliminated limits on millions of dollars' worth of donations to political campaigns from corporations, labor unions, and generally wealthy individuals. Since early March, Reid has been mounting an offensive against wealthy contributors, focusing his ire on Charles and David Koch. In opening his speech on the Senate floor Thursday, Reid hinted the political arm of the Koch brothers' plan to spend $125 million on this year's elections spurred the escalation.  "More and more we see Koch Industries — Americans for Prosperity, one of their shadowy front groups — dictating the results of primaries and elections across the country," Reid said. "Behind these nonvoting organizations are massively wealthy men hoping for a big monetary return on their political donations. When the candidates they bankroll get into office, the winners inevitably begin to legislate their sponsor's business plans. Less regulations, less overnight for corporations." Despite Reid's heated rhetoric, it's extremely unlikely Udall's amendment will ever become part of the U.S. Constitution. It would need to be passed by two-thirds of both the House and Senate, as well as ratified by three-quarters of the states. But the high-profile nature of the amendment keeps one of Democrats' main messaging tools front and center in the midst of the campaign. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell characterized the amendment as an "all-out assault on the right to free speech." "It’s also a clear sign of just how desperate elected Washington Democrats have become in their quest to hold onto power," McConnell said in a statement. "Proposing to take away this fundamental right from the American people and vest it in the federal government instead is the ultimate act of radicalism, and it should concern all Americans who care about their right to speak their minds and to participate freely in the political process." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidWe got a ton of economic data today. But traders are obsessing over something a hedge fund manager said at a conference on Wednesday evening. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThis is just a random trader.A trading error at Barclays caused split-second price swings in dozens of U.S. stocks on Tuesday, Bloomberg's Sam Mamudi reports.  Closing orders were incorrectly entered, causing the transactions to be executed immediately, Mamudi writes, citing anonymous sources.  Among the stocks affected were Caterpillar, oil group Nabors, Nasdaq OMX and AOL. AOl saw the biggest swing, briefly declining 11%. Some of the transactions were canceled, Mamudi says. Barclays clients weren’t affected financially by the error. Mamudi invokes the Knight Capital debacle, where a faulty algo caused $450 million in losses, to suggest exchanges remain vulnerable to these kinds of glitches: Erroneous equity orders and their impact on markets have received heightened scrutiny since Knight Capital Group Inc. was pushed to the brink of bankruptcy when a computer program went haywire and bombarded exchanges with orders in August 2012. Last year, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White told U.S. market operators to review their rules for canceling transactions." Barclays has not commented. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andy ClarkIs there any possible way now to deny that Sears Holdings is methodically, deliberately parsing itself into pieces it can liquidate? You’ve got the sale of several dozen namesake stores. The spinoff of the Lands’ End division and Sears Hometown and Outlet Stores (SHOS).Chatter of shedding its Auto Centers. And most recently, the decision to sell its take in Sears Canada. Sorry, but it’s getting tough to think CEO, hedge-fund manager and large shareholder of SHLD stock Eddie Lampert has any plans other than to break the company apart and hope the sum of the pieces are greater than the current value of the whole. Sears Canada Sears Canada on the chopping block — it was an idea that SHLD stock holders heard in November of last year, via a New York Post article. Sears Holdings denied the story; the official statement from the company read: “In particular, it is false to claim that Mr. Lampert, the CEO of Sears Holdings, is interviewing or otherwise is in talks with investment bankers about Sears Holdings’ interest in Sears Canada.” So much for that. On Wednesday, Sears Holdings confirmed it was looking to liquidate some or all of its 51% stake in Sears Canada. What a difference six months makes. Like its U.S. counterpart, sales for the company’s Canadian arm are slumping, and operating profits remain elusive. Yet shares of Sears Canada (which trade in Toronto) have advanced more than 60% since the end of 2012. That rally might mean now is the prime time for Sears Holdings to cash in its roughly $750 million piece of the $1.5 billion Canadian retailer. Three-quarters of a billion dollars would certainly go a long way for Sears Holdings, which has beenlosing an average of more than $300 million per quarter for the past few years. The only thing keeping it afloat has been the liquidation of its assets (stores) and divisions like the aforementioned Lands’ End. Of course, for those investors who’ve been following the Sears Holdings saga for at least a year, Wednesday’s news is no surprise. The only question that the brutally honest segment of Sears’ investor base is asking now is: When will Eddie Lampert actually admit to himself or anyone else who owns SHLD stock that this is a liquidation story, plain and simple? Reality Check for SHLD Stock Fans &amp; Followers Were Sears just hitting the skids, it might be easy to buy into the possibility that Eddie Lampert is simply shrinking the company into a defensible position so it can regroup and be reborn. Problem: We’ve been hearing about a turnaround for Sears Holdings since early 2008, and have yet to see any evidence that a turnaround is underway. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed We survived the fiscal cliff and the government shutdown. But there's another big battle brewing this summer between Congress and the Obama administration with dire economic consequences that could cost the country hundreds of thousands of jobs. And even though politicians on both sides of the aisle agree this disaster is "completely avoidable," all signs indicate we're on a collision course with crisis.  On Wednesday, President Barack Obama gave his first formal warning about this impending self-inflicted disaster — the Highway Trust Fund, a transportation and infrastructure fund financed by gasoline taxes, is set to run out by the end of the summer. Thus far, Congress has not come up with a solution, and both sides are beginning to dig in. By July, thousands of projects and contracts could be put on hold amid the uncertainty — right in the middle of summer construction season. In one economic analysis released last week, the Obama administration warned 700,000 jobs tied to the fund and its uncertain future are at stake.  "Right now, there are more than 100,000 active projects paving roads and rebuilding bridges, modernizing our transit systems," Obama said Wednesday in remarks near the Tappan Zee Bridge in Tarrytown, New York, where a $3.9 billion effort to replace the current aging structure is underway.  "States might have to choose which ones to put the brake on. Some states are already starting to slow down work because they’re worried Congress won’t untangle the gridlock on time. And that’s something you should remember every time you see a story about a construction project stopped, or machines idled, or workers laid off their jobs." The fundamental problem is that gasoline taxes alone are no longer enough to finance the Highway Trust Fund, due to declining fuel use across the U.S. However, neither the White House nor Congress wants to raise those taxes, and there is a disagreement about how to fill the fund without them. Simply put, spending on transportation and infrastructure now exceeds gas taxes taken in. During recent testimony before the Senate Finance Committee, Joseph Kile, the assistant director for microeconomic studies at the congressional budget office, laid out two politically painful potential solutions — either cut spending in the fund's two accounts by 30% and 65%, or raise the gas tax by 10 to 15 cents per gallon. In an election year, both options are non-starters. The gas tax hasn't been raised since 1993. Though increasing these tariffs seems like the most logical solution to most analysts, it won't have a chance before the midterm elections. Kile said Congress could also shift money from the rest of the federal budget to the Highway Trust Fund, which seems like the most politically palatable option.  APWhen he issued his dire warnings Wednesday, Obama advocated for his solution to the fund fiasco — a four-year, $302 billion transportation and infrastructure plan. Warning the "cupboard will be bare," he urged Congress to act on his plan — but that too seems unlikely. Obama's plan would require about half the cost to be paid for by closing corporate tax loopholes and through other changes Republicans have long resisted.  Democratic Sen. Patty Murray, who has been sounding the alarm for weeks on the Highway Trust Fund, has begun a campaign to prod Republicans into adopting a fix that runs similar to Obama's proposal. To back up her case, Murray noted Republican Rep. Dave Camp, the chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, dedicated $126.5 billion to the Highway Trust Fund in his proposal to reform the tax code released earlier this year. "Democrats and Republicans have put forward plans to fill the trust fund using corporate revenue, including President Obama and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Camp," Murray said last week at a legislative summit. "I think this approach makes sense, and I don’t think we need to wait until comprehensive tax reform to do it.  Of the long list of wasteful corporate loopholes that Democrats and Republicans agree should be closed, surely we can find a way to agree on eliminating just a few of the most egregious ones to invest in jobs and economic growth and prevent an unnecessary crisis." Right now, though, the most likely solution in the Senate runs through the Environment and Public Works Committee, which unveiled a bipartisan proposal this week. The bill would keep spending on projects at current levels, but it doesn't explicitly say how to raise the needed revenue, leaving that job for congressional tax-writers at a later date.  The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, meanwhile, has yet to introduce its version of the bill. All of this uncertainty already has analysts worried. "Both parties are miles apart on how to replenish the Highway Trust Fund," said Greg Valliere, an analyst at Potomac Research. "Obama aides amped up the volume [Monday], insisting that the funding should come largely from $150 billion in corporate tax reform. Chances of that happening this year are virtually nil — and the White House knows it. The brinkmanship over highway funding will persist well into the summer." For Chris Krueger, an analyst at Guggenheim Partners in Washington, the obvious solution is raising the gas tax. In a research note on Monday, Krueger said the most likely fix is another bout of kicking the can down the road — possibly creating more potholes along the way.  "A temporary extension of the Highway Bill would likely create a headwind for all companies that rely on federal infrastructure investment (such as Martin Marietta, Vulcan Materials, Granite Construction, Cemex, Caterpillar, Astec Industries, Eagle Materials, and Texas Industries) until a new bill is signed into law," he said. FREE AppDownload
BluCigsblu eCig spokesman Stephen Dorff.Remember e-cigarettes? They were among Citi's Disruptive Innovations of 2013, a list which came out a year ago.  Since then, we've seen a flood of state and local regulations restricting their use by minors and banning them from certain venues. And the restrictions have likely only just begun. Last week, Citi updated its view of the e-cig market to reflect this and other changes. Their conclusion: E-cigarettes have now reached, at best, a temporary plateau in expanding. The most immediate issue is that they've worked their way through all possible early adopters. Over the last six months, we have seen both dollar and volume sales growth decelerate in the e-cigarette category (Nielsen-tracked, brick and mortar). Indeed, the deceleration is coming from both negative mix shifts [e.g. margins — ed.] as well as softening volumes. The negative mix-shift seen for the category is inevitable as technology improves, formats change, competition intensifies, and prices come down. Here's the chart showing the deceleration in growth: Citi They continue — emphasis ours: ...We believe the decelerating volume growth that we are seeing reflects: 1) changing retailer brand preferences (e.g., brand destocking / replacements); as well as 2) consumer dissatisfaction with the product. Indeed, we suspect that the ~26% adoption rate for e-cigarettes, relative to a trial rate of 40%-50% (including non-purchase), probably falls well below that seen for many consumer electronics.  They are not wholly bearish, maintaining that consumers are still interested in e-cigs, but that producers will have to pull forward spending to boost numbers. But they warn that all new possible state and federal regulations and taxes must be turfed out first. FREE AppDownload
Buffalo Wild Wings is the marriage of four things I love in this world: sports, wings, beer, and investing. I mean, talk about a company I can understand; this one's a no-brainer. Yet the simple fact for investors is that restaurant stocks sometimes aren't so simple. How it didFor its most recent quarter, Buffalo Wild Wings brought some great results. Top-line growth of almost 21% resulted in a 71% boost to earnings and same-store sales in both company-owned stores and franchised stores look healthy. Top it all off with management revising full-year guidance upward and it's no wonder the market loved the results. And what's not to love? Just check out the growth in average weekly sales over the past five years. Impressive, to say the least: The most important numberBut if there's one figure you want to take away from this most recent quarter, it's this one: $1.36. That was the company's cost per pound for traditional (bone-in) wings and it was 35% lower than what they were paying last year. The dreaded chicken-wing riskOne of the biggest risks with Buffalo Wild Wings has always been the dreaded "chicken wing risk." It used to be that the company purchased its wings by the pound and sold them to consumers by the quantity. And with the inherent volatility in chicken wing prices quarter in and quarter out, earnings were lumpy at times, sending the stock on some pretty wild swings. However, management has made the right move with its new pricing structure. Now instead of customers buying wings by the quantity, they pay by volume. Depending on the size of the wings, that would affect the actual number of wings, but the order is still the same weight. Foolish bottom lineManagement has cleared a challenging hurdle with its new pricing strategy, which has helped pave the road to future profitability with less short-term risk from input costs. This gives them the opportunity to focus more on the bigger-picture challenge of growing the company beyond its namesake Buffalo Wild Wings restaurants. And that may prove to be a challenge that makes the dreaded chicken-wing risk look tame in comparison. Will this stock be your next multi-bagger?Give me five minutes and I'll show how you could own the best stock for 2014. Every year, The Motley Fool's chief investment officer hand-picks 1 stock with outstanding potential. But it's not just any run-of-the-mill company. It's a stock perfectly positioned to cash in on one of the upcoming year's most lucrative trends. Last year his pick skyrocketed 134%. And previous top picks have gained upwards of 908%, 1,252% and 1,303% over the subsequent years! Believe me, you don't want to miss what could be his biggest winner yet! Just clickhere to download your free copy of "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014" today. Jason Moser has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends and owns shares of Buffalo Wild Wings. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Stocks are down a bit today, but as you should know, they've been generally doing well. The major indices are close to their all-time highs, even with all of the heavy selling of tech stocks in April. But if you're just watching the stock market, you're missing the biggest show in town, and that's the rally in the bond market, specifically the Treasury market. Here's a look at 30-year bond futures. As you can see, demand for bonds has pushed the price to levels not seen since early last summer. FinViz Why is this notable? The U.S. Treasury is the ultimate safe haven. Forget everything you've ever heard about how much debt the U.S. has, and how the U.S. has a fiscal problem. That's nonsense. The truth of the matter is that when the world gets at all nervous, the world buys Treasurys.  In 2013, as you can see, there was a lot of selling of Treasurys for a couple of reasons. One was that the world was coming out of crisis. It appeared that U.S. growth was going to "break free" and achieve escape-velocity growth. The other idea was that the Federal Reserve was in the process of "tapering" its bond purchases. The Fed buys a large number of bonds, but that's going away. This disappearance of the Fed was another reason to sell Treasurys. But all that's reversed with a vengeance this year, especially so in recent weeks.  Yesterday Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus blasted out a few theories why there's so much interest in the subject. One was that the ECB is likely to ease policy soon, depressing interest rates in Europe and creating more demand for U.S. bonds in the process. There's also a lot of talk about "positioning." Lots of folks were short bonds, and when everyone is short, then at some point everyone has to buy, so there may be a short-squeeze element. In addition to all that, today we got weak economic data out of Europe, which furthers the idea that things aren't solved in the world.  None of this is a totally satisfactory answer for why U.S. Treasurys are on a tear. But it is the big story that everyone is watching. FREE AppDownload
Subway's business has exploded since it opened in 1965. The sandwich chain now has more locations than McDonald's.  We've compiled some facts about Subway that will blow your mind: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Carolyn KasterThe NAHB housing market index (HMI), a gauge of homebuilder sentiment, fell to 45 in May. This missed expectations for a rise to 49. A reading over 50 shows that more builders view conditions as good than poor. April's reading was also revised down to 46, from 47. "Builders are waiting for consumers to feel more secure about their financial situation," NAHB chief economist David Crowe said in a press release. "Once job growth becomes more consistent, consumers will return to the market in larger numbers and that will boost builder confidence." The severe cold has weighed on homebuilder sentiment in recent months as well. Homebuilders expect sales to pick up in coming months. The HMI component gauging sales expectations in the next six months climbed one point to 57. FREE AppDownload
The Philadelphia Fed's business outlook survey came in at 15.4. Consensus forecast was for a reading of 14.0, versus from 16.6 in the prior month.  Price increases were more widespread this month, consistent with gains in producer and consumer prices we've just seen. The prices received index, reflecting firms’ own final goods prices, increased, from 4.3 to 17.0. — the highest reading since May 2011. Chart: Philly Fed FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
We get it. You need to be distracted from your insignificant existence on this lonely planet. Kim Kardashian and the web were made for each other.  But even for an egocentric subspecies like Homo sapiens sapiens, there’s important stuff happening here. Right now. And you should be paying attention to it. That’s because these things will affect how you live, how much money you’ll earn and save, and how much leisure time you’ll have to spend analyzing Rob Ford’s next crack-fueled rantor Justin Bieber’s latest deposition video.  This isn’t an exhaustive list, of course. Seven billion people spread across 196.9 million square miles is a lot to ponder. But the following 11 trends are all global. They’re all happening right now. They’re interconnected. And they’re all shaping where we are headed as a life form.  Think of it as a “grand theory of everything.”   Eliseu Cavalcante/GlobalPost It shouldn’t take the French-accented intellectualism of Thomas Piketty’s Capital in the Twenty-First Century to point out that the world is growing more unequal. The Occupy Wall Street movement, the Arab Spring, violent unrest on the streets of Caracas and other bouts of urban mayhem show that much of humanity is fed up with a “second Gilded Age.” But when a neo-Marxist professor at the Paris School of Economics rockets to the top of Amazon’s best-seller charts by invoking 19th-century writer Honore de Balzac, while wielding algebraic formulas on growth rates and historic returns on capital, it’s high time to tune in. Without diminishing the work that went into producing a supernova of economic analysis, the source of Piketty’s sudden fame isn’t much of a surprise to anyone who’s been studying the global economy over the past two decades. Globalization is having a profound impact on people everywhere, and a freer flow of money, ideas, talent and labor is accelerating the trend. It’s clear globalization doesn’t work out equally for everyone, as scads of gutted factory workers in America’s heartland and the newly minted millionaires in Chengdu, Wuhan and Guangzhou attest.  But by giving inequality greater analytical rigor and cultural cache, Piketty has touched something important in the zeitgeist. The big ideas that underlie his remarkable book are likely to produce significant political, economic and cultural consequences in the United States and around the world.  Demographics is destiny. Sure, that's a trope used by everyone from housing market economists, to cynical political operatives, to marketers of Viagra and Cialis. But it also happens to be true. Our world is getting old. And it’s getting old fast. In the next two decades the number of people above the age of 65 is expected to nearly double, from 600 million to 1.1 billion. That trend has economists worried about what a grayer world means. First, the obvious: older people cost government budgets more money through programs like Social Security and Medicare. These rising costs will mean either higher taxes for everyone, or fewer benefits and less economic security for a growing percentage of the population. Neither is a comforting thought. But that’s not all. Older people are today working later into life, crowding out job opportunities for younger workers who tend to have fewer skills. That, in turn, further worsens economic inequality and damages the economic prospects of future generations. Scott Olson/Reuters A police officer looks out of the window as pro-Russian activists storm the prosecutors office on May 1, 2014 in Donetsk, Ukraine. Crimea. Eastern Ukraine. Scotland. The Basque region of Spain. The Balkans. Syria.  While each of these places, of course, has its own history and unique political, economic and cultural factors, they all have one thing in common: a desire to fragment into smaller and more independent pieces. This fragmentation trend doesn’t just concern countries.  It also applies to individuals with the money, charisma and right organizing tools to create powerful political, religious, economic, technological and other social movements that exist outside of traditional power structures. Think Osama bin Laden. Julian Assange. George Soros. Steve Jobs. This diffusion of centralized power is one of the most powerful — and least understood — undercurrents of globalization. For good or ill we’re now all living in a more independently minded, and less predictable, world.  Steve Boxall and Zero Gravity Corporation via Virgin Two of the planet’s most celebrated entrepreneurs, Richard Branson and Elon Musk, are bothracing into space. They are not alone. Over the past 20 years private enterprise has taken a larger role in the commercialization of space, touting new ideas like space tourism, asteroid mining, low-earth orbit research and development, and space materials transport, among others. Most experts believe there’s still a role for government; namely, funding the costliest research and higher risk ventures like deep space exploration by humans.  “The government has to go explore and settle, and entrepreneurs can follow,” John Logsdon, professor emeritus of space policy and international affairs at George Washington University,said on a recent panel. However it plays out, the trend raises lots of questions: Who assumes the risk, financial and otherwise? Who owns space rocks and the resources found on them? Who regulates all of this? Billions and billions of dollars are out there for the taking. If there’s one thing humans are good at, it’s inventing new ways to kill each other. Our history is a long march of deadly innovations: the club, the spear, the bow and arrow, the musket, cannon, machine gun, cruise missile, intercontinental ballistic nuclear warhead (to say nothing of Hellfire-equipped attack drones now in use over Afghanistan, Pakistan and elsewhere). So it should be no surprise that this deadly trend is accelerating, with horrifying consequences for those who could fall victim to their uses. To cite a few nightmares military planners are dreaming up and, yes, testing: Laser-powered grenade launchers. Laser cannons that can take down incoming aircraft. “Rail guns” that use electricity to fire projectiles at seven times the speed of sound. Weapons that make people feel like their skin is burning off. Devices that emit “taser shockwaves” that can electrocute dozens of people at a time. You get the idea. The horrible and frightening idea.  Screenshot While we’re on the topic of fear, there’s nothing that gets the amygdala racing like killer robots that could turn their artificial intelligence (and evil robot weapons) against their human inventors. Less dramatically, there are also robots that can steal your job. Both of those scenarios are making huge advancements. Right now. Earlier this month, the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking offered this warning about rapid developments in Artificial Intelligence (AI): “One can imagine such technology outsmarting financial markets, out-inventing human researchers, out-manipulating human leaders, and developing weapons we cannot even understand,” Hawking wrote. “Whereas the short-term impact of AI depends on who controls it, the long-term impact depends on whether it can be controlled at all.” As for the job-stealing robots, they’ll soon be replacing a surprising number of humans: Accountants. Real estate agents. Commercial pilots. Waiters. Nurses. Journalists.   Here’s what Bill Gates says about that: “Technology over time will reduce demand for jobs, particularly at the lower end of skill set. Twenty years from now, labor demand for lots of skill sets will be substantially lower. I don’t think people have that in their mental model." Remember when the BRICS — Brazil, Russia, India, China, and later South Africa — were going to take over the world?  Funny story: It didn’t quite turn out that way. At least not in the way it was advertised. Of those emerging economies that were expected to rule the world by 2020, only China has (sort of) kept pace. So what’s happening with the rest of the BRICS? India: Slow growth meets inflation, corruption and political deadlock. Brazil: An overvalued currency strangles economic potential as government measures to stimulate growth stall. Russia: A one-trick energy pony with dictatorial and oligarchic tendencies. South Africa: Don’t ask. Reuters Almost everywhere you look religious extremism is on the rise. There are, of course, the 234 schoolgirls kidnapped in Nigeria, since the Islamic extremist group Boko Haram doesn’t believe in educating girls. “Allah has instructed me to sell them,” its leader said. But that’s just the most recent, and despicable, example of a worsening global trend. According to Pew Research, religious hostilities are at a six-year high. A third of the 198 countries and territories Pew polled had serious problems with religious violence. The trend has picked up in every region of the world except the Americas, with the biggest jump in the Middle East and North Africa.  Rising extremism is playing out in all sorts of ways: abuse of religious minorities, restrictions on religions, violence or threat of violence to enforce religious norms, harassment of women over religious dress, mob violence related to religion, terrorist violence and sectarian or communal conflict. Yes, there’s a long tradition of not trusting politicians. “Throw the bums out” may as well be a line in America’s national anthem. But the trend is now reaching record levels in the US. And it’s growing globally. Only 19 percent of Americans say they trust Washington to do what’s right, according to Pew Research. That matches an all-time low. Meanwhile, 30 percent say they’re angry at the federal government, while 55 percent are frustrated with how government works. That anger is being felt in Europe, as well. A recent poll by Edelman found that just 32 percent of the French trust their government, down 17 percentage points. Why does this matter? The world faces huge problems. Government is charged with finding solutions for many of them: our monetary and fiscal policies, our children’s educations, the safety of our food, our collective defense, to name a few. Declining trust in government makes all of that harder, of course.  It also promotes political extremism, as evidenced by a dramatic rise of extremist political parties in Europe.  Evolutionary biologists and economists are fond of pointing out that life is a competition for scarce resources. But we haven’t changed much since humans gathered around watering holes on the African savanna 10,000 years ago.  Diminishing natural resources — water, energy, minerals, timber and others — are already creating new and violent hotspots all around the world, from the jungles of East Timor, to the cobalt mines of the Congo, to rising tensions along the Nile, Tigris, Euphrates and other places.  “The challenges associated with preventing, managing and resolving natural resource-induced conflicts may well come to define global peace and security in the 21st century,” the United Nations warns.  REUTERS/Ivan Milutinovic It goes without saying — but we’ll say it anyway — that this last trend could render meaningless all others on this list. That’s because there will be no trends if the planet can no longer support human life. And while not many experts are yet warning of our imminent extinction (though some do), there is universal agreement among the world's scientific community that human activity ischanging the planet’s climate. What can we expect? Extreme temperatures. More weather volatility. Flooding. Drought. Bigger and more deadly storms. More disease. Agriculture problems. Severe economic costs. That just about covers everything. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesEurope is getting smashed today. Italian stocks are down 2.5%. Greece is down 4%. France and Germany are down, but a bit less. A few things are going on. One is that European GDP overall came in weaker than expected. Italy showed an unexpected economic contraction. France is flat-lining. Portuguese growth fell 0.7%. The Greek economy shrank by 1.1%. So suddenly the economic comeback looks fragile. Peripheral bond yields are shooting higher as well. Meanwhile, opinion polls in Greece are showing gaining support for both the hard-right and the hard-left parties. Combine all this with comments last night from hedge funder David Tepper, who expressed nervousness about the market, and you have the recipe for an ugly day. FREE AppDownload
Industrial production fell 0.6% in April, the worst decline since 2012, but the monthly drop-off was due to weather. Expectations were for no growth, compared with a revised 0.9% in March.  "The output of utilities dropped 5.3% in April, as demand for heating returned toward normal levels," the Fed said. "The production at mines increased 1.4% following a gain of 2.0% in March. At 102.7% of its 2007 average, total industrial production in April was 3.5% above its level of a year earlier." But capacity utilization fell 0.7 percentage points in April to 78.6%, a rate that is 1.5% points below the long-run (1972–2013) average. Here's what it's looked like recently. FRED FREE AppDownload
People immediately think a certain way about you based on your clothing - psychologists tell us what's on their minds. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Consumer prices came in almost exactly as expected. Here's the rundown: Here's the chart:  BLS Barclays in a note says, "We view the report as consistent with our view that core inflation will be rising this year." Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson agrees, saying the data mean "core disinflation is over": The April CPI rose 0.3%, in line with the consensus. But the core rose 0.2%, a tenth above the consensus, 0.1%. The core increase was broad-based, with primary rents up 0.3%, owner-equivalent rents up 0.2%, and above-trend increases in new and used vehicle prices, recreation, education and medical services. In addition, airline fares jumped 2.6%. One disappointing core inflation number proves nothing, but note 3-month annualized core is now 2.3%, up from 1.4% in Jan. The upward trend in rents is real, given the tight rental market, and primary rents are now up 3.1% y/y, the biggest gain in exactly five years. OER is lagging behind a bit at 2.6% y/y but it will catch up; together, rents are 40% of the core. In short, core disinflation is  over; rents and profits margins - see the PPI - are a threat. And here's the table. Unlike for wholesale, consumer food price growth did not change much from March. BLS Yesterday we learned producer prices climbed more than expected. FREE AppDownload
TBIInitial unemployment insurance claims plunged to 297,000, the lowest level since May 2007. This was down from 321,000 a week ago. It was also much lower than the 320,000 expected by economists. "There were no special factors impacting this week's initial claims," noted the Department of Labor. The four-week moving average fell 2,000 to 323,250. "Even a partial reversal next week will not change the favorable trend," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. Continuing claims fell to 2.667 million from 2.676 million last week. This is the lowest level since December 2007. "In our view, this report reflects a further improvement in the separations side of the labor market, which now stands near pre-recession levels," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. Barclays FREE AppDownload
NY FedThe results of the NY Fed's Empire Manufacturing survey are out, and it' a huge beat. The headline index exploded to 19.01 in May from 1.29 in April. This was much higher than the 6.0 level expected by economists. The employment index jumped to 20.9 from 8.2. The six-month outlook index jumped to 44.0 from 38.2. "The stronger Empire report generally points to a continuation of stronger manufacturing sector performance in May, suggesting that stronger economic activity was sustained during the second month of Q2," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg. From the survey: "The new orders and shipments indexes also posted sharp gains, rising to 10.4 and 17.4, respectively. The unfilled orders index rose to a level close to zero. Price indexes were slightly lower, suggest- ing a small degree of slowing in price increases, with the prices paid index falling three points to 19.8 and the prices received index falling four points to 6.6. Employment expanded significantly; although the average workweek index held steady at 2.2, the index for number of employees rose thirteen points to 20.9. Indexes for the six-month outlook were highly optimistic, with the future general business conditions index rising to 44.0, its highest level in more than two years." FREE AppDownload
ChevroletDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt; is recalling 140,067 Chevrolet Malibu sedans in the United States for a potential faulty braking issue, according to documents filed with U.S. safety regulators. GM is recalling certain mid-sized cars from the 2014 model year equipped with a 2.5 liter gasoline engine with the automatic stop/start option because the hydraulic boost assist could become disabled, according to documents posted online on Thursday by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Slowing or stopping the vehicle could require additional brake pedal effort and a lengthened stopping distance, increasing the risk of a crash, according to the filing. GM is in the midst of recalling 2.6 million cars to replace defective ignition switches linked to at least 13 deaths. GM officials were not immediately available to comment. GM said in the NHTSA documents that the brake issue was discovered during development testing for an upcoming model on April 24, and after further testing an order for dealers to stop selling the cars was issued May 7. Dealers will update the electronic brake control module software, according to the filing. The recall is expected to begin around May 30. In a separate filing, GM is also recalling 477 Chevy Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks and Chevy Tahoe SUVs in the United States because an improperly tightened tie rod may result in the loss of steering and increase the risk of a crash. The 2014 model year is affected for pickups trucks and the 2015 model year for SUVs. Dealers will inspect the tie rods to ensure they are properly tightened and replace steering gear as necessary, according to the filing. The recall began on Wednesday. (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Sofina Mirza-Reid) FREE AppDownload
AFPFrance on Thursday defended moves to thwart foreign takeovers of "strategic" industrial groups after creating new powers to control the fortunes of Alstom, an energy giant and current target. The new rules, which could be applied to block the attempts of US General Electric or Germany's Siemens to take over Alstom's energy arm, will come into effect on Friday. "The fundamental role of the state is to protect the strategic interests of France," Finance Minister Michel Sapin told Europe 1 radio. "This is true in France as it is true in any other country" seeking to safeguard national interests, he said. Under the new decree, which extends the sectors covered in a 2005 law, investments by foreign groups in key sectors such as energy, water, transport, health and telecoms will have to be vetted by the government. Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg, an advocate of economic patriotism who has been accused of protectionism in his bid to promote and protect French industry, will then decide whether to give the green light. Factors to be taken into account would include the sustainability of the proposal, the infrastructure implications and whether the national interest is satisfied. Permission would then be granted provided that the company meets certain commitments. Companies can appeal to France's highest administrative court if they are unhappy with the decision. Economy Minister Montebourg is openly opposed to a buy-out of Alstom's energy wing by US giant General Electric voicing concern over possible job losses and the fact that a jewel of French industry "is going to be run from Connecticut." He has instead advocated a tie-up with German firm Siemens. The board of Alstom has said that it will decide by the end of May which of the two offers it prefers, although it has already signaled that it prefers the GE offer of 12.35 billion euros ($17.0 billion) for its energy activities. The GE offer is the only firm proposal so far. The US giant said in a reaction to France's new decreed that it "recognised the importance of the energy sector for France and will continue our constructive discussions with the French government." "Our project is good for Alstom, for its workers and for France," the statement said. "Our project aims to build a world leader in the energy sector." The future of Alstom has caused an embarrassing split in the French cabinet with new energy minister Segolene Royal having come out against Montebourg's stance that a European tie-up would be in France's best interests. "General Electric is a very good opportunity for Alstom. It offers the best industrial project," Royal said in an interview published on Wednesday. "Why not say so? And why do we want systematically to make foreign investment go away?" she said. Royal later moved to play down her remarks, tweeting that talks with Siemens were going well, following a meeting between Montebourg and the chief executive of Siemens, Joe Kaeser. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top stories that traders are talking about today:   Good Morning! US futures are mixed this AM, rather resilient despite some overnight headwinds – The biggest may have some from Appaloosa’s Tepper, who said “don't be too fricking long right now” as he is concerned about leverage. Over in Europe, Financials are under pressure as they experience the same headwinds as US counterparts – A flattening yield curve in a falling rate environment. Despite this, the DAX is in the green, and trading on volume 30% heavier than normal as more ECB doves hit the wires. The Ukraine Situation seems to be less of a stress, as Russia’s Micex is up 40bp this AM – and the Hryvnia has a bid to it. In Asia, the Nikkei was hit for 75bp as their GDP comes in very strong, but the Yen is weaker as many feel there was a “pull forward” due to the consumption tax. Japanese Futures are off about 30bp, as BoJ’s Kuroda sounded hawkish yet again last night. While China lost 1%, the Hang Seng popped 70bp as Tencent jumps 7% on earnings (#1 weight in SOCL). India’s market was up again, as investors anticipate the Modi win. Retailers remain in focus, with WMT off 2% on earnings, JCP and JWN #s after the Close. We also hear from AMAT tonight. Also stay tuned as 13Fs are due today, so some single names may move from HF positioning reports.Global Benchmark Sovereigns are bid again, with the 10YY off 1bp, but holding above yesterday’s lows as the BOE joins the doves. We have the € breaking down as EU GDP came in soft – and the Yen weakening has the DXY jumping over the 100dma to 1M highs, nearing the 200dma where it has failed 2x in 2014. We have weakness in commodities, despite the $ tailwind – Nickel is getting smashed for 7% right now, the commodity had surged 50% in 2 months on supply concerns. Interesting Gold is unchanged, while Copper has a bid despite the Chinese softness. WTI and Nat Gas are under pressure, despite concerns of OPEC shortfalls. We have a handful of scheduled catalysts today, including CPI and Weekly Claims at 8:30, Treasury International Capital Data at 9, Industrial Production at 9:15, Philadelphia Fed - NAHB Housing Market Index and Retail E-Commerce Sales at 10, EIA Weekly Natural Gas at 10:30 – there is NO POMO at 11 – and tonight at 7 Fed's Yellen Speaks to U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington. FREE AppDownload
There's a ton of economic data coming. Here's a quick preview via BI's Monday Scouting Report newsletter: FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA man sits near graves during the funeral of a miner who died in a fire at a coal mine, at a cemetery in Soma, a district in Turkey's western province of Manisa May 14, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Europe Is Germany. The eurozone grew by just 0.2% in Q1, which missed expectations for 0.4% growth. But almost all of the growth came from Germany, Europe's largest economy, where GDP grew by 0.8%; economists were looking for 0.7% growth. "Germany is accelerating and performing strongly while the rest of the zone is stalling or even falling further behind," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "This is worrying because the assumption that a strong Germany would act as driving force for its weaker neighbours now seems severely challenged. Indeed, it would even appear that Germany’s economy, with its large external surplus, to some extent is preventing an even recovery across the eurozone as a whole." Don't Forget Europe's Losers. France's economy grinded to a halt with GDP showing no growth versus expectations for 0.1% growth. Italy contracted with GDP falling 0.1% versus expectations for 0.2% growth. Portugal tanked with GDP plunged 0.7% versus expectations for 0.1% growth. Euro Tanking. The odds that the European Central Bank will act during its June meeting appear to be rising as reflected by the tumbling euro. The currency touched a low of $1.3655, down from an intraday high of $1.3723. The stock markets aren't doing too much. Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.7% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.6%. Things are pretty flat in Europe where Britain's FTSE and Germany's DAX are marginally higher, and France's CAC 40 and Spain's IBEX are marginally lower. U.S. futures are flat. Japan Spikes. Japan's economy exploded, with GDP growing at a 5.9% annualized pace, crushing expectations for 4.2%. The key driver of grow appears to be the April consumption tax hike, a Q2 phenomenon that encouraged consumers to pull forward their purchases to Q1. This caused domestic demand to add 1.7 percentage points to quarterly growth. "Looking ahead, we anticipate that the strong growth in Q1 will be partially offset by negative growth in Q2 due to the subsequent decline in domestic demand after the consumption tax hike," said Societe Generale's Kiyoko Katahira. Wal-Mart Misses. Wal-Mart reported Q1 earnings of $1.10 per share. Management said bad weather cut around $0.03 from the bottom line. Still, the number fell short of analysts' expectation for $1.15 per share. During the period, comparable store sales excluding gas fell by 0.2%; analysts were looking for an unchanged level. "Walmart's underlying business is solid, and I'm confident in our long-term strategies," said CEO Doug McMillon. Cisco Beats. The networking hardware giant announced revenue and earnings that beat analysts expectations. Orders during the period grew by 7%. Guidance for Q4 was also stronger than expected. The stock is up by around 6% in premarket trading. The World According To John Chambers. As head of a leading global IT hardware company, Cisco CEO John Chambers has a pretty good idea of what's going on in the world. "Our U.S. Enterprise and Commercial are usually a very good indicator of GDP slowly increasing or GDP decreasing, and we saw a turn up in U.S. in Enterprise and Commercial back in summer of 2012," said Chambers during the company's earnings conference call. "So, that feels good and you combine that with the CEOs I talked to, most of us feel 2.5%, 3% for the next nine months is very doable number." Chambers characterized Europe as fragile, but growing. But the emerging markets are "still very challenged," he said. Economic Data Tidal Wave. At 8:30 a.m ET, we'll get the consumer price index (est. +0.3%, core +0.1%), initial jobless claims (est. 320,000), and the Empire Manufacturing Index (est. 6.0). At 9:15 a.m., ET, we'll get industrial production (est. 0.0%). At 10:00 a.m. ET, we'll get the Philly Fed Business Outlook Index (est. 14.0). SeaWorld In The Red. SeaWorld Entertainment said Q1 revenue fell 11% year-over-year to $212.3 million, which led to an adjusted net loss of $0.56 per share. Both numbers were worse than analysts expected. The big problem was attendance, which plunged 13.0% during the quarter. Management blamed the Easter Holiday calendar shift and unfavorable weather in Florida and Texas. While the company didn't mention it explicitly, it's likely that SeaWorld is hurting from the unfavorable publicity that came with CNN's documentary "Blackfish." David Tepper Is Nervous. Billionaire hedge fund manager David Tepper spoke at the SALT Conference in Las Vegas on Wednesday evening. "I am nervous," said Tepper about the markets. "I think it's nervous time." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonA Walmart store is seen in Rogers, Arkansas, November 8, 2009. Wal-Mart's Q1 financial results are out, and the numbers are disappointing. Comparable store sales excluding fuel unexpectedly fell 0.2%. Analysts were looking for this measure to be flat. Total revenue of $114.96 billion fell short of expectations for $116.28 billion. All of this was bad for the bottom line. Earnings came in at $1.10 per share. Analysts were looking for $1.15. Management said unfavorable weather shaved about $0.03 from EPS. "Walmart's underlying business is solid, and I'm confident in our long-term strategies," said CEO Doug McMillon. "We'll continue to invest in price and enhance our service to improve sales. We remain focused on growth across the enterprise, especially in small formats like Neighborhood Market in the U.S." For Q2, the company expects comparable store sales to be flat and earnngs to come in at $1.15-$1.25 per share. Analysts had forecasted $1.28 for the period. "Our guidance assumes incremental investments in e-commerce, headwinds from higher health care costs in the U.S. and increased investments in Sam's Club membership programs," said CFO Charles Holley. "We continue to expect our full-year effective tax rate to range between 32 and 34 percent. We expect our effective tax rate to be at the high end of this guidance for the second quarter." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithCisco CEO John Chambers.Cisco Systems announced quarterly earnings and provided financial guidance that were better than analysts' expectations. As a global provider of networking systems, Cisco serves as a valuable bellwether of economic activity. In fact, when he was asked about regional performance during the earnings conference call, CEO John Chambers noted that he talked to CEOs in other industries and they all essentially had identical views of the global economy. In a nutshell, the U.S. is good and growing, Europe is fragile but growing, and the emerging markets are just bad. Here's the transcript via SeekingAlpha.com (emphasis added): I think the U.S. is sustainable, especially in commercial and enterprise with all the appropriate caveats. My few years at law school taught me on that. But I watch the pipeline, I watch the approach. Our U.S. Enterprise and Commercial are usually a very good indicator of GDP slowly increasing or GDP decreasing, and we saw a turn up in U.S. in Enterprise and Commercial back in summer of 2012, and if you bought [indiscernible], Ben, I think we all understand what would have happened. So, that feels good and you combine that with the CEOs I talked to, most of us feel 2.5%, 3% for the next nine months is very doable number. Not many things to do backflips on, but reasonable progress. Europe is still a little bit fragile, but we did see stability across the north with some growth rates for a change and Europe in total was finally positive, not counting the emerging markets for us, and even stability in the South, looks like its occurring. Now I know they've still got structural issues there, and I know some of the countries are in transformation, have some tough decisions to make. But I think they are out of this downturn, slowly improving. And when I talked with our customers and the top financial people in New York which I did just a week ago, almost everybody else is beginning to see very similar trends. In fact, it almost was scary because when you describe the world just like I did earlier, including emerging markets and the challenges in Russia and Brazil, we could finish each other's sentences regardless of industry. So I think Europe is coming back. Again, it's going to be slow and heavy lifting there, but they haven't addressed some of those structural issues, but more consistency; and even the South is starting to show stability on it in terms of direction. So, good about the U.S., good about Europe, don't feel very good about emerging markets. They are still very challenged, especially the BRICs. During the recently completed quarter, Cisco said total U.S. orders increased by 7%, with orders to commercial and enterprise customers jumping 10% year over year. This as incredibly important indicator of business spending in IT hardware, a key component of the capital-expenditure boom that experts believe will ignite GDP and earnings growth. Management noted that the overall product book-to-bill ratio was above "comfortably above 1." In other words, their pace of orders is stronger than their pace of sales, which is an indicator of future growth. On the emerging markets, Chambers characterized it as the one of three areas of focus because the numbers are so ugly. Here's what he said about orders. First, emerging markets; from a macroeconomic perspective, continue to be challenging. Orders in our emerging markets declined 7% with the BRICs plus Mexico down 13%. As we said for several quarters, we expect these challenges to continue. The challenges we saw in Brazil down 27% and Russia down 28% are consistent with those we are hearing and seeing from our peers and customers, while China declined 8%, Mexico declined 3% and India declined 1%. It's a mixed story. But ultimately, it's a valuable insight. FREE AppDownload
FinVizThe euro is tumbling as expectations for ECB action rises. The currency just touched a low of $1.3655, down from an intraday high of $1.3723. Earlier today, we learned from Q1 GDP reports that France's economy halted, Italy's economy contracted, and Portugal's economy tanked. Meanwhile, Germany seems to be doing fine growing 0.8% in Q1. Altogether, the euro zone grew 0.2% in Q1, missing expectations for 0.4% growth. The weak data puts increasing pressure on the European Central Bank to act at its upcoming June monetary policy meeting. "The European Central Bank is preparing a package of policy options for its June meeting, including cuts in all its interest rates and targeted measures aimed at boosting lending to small- and mid-sized firms (SMEs)," reported Reuters' Andreas Framke, Paul Carrel and John O'Donnell on Wednesday. Markets are in the red across Europe. Meanwhile, Dow and S&amp;P 500 futures are flat ahead of the U.S. trading session. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe eurozone grew at a measly 0.2% pace in Q1, which missed expectations for 0.4% growth. "The eurozone as a whole appears to be in the midst of a very gradual recovery but it is all about one economy," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "Germany is accelerating and performing strongly while the rest of the zone is stalling or even falling further behind." Despite the shared currency, each of the countries in the eurozone have a unique story. Here are highlights from some of the GDP reports we got in the past few hours: France Halts. GDP growth was 0.0%, missing expectations for 0.1% growth. "The household component was especially weak, with both headline expenditures and household investment reporting significant declines," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "Gross fixed capital formation also fell a notable 0.9% from the last quarter of 2013, but preliminary figures are usually substantially revised. Net trade contributed a negative 0.2% which is bad for France but good for its main trading partners in the eurozone." Germany Grows. GDP grew at a healthy 0.8% annualized pace, beating expectations for 0.7% growth. "This is a very strong report which solidifies the idea of Germany as the eurozone’s growth engine," said Pantheon's Shepherdson. "We don’t get numerical details for the sub-components from the German statistical office in this first report, but all components of domestic demand are reported to have risen strongly." Italy Contracts. GDP unexpectedly declined 0.1% annualized versus expectations for 0.2% growth. That's just not good. Portugal Tanks. GDP plunged 0.7% annualized versus expectations for 0.1% growth. That's worse. The fact that Germany could surprise to the upside while the rest of Europe disappoints is troubling. "This is worrying because the assumption that a strong Germany would act as driving force for its weaker neighbours now seems severely challenged," said Vistesen. "Indeed, it would even appear that Germany’s economy, with its large external surplus, to some extent is preventing an even recovery across the eurozone as a whole." Overnight, we got Q1 GDP reports from other parts of the world too. We learned Japan's economy exploded, with GDP growing at a 5.9% annualized pace, crushing expectations for 4.2%. The key driver of grow appears to be the April consumption tax hike, a Q2 phenomenon that encouraged consumers to pull forward their purchases to Q1. This caused domestic demand to add 1.7 percentage points to quarterly growth. "Looking ahead, we anticipate that the strong growth in Q1 will be partially offset by negative growth in Q2 due to the subsequent decline in domestic demand after the consumption tax hike," said Societe Generale's Kiyoko Katahira. Last month, we learned GDP growth decelerated to a disappointing 0.1% pace in the U.S. Meanwhile, everyone agrees the Chinese economic growth engine in slowing to just over 7%. FREE AppDownload
