Thomson ReutersSHANGHAI (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt; expects to sell three million cars in China for the second straight year in 2014, its China President Matthew Tsien said on Wednesday. Tsien made the remarks at a media event in Shanghai. GM sold 2.26 million vehicles in China during the first eight months of the year, up 11.1 percent from a year earlier. GM has said it expects its China sales to expand 8-10 percent this year, roughly in line with overall growth of China's auto market. GM, which sells cars in China under brands including Chevrolet, Buick and Cadillac, competes with global rivals such as Volkswagen AG &lt;vowg_p.de&gt; and Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; in the world's biggest auto market.   (Reporting by Samuel Shen and Kazunori Takada; Editing by Brenda Goh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim Young Bill Gross runs Pacific Investment Management Co.The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether investment firm Pacific Investment Management Co. artificially boosted returns of the Pimco Total Return ETF, The Wall Street Journal is reporting. It is the giant bond fund's flagship exchange traded fund and is managed by Pimco CEO Bill Gross himself.  The probe, which has been going on for months, has seen a surge of activity intensifying in recent weeks. Mr. Gross himself sat with regulators for a full day of questioning. What officials want to know is if Pimco purchased assets within the ETF at lower prices and then relied on higher estimates of the value of those assets to calculate their full value after purchase. If that's the case, according to the WSJ, it could be that investors were mislead to think the fund's performance was much better than it was in reality. Whether Pimco intentionally undervalued remains to be seen. The firm has yet to be accused of any wrongdoing. A spokesperson for Pimco told the WSJ that the firm "has been cooperating with the SEC in this nonpublic matter, and we take our regulatory obligations and responsibilities to our clients very seriously. We believe our pricing procedures are entirely appropriate and in keeping with industry best practices." It's already been a rough year for Pimco. The firm lost Mohamed El-Erian, its former CEO/co-CIO, earlier this year as  investors continued to pull their money and Gross' flagship fund lagged industry peers. Rumors that Gross was behaving erratically flooded the financial press, and Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino even reported that the fund's office had a bed bug infestation. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk by a Walgreens store in PasadenaNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. drugstore chain operator Walgreen Co is exploring the sale of a majority stake in its infusion services business, in a deal that could value that division at around $1.5 billion, according to four people familiar with the matter. The Deerfield, Illinois-based company has hired Bank of America Corp to run a sale process for Walgreens Infusion Services, which has already attracted interest from private equity firms, the people said this week. On offer is a controlling stake of just over 50% in Walgreens Infusion Services, which has annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of around $105 million, one of the people added. The sources asked not to be identified because the talks are confidential. Walgreen declined to comment while a Bank of America spokesman did not respond to a request for comment. With a staff of more than 1,600 clinicians, the unit for sale offers infusion services at home and at care centers across the United States. Its infusion therapies are used for medical conditions such as bleeding disorders and serious infections. Walgreen is currently the largest U.S. provider of home-infusion services. The company solidified that position in 2010 when it swapped its long-term care pharmacy business for the home infusion business of Omnicare Inc &lt;ocr.n&gt;. A deal for Walgreens Infusion Services would come after rival CVS Health Corp acquired Coram LLC, the specialty infusion services and enteral nutrition business unit of Apria Healthcare Group Inc, for about $2.1 billion in January. Walgreen has a history of working with private equity. In 2012, Walgreens acquired a 45 percent stake in European health and beauty group Alliance Boots for $6.7 billion, partnering with buyout firm KKR &amp; Co LP and Alliance Boots Chairman Stefano Pessina, that were left owning the remainder. Last month, Walgreen said it would buy the remaining 55% it does not already own of Alliance Boots for $5.3 billion in cash and 144.3 million shares for a total deal of about $15 billion.   (Reporting by Soyoung Kim and Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
In recent years, technological developments in hydraulic fracturing have enabled drillers to extract natural gas from America's shale basins. This boom has kept natgas supplies high and prices low in the US to the benefit of energy-intensive local industries. Unfortunately, other developed markets aren't recognizing the same benefits. Japan, which is struggling to climb out of economic stagnation, has extraordinarily high natgas prices. And energy costs have only become more onerous for the economy as the country has scaled back on cheap nuclear energy in the wake of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant disaster of March 2011. The euro area, which is slowing again after years of economic crisis, also has much higher natgas prices than the US. However, much of the region's energy supply comes from suppliers in Russia, a country with which relations are very tense. In recent weeks, we've seen US economic growth pick up while Japan and the euro area stumble. Energy cost differentials are surely feeding into these trends. Citi Research FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVCliff Asness In an interview with Stephanie Ruhle on Bloomberg TV on Monday, Asness spoke about the fee structure of hedge funds, and whether these funds really deliver the performance — or the hedge — that they advertise.  Asness said hedge funds aren't, "diversifying as they should be... So I will tell you, I think hedge funds don't hedge enough... They don't fully hedge, which makes them less of a diversifier and less of a good deal." Asness sees a "properly run hedge fund" as one that is about as long the market as it is short, but most hedge funds end up being mostly long the market and perform like an expensive index fund.  "[P]art of what you’re paying for is their high fees for index fund exposure," Asness said. "You're paying 2 and 20 for Jack Bogle. Two and 20 can be worth it for something very special. It's not worth it, as much as I love Jack, for Jack." Jack Bogle, the founder of low-cost index company Vanguard, appeared on stage with Asness on Monday at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit.  Vanguard offers some of the lowest cost funds on the market, including a management fee of 0.05% for its S&amp;P 500 fund, compared with the hedge fund industry standard of a 2% fee for all money under management and a 20% fee on all profits. Asness co-wrote a paper with his partner Jack Liew back in 2001 titled, "Do Hedge Funds Hedge?" that found: not really. But on Monday, Asness sort of, well, hedged his statement.  Ruhle asked Asness about the recent news that CalPERS would pull its money from hedge funds, and Asness said that he sees "more of CalPERS' side... than the average hedge fund manager," perhaps the hate on the industry had gone too far. "I'm thinking of writing a second [paper], and I probably will, called 'Hedge Funds: The Defense'," Asness said. Asness said that generally, he sees "2 and 20" as too expensive, but there are exceptions.  If a manager is twice as aggressive with your money, Asness said that would at least justify the 2% fee on money under management, as they would be able to manage half the amount of other people's money. And Asness added that of course there are also managers who do outperform, who do generate real alpha, and these folks are worth "2 and 20."  "I do think they have some managers out there who I would bet on going forward," Asness said. "Two and 20 can be justified if you believe you've found one. It's usually not. It's usually not the smart thing to say." Asness also talks with Ruhle about private equity and "smart beta" (Asness published paper titled "Smart Beta: Not New, Not Beta, Still Awesome"), among other topics. The whole interview is embedded below, and is well-worth watching for some animated thoughts from one of the most interesting thinkers in the market.         FREE AppDownload
rattraders.comThe caption from the website: "The decision was correct, Lehman gets a bonus after shorting the USD."NOTE: This is a joke. The information in this post comes from a website that has not been active since 2011. We strongly recommend that you do not employ an investment strategy that employs rats pushing buttons. Do not take this seriously. Someone supposedly trained rats to trade in the foreign exchange and commodity futures markets. Wonkblog's Matt O'Brien tweeted about these "rat traders," pointing us to The Enlightened Economist, who explained that artist Michael Marcovici's claimed to have trained rats that "outperformed some of the world's leading human fund managers." Basically, the rats were taught to either press a red or green button to signify buys or sells "after listening to ticker tape movements represented as sounds." They're only fed if they call the market right. If they get it wrong, they get a small electric shock. According to Marcovici's website rattraders.com, they're "developing a pedigree" by "continuously crossing the best trading rats with each other in order to breed specialists in various markets for our clients. The second generation of top traders usually shows a much better performance compared to their parents." Google FinanceAnd while we haven't figured out how to audit the rats' performance, the trades listed on the website appear to be well in the money. The earliest trades listed occurred on March 6, 2009. This is the day the S&amp;P 500 touched a crisis-era low of 666. Many stocks hit their lows that day. On March 6, 2009, a rat named "Ms. Kleinworth" went long on Bank of America; it closed at $3.14 that day. Today, Bank of America closed at $17.05. Assuming "Ms. Kleinworth" didn't close that position, it would have a 443% paper gain! Unfortunately, the website does not appear to have been updated since 2011. And Marcovici had not responded to requests for comment. Here's a list of some well-timed trades from the website: rattraders.com And if that's not enough Rat Traders trivia for you, you can watch an interview with the company's CEO, Michael Marcovici below.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jim BourgHarvard University Law School graduates mock the reputation of their profession by waving inflatable sharks as their degrees are conferred during commencement ceremonies in Harvard Yard in Cambridge, MassachusettsBOSTON (Reuters) - Harvard University said Tuesday its $36 billion endowment posted a 15.4 percent return in fiscal 2014 as in-house bond managers and outside hedge funds teamed up to easily beat the portfolio's 14.6 percent benchmark return. The endowment, overseen by Harvard Management Company Inc, grew to $36.4 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30 from $32.7 billion. That marked a near-full recovery from losses posted during the financial crisis. Still, an overhang from underperforming illiquid private-equity investments continue to weigh on the endowment's portfolio, HMC said in a press release. The Ivy League school's endowment is the largest in the world and is now valued roughly three times bigger than the annual gross domestic output of Africa's Zimbabwe. The endowment's bond portfolio produced a 7.7 percent return in fiscal 2014, trouncing the 4.2 percent return on its benchmark. Its foreign bonds were the stars, posting an 18 percent return against an 8 percent return on the benchmark, HMC said. The entire fixed income portfolio is managed internally. Harvard relies solely on external hedge fund managers to oversee its absolute return investments, however, which include distressed situations and were up 12.2 percent versus the benchmark's 6.8 percent. The endowment's growth, which was affected by investment returns, donations, and payouts to school programs, came during the last full fiscal year the endowment will have been managed by Jane Mendillo, who took the helm of Harvard Management Company in 2008 and is retiring in December. During her first year, at the height of the financial meltdown, Mendillo oversaw a nearly 30 percent decline in the fund to $26 billion from $36.9 billion. But she has been rebuilding ever since by paring back risky holdings and emphasizing resource investments. Harvard Management Company said it plans to boost its exposure to private equity and real estate in 2015 to 18 percent and 12 percent of its portfolio, respectively, while maintaining its emerging market exposure at 11 percent. In 2013, HMC's exposure to private equity was 16 percent, while its exposure to real estate was 10 percent. HMC said careful picks in private equity, combined with increased liquidity in the endowment, could help its returns. It added that, while emerging markets "have underperformed developed markets equity over the last couple of years, we continue to believe that this asset class represents an attractive long-term investment opportunity." The first woman to run Harvard Management Company, Mendillo said in June that she is leaving at the end of 2014 for personal reasons. Her replacement has not yet been announced. "Jane and the HMC team have done an excellent job strengthening the portfolio and investment organization, and we are proud to deliver strong returns to the university,” said James Rothenberg, chair of the Harvard Management Company board of directors, in a press release. The university depends on the endowment for roughly one-third of its annual operating budget, including funding faculty salaries, facilities maintenance and student financial aid.   (Writing by Richard Valdmanis; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesShares of Bed Bath &amp; Beyond were up more than 7% in after hours trade on Tuesday after the company announced better than expected earnings and revenue for the second quarter. In the second quarter, the home goods retailer reported earnings per share $1.17, topping expectations for $1.14. Revenue came in at $2.95 billion, beating estimates for $2.89 billion; on a same-store basis, sales were up 4.3% in Q2.  Bed Bath &amp; Beyond also said it repurchased $1 billion worth of stock, or 16.9 million shares, during the quarter, and that it has $1.8 billion in authorized share repurchases remaining under its most recent buyback plan announced in July. According to its latest 10-Q filed with the SEC, as of May 31 the company had about 201 million shares outstanding. For the fiscal-year, Bed Bath &amp; Beyond sees earnings of $5.00-$5.08 per share, roughly in-line with the $5.03 currently expected by Wall Street analysts.  Excluding Tuesday's after hours gains, Bed &amp; Bath shares were down more than 20% year-to-date.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Philippe DesmazesA man rides a bicycle at a cross road next to gas pipes on September 19, 2014 in the Oktiabrskiy district in Donetsk, in the eastern UkraineKiev (AFP) - The European Union warned energy giant Russia on Tuesday not to use gas supplies as a weapon in its standoff with Ukraine over the fate of its neighbour's separatist east. EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said he hoped to reach an "interim solution" with Russia over its three-month-long supply cut to Ukraine when the three sides meet for crunch talks in Berlin on Friday. Russia halted all gas sales to the ex-Soviet nation in June after Ukraine balked at paying a higher price imposed by Moscow in the wake of the February ouster in Kiev of a pro-Kremlin president. Ukraine still transports volumes of gas intended for Russia's other European clients. But EU nations fear that Kiev may be forced to tap into those flows once the winter heating season begins. "The gas sector and the energy sector as a whole should not be a political tool," Oettinger told a forum in Kiev devoted to European energy security. "It should not be a weapon in these difficult times, in the crisis between Ukraine and Russia and between Europe and Russia." Russia supplies Europe with about a third of its gas through a handful of Soviet-era pipelines and the new Nord Stream link that runs under the Baltic Sea and connects directly with Germany. Ukraine currently transports half of the Russian gas used in European nations. But countries such as Italy receive all their Russian supplies through the Ukrainian link. Oettinger said he hoped to reach a temporary solution to Russia's gas dispute with Ukraine when the sides meet in Germany. "We are checking again to come to a pragmatic solution, an interim solution, a compromise with our Russian contracting partners." But he hinted that EU nations may be forced to expand their current list of sanctions against Russia to include its gas sector if no quick fix is found. "We want to avoid the worst case scenario," said Oettinger. "It was our and my position to avoid sanctions into...  any gas industries. It is our clear preference to come to an interim solution and to get enough gas from Russia." The European Union banned the sale of advanced equipment to Russia's oil companies last month. But it stopped short of following the US lead and taking the same step against Russia's state-held gas giant Gazprom out of fears this may prompt a retaliatory gas cut.   - Highest price in Europe -   Ukraine has accused Russia of "economic aggression" and lodged a $6.0-billion (4.7-billion-euro) suit with a Stockholm arbitration court after Gazprom hiked its gas price to $485.50 per 1,000 cubic metres from the $268.50 it charged the ousted pro-Kremlin adminstration. Gazprom countered with its own $4.5 billion lawsuit in the same court linked to Ukraine's outstanding debts. Analysts said Ukraine's state energy company Naftogaz now pays the highest rate of any of Gazprom's European clients.  Moscow's VTB Capital investment bank estimates that European utilities and gas traders paid Gazprom an average of $372 per 1,000 cubic metres in the first three months of the year. Diplomats said the European Commission was proposing a comprise that would see Ukraine pay Gazprom $385 per 1,000 cubic metres in the winter and $325 in the summer months. But Gazprom walked away from a similar proposal just days before it shut off Ukraine's tap. "This is going to be a very difficult winter," Naftogaz chief Andriy Kobolev told a Ukrainian cabinet meeting. "We expect (Gazprom) to halt all its gas transits to Europe, which could affect our reverse flows." Ukraine this year began making "reverse flow" purchases that see countries such as Slovakia resell the gas they buy from Russia to Ukraine. But these are expected to make up just a tenth of the volume Ukraine consumed last year due to pipeline limitations and these nations' fears of a Russian lawsuit. Russian purchases accounted for about half of Ukraine's needs in 2013.   FREE AppDownload
Corn has been getting crushed. On Tuesday, corn futures fell to a four-year low, according to Bloomberg's Megan Durisin. Durisin reported that futures contracts for December delivery touched $3.2475 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the lowest since June 2010.  In a September 11 report, the US Department of Agriculture raised its expectations for year-end corn supplies to a record of more than 15 million bushels.  Seven percent of corn in the US was harvested last week, lagging behind the five-year average of 15 percent, according to a research report from Morgan Stanley. Yet, hotter-than-normal weather for this time of year will help corn crops mature even faster, the firm said. More supply means lower prices. Here's what the price chart looks like:  FINVIZ The Department of Agriculture also expects a record harvest for soybeans. On Monday, soybean prices also sank to the lowest level since 2010. Here's the ugly chart for soybeans. FINVIZ FREE AppDownload
Suhaimi Abdullah/Getty ImagesInvestors should have a plan for what to do if interest rates rise faster and farther than originally expected.Capital markets could get a jolt if the US Federal Reserve raises interest rates faster and farther than expected. But we don’t think there would be a major sell-off in risk assets, and there are several ways for investors to play the possibilities. Based on the pricing of futures contracts for the federal funds rate, the key US short-term policy rate, the market expects short-term rates to rise to 0.75% by the end of 2015. That’s almost half a percent below the target set by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). In other words, the market doesn’t believe that the Fed will follow through on its announced rate-hike plans. By itself, this disconnect isn’t too troubling. Historically, interest-rate increases from extremely low levels are generally positive for equities. So, even if the Fed raises rates sooner than markets expect, past data argue against a big decline in risk assets. And the business cycle would seem unlikely to turn down until inflation-adjusted interest rates rise higher than a range of 1.5% to 2%. However, focusing on the timing and magnitude of the Fed’s policy actions may reveal short-term investment opportunities and help with long-term portfolio repositioning. If investors believe that the Fed will act in line with its statements, they can look to profit by taking short positions in fed funds futures, which are trading well below levels indicated by FOMC guidance. This type of position could benefit from faster-than-expected rate increases. However, it’s not easy to get the timing right — and being early could lead to losses. Investors can also position their portfolio assets to anticipate that markets will become more uncertain as the Fed starts to raise interest rates, which would lead to higher volatility and a general repricing of risk. One way would be a swap contract that pays off if volatility rises. History suggests that there isn’t much impact on markets early in rate-hike cycles, but this time could be different. Corporate business models, financial products and investor sentiment are highly leveraged to the notion of persistently high market liquidity. Anything that might reduce that liquidity increases uncertainty. Entering this type of position is costly, so it’s important to have a view on the timing and size of rate increases to reduce the expense. There may be an opportunity to take a contrarian bet, because the cost of buying protection against a substantial upturn in inflation is very low. The price of an option that will pay off if inflation over the next decade is 2% higher than the current break-even rate—about 2% today—has collapsed. If an investor assumes that the Fed will be behind the curve and that inflation will accelerate, it could be profitable to buy some sort of insurance that goes against the grain of the widely held consensus belief of benign inflation. Investors might want to start rethinking their portfolio positioning. The goal is to reduce investments that are leveraged to persistently low interest rates in favor of investments with positive or neutral correlation to interest rates. These investments could be equities of companies with large money-market funds, which could become profitable in a rising-rate environment, or a broader set of strategies with low or positive correlation to rates. Some investments, such as market-neutral strategies, are directly exposed to an increase in short-term rates. Others, such as real assets or inflation-protection strategies, take a more indirect route. They have a high beta — or responsiveness — to inflation expectations. The sourcing for these investments should come from the most crowded strategies whose performance and liquidity are most leveraged to persistently low funding costs. In our assessment, these may include the riskiest tranches of high-yield debt; bank loans; infrastructure, farm and select real estate investments; and US equities with high debt/equity ratios. Just because there’s a lack of certainty about how the Fed’s plans and market expectations will play out doesn’t mean investors have to sit back and wait. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee.The Wall Street strategist Tom Lee has been telling clients to "stay bullish into the year-end." "We see upside in markets broadly into year-end as result of: (i) a strengthening economy; (ii) 'beta' chase as 2014 has been one of the worst years for fund manager performance so far, and (iii) seasonal factors," he writes. In a new 39-page research note, Lee identifies 10 stocks that he believes investors should hold into the end of the year.  Lee, now head of Fundstrat Global Advisors, said these 10 stocks are "Value-Momentum." "Since the start of 2014, we believe a regime shift is taking place that favors 'Value' over 'Growth' in the next few years," Lee said. "As the pace of economic growth improves, growth is less scarce hence, investors are likely not to pay up for it." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid A trader works inside a post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Stocks fell for the third straight day on Tuesday, with the blue chip Dow Jones Industrial Average falling more than 100 points and also logging the largest percentage loss.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The FHFA's July home price index showed prices rose 0.1%, less than the 0.5% expected by economists and the 0.4% that prices rose last month. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said, "The index now stands up 4.4% y/y, down from 5.1% in June and 7.8% through end-2013. The slowdown in the rate of home price appreciation in the FHFA House Price Index in 2014 has mirrored that in other national home price indices and is broadly in line with our outlook for smaller gains in home prices this year."  2. Markit's flash manufacturing PMI report for September came in at 57.9, unchanged from August and basically in-line with the 58.0 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said, "The flash PMI signaled another month of impressive growth of the US manufacturing economy. The third quarter as a whole has seen the strongest expansion since the sector began to recover from the financial crisis." Jesse Hurwitz at Barclays also said this report is in-line with continued a expansion in manufacturing activity during the third quarter.  3. The Richmond Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing index jumped to 14 in September from 12 in August. The report showed that shipments and volume of new orders picked up this month, and said, "Manufacturers remained optimistic about future business conditions. Survey participants expected faster growth in shipments and in the volume of new orders in the six months ahead. Producers looked for increased capacity utilization and anticipated rising backlogs. Expectations were for longer vendor lead times." 4. After crashing 10% into the close on Monday, shares of multi-level marketer regained nearly all of their losses on Tuesday. Despite the rebound in shares of Herbalife on Tuesday, Business Insider's Julia LaRoche reported that Bill Stiritz, chairman and CEO of Post Holdings, has suffered some ugly paper losses on his nearly 7.5 million share stake in Herbalife. Stiritz's stake, which is made through his personal investing vehicle, is equal to about 8% of Herbalife and has fallen $145 million this year.  5. On Monday, the Russell 2000 index completed a "Death Cross," or a technical indicator that occurs when a security or index's 50-day moving average falls below its 200-day moving average. In his morning note on Tuesday, however, UBS' Art Cashin said, "Doing this for 50 years tells me the death cross is more important to the media than to the markets." 6. The CEO of Ultrasonic, the Chinese shoe company that last week said their CEO and COO had disappeared and taken the company's money with them, kind of reappeared over the weekend. In a press release on Monday, Ultrasonic that, according to its CFO Clifford Chan, CEO Qingyong Wu called Chan over the weekend and said the money would be returned and that he would return to the company. The only problem: Ultrasonic's board has been unable to independently contact Wu. 7. The price of Bitcoin spiked higher on Tuesday following news that Bitcoin startup BitPay has announced a partnership with payments company PayPal. The price of Bitcoin spiked 12% on Tuesday to about $430. 8. Shares of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba fell again, dropping more than 3% on Tuesday, marking the second-straight full trading day of losses for the stock, which made its debut last Friday. Don't Miss: Most Americans Believe We're Still In A Recession » FREE AppDownload
Facebook.com/michaelsdellWhat kind of tortured conversations did Michael Dell have with his wife Susan before launching into one of the most epic battles of his career and taking his company private? None at all, he confessed in an interview CNBC Jon Fortt. I thought it would go well, it has gone much better than I thought it would go. And you know, what did I tell my kids and my wife? Well, until we announced it, you know, I didn’t tell them anything, right? Because that is the way these things work. But once it was announced, you know, I told them what I was doing and why I was doing it. It's now been a year since Dell won that battle with Carl Icahn, who tried to block the plan, oust Dell, and say a lot of sharp things about it all along the way. And it's been a year since Dell broke down in tears in front of his employees during the shareholders meeting when the votes were being tallied, which would give him the win and approve the deal. Dell married Susan in 1989, five years after he founded his computer business in his university dorm room. He was notoriously shy in those early days and Susan is credited for bringing him out of his shell, Biography reports.  While Susan may not be advisor to Michael about his company, they are big names in their home state of Texas, where they're regarded as huge philanthropists. In 1999, the couple founded the Michael &amp; Susan Dell Foundation, which has given more than $1 billion to charity in the US, South Africa and India. FREE AppDownload
AFPNew York (AFP) - The chairman of BNP Paribas plans to resign in the aftermath of the French bank's record $8.9 billion fine for violating US sanctions, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. Baudouin Prot, 63, has told the board that he will step down, said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The move comes almost three months after the giant French bank pleaded guilty to US criminal charges of violating sanctions on Iran, Sudan and other countries. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 72% of Americans Believe That The Recession Is Still On (Financial Advisors Magazine) Americans aren't happy with the economy, despite continuous signs of improvement. In fact, 72% of Americans "believe that the recession is still on," according to the 2014 American Values Survey. Only 7% of American believe that they are in "excellent financial health themselves," and approximately one-third surveyed said that "they or someone else in their household had to cut back on food in the last year to save money." Additionally, almost half of respondents said that they once believed in the American dream, but not anymore. A Monte Carlo Simulation Upholds Siegel's Belief That Stocks Are The Best Long-Term Asset Class Choice (Advisor Perspectives) Boston University professor Zvi Bodie suggests that "stocks become riskier the longer one owns them." That's a huge challenge to Jeremy Siegel's assertion that stocks are the best long-term asset class choice. And these two opposing view points naturally have different implications because one argues that equity allocations should increase over time, while the other suggests they should decrease. David Blanchett, Michael Finke and Wade Pfau at Advisor Perspectives ran a Monte Carlo simulation to test out whether investors should follow Bodie or Siegel's advice. A Monte Carlo simulation is a testing method involving random variables and numbers simulations in determining the probabilities of outcomes. " If you look at the historical data for developed countries, stocks have been less risky for long-run investors. And that’s not just some of the time, but pretty much all of the time," Blachett notes notes. "We’re left with the very unsatisfying conclusion that stocks are the best asset class choice for long-run goals, even for risk-averse investors. Although unsatisfying for many economists and others who believe that it should be risk tolerance, not time horizon, that determines portfolio recommendations, it is best to at least understand how time diversification impacts optimal portfolios if future investments continue to behave as they have in the past." Although there are certainly problems with the Monte Carlo simulation, "the empirical evidence supports an increasing allocation to equities with longer time horizons," according to Blanchett. "Our results lend greater credence to the time-segmentation strategies preferred by many advisors for designing retirement-income portfolios." "In such a strategy, short-term spending is covered by maturing bonds and with long-term spending is funded by a growth-focused equity portfolio, with the idea that this will prevent the need to sell stocks after market downturns", he adds. These World-Stock Funds Are Good For Retirement And Taxable Accounts (Morningstar) Since the world is officially globally collected, world-stock funds "make so much sense," according to Russel Kinnel. "American Funds is one firm that has gathered a lot of assets in world stock but there are plenty of smaller world-stock funds," he adds. He compiled a list of six smaller world-stock funds.  One fund he mentions is the "Gold-rated" Oakmark Global (OAKGX), which is a small portfolio of 43 stocks run by Clyde McGregor and Rob Taylor. What's interesting about their portfolio is "how much is outside of the eurozone," according to Kinnel. They prefer the US, Japan, and Switzerland, and hold Oracle, Toyota Motor and Credit Suisse. Although — as with most focused portfolios — Oakmark Global saw some difficult years like 2011's 12% loss, they have an incredible 10-year return. Another fund mentioned is the Harding Loevner Global Equity (HLMGX), which is run by two managers who have had three decades of investing experience. They "ply a focused blue-chip growth strategy that leads them to well-known names lik Schlumberger, Nike, and Nestle," according to Kinnel. They own "at least something" in most industries, but focus on health care and tech. This fund "made its name by holding up well in down markets like 2008." Instead Of Judging Clients, Advisors Should Actually Listen To Them (Financial Planning) Advisors sometimes jump to conclusions based on what their clients are saying. But Lisa Kirchenbauer, the president of Omega Wealth Management, suggests that advisors should check their emotions. "Be aware of your reactions to clients' stories. Just because a client's experience triggers an emotion in you doesn't mean it will be the same emotion, or even one remotely similar, to the one the client felt," she recommends to her firm. She also recommends that advisors evaluate their own personal biases, which can overshadow the clients' values and goals. For example, Kirchenbauer was working with a woman who was adamant about buying a beach house despite the unpredictable real estate market. While Kirchenbauer — a financial advisor — viewed the house as a (poor) financial investment, the woman was more interested in having a place for her family to gather.  And lastly, Kirchenbauer recommends paying attention to body language. "Many planners reflexively cross their arms or cross their legs into a T, which may send an off-putting message to clients," she notes. Active Share Metrics Point To The Extent And Cost Of Active Management, But Other Measures Give Better Details (Wealth Management.com) The "active share" metric represents "the percentage of a portfolio that varies from a fund's benchmark index" and derives from "comparing the fund's security weightings to those of a benchmark." It's advertised as a measure of the "fit of various benchmarks as well as a measure of consistency in a fund's investment strategy." However, there are problems with the metric. "First of all, you need to monitor the fund’s and the benchmark’s portfolio in real time in order to assess consistency, a feat not easily accomplished by retail investors or their brokers. Additionally, stock-by-stock analysis is required, a laborious procedure when the benchmark holds hundreds or thousands of issues," writes Brad Zigler.  And on top of that, most fund sponsors don't even release active share readings. So it's hard to get a hold of them. Other metrics are worth looking at, however. Zigler recommends R-squared (or the coefficient that represents the percentage of a fund's movements "explained" by movements in its benchmark; more actively managed funds have lower r-squared values); Active Expense (the "true cost" of active management found by allocating fund expenses between the active and passive components); and others.  FREE AppDownload
Some news in the (relatively) quiet world of Bitcoin: Bitcoin startup BitPay has announced a partnership with payments company PayPal to integrate their services, possibly increasing Bitcion adoption. Bitcoin prices are surging today. They're currently up over 12%. FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid A trader works inside a post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Stocks fell for the third straight day on Tuesday, with the blue chip Dow Jones Industrial Average falling more than 100 points and also logging the largest percentage loss.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The FHFA's July home price index showed prices rose 0.1%, less than the 0.5% expected by economists and the 0.4% that prices rose last month. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said, "The index now stands up 4.4% y/y, down from 5.1% in June and 7.8% through end-2013. The slowdown in the rate of home price appreciation in the FHFA House Price Index in 2014 has mirrored that in other national home price indices and is broadly in line with our outlook for smaller gains in home prices this year."  2. Markit's flash manufacturing PMI report for September came in at 57.9, unchanged from August and basically in-line with the 58.0 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said, "The flash PMI signaled another month of impressive growth of the US manufacturing economy. The third quarter as a whole has seen the strongest expansion since the sector began to recover from the financial crisis." Jesse Hurwitz at Barclays also said this report is in-line with continued a expansion in manufacturing activity during the third quarter.  3. The Richmond Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing index jumped to 14 in September from 12 in August. The report showed that shipments and volume of new orders picked up this month, and said, "Manufacturers remained optimistic about future business conditions. Survey participants expected faster growth in shipments and in the volume of new orders in the six months ahead. Producers looked for increased capacity utilization and anticipated rising backlogs. Expectations were for longer vendor lead times." 4. After crashing 10% into the close on Monday, shares of multi-level marketer regained nearly all of their losses on Tuesday. Despite the rebound in shares of Herbalife on Tuesday, Business Insider's Julia LaRoche reported that Bill Stiritz, chairman and CEO of Post Holdings, has suffered some ugly paper losses on his nearly 7.5 million share stake in Herbalife. Stiritz's stake, which is made through his personal investing vehicle, is equal to about 8% of Herbalife and has fallen $145 million this year.  5. On Monday, the Russell 2000 index completed a "Death Cross," or a technical indicator that occurs when a security or index's 50-day moving average falls below its 200-day moving average. In his morning note on Tuesday, however, UBS' Art Cashin said, "Doing this for 50 years tells me the death cross is more important to the media than to the markets." 6. The CEO of Ultrasonic, the Chinese shoe company that last week said their CEO and COO had disappeared and taken the company's money with them, kind of reappeared over the weekend. In a press release on Monday, Ultrasonic that, according to its CFO Clifford Chan, CEO Qingyong Wu called Chan over the weekend and said the money would be returned and that he would return to the company. The only problem: Ultrasonic's board has been unable to independently contact Wu. 7. The price of Bitcoin spiked higher on Tuesday following news that Bitcoin startup BitPay has announced a partnership with payments company PayPal. The price of Bitcoin spiked 12% on Tuesday to about $430. 8. Shares of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba fell again, dropping more than 3% on Tuesday, marking the second-straight full trading day of losses for the stock, which made its debut last Friday. Don't Miss: Most Americans Believe We're Still In A Recession » FREE AppDownload
So you've decided to drink whiskey. That's good, but it's just a first step. Scotch Whisky, Irish Whiskey, Bourbon, or Rye — the options are at once tantalizing and intimidating if you haven't wrapped your mind around the range of flavors and ways whiskey is served. Remember, this is an art hundreds of years in the making. Business Insider is here to help you do that tradition proud. We asked Pam Wiznitzer, a mixologist at the award-winning New York City cocktail bar The Dead Rabbit, to walk us through the whiskey decision-making process. Think of this as the adult version of Choose Your Own Adventure — except the end is more rewarding. "Don't necessarily walk into a bar and slam down the order of whiskey you want and assume they have it," Wiznitzer advised. "Feel free to have a dialogue with your bartender. It's a good conversation." With every conversation you'll learn a little more, and you'll be talking like an expert in no time. That is, if you dedicate enough time to it of course. Business Insider   
A US-led coalition just launched a major salvo against the Islamic State and various Syrian al-Qaeda affiliates, unleashing the largest single-day amount of American ordnance since the 2011 NATO strikes on Libya. But this week's biggest hit to international terrorism might have taken place far closer to home: in a courtroom in Brooklyn. Yesterday, a federal jury found the Amman-based Arab Bank liable for terrorist attacks during the Second Intifada, the anti-Israel terrorism campaign in which over 850 civilians were killed, including several Americans. According to the New York Times, this ruling in favor of 297 American victims or family members of victims of the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas marked "the first time a bank has ever been held liable in a civil suit under a broad antiterrorism statute." The plaintiffs claimed that the Arab Bank, which according to the Times holds $46 billion in assets, had hosted the finances of organizations and individuals that furthered Hamas's terrorist activities. Hamas is a US and EU-designated terrorist organization that launched numerous attacks on civilian targets during the Second Intifada. And as American citizens suing a bank with a large US presence, the plaintiffs had the legal standing to pursue their case in US court.  The decision sets a significant precedent. The US Treasury Department emerged as a perhaps-surprising contributor to the fight against terrorism and nuclear proliferation in the 13 years since the September 11th attacks, and learned how to hone its sanctions-designation authorities in a way that's managed to convince much of the world's formal financial sector to reassess its business practices, for fear of US legal exposure. Now that foreign banks can be held liable in civil court for terrorist attacks, there's an added layer of legal incentive for banks to rid themselves of any potential ties to US-listed terror groups. As Jonathan Schanzer, a former Treasury Department official and current vice president of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, explained to Business Insider, that US listing might now carry more of a legal bite than it did before yesterday's ruling. After all, it didn't matter in the Arab Bank's case that Hamas isn't considered a terror organization in Jordan, where the bank is headquartered.   "From their perspective it's legal," Schanzer says of Jordanian financial institutions hosting Hamas accounts. "But US persons can still prosecute and the bank can still pay a very heavy price." That has implications for any country that hosts Hamas members — a group that includes important regional US allies. Turkey is home to Saleh Arouri, the head of Hamas's militant operations in the West Bank and a suspected source of funding and organization for the Hamas cell that abducted and murdered three Israeli teens in June — one of whom was reportedly a US citizen. Much of the Hamas politburo is based in Qatar, a Gulf kingdom whose military is assisting in airstrikes in Syria; several Hamas members are based in Beirut, Lebanon as well. Yesterday's ruling shows that if those Hamas figures hold bank accounts or use banks for any form of fundraising, those financial institutions can be successfully sued in US court. The same goes for banks hosting accounts for members of any other US terrorist group that has killed American citizens, like ISIS, the Taliban, or Hezbollah. This ruling has the potential to choke off terrorist groups' access to the legitimate economy. But it could have a few problematic short-term consequences as well. "Arab Bank is still kind of the only bank that has really good access to Gaza," Schanzer notes.  Aid organizations and foreign contractors will have to park their money somewhere during the multi-year, multi-billion-dollar post-conflict reconstruction effort in the coastal strip. This ruling will likely force the Arab Bank to ratchet up its compliance and be far more careful about whose business it is willing to accept — possibly slowing down its operations in Gaza and hampering the rebuilding program.  And the Arab Bank is effectively the state bank of Jordan, which is home to over 600,000 Syrian refugees. In all, yesterday's ruling may force several foreign banks to change their practices. And it will keep groups like Hamas out of the financial system — while leading to a period of potential friction during a time when much of the Middle East is in turmoil. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Timothy A. ClaryCustomers look at a pair of Jimmy Choo heels as Saks Fifth Avenue unveils 17 August 2007  "10022-SHOE", the new designer shoe floor that's so big it has its own zip codeLondon (AFP) - Shoemaker to the stars Jimmy Choo unveiled plans Tuesday for a London stock market float valuing it at up to £800 million ($1.3 billion, 1.0 billion euros) to fund expansion in Asia. The company said in a statement that its owner, investment firm JAB Luxury, has agreed to float a 25-percent stake in a partial initial public offering (IPO) on the London Stock Exchange next month. The top-end luxury brand, whose shoes retail at beween £350 and £2,100 per pair, counts Kate Middleton, Nicole Kidman, Victoria Beckham and Lady Gaga among its celebrity fans. The company is seeking to tap further into booming Asian demand for luxury goods, particularly in China and Japan. "Jimmy Choo is an outstanding business operating in one of the fastest growing segments of the luxury market," said Pierre Denis, chief executive of Jimmy Choo, in Tuesday's statement. "Jimmy Choo is a clear success story with strong momentum and I am confident that our future as a public company can only extend our reputation and position in this attractive sector.” A source close to the matter told AFP that the group was seeking to raise up to £200 million from the IPO in late October. The brand was founded by Malaysia-born Jimmy Choo in 1996 with British socialite Tamara Mellon. It became a household name after repeatedly featuring on high profile TV shows including "Sex and the City", and was worn by celebrities and royalty, including Britain's Princess Diana. Jimmy Choo has since developed into a luxury fashion brand encompassing shoes, handbags, leather goods, scarves, eye wear and fragrances. Since the opening of its first store in London in 1996, the company has grown to become a leading global luxury brand with 120 shops worldwide and annual sales of £282 million. Revenues jumped 9.4 percent to £150.2 million in the first half of this year, or six months to the end of June, compared with a year earlier.  Shoes are widely regarded as one of the fastest growing segments of the global luxury goods market. The company added on Tuesday that it would continue to open 10 to 15 stores a year, with growth in Asian markets a key target. "Since JAB Luxury acquired Jimmy Choo in 2011, the business has undergone significant investment and is now comprehensively scaled for growth," added the group's non-executive chairman Peter Harf. London-based haute couture designer Jimmy Choo sold his interest in the luxury goods firm that bears his name in 2001. It has since been owned by various private equity firms until 2011, when German-owned JAB acquired the business. The group now straddles the globe, with operations in Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Australia. "Jimmy Choo’s aim is to shift to a regional mix more in line with the wider luxury market through growth in Asia and selected new markets, whilst maintaining its presence in EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and the United States," it added Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinOn Monday, the Russell 2000 completed a "Death Cross." The Russell is made up of small and mid-cap stocks. A "Death Cross" is a technical indicator that happens when a security's 50-day moving average falls below its 200-day moving average. The very basic, oversimplified idea behind why this is bad is that since a 200-day moving average marks the move of a security — say, a stock — over a longer period of time, it represents a more stable indicator of the stock's price. And so if the 50-day moving average, which measures the stock's price over a shorter period of time, which makes this indicator theoretically less table, crosses below the longer-term average it indicates, to the technical trader, breaking an uptrend. And as the saying goes, "The trend is your friend." Until the trend gets broken. Then, presumably, you have no friends? All in all, the "Death Cross," probably doesn't matter all that much. At least on its own. In a story about the "Death Cross," CNBC cited the chart below, which shows the last few times this happened for the Russell 2000. Only one of them lead to serious downside move for the index, but that happened in the summer of 2011, which was the depths of the European Sovereign Debt Crisis and the US credit downgrade. And as UBS' Art Cashin said in his morning note on Tuesday: "Doing this for 50 years tells me the death cross is more important to the media than to the markets." CNBC FREE AppDownload
FlickrIf your birthday falls between August 23 and September 22, you might have a hard time finding a job in China. Job applicants face horoscope-based discrimination in China, according to The New Republic. Some Chinese employers don't hire applicants simply because their astrological sign is considered to be unlucky — as if getting a job wasn't hard enough. Virgos are considered to be the most unlucky horoscope because "they're picky, they're spoiled, they're fussy to the point of being obsessive-compulsive." In fact, The New Republic points to an online survey conducted by Sina, which found that Virgos have the most difficulty finding work. The next least popular signs were Pisces and Scorpio. But not all companies "rule out Virgos explicity." Some just specify which horoscopes they are looking for. "One Hong Kong travel agency wrote in a job posting that it was looking to hire a Gemini, Libra, or Aquarius. A real estate company in Ningbo reportedly rejected an applicant because he was a Scorpio", according to The New Republic. The Chinese government neither supports nor opposes the practice. And the New Republic found a 2013 Beijing Evening News report with the headline: "No Relationship Between Astrological Signs and Personality: Scientists." And sometimes applicants discriminate as well. One young woman in Chongqing "reportedly turned down a position because she was a Leo and her would-be boss was a Pisces", according to The New Republic. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Burger King logo is seen through a Tim Horton's doughnut hole in a photo illustration outside a restaurant in TorontoLONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury's move to curb deals that allow U.S. companies to escape high taxes at home wiped a combined $12.3 billion off the shares of nearly a dozen companies on both sides of the Atlantic on Tuesday, as investors reacted to the surprisingly far-reaching action. But it was unclear whether the tougher stance adopted by the Obama administration on "inversion" deals that allow companies to escape high U.S. taxes by reincorporating abroad, which followed a wave of public criticism, would end any of the handful of deals currently in the works. Burger King, which is in the process of an inversion deal with Canada's Tim Horton's &lt;thi.to&gt;, said Tuesday it would proceed with its $11.5 billion deal despite the Treasury actions, saying the transaction was not about the tax benefits. Nonetheless, the shares of some companies involved in or interested in merger deals were dealt strong blows. In London, AstraZeneca &lt;azn.l&gt; slid 3.6 percent, while Shire &lt;shp.l&gt; fell 2.5 percent. The U.S. Treasury move was seen as adding some risk around the deal for AbbVie &lt;abbv.n&gt; to buy Shire for $55 billion and might deter Pfizer &lt;pfe.n&gt; from making another attempt to acquire AstraZeneca, after a $118 billion takeover attempt failed in May. AbbVie slid 1.7 percent in midday U.S. trading, while Pfizer, the biggest U.S. pharmaceutical company, dipped about 0.3 percent. More than a half dozen other companies in the United States and Europe saw their shares fall on the Treasury action. Tim Horton was the only stock in the group to gain on the day, with its shares were up 0.2 percent in Toronto, though shares of Burger King Worldwide &lt;bkw.n&gt; were down 1.5 percent in New York. In announcing the intention for Burger King to proceed with its deal for Tim Horton, the two companies said in a statement: "This deal has always been driven by long-term growth and not by tax benefits." Investors had been expecting some action from the Obama administration to clamp down on tax-avoidance inversions but the steps announced on Monday were more far-reaching than anticipated, analysts at Deutsche Bank said. The new rules, effective immediately, will make new inversions more difficult to do and less potentially rewarding - but whether that will be enough to scupper deals that are pending or under consideration is not clear. The action follows months of political debate, with Democrats urging prompt legislative action and Republicans pushing to address the problem later, perhaps in 2015, as part of a broader overhaul of the loophole-riddled federal tax code. "Inversion deals now are clearly going to be very difficult to pull off," Navid Malik, head of life sciences research at Cenkos Securities, said. That could kill off prospects of Pfizer returning to bid for AstraZeneca at the end of November, when a six-month cooling-off period imposed by British takeover rules comes to an end and the U.S. group can publicly launch a new offer, Malik said. Other analysts were less certain. Andrew Baum of Citi said the Treasury move would have a limited impact on the economic case for a Pfizer-AstraZeneca deal - though the threat of additional measures could give the U.S. group pause - and he still expects Pfizer to return after the Nov. 26 deadline. Both Pfizer and AstraZeneca are bound by rules that mean they cannot comment on deal prospects. However, the British firm said previously that the controversial tax issue was a big risk for investors that could cause major delays to any transaction. The Shire deal may still go ahead, since it is already in train, although AbbVie will likely lose upside from planned tax savings, making the picture uncertain. The transaction is due to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2014. "Shire has enough momentum in its business and a good enough pipeline that it would be attractive to AbbVie anyway," Malik said. "The tax inversion was the icing on the cake." Shire and AbbVie officials did not have any immediate comment on the latest developments.     INVERSION SURGE Other U.S.-listed issues under pressure from the Treasury actions included Abbott Laboratories &lt;abt.n&gt;, down 1.5 percent; Covidien &lt;cov.n&gt;, down 2.8 percent; Medtronic &lt;mdt.n&gt;, down 3.5 percent; and Mylan &lt;myl.o&gt;, down 0.3 percent. In Europe, UK-based Smith &amp; Nephew &lt;sn.l&gt; and Swiss biotech group Actelion &lt;atln.vx&gt;, two other perennial targets of bid speculation, fell 2.8 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively. Inversions have surged in the past year, pursued by healthcare companies in particular, although the Burger King-Tim Horton's deal shows the appeal extends into other sectors. Medical technology group Medtronic, meanwhile, is working to close an inversion deal into Ireland with rival Covidien, while Mylan plans to buy certain Abbott's drugs in developed markets outside the United States in another tax-cutting transaction. About 50 such deals have taken place since the early 1980s, but the pace has picked up, with half of those completed since the 2008-2009 credit crisis, according to a Reuters review. A key target of Treasury's actions is foreign profits held offshore by U.S. multinationals under a U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rule that defers taxation on such profits unless and until they are brought into the United States. One new Treasury rule will prevent inverted companies from using "hopscotch" loans that allow them to avoid dividend taxes when tapping such tax-deferred foreign profits. Another rule will bar inverters from gaining access to the same kinds of profits by using "decontrolling" strategies that restructure foreign units so they are no longer U.S.-controlled. Treasury is also tightening limits on the levels of ownership that the former U.S. owners can have in an inverted company to qualify for foreign tax treatment from the IRS, a move that will make it harder to do these deals.   (Reporting by Ben Hirschler in London; Additional reporting by Kevin Drawbaugh in Washington and So Young Kim in New York; Writing by Ben Hirschler and Dan Burns; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesShares of Herbalife are rallying today after they tanked more than 10% going into Monday's close on a rumor that Carl Icahn might be unwinding his position. Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino Tweeted that Icahn has not sold a single share or taken an options position.    The stock was last trading up about 7.9% on Tuesday around $43.39 per share.  Herbalife, a multi-level marketer that sells nutrition products, has been at the center of a hedge fund war for nearly 20 months.  Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, has been very loudly and publicly short the company. He made his $1 billion short position public back in December 2012. It's his belief that Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. His investment thesis is predicated on regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, shutting the company down. Back in March, the FTC opened a probe into the company.  Within weeks of Ackman's presentation, Icahn, a long-time rival, snapped up a large long position.  The two hedge fund titans later engaged in nasty, on-air brawl on CNBC. Icahn had also admitted that the fact that he doesn't like Ackman was one reason why he decided to take a look at investing in the company in the first place. This summer, Icahn and Ackman reconciled with a hug at a conference. Icahn currently owns 17,000,000 shares of Herbalife, according to regulatory filing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Check out the chart for the last five trading sessions: Yahoo! Finance     FREE AppDownload
Ultrasonic company presentationQingyong Wu.The missing CEO of show company Ultrasonic — who last week disappeared with the company's money — says he's going to give it back. In a press release on Monday, Ultrasonic CFO Clifford Chan said Qingyong Wu, the company's former CEO who was dismissed at a board meeting late last week, called him over the weekend and said he would bring the money back and return to the company. A board representative has subsequently been unable to contact Wu. The company, based in Germany, added, "A more detailed evaluation of the call was not possible for the Management and the Supervisory Board considering the shortness of time." So it seems as if the company might have no idea what's going on.  Late last week, the company formally dismissed Wu and COO Minghong Wu, who both vanished along with the company's cash. In its press release on Thursday, Ultrasonic said "both former board members had drawn the credit facility in two tranches in August and transferred most of the money from Hong Kong to China shortly before their getaway." The company also said it was working with its lenders to avoid insolvency proceedings. In light of these developments, Chan, who was previously scheduled to resign as CFO on Oct. 1, will be staying with the company.  Not surprisingly, his successor decided not to take the job.  Here's the action in Ultrasonic shares trading in Frankfurt since the CEO's disappearance first broke. It's still ugly. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
CNBCBill Clinton at the Clinton Global Initiative. At the Clinton Global Initiative annual meeting Tuesday morning, a moderator asked the former president whether companies that had already embraced inversions were "unpatriotic." President Barack Obama announced new measures designed to curb corporate inversions on Monday.  Clinton did not address companies that have used inversions to get lower rates and instead spoke broadly about the need to reform the system and lower corporate taxes. "Whether it is or not, companies ... have a short-term perspective. A lot of these companies feel duty-bound to pay the lowest taxes they can pay. America has to face the fact that we have not reformed our corporate tax laws," Clinton said. Clinton acknowledged he signed and supported a bill increasing corporate tax rates in his own administration. However, he argued the rate relative to other countries had since changed.  "So a lot of these executives — even if they want to bring the money home — think, 'This is crazy. I can borrow the money in America ... and better that I borrow the money at 2% than repatriate it at 20%, or 10%, or 5%, or 6%, or whatever it is.' We need to reform the tax system," Clinton said. "We're bailing water out of a leaky boat. And the only two things you can plug the leaks in that boat: Either we undertake corporate tax reform, or every other country in the world says, 'We are wrong and we’ll go back to the way we used to do it.'" The ex-president's wife, Hillary Clinton, is a front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016. However, Clinton laughed and dismissed the question when he was pressed on whether he might "know anyone" who could bring Democrats and Republicans together on the tax reform issue in 2016. "That may be — I have been assaulted by cleverness on all fronts for quite a long while now. That may be the cleverest in I have ever heard," he said. View Clinton's remarks below. FREE AppDownload
ReutersFor months Bill Ackman has been working with the pharmaceutical company Valeant to acquire its peer, Allergan. But with the news that Allergan might acquire another pharmaceutical company, Ackman's plans may be ruined — and he threatened to sue Allergan over that in a strongly worded letter. "We have read published reports that you are negotiating a substantial highly leveraged acquisition that would not require shareholder approval in an attempt to preclude a transaction with Valeant Pharmaceuticals," said the letter, published by ValueWalk. "This action would directly contradict your repeated published statements ... If you take such action, we will immediately bring litigation against you (and any counter-party that aids and abets you) for breach of fiduciary duty. " Together, Allergan and this new company in the game, Salix, are too expensive for Valeant and Ackman to buy. So if the two companies get together, that's game over for Ackman and Valeant's over $45 billion deal. That is why Ackman is threatening to take Allergan to court. He's saying that if Allergan acquires Salix, it is violating its promise to allow shareholders to vote on the deal he wants to do with Valeant. That vote would take place Dec. 18. Allergan released a statement countering Ackman's letter that said — in so many words — we've got this, but thanks for the threats. “While we do not comment on rumors or speculation," Allergan's statement said, "we do note that the Allergan Board continues to conclude that Valeant’s bid for Allergan is grossly inadequate and substantially undervalues Allergan. The Allergan Board is well aware of its fiduciary obligations and, in that context, is focused on enhancing value for all stockholders, unlike Mr. Ackman who is financially incentivized to deliver Allergan to Valeant at the lowest possible price.” Allergan has put hurdle after hurdle up before Ackman and Valeant since the allies announced that they intended to purchase Allergan this spring. Earlier this year it sued them for insider trading over the way the deal went down.  "This case is about the improper and illicit insider-trading scheme hatched in secret by a billionaire hedge fund investor on the one hand, and a public-company serial acquirer on the other hand," read Allergan's complaint. "... The method the defendants chose was to operate in secret, flouting key provisions of the federal securities laws designed to protect investors from precisely this type of predatory conduct." The SEC then launched its own investigation into the matter. The crux of all of this is a debate as to whether Valeant — not Allergan — is a viable company. Valeant bills itself as an innovative company that has learned how to grow organically by acquiring smash-hit products and cutting research and development costs. Allergan perfectly fits that bill, as it is the maker of Botox and Lattice. But there is a darker side to that story. Investors like short-seller Jim Chanos think Valeant is an accounting rollup, a company that needs to acquire other companies to appear healthy and hide losses in its balance sheet. That could be why, from the beginning, Ackman and Valeant have stressed the importance of getting this deal done ASAP. Meanwhile, Allergan has — for all intents and purposes — stalled. Back in July, Ackman's fund did a presentation on the deal and a listener asked Ackman a simple question. Why not wait to do the deal and let the Bausch &amp; Lomb acquisition annualize to show that it is growing organically? Valeant had, after all, said that it was confident that Bausch &amp; Lomb would continue "to deliver organic growth of &gt;10% ... for the remainder of 2014."Ackman replied that it wouldn't be fair for shareholders to let a deal like the one he and Valeant had put on the table pass them by.  If Allergan acquires Salix, though, shareholders will have no problem laughing Valeant and Ackman off.  And Valeant will have to find some other superstars to add to its product line. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael DalderGermany's Eurosceptics could cause a major knock-on effect for the EurozoneA new report from credit ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor's is flagging up a new concern for the struggling Eurozone: Germany's surging Eurosceptic party, Alternative fur Deutschland (AfD).  S&amp;P's case is fairly simple. Though AfD doesn’t have mass political support as yet, it's gaining momentum. After taking 4.7% of the vote in the last Bundestag elections, it won 7% in the European election and between 9.7% and 12.2% in three recent state elections in eastern Germany. The Telegraph's Ambrose Evans Pritchard pithily describes the AfD as 'standing across Angela Merkel's path with bayonets' in his write-up of the report. If they had their way, AfD would have Germany using the Deutschmark again, exiting from the common currency. They're picking up steam by opposing the role that Germany has played in recent years: as Germans see it, they're the guy with the checkbook.  S&amp;P says Germany’s domestic opposition to Eurozone crisis management hasn’t yet had a major political voice, allowing the government some leeway on the measures it took. Both the main conservative and social democratic parties in Germany have been roughly supportive of the biggest measures to tackle the euro-crisis. Or at least, more supportive than the German public. The German government is already a lightning rod for blame over the continent’s austerity measures.  The S&amp;P report suggests that there could be even more of a bias towards tight money if Angela Merkel’s centre-right CDU have to  mop up AfD voters. In the same way that UKIP has pushed British Prime Minister David Cameron to increased Euroscepticism, S&amp;P head of sovereign ratings Moritz Kraemer explains why Merkel might have to shift to the right: “More conservative, and arguably more eurosceptic, voters had increasingly felt their concerns were overlooked by the CDU, a trend that may have deepened since the establishment of the Grand Coalition government in late 2013. "AfD has been successful in attracting those disenchanted voters. This has been made easier by a parallel related development: the rapid and seemingly inexorable demise of the Liberal party (FDP), which could otherwise have been a beneficiary of disgruntled voters.” Remind you of anywhere? If the German government and their wing of the European Central Bank (the Bundesbank) began objecting even more to monetary stimulus, it could be negative for the people of Europe's struggling periphery. In a sort of grim irony, AfD leader Leader Bernd Lucke says that "southern European states are becoming impoverished under the pressure to compete" under the monetary union. If the Bundesbank (the German arm of the ECB) and the German government became less co-operative with Eurozone stimulus as the AfD gain popularity, it's exactly those southern European states that would suffer most.  S&amp;P sums up its case succinctly: "Why is this a concern for the eurozone? None of this would matter much, if we were to assess that the euro crisis is safely behind us. However, this is unlikely to be the case." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bitcoin (virtual currency) paper wallet with QR codes and coins are seen in an illustration picture taken at La Maison du Bitcoin in ParisWASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. court has shut down Butterfly Labs, a Missouri company the Federal Trade Commission alleges deceptively marketed computers designed to produce bitcoins, the "virtual currency" payment system. The FTC's complaint against Butterfly and its corporate officers alleges that the company charged consumers thousands of dollars for its bitcoin computers, called BitForce, but then failed to provide the computers until they were almost obsolete, or in many cases did not provide the computers at all. Unlike traditional currency, bitcoins are not distributed by a central bank or backed by physical assets like gold, but instead are “mined” by users who use computers to calculate increasingly complex algorithmic formulas. When a user solves a formula, the bitcoin system awards that user a set number of bitcoins. As time passes and more bitcoins are mined, mining becomes more difficult. The codes become more complex and require more powerful computers to solve them. “We often see that when a new and little-understood opportunity like Bitcoin presents itself, scammers will find ways to capitalize on the public’s excitement and interest,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection. Butterfly sold its computers from $149 to $29,899 based on the machines' purported computing power. The FTC said that more than 20,000 consumers had not received the computers they purchases as of September 2013. The defendants in the case are BF Labs, Inc, doing business as Butterfly Labs; Darla Drake; Nasser Ghoseiri and Sonny Vlesides, the FTC said. (Reporting by Ros Krasny) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn eagle tops the U.S. Federal Reserve building's facade in WashingtonST.LOUIS (Reuters) - The U.S. central bank needs to change the way it communicates its view on the future path of interest rates, a Federal Reserve official said on Tuesday, joining others inside the Fed who are calling for an overhaul of its policy statement. "I would like to get the commitment to move to something more data dependent. I think that's really the way to go," Bullard said in remarks to reporters on the sidelines of a community banking conference here. Bullard said that he did support, however, the September policy statement, where the Fed kept in place its guidance that it will consider lifting rates only until a "considerable time" after it ends its bond buying program. "I thought it was premature to remove 'considerable time' from the statement because QE hasn't ended yet," Bullard said, referring to the Fed's bond buying program, formally known as quantative easing. The program is expected to end next month. "A more natural juncture would probably be the October meeting," he said. Bullard stuck with his view that the Fed should move to lift interest rates late in the first quarter of 2015, citing strong economic data and a low unemployment rate. Bullard said that if you take out the first quarter, the U.S. economy is growing at a roughly 4 percent rate.  (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFor as long as we can remember, owning a home was an element of the American dream. But after the housing market crashed seven years ago, it seemed as though the idea of buying a home as a stable investment had died. New data, however, suggests interest in buying homes is very much alive, surprisingly among young people. According to a study by Zillow and Pulsenomics, a whopping 65% of millennials said "they agreed with the statement that owning a home is necessary to living the 'good life' and is central to the American dream." Only 56% of Gen X-ers and 55% of Baby Boomers felt the same way. 82% of millennial renters said that "they were confident or somewhat confident that they will be able to afford a home someday." And 46% of them agreed that owning a home is "necessary" to be a "respected member of society".  And on top of that, millennials are more optimistic about expected home values: 33% expect home values to rise more than 6 percent per year over the next decade." Only 21% of Gen X-ers and just 15% of Baby Boomers agreed. "This feedback from millennial renters is significant because it confirms that they bear relatively few psychological scars from the housing bust, and because the attitudes of this generation will drive housing trends in the decades to come," noted Pulsenomics Founder Terry Loebs. "It's heartening to see younger renters express so much confidence in their ability to buy a home in coming years, because today's renters by necessity are tomorrow's buyers," said Zillow Chief Economist Dr. Stan Humphries. "Cynics might argue that these results represent no more than youthful exuberance, or perhaps some naiveté, but that's missing the point." "But optimism is a necessary first step, and indicates a desire among a very creative generation to find creative solutions that will enable them to achieve homeownership," he adds. And here are the top 7 metro areas with the highest housing confidence index for renters only (those who presumably may purchase a home in the future), according to the Zillow study. Atlanta: 64.0 Denver: 63.4 San Francisco: 61.8 Minneapolis: 61.6 Washington D.C.: 61.1 San Jose: 60.2 Miami: 59.8 FREE AppDownload
As the new school semester starts, many young people will find themselves mourning the days of college — endlessly combing their social media networks, with envy, for photos of their undergrad-friends at the campus bar or statuses about tailgating before a big football game. There's good news! Life goes on. It's time to embark on the next adventure: starting a career. For those wishing to branch out in a new city, deciding where to settle is tough. To help them make a decision, Livability curated a list of the towns with the most potential for new college grads. To determine the best cities, Livability analyzed factors such as "the number of 25- to 34-year-olds living in each city, the availability of rental properties, unemployment rates, educational attainment levels, use of public transportation, and the types of jobs these places offer." Bonus points were awarded to cities that provide tons of recreational opportunities, nightlife, and a cool vibe. Flickr/dahlstromsIn 2013, Business Insider named Google, based in Mountain View, California, the best-paying company in the U.S. Even if you're not a Googler, the techie dream town of Mountain View contains endless amenities for its amenities, including shoreline pathways, a network of bike trails, and coworking spaces and coffee shops offering Bitcoin ATMS and free WiFi, according to Livability Wikimedia Commons/John D. BuellNaperville's Riverwalk Quarry provides a clear view of Moser Tower, one of four bell towers worldwide that spans six octaves. Located 30 miles west of Chicago, Naperville combines small-town charm and big-city amenities, according to Livability. It's a hotbed of jobs in the technology, energy, and distribution sector — with a low unemployment rate of 5.5% among 25- to 34-year-olds. Flickr/ethankanBuilt in 1925, Fargo Theater is the only remaining vintage movie palace with a vaudeville stage in the area. While you may know it as the wintry town that gave the dark comedy thriller "Fargo" its title, the real-life city is considered one of the safest places to live in the U.S., according to Livability. Nearly 80% of jobs in Fargo are considered non-service and come with high salaries, spanning health care, technology, manufacturing, and financial services.  VasenkaPhotography/FlickrAnn Arbor's Fleetwood Diner heals hangovers with its Hippie Hash, which are hash browns topped with grilled tomato, green pepper, onion, mushroom, and broccoli. So much more than just a college town — and one of the best, at that — Ann Arbor boasts above-averages wages to college-educated workers and a solid track record of successful entrepreneurs, according to Livability. Residents can find ample opportunities in automotive research, software development, and research in life sciences. ShutterstockMore than 50,000 people pass through Hoboken Terminal every day, many of whom commute back and forth to Manhattan for work. Before cracking a Jersey joke, bear with us. There are nearly 122,000 job openings in and around the city, Livability reports, and the unemployment rate for 25- to 34-year-olds is 1.6% — a pretty solid indication that qualified applicants can land a job here.  Facebook/Wild-Rumpus-Books-for-Young-ReadersMinneapolis' Wild Rumpus bookstore has a BYOB graphic novel book club for beer-and-comics-enthusiasts ages 21 and over. According to Livability, the average citizen spends less than 30% of their annual income on housing. This frees up funds for entertainment (Minneapolis has one of the best music scenes outside Nashville, NYC, and LA), eating out at one of the city's four James Beard Award-nominated restaurants, and, of course, retirement. Flickr/donwest48From a low-fat latté to high-end fashion, an exciting collection of shops, restaurants, cafés, and more can be found on Bethesda Row. Considered a Washington, D.C. suburb, Bethesda is home to some of the leading research facilities in the country, including the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Advanced Orthopaedics, Lcokheed Martin, and IBM. Plus, 98.7% of its residents are employed, according to Livability. Flickr/daverugby83Sixth Street, with its bars, music venues, and restaurants, is considered one of the staples of Austin's nightlife. While rapid population growth has sucked some of the weirdness out of Austin, the overgrown college town holds on to creative culture through small businesses, South by Southwest, and a ripe culinary scene. According to Livability, major industries include computer technology, research and development, engineering, and the arts. Flickr/kdavidclarkBellevue Downtown Park is a 21-acre oasis of green in the heart of Bellevue. Home to Lake Washington and Mount Rainier, Bellevue also plays host to a slew of earthy-crunchy companies, including REI, Eddie Bauer, and Outdoor Research. Outdoor enthusiasts can find employment opportunities in industries spanning software, internet, environmental management, and engineering, according to Livability. Flickr/floweregoThe annual membership fee of The Coop, a cooperative bookstore started by students in 1882, is only $1 — just as it was the year it opened. With more than 600 companies and two internationally renowned universities based here, Cambridge is well stocked in jobs, most of which are high-paying compared to the average American salary. The Boston suburb's compact layout, vibrant arts scene, and ample food trucks draws tens of thousands of 25- to 34-year-olds to the area, Livability reports. The top employers are Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Sanofi-Genzyme BioVentures, and Biogen Idec, which Business Insider named the second best employer in America in 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tom MihalekGoodbye, gamblers ... hello, students?A Florida developer who made a $90 million offer for Atlantic City's shuttered Revel Casino wants to use the site to help end world hunger, cancer, and resolve other pressing issues like nuclear waste storage. Glenn Straub's plan is ambitious as it is high-minded. First, he would add a second tower to the 57-story structure, completing the original vision of the casino-hotel's developers. The businessman, who owns the Palm Beach Polo Golf and Country Club, would then convert the complex into a university where the best and brightest young minds from across the world could work on the big issues of the day. "We want people who will cure the world of its hiccups," said Straub in an interview, his ideas for Atlantic City spilling out in his rapid-fire manner. Revel, which cost $2.4 billion to build and opened just two years ago, closed Sept. 2 after failing to draw bids at a bankruptcy auction. Sure, the globe's largest corporations may eventually lure away some of his students, he conceded, but "we'll make them donate 2 percent of their incomes for their lifetimes," to help fund the project. He did not elaborate or say how the university would be financed otherwise. His ideal student would be "free, white, and over 21," he said, using a politically incorrect way to describe someone with no financial obligations. Straub's bid, made one week after the property closed, was a ray of sunshine in a town in which three other casinos closed this year as casinos in neighboring states provided more competition. An auction for the property is scheduled for Wednesday. Straub also sees ways to make Atlantic City a more attractive gambling center. He envisions high-speed rail and ferry routes connecting the resort town to New York City and an improved airport that could draw more vacationers. He also has called for an underground tunnel to connect casinos in the city, helping protect gaming revenue from declines due to harsh winter weather. Still, his ideas for the building have some in the city wondering.  "When you start off with these kinds of ideas, to my eyes, it doesn't give you a whole lot of confidence," said Democratic Assemblyman Vince Mazzeo, who represents Atlantic City. "But this gentlemen, if he ends up buying it, he's going to have to open those doors, which equates to employment." Straub's plans stem from the widely held belief that Atlantic City's casino market is saturated and that buyers for the shuttered properties need to find other uses for them. "Another casino in Atlantic City is not the answer," Straub said.   (Reporting by Daniel Kelley in Philadelphia; Editing by Frank McGurty and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
flickr/rvaphotodudeRichmond, VirginiaThe Richmond Fed's survey of business activity signalled a pick up in activity in the east coast. The headline manufacturing index unexpectedly jumped to 14 in September from 12 in August. This was better than the decline to 10 expected by economists. "Shipments and the volume of new orders picked up this month," the Richmond Fed said in its report. "Manufacturing employment also strengthened this month, while average wages rose at a slower pace and the average workweek lengthened." Importantly, the outlook of respondents was strong: Manufacturers remained optimistic about future business conditions. Survey participants expected faster growth in shipments and in the volume of new orders in the six months ahead. Producers looked for increased capacity utilization and anticipated rising backlogs. Expectations were for longer vendor lead times. Survey participants anticipated steady growth in the number of employees and the average workweek during the next six months. Additionally, they expected faster growth in wages. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at faster pace in September compared to last month. For the six months ahead, manufacturers expected slower growth in prices paid, and anticipated faster growth in prices received.   Richmond Fed FREE AppDownload
ReutersEconomic reform will be a balancing act. This represents a major policy shift for a country that one famous investor once joked "is the only major industrialized country that knows its annual GDP on January 1 of that year." The government would be letting growth slow to reform the economy, moving it from one based on property development and foreign investment to one based on consumption. But there will be pain until that reform is completed, and indicators are already signaling that the economy is going south. Since July, all signs point to a major slowdown in China. Last month's industrial production was especially horrid, showing that activity had lowered to levels unseen since 2008. Growth in everything from fixed-asset investment to gambling revenue to Scotch Whisky sales, and, of course, to China's infamous property development sector has fallen dramatically. China's corporates are in pretty bad shape, too, according to Morgan Stanley analysts. But that isn't going to spur China's government into action. For the first time in recent memory, President Xi Jinping has signaled that it may be OK if the country misses its target. It has been a quick change. In May and June, Xi was demanding that officials “lower the cost of financing,” and he reiterated that local governments had “inescapable responsibilities to achieve the economic growth target (of 7.5%) set at the NPC meeting,” Barclays pointed out in a recent note. Basically he was saying "reform be damned," we need to keep this economy moving. In September, however, Xi and the media that his government controls changed their tune. Earlier this month, the government's publication, Xinhua News Agency, accused those calling for fresh stimulus after September's bad data dump of "failing to clearly see the Chinese economy's new normal." Around the same time, Xi himself tried to sound calm, saying economic indicators were "still within a reasonable range” and that China would maintain “prudent monetary policy” and “targeted easing," Barclays notes. Measures for "targeted easing" in the event of nasty data surprises, like the one the world had this month, are not enough to lift China from the doldrums, and they're not meant to be. For now, China's citizens will just have to tough it out as the economy rebalances. "We believe the government will support the property market with measures such as mortgage rate cuts or lower down payments, but don’t think these can change the picture," Barclays said. "We do expect more investment spending in place, e.g. on railways, public housing, and environmental or clean energy projects, to cushion the slowdown ... We see an increasing probability that the government may set a lower GDP growth target of 7% for 2015." But we'll see how long that lasts. The latest data out of China showed that while factory activity picked up from a dismal August to a less-dismal September, factory employment slumped to a five-and-a-half-year low. And that could be something the government — and the people of China — can't tolerate.     FREE AppDownload
Bill Pugliano/Getty ImagesManufacturing activity in the US remains strong. Markit's flash reading on manufacturing PMI for September came in at 57.9. This reading is in-line with expectations, which were for 58.0, up slightly from 57.9 last month. In a release, Markit said, "At 57.9 in September, the seasonally adjusted Markit Flash U.S. Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index remained well above the neutral 50.0 value, to indicate a robust improvement in overall operating conditions across the manufacturing sector. Moreover, the headline Manufacturing PMI index – which is designed to signal changes in prevailing business conditions in the U.S. manufacturing sector – held at the same level as August’s 52-month high." Markit's chief economist Chris Williamson said, "The flash PMI signaled another month of impressive growth of the US manufacturing economy. The third quarter as a whole has seen the strongest expansion since the sector began to recover from the financial crisis." This chart from Markit shows the last several years of PMI readings. Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWhen it comes to megayachts, Roman Abramovich is a step above all others.Even among billionaire megayacht owners, there's competition to be the biggest and best. In celebration of the Monaco Yacht Show, which kicks off Wednesday, our friends at Wealth-X shared the estimated values of the 10 most expensive yachts on the planet. From a movie mogul's secondhand yacht to a futuristic design by Philippe Starck, these boats are like small cities on water.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidBill Stiritz.Herbalife's largest individual shareholder is in the red.  On Monday, shares of Herbalife tanked into Monday's close. The stock fell 10.31% to end the day at $40.21 per share on a false rumor that Carl Icahn was unwinding his position. The stock was last up about 3% in the pre-market on Tuesday. Herbalife is a multilevel marketing firm that sells nutrition products like weight-loss shakes and vitamins. The company has been at the center of a huge hedge fund war for nearly 20 months. For a while, a lot of attention has been focused on the losses that the hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has amassed on his infamous short. Things have been looking better for him in the past couple of weeks, though.  Meanwhile, Herbalife's largest individual shareholder, William "Bill" Stiritz, has racked up millions in paper losses.  On Sept. 3, 2013, the 78-year-old investor disclosed his massive Herbalife position. At the time, Stiritz owned 5,382,362 shares, or a 5.22% stake. We estimated then that Stiritz's Herbalife stake was worth about $322 million or so. The stock closed at $59.90 the day he disclosed that position. Then, on Nov. 18, 2013, (when Herbalife was at $67.20) and again on Jan. 29, 2014, (when Herbalife was at $62.82), Stiritz added to his position. He last held 7,484,804 shares, or an 8.15% stake, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Shares of Herbalife are down more than 25% since Stiritz first disclosed his position. So far this year, they're down more than 49%.  Based on our rough estimates using the closing price of the days when he disclosed his stakes, Stiritz has experienced an estimated $145 million in paper losses on his Herbalife investment. His stake is massive for an individual. To put things into perspective, the second-biggest individual shareholder is Herbalife's CEO, Michael Johnson. Johnson owns just over a million shares.  It's unclear what Stiritz's personal net worth is. We couldn't find him mentioned on any Forbes' billionaires' lists.  Stiritz is currently the CEO and chairman of the food company Post Holdings. He's also Post's largest individual shareholder with approximately 369,662 shares, or a 0.82% stake, Bloomberg data shows. His Post stake was worth just over $28.9 million as of Monday's close. Google FinanceHerbalife has had an ugly year. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDeutsche Bank co-Chief Executive Fitschen attends the Federation of German Industry BDI's Day of the German Industry conference in BerlinFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German prosecutors have filed charges against Deutsche Bank  co-Chief Executive Juergen Fitschen and several former bank executives in connection with the Kirch media group's long-running bankruptcy case. Munich prosecutors have been investigating whether Fitschen and a number of former executives gave misleading evidence during a civil court case brought by the heirs of Leo Kirch, the deceased media magnate who had sued Deutsche Bank. A spokeswoman for the Munich court said the court had received the charges on Tuesday. "The chamber now has to decide whether the case is admissible," she said. That process could take several months. Besides Fitschen, prosecutors have also filed charges against former Deutsche Bank chief executives Josef Ackermann and Rolf Breuer, as well as former chairman Clemens Boersig in connection with the case. The men have all denied any wrongdoing. Fitschen left a Berlin conference on Tuesday without commenting and Deutsche Bank said it was sticking with its policy of not commenting on ongoing litigation. "We refer, instead, to our previous statements underlining our belief that the allegation against Juergen Fitschen will prove unfounded," it said in an written statement. Fitschen and Anshu Jain, the former head of Deutsche's investment bank, took over as co-CEOs in 2012. News that prosecutors filed charges against Fitschen comes as Germany's largest bank struggles with a series of legal problems and works to meet strict new capital requirements from regulators.  (Reporting by Jens Hack; Writing by Edward Taylor and Jonathan Gould; Editing by David Holmes and Clara Ferreira Marques) FREE AppDownload
Tim Boyle / Getty ImagesThe latest home price index report from the FHFA showed home prices rose 0.1% in July, less than the 0.5% that was expected by economists and below the 0.4% increase seen the prior month. From the FHFA: U.S. house prices rose in July, up 0.1 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from the previous month, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) monthly House Price Index (HPI). The previously reported 0.4 percent increase in June was revised to reflect a 0.3 percent increase. For the nine census divisions, seasonally adjusted monthly price changes from June 2014 to July 2014 ranged from -0.5 percent in the Middle Atlantic division to +0.4 percent in the East North Central division. The 12-month changes were all positive ranging from +1.6 percent in the Middle Atlantic division to +7.2 percent in the Pacific division. This chart from the FHFA shows the monthly house price index, which is back 2005 levels but is still below its pre-crisis peak. FHFA FREE AppDownload
The release of Apple's new iPhone options presented an immediate conundrum to fans of the product. Should you buy the much larger iPhone 6 Plus or the more moderately sized iPhone 6?We experimented with both phones ... Produced by Graham Flanagan. Camera by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter.
 REUTERS/Armann HoskuldssonThe lava flows on the the ground after the Bardarbunga volcano erupted again on August 31, 2014This weekend, Raymond James strategist Jeff Saut appeared on Barry Ritholtz's Masters in Business program on Bloomberg Radio. There was a lot of knowledge dropped. But the thing that really got Saut going wasn't stocks, or the market, but the weather. Ritholtz's conversation with Saut was recorded in April, and so the brutal winter was still fresh on both of their minds. Ritholtz said that in his 50 years living in New York, the 2013-14 winter was the worst that he can remember, and Saut had a reason for this: volcanic ash. Saut said: "A lot of [the brutal winter had] to do not so much with global warming, but with — if you go Google it – you'll find out there's more volcanic ash in the atmosphere than at any point in recorded history. It started with that volcano that erupted and shut down Heathrow a couple of years ago. There's another one next to it called Grimsvotn that's been erupting ever since. And there's just a big one that hit Indonesia about six weeks ago, and what that's done is that it's caused the Hadley cell winds to shift closer to the poles. Now, the Hadley cell winds north of the equator spin counter-clockwise, south of the equator they spin clockwise, and they carry the hot equatorial air up in to the troposphere where it moves towards the poles, normally thirty degrees north, thirty degrees south. With all the volcanic ash in the atmosphere now they've shifted and they've shifted dramatically." And since this interview was recorded, we've also seen increased volcanic activity from the Bardarbunga volcano in Iceland. We are not sure what that all means, but Saut clearly knows his stuff — or at least sounds like it. You can listen to the whole interview at Bloomberg Radio here » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were moving lower on Tuesday, putting the S&amp;P on track for a third straight decline, as conflict in the Middle East intensified and after the U.S. Treasury moved to curb "tax inversion" deals. * The United States and Arab allies bombed Syria for the first time on Tuesday, killing dozens of Islamic State fighters and members of a separate al Qaeda-linked group, pursuing a campaign against militants into a war at the heart of the Middle East. * U.S.-listed shares of Shire &lt;shpg.o&gt;, down 5.8 percent to $241.35 and AstraZeneca &lt;azn.n&gt;, off 4.6 percent to $71.25, lost ground in premarket after the Obama administration took several actions late Monday that will reduce the tax benefits available to companies that have done inversion deals, while also making new inversions more difficult to do and potentially less rewarding. * Shares of AbbVie &lt;abbv.n&gt;, which has agreed to a deal to acquire Shire, was down 4.6 percent to $56 before the opening bell. * Data expected on Tuesday includes the flash September reading on manufacturing from financial data firm Markit at 9:45 a.m. EDT. Expectations call for a reading in the main purchasing managers' index of 58 versus the final 57.9 in August. * Salix Pharmaceuticals &lt;slxp.o&gt; was trading up 7.8 percent to $172.30 in light premarket trade after a person familiar with the matter said on Monday Allergan Inc &lt;agn.n&gt; has revived discussions to buy Salix. * Norway's Yara &lt;yar.ol&gt; and Chicago-based CF Industries &lt;cf.n&gt; are in talks about a merger of equals that could create a $27 billion global fertilizer producer, rivaling Canada's Potash Corp &lt;pot.to&gt; in size in a fragmented and oversupplied market. * S&amp;P 500 e-minis were falling 6 points, or 0.3 percent, with 151,091 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were down 14.25 points, or 0.35 percent, in volume of 23,930 contracts. * Dow e-minis &lt;1YMc1&gt; were down 40 points, or 0.23 percent, with 21,482 contracts changing hands.     (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA model presents a creation from Jimmy Choo during its London Collections: Men show in LondonPARIS/LONDON (Reuters) - Jimmy Choo set out plans on Tuesday to join the London Stock Exchange next month in a deal that could value the upmarket shoe maker at more than 700 million pounds ($1.2 billion), seeking to woo investors with the prospect of expansion in Asia. Its owner JAB Luxury, the investment arm of the billionaire German Reimann family, plans to sell at least 25 percent of the company in the listing. Jimmy Choo will market itself as a chance to gain exposure to the upper end of the shoe market, one of the fastest growing areas in the luxury goods industry. Its flotation, however, comes at a challenging moment, with slowing growth in the industry overall and investor worries about conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East which could affect future sales and expansion plans. The brand, famous for its rock chic style and perilously high heels, is seeking to grow its business by opening new stores in Asia and elsewhere, although no new funds will be raised for the company itself in the share sale. Its shoes, costing 300-600 pounds, have featured in TV shows and films including "Sex and the City" and "The Devil Wears Prada". Exposure in the Korean show "Love from the Star" boosted the sales of an anthracite lamé glitter pointy toes pump model called Abel. Founded in the 1990s by Malaysian bespoke shoe maker Jimmy Choo, the company has gone through the hands of several private equity firms before being acquired for more than 500 million pounds in 2011 by JAB. Jimmy Choo had 120 directly operated stores as of the end of June and plans to open 10-15 shops a year until 2016. Around five of these will be in China where it seeks to ultimately increase its number of stores to 30 from 11 today. Comparatively, rival luxury shoe maker Christian Louboutin, famous for its carmine red soles, has 92 boutiques worldwide of which 13 are in mainland China. "There are opportunities for specialist shoe brands to come into the Chinese market," Jimmy Choo Chief Executive Pierre Denis told reporters on Tuesday. "We feel very strongly that there is no reason why one day the Chinese client will not want to have shoes coming from a specialist company."  NEW STORES Analysts expect Jimmy Choo will aim to be priced in line with sector peer Salvatore Ferragamo of Italy &lt;sfer.mi&gt; which is currently trading on about 12 times next year's core earnings and has a market valuation of 3.75 billion euros. The luxury goods industry is trading on average on about 10 times next year's core profits. Jimmy Choo made adjusted core profits (EBITDA) of 46.9 million pounds on revenue of 281.5 million pounds in 2013. In the first half of this year, revenue reached 150.2 million pounds with EBITDA of 27.6 million pounds. The company said overall sales growth in the first half was 9.4 percent, with a like-for-like increase of 2.2 percent which was impacted by store renovations and roll-out of a new format. Jimmy Choo last week opened its biggest store ever in New Bond Street in London designed by the David Collins studio after opening its first flagship in Beverly Hills in May. Denis said the brand's biggest market was the United States, followed by Japan, the country where it had the biggest presence in Asia and where sales rose by more than 20 percent in the past two years. European IPO issuance levels have quadrupled so far this year from 2013, with 177 companies raising $55.5 billion. London has proved a particularly attractive destination, accounting for $19.8 billion, or just over a third of issuance, according to Thomson Reuters data. BoA Merrill Lynch &lt;bac.n&gt; is leading the deal. HSBC [HSBA.L] is acting as joint bookrunner and BHF-BANK [DBKGHF.UL] acting as co-lead manager.   (editing by David Clarke/Keith Weir) FREE AppDownload
In a new research note on inequality, Morgan Stanley economist Ellen Zentner included this fascinating chart showing that, among OECD countries, the United States has the highest proportion of low-paying jobs. The 2014 version of the OECD Employment Outlook report cited by Morgan Stanley defines low-paying jobs as those for which earnings are below two-thirds of a country's median income. According to the OECD analysis and the Morgan Stanley report, just over a quarter of jobs in the US fell in this low-paying category. In 2013, the median annual income in the US was $35,080, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Employment Statistics program. Under the OECD's definition, then, a low-paying job would earn less than about $23,390. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Patrick Riviere/GettyBusinessman Sir Richard Branson is LinkedIn's top "social" CEO. The current stampede to embrace social media as a valuable business tool has kicked up a big cloud of dust and created new layers of confusion for chief executives and other leaders. Most CEOs sense that social media marks an important breakthrough for business communications, but they aren’t sure how to fully utilize the technology to gain a competitive advantage. This is because leaders often have trouble distinguishing between “actionable social” information and what I like to call plain old “social noise.” There is a substantial difference between the two. Think of actionable social as useful information that can be acted upon to improve business results. Social noise, on the other hand, involves a vast overload of data that drowns out the underlying message or meaning. Nearly three-fourths of senior executives in the U.S. believe that C-Suite leaders who use social media to communicate their core mission and brand values are more trustworthy than those who don’t adopt social media. This surprising finding comes from the 2014 Global Social CEO Survey by Brandfog, a social media consulting firm for CEOs. The Brandfog survey also shows that 82 percent of senior leaders think executive use of social media raises brand awareness and helps establish industry leadership. Social media offers a useful way to capture community knowledge and enhance group creativity. Yet many of the enterprise social media tools out there today allow everybody involved to interact with everybody else. This creates a dynamic in which the die-hard followers carry on and on to hear the sound of their own voices, causing many others to zone out and disengage from the process altogether. This is the unfortunate situation at too many businesses today. To succeed as a next-generation social CEO, business leaders need to engage more with their internal teams, partners and customers. But this requires leaders to contain, control and curate such social media conversations, rather than hosting unwanted social free-for-alls. This is the challenge most CEOs face regarding social, whether they realize it or not. For social to work in the C-suite, CEOs can use crowdsourcing software or new “actionable social” tools to solicit feedback from large groups. For example, department heads or sales managers can submit their own ideas and vote on the best ones to pursue for their group initiatives. This democratic format generates greater buy-in from constituents, which in turn leads to highly motivated individuals and better aligned teams. CEOs also need to manage which audiences participate in each initiative, doing away with the social free-for-all. For instance, some crowdsourcing projects might invite internal employees to participate, while others would query only external partners or suppliers, depending on the project focus. Another important aspect of this process involves structuring crowd-sourced discussions around certain specific topics, and blocking out other subjects to be avoided by the group. Leaders can also curate their social discussions by making some comments anonymous in order to solicit open criticisms, while requiring users to be clearly identified and accountable when voting on shared priorities. All of this so important to CEOs. Leaders need to get out of their boardrooms and escape their rigid hierarchies to engage with actual constituents. According to the Brandfog survey, 83 percent of senior leaders think CEOs who actively participate in social media can build better connections with their customers, employees and investors. Social media gives leaders the power to greatly increase this level of engagement by really listening to the voices of stakeholders, then taking tangible actions based on those suggestions. Crowdsourcing also provides a constructive way to glean deep insights from the collective knowledge of an entire group, not just from an insulated leadership team. These important benefits make up the intrinsic value of being a social CEO, while raising serious doubts about any laggards who continue to shun social media. Which type of leader would you rather work for, or put another way, which type of leader would you like to become? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joachim HerrmannNervous traders on the Frankfurt stock exchange try to make last minute deals July 29, 1993.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning!   Feels like a continuation of yesterday’s growth concerns, tho not as severe.   China’s PMI and “Beige Book” come in better, helping Aussie assets recover – While headlines on EU’s PMI showed further deterioration in Europe – driving Germany’s 10YY back under 1% for a spell.      Right now Equity futures are weaker, led by a 40bp drop in the Russell as the Alibaba Hangover continues: Tencent dropped another 2% overnight – YHOO was off nearly 2% again, BABA traded as low as $87.50 this AM.    Overseas, the FTSE under sharp pressure, losing 1.3% as “Tax Inversion” targets are under pressure after Washington signaled moves to end the practice.   Headlines earlier that Israel downed a Syrian aircraft in Israeli airspace have not been DAX friendly, with the German market off 1% in decent volume.   Over in Asia - Emerging-market stocks slid to a 15-week low, led by South Korea as Samsung dropped to 2Y lows - Shanghai popped 80bp on headlines of relaxed mortgage rules and eco data - Japan was closed for Holiday – China PMI propelled the miners higher, helping Aussie close up 1%.  The US 10YY continues its retreat from the 200dma – losing 2bp this AM as safety and deflation demand grips sovereigns. - Yesterday, Treasuries made their peak into the EU credit close, so be watching for possible weaknesss this afternoon into the 2Y auction   The Dollar is seeing some profit-taking from its recent strength against Yen and Euro.  The falling Dollar, combined with some life out of China’s economy – is helping commodities early.   Silver is bouncing 75bp off 4Y lows – while Syria is probably prompting Gold’s outperformance – the yellow metal up 1.2% early.   Of note, it does feel like the growth commodities should be having more of a bounce to them – with Copper gaining only 30bp – while WTI and Brent are up less than 70bp after being shellacked of late.    Headlines Ore below $80/ton for the first time in 10+Y years, coupled with yesterday’s story about falling “breakeven” rates causing US producers to continue ramping, you may see any pop in energy commodity related stocks short-lived  Yesterday, it felt like hedging had an outsized impact on the market – the “Short Term” VIX (VXST) climbed 30%+ - but the October VIX contract had a much more muted move.   Despite the downdraft we saw early from Russell – Growth names held in very well relative to value.   With AGN/SLXP on the wires we should have tailwinds for Biotechs, but with the 3M5Y curve finally cooling off, Regional banks may continue to have headwinds.  Rosh Hashanah rapidly approaching continue to expect a deterioration of equity volumes – so Chicagoland and Futures Hedging could have an outsized impact on the tape.  We start off today with a handful of Fed speakers:  Bullard (center) at 9, Powell (Dovish) at 9:20, and Fed's George (Hawkish) at 9:30.   We get Markit US Manufacturing PMI at 9:45, FHFA House Price Index and Richmond Fed at 10 – The week’s biggest POMO at 11 – a 2Y auction at 1, and Fed's Kocherlakota (Dovish) speaks at 2.   We do get API inventories tonight. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor European markets opened under a cloud this morningA succession of gloomy news stories have European markets down this morning. France’s CAC 40 is leading the drop, down by 1.62% so far this morning, after yet another PMI drop for the struggling economy. The FTSE 100 is following, with a 1.26% decline.  The pressure on Tesco still isn’t letting up, down by nearly 4%, and shares in pharmaceuticals firm Shire are down 6% on fears that the company’s acquisition by AbbVie will be caught up in a US crackdown on tax inversions. The Dax is also down by more than 1%. Though the PMI reading for Germany wasn’t too severe, at 54, the manufacturing number was the lowest in 15 months, a bad signal for the export-heavy economy. Amsterdam’s AEX is down 0.63%, Spain’s Ibex is down 1.12%, and Sweden’s OMX is down 0.56% Rabobank’s financial research analysts sent out a note this morning titled “desperately seeking good news,” and that’s certainly what it feels like this morning.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign is seen at an AstraZeneca site in MacclesfieldBy Ben Hirschler LONDON (Reuters) - Shares in drugmakers AstraZeneca  and Shire  fell sharply on Tuesday after the U.S. Treasury took steps to curb "inversion" deals that allow companies to escape high U.S. taxes by reincorporating abroad. The move could jeopardize an agreed deal for AbbVie  to buy Shire for $55 billion and deter Pfizer  from making another attempt to acquire AstraZeneca, after a $118 billion takeover attempt failed in May. The slide in both companies shares wiped out around $8 billion in their combined market value, with AstraZeneca down 5.0 percent and Shire losing 6.1 percent by 1115 GMT (7.15 a.m. EDT). AbbVie lost 4.6 percent in pre-market U.S. dealings. Smith &amp; Nephew  and Swiss biotech group Actelion , two other perennial targets of bid speculation, fell 3.5 percent and 2.2 percent respectively. Investors had been expecting some action from the Obama administration to clamp down on tax-avoidance inversions but the steps announced on Monday were more far-reaching than anticipated, analysts at Deutsche Bank said. The new rules, effective immediately, will make new inversions more difficult to do and less potentially rewarding - but whether that will be enough to scupper deals that are pending or under consideration is not clear. The action follows months of political debate, with Democrats urging prompt legislative action and Republicans pushing to address the problem later, perhaps in 2015, as part of a broader overhaul of the loophole-riddled federal tax code. "Inversion deals now are clearly going to be very difficult to pull off," Navid Malik, head of life sciences research at Cenkos Securities, said. That could kill off prospects of Pfizer returning to bid for AstraZeneca at the end of November, when a six-month cooling-off period imposed by British takeover rules comes to an end and the U.S. group can publicly launch a new offer, Malik said. Other analysts were less certain. Andrew Baum of Citi said the Treasury move would have a limited impact on the economic case for a Pfizer-AstraZeneca deal - though the threat of additional measures could give the U.S. group pause - and he still expects Pfizer to return after the Nov. 26 deadline. Both Pfizer and AstraZeneca are bound by rules that mean they cannot comment on deal prospects. However, the British firm said previously that the controversial tax issue was a big risk for investors that could cause major delays to any transaction. The Shire deal may still go ahead, since it is already in train, although AbbVie will likely lose upside from planned tax savings, making the picture uncertain. The transaction is due to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2014. "Shire has enough momentum in its business and a good enough pipeline that it would be attractive to AbbVie anyway," Malik said. "The tax inversion was the icing on the cake." Shire and AbbVie officials did not have any immediate comment on the latest developments.   INVERSION SURGE Inversions have surged in the past year, pursued by healthcare companies in particular, although fast-food chain Burger King Worldwide  is also in the midst of inverting to Canada in a deal with Tim Hortons . Medical technology group Medtronic , meanwhile, is working to close an inversion deal into Ireland with rival Covidien , while Mylan  plans to buy certain Abbott Laboratories'  drugs in developed markets outside the United States in another tax-cutting transaction. About 50 such deals have taken place since the early 1980s, but the pace has picked up, with half of those completed since the 2008-2009 credit crisis, according to a Reuters review. A key target of Treasury's actions is foreign profits held offshore by U.S. multinationals under a U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rule that defers taxation on such profits unless and until they are brought into the United States. One new Treasury rule will prevent inverted companies from using "hopscotch" loans that allow them to avoid dividend taxes when tapping such tax-deferred foreign profits. Another rule will bar inverters from gaining access to the same kinds of profits by using "decontrolling" strategies that restructure foreign units so they are no longer U.S.-controlled. Treasury is also tightening limits on the levels of ownership that the former U.S. owners can have in an inverted company to qualify for foreign tax treatment from the IRS, a move that will make it harder to do these deals.  (Editing by Jane Merriman and Michael Urquhart) FREE AppDownload
The price of iron ore fell below $80 per ton for the first time since September 2009. The most obvious reason behind the price decline is China, where growth is slowing, which means less industrial production and a deceleration of the country's massive infrastructure build out. Earlier Tuesday, we learned that the HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI climbed to just 50.5 in September. The index remains only marginally above 50, the breakeven level for growth. "Economic activity in the manufacturing sector showed signs of stabilization in September," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. "However, overall the data still point to modest expansion. The property downturn remains the biggest downside risk to growth." What's particularly concerning about the current slowdown is China's reluctance to introduce new stimulus. "We expect the government to lower its 2015 growth target to 7% [from 7.5%]," Barclays' Jing Chang said in response to the PMI report. "This is in line with the shift in the Premier Li’s attitude – from 'more easing' to 'less stimulus' – that we detected in his comments at the 'Summer Davos' on 9-10 September." "Uncertainty over the Chinese gov's willingness to add more stimulus are pushing iron prices lower," Bloomberg Chief Economist Michael McDonough tweeted. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
It's time again for my weekly gasoline update based on data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA). Rounded to the penny, Regular and Premium both fell five cents for the second consecutive week and are now at their lowest averages since early February. Regular is up 16 cents and Premium 16 cents from their interim lows during the second week of last November. According to GasBuddy.com, only one state (Hawaii) has Regular above $4.00 per gallon, unchanged from last week, and no states are averaging above $3.90, down from one state (Alaska) last week. South Carolina has the cheapest Regular at $3.08. How far are we from the interim high prices of 2011 and the all-time highs of 2008? Here's a visual answer.  Click for a larger image The next chart is a weekly chart overlay of West Texas Intermediate Crude, Brent Crude and unleaded gasoline end-of-day spot prices (GASO). WTIC closed today at 90.87, down from 92.79 this time last week and the lowest since January.  The volatility in crude oil and gasoline prices has been clearly reflected in recent years in both the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE). For additional perspective on how energy prices are factored into the CPI, see What Inflation Means to You: Inside the Consumer Price Index.  Click for a larger image The chart below offers a comparison of the broader aggregate category of energy inflation since 2000, based on categories within Consumer Price Index (commentary here).  Click for a larger image Here are some additional commentaries related to gasoline prices: FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Philips logo is seen at Philips headquarters in AmsterdamBy Anthony Deutsch and Thomas Escritt AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - Philips , the Dutch conglomerate that started life making light bulbs 123 years ago, is splitting off its lighting business in a bold step to expand its higher-margin healthcare and consumer divisions. Putting the lighting business in a separate company is part of a wider strategy that began with Philips' move out of less profitable consumer electronics and into fast-growing healthcare markets, largely in emerging Asian markets. The decision to split the company in two marks a definitive break from its origins in the southern Dutch town of Eindhoven, where Gerard Philips and his father Frederick founded one of the earliest makers of incandescent light bulbs in 1891. Philips, which invented the audio cassette and compact disc, grew into a world-leading electronics company by the 1960s but it has always been ruthless about moving out of less profitable businesses, such as audio and video, vinyl records and TVs. Unveiling the split on Tuesday, Philips Chief Executive Frans Van Houten said it was not clear whether the lighting business would be sold off to investors, or listed on the stock exchange, but the move would bring better returns for investors. "I do appreciate the magnitude of the decision we are taking, but the time is right to take the next strategic step for Philips," Van Houten said. "Great companies need to reinvent themselves, we can do that, we can stay relevant, we can grow and we can stay successful. It takes courage but it's a path we've been preparing for carefully." Van Houten declined to comment on whether either new company could become a takeover target: "Our decision is not driven by fear of what other companies may do." The Philips split will take up to 18 months and would make it easier for both companies to raise money and invest, he said. The new structure should save 100 million euros ($128.5 million) next year and 200 million euros in 2016. It expects restructuring charges of 50 million euros from 2014 to 2016.   LED BOOM The Philips move is another example of companies overhauling long-standing structures. Last week, Germany's Bayer said it was spinning off its plastics business to focus on its more profitable life-science operations German engineering giant Siemens  spun off its light bulb maker and Philips competitor Osram  last year. Philips shares, which have underperformed the broader market and are down 9 percent this year, rose 2.4 percent to 24.07 euros in trading in Amsterdam. Splitting the company would be good for valuations, said Rabobank analyst Hans Slob: "It will eliminate the conglomerate discount, I always used a 5 percent discount for the sum of the parts valuation." Philips said in July it would combine its light-emitting diode (LED) and car lights division in a stand-alone firm to focus on an LED boom as the world switches from incandescent bulbs to more efficient and durable lights. "The entire dynamics of the lighting market are changing," Van Houten said on Tuesday. "Value is moving toward systems and services," including, for example, managing cities' and companies' complete lighting systems. But a price war for LED bulbs is hurting profits, leaving Philips and Osram  scrambling to develop new technology and seek out new market segments. Philips has a history of building up and spinning off successful businesses, among them chip equipment maker ASML , which is now larger than Philips, and Polygram, the music label and film company that was merged with Universal. Philips said its latest move would create two market-leading companies, HealthTech, with sales of 15 billion euros, and Lighting, with both companies using the Philips brand. Philips said it would move the 7-billion euro lighting business into a separate legal structure and consider various options for "alternative ownership structures with direct access to capital markets." In a revised outlook, Philips said adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITA) in the second half of 2014 were expected to be slightly lower than the same period a year earlier. In the healthcare business, core profit in the second half of 2014 is also now expected to be lower than the reported core profit in the second half of 2013.   (Editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man stands at the gate of an Ebola virus treatment center in MonroviaLONDON (Reuters) - Several experimental Ebola drugs, including compounds from Mapp Biopharmaceutical, Sarepta and Tekmira, will be tested in West Africa for the first time in a bid to fast-track trials, the Wellcome Trust charity said on Tuesday. Announcing a 3.2 million pounds ($5.25 million) grant for the work, the global health charity said the money would "enable multiple partners around the world to quickly establish clinical trials at existing Ebola treatment centers". An Ebola epidemic in West Africa has killed more than 2,800 people since it began in Guinea earlier this year, and the World Health Organization (WHO) has said it fears up to 20,000 people could be affected before it is brought under control. The unprecedented outbreak of the virus, one of the most virulent infectious diseases known in humans, has been declared a threat to international peace and security by the UN Security Council and prompted demands for an urgent response. In August a WHO expert panel unanimously concluded that in such exceptional circumstances it would be ethical to deploy and test unregistered experimental treatments on people with Ebola. "It is a huge challenge to carry out clinical trials under such difficult conditions, but ultimately this is the only way we will ever find out whether any new Ebola treatments actually work," said Jeremy Farrar, the Wellcome Trust's director. "What's more, rapid trials, followed by large-scale manufacturing and distribution of any effective treatments, might produce medicines that could be used in this epidemic." The Wellcome Trust said several potential drugs are under consideration and a group of independent experts appointed by WHO is working to recommend which to prioritize based on factors such as which is likely to work best, their availability, the ability to give them safely, and whether they can be manufactured to a useful scale. It said various pharma companies including Mapp, Sarepta, and Tekmira were working with the initiative and providing data on efficacy, safety, and production abilities for a number of the experimental treatments. (1 US dollar = 0.6099 British pound)   (Reporting by Kate Kelland, editing by Andrew Heavens) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos are seen outside a branch of Barclays bank in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - British bank Barclays  was fined 38 million pounds ($62 million) on Tuesday for exposing customers to unnecessary risks by failing to ensure client assets were properly safeguarded and adequate records kept. Imposing its highest fine for client asset breaches, Britain's financial regulator said there were "significant weaknesses" in Barclays' systems and controls between November 2007 and January 2012 that put 16.5 billion pounds of client's assets at risk. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which has tightened rules governing client asset protection since the collapse of Wall Street bank Lehman Brothers in 2008, said that customers risked incurring extra costs, lengthy delays or losing their assets if the bank had become insolvent. "Barclays failed to apply the lessons from our previous enforcement actions, numerous industry-wide warnings and exposed its clients to unnecessary risk," said Tracey McDermott, the head of enforcement and financial crime at the FCA. "All firms should be clear after Lehman that there is no excuse for failing to safeguard client assets." Barclays, which said it did not profit from these failings and that no customer had lost money, qualified for a 30 percent fine reduction because it cooperated with the FCA. This reduced the penalty from an original 54 million pounds. "Barclays identified and self-reported to the FCA the issues giving rise to the FCA's findings and we accept their conclusion," the bank said in an emailed statement. "Barclays has subsequently enhanced its systems to resolve these issues and to ensure we have the requisite processes in place."    (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; Editing by Kirstin Ridley and David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
CNBCWarren Buffett.I really liked this piece by Matt DiLallo on why gold is so hated by Warren Buffett. He provides the juicy details, but I’ll give you the quick and dirty rundown: It’s not that Buffett is an ideologue or just on some anti-gold rampage.  I think there are some logical and great lessons to be learned here: I don’t mean to rant against gold. I just think there are some fundamental reasons to keep gold in the proper perspective when we consider its value as a portion of our asset holdings. In my view, it’s not the type of asset you want to build a portfolio around … FREE AppDownload
APAir France's pilot strike may force it to scrap a new airline's launch.Good morning! These are the stories already moving markets today. The Eurozone’s PMI Reading Dropped Again. It’s just the latest in a number of deteriorating indicators for the struggling eurozone. Shares In The World’s Second-Biggest Retailer Are At An 11-Year Low. After Tesco’s accounting blunder announced on Monday, shares are falling again Tuesday morning, pushing below £2 ($3.27) for the first time since 2003. Philips Wants To Split Its Company In 2. The Dutch electrical appliance group wants to separate its healthcare-lifestyle and lighting businesses after stripping away less profitable activities. There’s A Bit Of Good News Out Of China. The country’s manufacturing PMI came in at 50.5, a slight improvement given investor concerns that the massive emerging economy is slowing down. US Manufacturing Data Comes Out. The Richmond Fed manufacturing index and Markit’s US manufacturing PMI are both set to arrive, which should give some hint at the sector’s strength in September. US Airstrikes Were Launched In Syria. The US government’s military campaign against Islamic State militants has spread over the border of Iraq and into Syria. European Markets Are Down. The UK’s FTSE 100, France’s CAC 40, and Germany’s DAX are all down by more than 1% Tuesday morning. This comes after the release of poor eurozone PMI data. The Hang Seng and Nikkei in Asia closed down 0.49% and 0.71%, respectively. Jimmy Choo Just Filed For An IPO In London. The fashion firm’s financial situation doesn’t look amazing, according to Business Insider’s Jim Edwards.   Air France Is Still Struggling With A Pilot Strike. The company’s CEO said on Tuesday that the dispute could mean the firm would have to scrap the launch of its new low-cost airline.  The US Government Is Trying To End Tax Inversions. The Treasury Department announced on Monday ways in which it was trying to make tax inversions less economically attractive.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe weakness in small-cap stocks this year suggests that perhaps the melt-up actually occurred last year when the S&amp;P 600 SmallCaps soared 39.7%. The S&amp;P 500 LargeCaps and S&amp;P 400 MidCaps also soared 31.6% and 29.6%, respectively. So far this year, the S&amp;P 600 has been moving sideways, underperforming the two larger-cap indexes. The bears are already growling that this is a sign of a top for the larger-cap indexes. They note that valuation multiples are stretched. With the Fed’s release of the latest Flow of Funds data last week, we now know that the ratio of the market cap of all equities traded in the US (excluding foreign issues) to nominal GDP was 1.67 at the end of Q2, the highest reading since Q3-2000. Tobin’s Q valuation measure rose to 1.12, the highest since Q4-2000. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Our Three Scenarios. (1) What’s next: melt-up or meltdown? (2) Rational exuberance scenario remains our most likely. (3) Inflation remains a no-show in all three scenarios. (4) In irrational exuberance scenario, foreigners could pile into the US dollar, bonds, and stocks. (5) 30% up and down? (6) The secular bull survives in two of our three scenarios. (7) Are small-cap stocks signaling that the end is near? (8) Hard to see recession in US. (9) Not so hard to see recessions in Eurozone and Japan, and slowdown in China. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 housing-related industries. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench Prime Minister Manuel Valls at a news conference following talks in Berlin.French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said on Tuesday his country was making progress on economic reforms and that German comments on a lack of growth in France were sometimes a "caricature." "I am aware that here in Germany people like saying that France is unwilling to reform and that now France is a sick man," Valls told a conference in Berlin hosted by the BDI industry association. "I look at my country with a very clear eye. I know the obstacles and challenges that France is facing. But if Germany managed ... why shouldn’t France be able to do the same?" he said. "Of course it takes time, but where there is a will there is a way ... We are in a debt spiral that is no longer sustainable," he told the conference.  (Reporting by Annika Breidthardt; Writing by Madeline Chambers) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMohamed El-ErianNEW YORK (Reuters) - Mohamed El-Erian, the chief economic adviser at Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;, warned that global markets do not fully appreciate the risk posed by the Ukrainian crisis, a conflict which could push Europe into recession. He saw few options to de-escalate tensions between Ukraine, its Western supporters and Russia, which has been accused of backing an insurgency led by ethnic Russian separatists. In an interview at Reuters' New York headquarters on Monday, in which he also spoke about his controversial departure from Pimco earlier this year, El-Erian said just "one or at most two" more rounds of sanctions and counter sanctions between Russia and the West would likely push Europe into recession. That's especially true if Russia cuts energy supplies during the coming winter heating season. "I think markets are underestimating Ukraine," El-Erian said. "It is very hard to find a solution that reconciles the three parties involved – Ukraine, the West and Russia." El-Erian said markets also were placing "enormous faith" in the world's central banks, such as the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. Through a series of experimental policy actions since the 2008 financial crisis, the world's largest central banks have gotten deeply into the "business of divorcing" asset valuations from fundamentals. The space between what El-Erian sees as lofty valuations and more earthly fundamentals is "an air pocket" at risk of rapid collapse if markets are confronted with a jarring catalyst, such as Ukraine. "I worry that the marketplace is paying very little attention to geopolitical issues, but they've done so for good reasons so far," he said. To date, investors have largely succeeded in navigating numerous brief bouts of market choppiness in the face of "geopolitical shock." An endemic hazard arising from that is that investors want unambiguous evidence that "the turn" has occurred before they opt for a more defensive allocation, El-Erian said. "The problem with that is that once you get that, everyone wants to get out. And at that point, you get the air pocket." A respected investor who once ran Harvard University's endowment, El-Erian made waves in January when he resigned from Pimco, a unit of German insurer Allianz and an investment powerhouse with nearly $2 trillion of assets. There, he had been chief executive and had shared the role of chief investment officer with bond market guru Bill Gross. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index &lt;.SPX&gt; and the Dow Jones industrial average &lt;.DJI&gt; have both hit records in recent weeks, gains he contends are emblematic of the disconnect between valuation and fundamentals. Their performance is largely fueled by the Fed's actions, which have made other assets such as bonds even pricier by comparison, as well as financial maneuvering by corporations, which are spending cash buying their own shares or on mergers and acquisitions, he said. Stocks, he said, are signaling "We are expensive, but we are cheaper than other things that are a lot more expensive." El-Erian said Alibaba Group's record $29.7 billion initial public offering last week is one reflection that markets continue to have tremendous risk appetite because investors believe the Fed has their back. That said, he believes the Fed is now out of sync with its peers, the ECB in particular, and will begin to raise interest rates toward the end of the second quarter of 2015, or sooner perhaps. Still, the Fed will not be inclined to raise rates rapidly after that initial move. "I think the Fed will move slower and not as high as we've been historically used to," he said. And, El-Erian said, if Europe goes in to recession, even the Fed's projected lift off from near zero interest rates, where it has held its policy rate since the end of 2008, would likely be off the table.   (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan and Dan Burns, editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMohamed A. El-ErianNEW YORK (Reuters) - Mohamed El-Erian expected to go quietly. The one-time heir apparent to Pimco investment chief Bill Gross had no idea leaving the firm would create a fire storm, and he gave no real consideration to staying on and working less. In his most extensive discussion yet about his controversial decision in January to leave Pimco, which has nearly $2 trillion in assets, El-Erian told Reuters: "If I had known that there would be this media circus, I would've done a lot of things differently." To begin with, he might have considered working part time. "Was there a way of not going 100 miles an hour and maybe going 50 miles an hour? To be perfectly honest, I didn't explore that option. I never explored it," he said, describing his management style as trying to work as hard or harder than anyone else. A part-time position would have felt "inconsistent" with his style, he said. El-Erian's departure rocked the investment world, where he was seen as the successor to "Bond King" Gross. Questions arose about the relationship between the two, and plans at Pimco, a unit of German financial services giant Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;. His reason for leaving is a cliche of departing executives: the wish to spend more time with family. El-Erian said that he decided it was more important to be a good dad than a good investor. He realized he needed a change in May 2013, after his then-10-year-old daughter wrote him a list of 22 milestone events in her life he had missed. In the wake of El-Erian's resignation, Pimco named six deputy chief investment officers, reporting to Gross, who is 70. Previously, there were no other CIOs but Gross and El-Erian. Pimco investors, who this year have pulled $25 billion from Gross' flagship Pimco Total Return Fund &lt;pttrx.o&gt;, the world's largest bond fund, have also been rattled by the shakeup. Shortly after El-Erian left Pimco, reports surfaced of a highly personal schism between the two long-time colleagues. In March, Gross made several remarks to Reuters questioning El-Erian's investment record and alleged that El-Erian was trying to "undermine" him. In his interview at Reuters headquarters in New York on Monday, El-Erian declined repeatedly to discuss Gross, beyond describing his former partner as brilliant. While no longer at Pimco, El-Erian has retained a post with Allianz, serving in the newly minted role of chief economic adviser, where El-Erian said he spends "50 percent of my time and I love it." El-Erian said he has "no interaction" with Pimco in his new role, even though Allianz has offices near Pimco's Newport Beach, California, headquarters. "That is the right approach to allow for the new leadership, who I respect greatly. None of what I do at Allianz has any connection to them."   (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan and Dan Burns, editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valter PontesTesco is getting hammered again Tuesday.Tesco just rushed a new CFO into position, after Monday's 12% slump in its share price. The scandal-hit retailer is in an unenviable position: Its former chief financial officer resigned in April, and its finance director was suspended Monday after a massive accounting blunder that led to the firm overestimating first-half profits by £250 million, a 23% exaggeration.  Alan Stewart becomes the board’s CFO now, instead of in December as originally planned. He replaces Laurie McIlwee, who resigned from the retailer in April and left just over a week ago according to the BBC. Stewart was Marks &amp; Spencer's former CFO on "gardening leave" and wasn't due to be released until later in the year.  Chairman Richard Broadbent also acknowledged that he may be forced to resign, following the suspension of four other senior executives, The Telegraph reported: Sir Richard insisted he would not resign as chairman, despite the profit warning. 'Things are always unnoticed until they have been noticed,' he said. 'Shareholders will have to decide whether I am part of the problem or part of the solution. This is not a welcome event. No one here is having a good day today.” There’s no relief in the markets, either. Tesco shares are down another 2.49% at the time of writing, pushing below the £2 for the first time since 2003. The share price is down by about 47% in just 12 months.   Tesco’s problems aren’t new. The firm massively expanded its market share in the late 1990s and early 2000s, but it stagnated afterward:  Kantar WorldpanelTesco's market share peaked above 30% but has declined since. It struggled to break significantly past the 30% mark and has dropped below since. It's down to 28.8%, the lowest level in about a decade.  Despite the retailer's enormous size, the share price and market share numbers make it seem like a business starting to decline. If that wasn't a problem enough for new chief exec Dave Lewis, there are a huge number of unanswered questions about Monday's shock announcement. Why were warnings back in May that Tesco's accounts were "at risk of manipulation" judged not to be “a significant issue for disclosure”? What did McIlwee know before he resigned? And if there was a whistleblower, as Lewis suggested, why did this person come forward only after the company got a new CEO? FREE AppDownload
AFPThe Dutch electrical appliance group Philips said Tuesday it wanted to split the company in two, separating its healthcare-lifestyle and lighting businesses after stripping away less profitable activities. "We're preparing Philips for the next century," CEO Frans van Houten told a telephone news conference. "Giving independence to our lighting solutions business will better enable it to expand its global leadership position and venture into adjacent market opportunities," Van Houten said. "I do appreciate the magnitude of the decision we are taking, but the time is right to take the next strategic step for Philips." Both companies will continue to use the Philips name, the company said in a statement, noting that its HealthTech business had sales of 15 billion euros ($19 billion) in 2013 and its lighting business sales of seven billion euros. Details on how its lighting business will be split off into a separate legal structure are to be announced in 2015. "Both companies will be able to make the appropriate investments to boost growth and drive profitability, ultimately generating significantly more value for our customers, employees, and shareholders," Philips said. The companies will be based in the Netherlands, Van Houten said, adding that it was too early to say how many job losses might be involved. Philips, a household name around the world for home appliances, already has in recent years stripped down its business to focus more on advanced lighting technology and on medical technology for which margins are strong and less vulnerable to competition from emerging markets. Last year, Philips announced the sale of its lifestyle entertainment branch, which makes stereos and DVD players, after selling its troubled TV-making arm in 2012. The group announced in June that it was creating a separate company for some of its lighting activities, notably in the auto and mobile phone sectors, and it said this activity was benefiting from demand for energy efficiency. Founded in 1891, the company employs about 112,000 people worldwide. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe largest stock offer in history has made Jack Ma, founder of e-commerce giant Alibaba, China's richest person with a fortune of $25 billion, an annual wealth ranking in the world's second-largest economy showed Tuesday. "It has been an amazing year for China's best tycoons despite the jitters about the Chinese economy," said China-based luxury magazine publisher Hurun Report in its annual rich list. Ma reaped more than $800 million selling shares in the company he set up 15 years ago as Alibaba listed on the New York Stock Exchange Friday, based on company filings, with the value of his remaining stake of 7.8 percent surging to more than $17 billion by Monday. Last year, the estimated wealth of the former English teacher turned internet entrepreneur was just over $4 billion, which did not even place him in the top 20. Alibaba's listing raised a total of $25 billion. But only one other Alibaba cofounder, now vice president of its China investment team Simon Xie, made the rich list, Hurun Report said. Property tycoon Wang Jianlin, whose Wanda company bought US cinema chain AMC Entertainment, dropped to second place from first last year with a fortune of $24.2 billion as the deflating of China's real estate bubble chased most developers out of the top 10. A new face, Li Hejun of renewable energy firm Hanergy, tied for third place with $20.8 billion, alongside beverage magnate Zong Qinghou of Wahaha. Completing the top five was Pony Ma of Tencent, operator of China's most popular instant messaging application WeChat, with $18.1 billion. Technology commanded half of the top 10. Robin Li of China's dominant search engine Baidu was sixth; Richard Liu of Alibaba competitor JD.com took ninth, and Lei Jun of upstart mobile phone producer Xiaomi was 10th. Rounding out the top 10 were father and son team Yan Jiehe and Yan Hao of road-builder China Pacific Construction in seventh position and another real estate mogul, Yan Bin of Reignwood in eighth. China's real estate and infrastructure industries have been hit by the slowing economy.   The economy grew an annual 7.7 percent in 2013, the same as in 2012 — which was the slowest rate of expansion since 1999. Gross domestic product growth was 7.5 in the second quarter this year. Still, Hurun Report said the number of US dollar billionaires in China hit 354 this year, up 39 from last year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kadir Celikcan Turkish soldiers stand guard as Syrians wait behind the border fences near the southeastern town of Suruc in Sanliurfa province on Thursday. Hello! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. The US and a coalition of Arab nations — Bahrain, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and the United Arab Emirates — have begun striking Islamic State targets in Syria.  2. The conflict in Syria has sent 130,000 refugees across the border into Turkey in just the past few days. 3. Business leaders and politicians will convene at a one-day Summit at UN headquarters in New York City on Tuesday to bring attention to climate change ahead of a 2015 agreement. 4. A new report from the World Health Organization warns that the number of Ebola infections could triple to 20,000 by the start of November. 5. A whistleblower who helped uncover an ongoing fraud received over $30 million as a reward, the largest payout ever from the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 6. Tesco, Britain's biggest supermarket chain, suspended four senior executives after the company revealed a $408 million overstatement in first-half profits.  7. Israeli forces said two Palestinians suspected of killing three Israeli teenagers in June were shot dead, according to The Guardian, although Palestinian officials have not confirmed the deaths.  REUTERS/Carlo Allegri A protester carries a sign during the "People's Climate March" in New York City on Sunday. 8. Apple said it sold a record number of iPhones — more than 10 million — in the opening weekend.  9. More than 100 demonstrators were arrested on Monday in New York City as they staged a sit-in to protest Wall Street for "financing Wall Street." 10. Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, is now China's richest person.  And finally... Pink Floyd has announced its first new album in two decades. It's called "The Endless River." FREE AppDownload
