Michael Kelley/Business Insider Following reports of insanely expensive iPhones in Brazil, we stopped by an Apple vendor in São Paulo to see for ourselves. It's no joke. A 64 gigabyte iPhone 5S costs 3,599 reais, or about $1,637, making it the most expensive iPhone in the world. The same product costs $849 out of contract in the U.S. — still expensive, but only around half as much. Michael Kelley/Business InsiderA 16 gigabyte iPhone 5s costs 2,799 reais, or about $1,275. *Brazil's ludicrous prices, which extend beyond Apple products, can be attributed to transportation bottlenecks, protectionist policies, a history of high inflation, a dysfunctional tax system and an overvalued currency. The Apple reseller we went to in São Paulo is located in the Bourbon shopping center, an upscale mall across the street from a hotel called "The American Loft." It's called iPlaces, and there are other locations all over the city. We didn't see anyone buy an iPhone 5s or iMac (before we were kicked out for taking pictures), but the store seems to get a lot of foot traffic. Brazil is in the top 10 smartphone markets with almost 50 million users, so the demand is there. Nevertheless, the iPhone 5S (which costs 2,799 reais  / $1,274 for the cheapest model) is way too expensive for most people in a country where the average wage is about 2,000 reais / $910 per month. Now for more shocking Apple prices: Michael Kelley/Business InsiderA standard 13-inch MacBook Air (128GB) costs $2,091in São Paulo. *Editor's note: São Paulo resident Roberto Macedo sent us a note in response to the article, and we have published part of it below with light editing: "Forget about transportation bottlenecks, protectionist policies, a history of high inflation, a dysfunctional tax system and currency, all of that would make at worst case scenario a price 50% higher. There is something else beyond 'Brazil Cost,' there is the 'Brazil's Profit' (Lucro Brasil). What is Brazil's Profit? It is the price that Brazillians pay for something just because it is expensive. Why sell for a lower price if you can sell all your production at a higher price? This started with the crazy coin fluctuation in the early '90s. All companies got used to setting the price fairly high so as not to lose money on overnight coin rate changes. After Real currency, the fluctuation ended, but the prices stayed on the upper side, with high margins, and companies saw that people kept buying. Check car prices for instance. Brazil's profit rate is about double the rest of world.  Most Brazilian people aren't critics and don't engage even with they believe that something isn’t fair. This applies to prices as well, and with the long-term culture that something high-tech or a new car is a social status indicator, I know that this exists in the whole world, but maybe not like here in Brazil." FREE AppDownload
The complacency is palpable. Despite some dire warnings about risky trading and the threat posed by overly indebted banks, the mood last week at the International Monetary Fund's spring conference was one of calm. We have turned a corner since the financial crisis, the Washington-based organisation says. Normality is returning. And this will mean establishing normal interest rates (up from 0.5% in the UK to 2%-3%, according to Mark Carney), restoring normal inflation and generating steady growth in the west of 2%-3%. Officials expect the US to lead the way. As consumer-in-chief, it will propel the world economy and global growth much as it has in the last 60 years. The dynamism of the US economy and its huge capacity to buy stuff will make life better for everyone, goes the rather tired argument. The legacies of the crash will be disposed of quietly. Having spent north of $3 trillion pumping funds into its economy and maintaining the cheapest borrowing costs in more than 100 years, the US central bank will find a way to sell this money back to the market, while at the same increasing rates, without much more than a ripple disturbing the markets. Central bankers in London, Frankfurt, Tokyo and especially in the Federal Reserve will make sure it all works smoothly. Suddenly officials at the IMF are using the term "finely calibrated" in their discussions. No longer are governments involved in crude, large-scale pump-priming to rescue bankrupt banks. Today they execute technical exit strategies that magically restore the old order without any losses or panic. One official called this the "Goldilocks exit", by which he meant the transition would be one that involved the patient getting neither too hot nor too cold, but with a temperature that was just right. George Osborne revealed himself a cheerleader for the technocratic answer to debt and financial risk. The chancellor declared on Friday that central banks and regulators would make sure the west's economies had a bright future, as they withdrew the post-2008 stimulus and locked down risky lending. It would be a neat trick. And the betting must be that it will fail. It will fail because policymakers will be unable to cope with more fundamental forces at work. First there are the debts: government debts and household debts across the developed world. Put simply they are still too high. Bank debts in the eurozone and corporate debts in many emerging-market economies are similarly at risk from small financial shocks. The eurozone poses a particular problem. Spain is growing, but only with the help of government cash. Like Ireland, its banks are still in a parlous state. France is staggering on, but Italy is in permanent recession. Inflation is falling to the point that many worry it will go into reverse. Deflation means not only falling prices but also falling wages. The Germans have blocked initiatives that might boost output, especially in weaker countries, and are preventing the European Central Bank (ECB) from printing money to boost spending. ECB boss Mario Draghi may break free of German control, but any action will be too late. Casualties already lie everywhere. Another part of the problem is the legacy of savings generated in Asia. That savings glut has had to find a home, and one that provides a good return. There is about $70tn-$80tn invested in assets of various kinds from government bonds to property and exotic derivatives. The IMF highlighted how a $300bn market in US credit mutual funds in 2000 has grown to $2tn today. These funds are invested in junk bonds that are difficult to sell when the panic starts, making the panic even worse. Andy Haldane, soon to be chief economist at the Bank of England, told an audience of economists in Toronto last week that we were "still in the intellectual foothills in terms of dealing with potential financial risks". He pointed out that while there was some good news – for instance that banks in 2006 had borrowings worth 32 times their balance sheets and now "only" about 21 times – the problem had shifted to exotic derivatives, which accounted for $19tn of bank portfolios in 2006, but total $31tn today. Then there is the fact that 90% of trades in New York are generated by algorithm-driven computers, making the financial system prone to extreme volatility. Savings are generally seen as benign and the result of virtue and thrift, but they are dangerous when handed to investment managers under pressure to produce high returns. The IMF wants a financial system with airlocks that can contain panics, but knows there are instruments of contagion everywhere it looks. Its boss, Christine Lagarde, has warned of the threats, but without accusing those whose complacency she fears. It is time for some straight talking. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
Stock market selloff long overdue says Rupert Murdoch. Stock market dive overdue, may have further to go. Means fewer IPOs this year. Meanwhile Alibaba getting hassled by Chinese government. FREE AppDownload
Piper Jaffray released its semiannual report on teen spending Tuesday.  We dug through the report and pulled out some of the most interesting facts and charts.  Here's a summary: 1. For the first time in the survey's history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing. Starbucks remains the perennial favorite among all teens for food-and-drink spending, according to the survey. Here's a breakdown of teen spending by category: Piper Jaffray 2. Teens are still getting most of their money from their parents. This chart shows parental contributions for average- and upper-income teens over the years. Piper Jaffray 3. Nike remains the top clothing brand among teens across all income levels. Forever 21, Action Sports Brands, American Eagle, and Polo Ralph Lauren also rank among the most popular apparel brands. Top footwear brands for upper-income teens are, in order, Nike, Converse, Sperry Top-Sider, and Steve Madden.  4. Brands that are losing popularity among teens include Aeropostale, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, and Hollister. Here's a graph of the top-cited brands that teen girls said they no longer wear: Piper Jaffray 5. On the flip side, brands that are starting to get more popular among teen girls include Forever 21, American Eagle, and Lululemon.  Piper Jaffray6. Activewear now comprises 28% of teens' apparel purchases, up from 6% in 2008. Nike, Lululemon, Under Armour, and Adidas are the most popular brands for athletic apparel.  Piper Jaffray 7. "Athleisure" — casual athletic clothing that can be worn outside the gym — is now more popular than denim. Athleisure brands include Adidas, Athleta, Juicy Couture, Lululemon, and Nike. Denim brands include Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, American Eagle, Calvin Klein, Guess, Lee, and Levi’s. 8. For the first time in the survey's history, Chipotle has eclipsed Taco Bell as the No. 1 preference for Mexican fare among both average- and upper-income teens. 9. An increasing number of teens, particularly males, prefer to shop online. In spring 2014, 26% of women and 47% of men preferred to shop online over visiting stores. That's up from 18% of women and 20% of men who preferred online shopping a year earlier. 10. Instagram is the most important social network for teens, followed by Twitter and Facebook, respectively. Piper Jaffray FREE AppDownload
An awesome device that charges your phone by boiling water in a pot has just become the next hot thing, thanks to its appearance on ABC's hit reality show, "Shark Tank." The makers of the device snagged a $250,000 investment from billionaire Mark Cuban on the show that features inventors and entrepreneurs pitching to investors. They were initially offering to sell 10% of their company, Power Practical, for that sum — a $2.5 million valuation. Cuban liked the company and at first offered $250,000 for 20%. But the founders countered with 12% equity, plus another 3% in "adviser options" and a seat on the board. And he bit at that. At 12%, that's a valuation of just over $2 million. The company has sold about $300,000 worth of PowerPots, the founders said. When they said they expected sales to zoom to $2 million, they got a round of laughter from the investors on the show. PowerPotPowerPotThat laughter didn't deter Cuban, who took to Twitter later saying, "Notice how the other sharks are confirming my value #Shark Tank." (Tweeting is a big part of the "Shark Tank" show.) PowerPot is being marketed toward campers, but it earned Cuban's investment when the founders talked about selling it to developing countries like Uganda. That's a potentially huge market for the device, where local villagers in test markets are using it to light their huts. Business Insider's Dylan Love tested the $149 PowerPot and it worked well. He wrote: "The model we tested generates 5 watts of electricity, which means it'll charge your iPhone twice as fast as connecting it to your computer over USB. There's also a 10-watt model for those who want to be extra-prepared." Here's a video of the PowerPot in action, being pitched on Shark Tank.  FREE AppDownload
In discussions about the demographic situation around the world, people often talk about the U.S. as though it's the "cleanest dirty shirt," meaning that it's not good, but compared to other places, it looks good. Europe is aging rapidly, in part thanks to dropping fertility rates. Japan is famously old. And even China, thanks to the long-term ramifications of its one-child policy, may be the first country that "gets old before it gets rich." The U.S. is old and aging, but at least we have relatively robust levels of immigration keeping us young, is how things are usually characterized. But the situation might actually be a bit more positive than that, at least in terms of how our demographics will impact the medium term of the economy. Earlier, we published a chart from Matt Busigin, which augurs well for the economy. What the chart shows is that the future employment of the 25-34-year-old demographic has historically been a function of the number of 20-24-year-olds there are in the economy. This is significant because this represents a big boost in the future of people with spending power who will form households, which is all stimulative stuff.  Matt Busigin/Business Insider But that's only part of the story. The other part of the story is that with household net worth rebounding to pre-crisis levels, a lot of folks who are 55+ are finally retiring, and that's clearing the way for younger workers. What's more, the rise of retirements will prompt companies to spend more on productivity-boosting capital equipment, which is a trend that's been largely missing since the recovery. UBS economist Drew Matus tells the demographic story in three charts: Drew Matus, UBS Drew Matus, UBS UBS, Drew Matus So while it's true that the U.S. is aging, that's just one side of the coin. There's another, younger generation that's hitting its prime age of accelerating income, and U.S. corporations will have to spend more to be more productive. FREE AppDownload
    American English dialects and pronunciation have been a point of interest from coast to coast among linguists for years.  In 1999, the Harvard Dialect Survey, a research project conducted by Professor Bert Vaux, used a series of questions, to collect information about what terms, word pairs and sounds are used in different parts of North America.  Some of the words highlighted in the survey inspired the "Regional Dialect Meme" videos, where people from around the country taped their pronunciation versions of words and sayings. The data from the Harvard study was eventually brought to life by PhD student, Joshua Katz, through a series of interactive dialect maps, which went viral. In this 90-second clip, we explore how some of the most contentious words and phrases are pronounced in the different parts of the country. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Citi credit strategist Matt King doesn't think the market is experiencing its "Wile E. Coyote" moment yet, but he does think that one will come eventually, and he thinks the market is on borrowed time. Basically he thinks that the market's gains are mostly a function of central bank looseness, and not a function of fundamentals, and that at some point the central bank story will change and markets will tank.  So why does he think the market isn't based on fundamentals? In his latest note to clients, he presents these two charts, which we explain below. Citi The one on the left shows credit spreads (light blue line) relative to corporate leverage (dark blue). As you can see, credit spreads remain extremely low (meaning corporations don't have to pay much more to borrow than the risk-free rate at which the US government borrows at) while corporate leverage is climbing. This, King worries, is in contravention of historical patterns, and evidence of an economy on borrowed time. The left chart relates to the stock market and it shows that even though earnings revisions (dark blue) have been generally negative for the last few years, stocks have done quite nicely. Again, to King this represents a break from fundamentals, and he notes that the break in equity market fundamentals coincides with the break in credit fundamentals. So eventually, King argues, when the music stops playing and central banks do tighten, we will have our Wile E. Coyote moment. FREE AppDownload
Rolf Maeder, Photography SedonaSo markets took it on the chin pretty good this past week, with a lot of pain focused on the NASDAQ. But overall, markets are doing quite nicely, and remain quite close to their all-time highs. Unless you're very heavily invested in the hottest parts of the market, you're doing fine. So what could trigger a real hard sell? In a note to clients, Citi credit strategist Matt King describes what could spur a real "Wile E. Coyote" moment. It goes like this: But with credit investors likewise mostly long and uncomfortable, could what starts as a position correction turn into something much more serious? After all, it’s not just tech where valuations have become disconnected from fundamentals. As our US HY strategist put it after seeing numerous CLO investors this week, “Whatever the asset class, the pattern is the same. Investors are long risk, invested in assets that aren’t their usual holdings, and wondering who is buying their old paper.” Wherever we go, investors think their market is expensive – but are forced to buy it anyway. This is not a new problem, either. Credit spreads stopped following corporate leverage almost two years ago. We don’t think it’s a coincidence that that’s almost exactly the same time equities stopped following analysts’ earnings revisions.. Even this week, Alcoa surprised positively – but only provided you looked at reported earnings, not GAAP ones, and ignored some extraordinary restructuring charges. That might seem reasonable enough until you consider our analyst’s remark that “in the ten years or so I have been following Alcoa results there has never been a quarter without ‘restructuring’ charges”. And of course we got a new Greek 5-year trading with a yield that € iBoxx had as recently as December 2011 – despite debt/GDP of 177%, higher than before its restructuring? Try a bit harder, and you could paint a bleaker picture still, in which investors may be coming perilously close to realizing that market levels owe everything to central bank stimulus and nothing to an improvement in underlying fundamentals. What if the much heralded “improvement in earnings to match the rerating in the market” fails to be delivered in coming weeks? How long till investors realize that extra stimulus in Japan might stem the Nikkei’s decline, but is unlikely to generate the economic recovery everyone is hoping for, no matter how large its size? And that the problem afflicting China – that the growth rates to which investors have become accustomed are utterly reliant on an unsustainable expansion of credit – is in fact a problem worldwide? King might be overstating things a bit, at least in terms of this idea that there's been no improvement in fundamentals. After all, just this week we got the best initial jobless claims reading since the U.S. economic crisis. And though it's true that Greek debt is still staggeringly high, the Eurozone as a whole now has an implicit ECB guarantee ("whatever it takes") that didn't exist before the crisis existed. But King is right, that to some extent asset markets have always reacted to the whims of central banks, and if the perception is that things are turning, then it's anyone's guess where the floor is. That being said, King doesn't think the music will stop any time soon. The BOJ isn't done, the ECB likely has more to do, and the Fed continues to sound quite dovish. So, he says, we might be on borrowed time, but there's likely more of that borrowed time to come. Yay. FREE AppDownload
There's been a fair amount of polling showing trouble for Democrats in this November's midterm elections. And pundits are talking about how hard it will be to defend "Obamacare" on the campaign trail later this year. But the problem for Democrats in the Senate really comes down to one thing: They're defending a lot of seats this year in states that vote heavily for the Republicans. Goldman Sachs is out with a big preview of the midterm elections, and though there's nothing too earth shattering in their forecasts, this chart nicely encapsulates the Democrats' problem. Goldman Sachs On the left, you can see that there's only one competitive seat currently held by Republicans that's in a Democratic leaning state: That's in Maine, where Susan Collins is running for re-election. On the right, everywhere there's a blue arrow, there's a seat either held by a Democratic incumbent or being vacated by a Democrat that's in a Republican state. Plus there are a bunch of seats currently held by Democrats in states where the vote totals tend to be close. So it's as simple as that: Senate Democrats are in trouble because this time around they hold a lot of seats in states with unfriendly terrain. FREE AppDownload
GrubHub, an online and mobile service for ordering food from restaurants, debuted as a public company on the New York Stock Exchange last week, and has since seen its share price surge.  The company's IPO highlights two important trends for the payments and mobile industries that we at BI Intelligence think bear special emphasis. GrubHub — which merged with Seamless.com in late 2013 — allows users to order food for pick-up or delivery from approximately 28,800 restaurants in the U.S. and London. To put that in perspective, in 2012 there were 350,000 independent restaurants in the U.S., according to Euromonitor. That means that GrubHub's restaurant partners are equivalent to about 8% of the independent restaurants in the U.S. In the IPO filing, the company estimates that 32% of U.S. restaurant spend at independent restaurants comes from takeout orders, or about $67 billion. At $1 billion in gross food sales, GrubHub has already carved out a 1.5% share of the total takeout market. GrubHub's actual take is considerably less than that, though. The company's revenues come from a fee taken from restaurants on top of every transaction completed on the site. Here's why BI Intelligence finds that GrubHub's growth poses a threat to independent sales organizations (ISOs): Many independent restaurants that accept payment cards buy payment processing services through an ISO. ISOs sell processing services on behalf of larger processors that don't have the resources to manage relationships with thousands of smaller restaurants. But now a big chunk of those orders are going through GrubHub. That means lost revenue for ISOs. On the other hand, while ISOs will likely lose out, any big payment processor that develops a relationship with GrubHub stands to make a good deal of money. GrubHub paid out $19 million in payment processing fees in 2013 on just over $1 billion in gross food sales. For full access to all BI Intelligence's data and analysis on the mobile and payments industries — including downloadable Excel files — subscribe to a free trial subscription today. BII Mobile has been a huge driver of GrubHub's impressive growth over the past couple of years, as the company has come to take such a significant share of the total takeout food sales market. Here's how BI Intelligence finds that growth breaks down: GrubHub has made a conscious effort to make the mobile ordering experience as "seamless" as the online experience, making sure favorite features from the desktop version — like restaurant discovery — are also available on the mobile app. Looking into this year, it's safe to say mobile could easily comprise half of GrubHub's daily "grubs." Access All BI Intelligence's Mobile And Payments Data By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today&gt;&gt; BII   FREE AppDownload
Chipotle — a $19 billion empire — is redefining the way fast food is made and delivered to its customers. Watch to learn some surprising facts about the chain, including how to get more food for your money. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Here's something you rarely hear from a Wall Street CEO: "I never intended to run a Wall Street firm. I don't think that's where my skill set is. ... I did it because that’s what the situation called for.” In an interview with finance career site OneWire, Joseph Perella, founder of Perella Weinberg, shares how he started his unlikely (as he tells it) 40-year career on Wall Street. He also shares how he could lose it all in no time at all. “If you’re an advisor, the most important thing is your reputation … If we jeopardize our reputation, everything begins to melt down and erode overnight. I’ve been on Wall Street for 40 years. If I screw up next month, 40 years doesn’t matter. It’s what I did today.” It's just the first part of Perella's two-part interview with OneWire's Open Door video series. Watch it below, and click here to subscribe to the series.    FREE AppDownload
For more than 50 years, actor Jonathan Goldsmith worked as a journeyman actor before landing his iconic role as "The Most Interesting Man In The World." The Dos Equis spokesperson accumulated hundreds of credits in movies and television shows. During a visit to his farmhouse in rural Vermont, Goldsmith regaled us with stories about his run-ins with Hollywood legends such as Dustin Hoffman, John Wayne, and Warren Beatty.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
Mandy Drury CNBC anchor Mandy Drury showed us what a typical day is like for her. The Australian native rides a scooter (in heels!) when she takes her kids to school in New York City. Then she heads to Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey to prepare for her 2 p.m. show "Street Signs." After that, it's time to pick up the kids from school and head home to prepare dinner.  FREE AppDownload
TumblrFacebook CEO Mark ZuckerbergFacebook isn't just popular with its 1.3 billion (and counting) users. According to "The Facebook Effect," Fortune editor David Kirkpatrick's brilliantly-reported book about the company's founding, Facebook has also always been very popular with executives hungry for a merger or acquisition. As early as four months after Facebook's inception, investors and executives began lining up to beg Facebook co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg to take their cash and sell the company. Zuckerberg turned all their offers down, but some got much closer than we ever imagined. Here are all the times that Facebook almost sold out: Facebook, then TheFacebook.com, went live in February 2004. Just four months later and prior to any outside investment, a 20-year-old Mark Zuckerberg fielded a $10 million offer from an unnamed New York financier. According to Kirkpatrick, Zuckerberg never took the offer seriously. One early bidder for Facebook was Friendster, former Friendster executive Jim Scheinman told VentureBeat in 2007.  “I found a small company out of Harvard that we came very close to acquiring,” said Scheinman. “A startup no one had heard of [at] that time, a company named The Facebook.” The deal was dependent on Friendster raising another round of funding. Facebook blew up before that ever happened and Friendster lost its last shot at relevancy. APCo-founder of Google, Larry PageZuckerberg and his Harvard dorm-mates rented a house in leafy Palo Alto, Calif., during the summer of 2004. It wasn't long before "a couple of Google executives came over to see if there might be a way to work with or even buy TheFacebook," Kirkpatrick reports in "The Facebook Effect." The meeting didn't go anywhere, but the issue rose again in the fall of 2007. Google's top ad salesman, Tim Armstrong, convinced the company's board to let him pursue a deal in which Google would serve Facebook's international ads. "The board even approved talks about buying [Facebook], if it made sense," writes Kirkpatrick. Google never got the deal, but its offer to invest in Facebook at a $15 billion valuation reshaped Mark Zuckerberg's company forever. During the Spring of 2005, Facebook (still TheFacebook) was talking to The Washington Post Company about an investment. Out of nowhere, Viacom offered $75 million to buy the company. Zuckerberg would have earned $35 million on the spot, reports Kirkpatrick. AP Photo/Evan Agostini)Former Viacom CEO Tom FrestonInstead, then-Facebook president Sean Parker used the offer to haggle better terms out of the Post, which eventually got scooped on the deal by Accel Partners anyway. Viacom refused to give up. Focus groups were telling them that MTV viewers were spending more and more time on the site. In the fall of 2005, Zuckerberg flew to New York to meet with CEO Tom Freston. Freston pitched all kinds of synergies between MTV and Facebook. Zuckerberg wasn't interested. "It was a no-thank-you meeting," a source tells Kirkpatrick. In early 2006, MTV boss Michael Wolf stopped by Facebook one last time. Zuckerberg told him he thought the company was worth $2 billion. A couple of weeks later, Viacom sent Facebook a $1.5 billion offer – $800 million in cash up front, the rest via payout later. Facebook almost sold, according to "The Facebook Effect," but it wanted a bigger upfront payment. Viacom's CFO was nervous about paying so much for a company with such small revenues. The deal fell apart. Viacom never came back. AP Photo/ Lee Jin-manChris DeWolfe, co-founder and chief executive of MySpace, delivers a speech to students during a lecture in Seoul, South Korea, Tuesday, April 15, 2008.In the spring of 2005, MySpace CEO Chris DeWolfe visited Zuckerberg and his team to "put out feelers about possibly buying TheFacebook," Kirkpatrick reports. Zuckerberg, his president Sean Parker, and adviser Matt Cohler met with DeWolfe, "but only because they thought he was an interesting guy and they were curious about MySpace." When the two talked, Zuckerberg asked DeWolfe if MySpace would buy Facebook for $75 million. DeWolfe said no. When they met again later that year, Zuckerberg raised the price to $750 million and DeWolfe again said no.  REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi News Corp Chairman and CEO Rupert MurdochIn January 2006, News Corp digital boss at the time, Ross Levinsohn, flew Mark Zuckerberg and one of his top advisers, Matt Cohler, to Los Angeles. Levinsohn wanted to buy TheFacebook, but he worried it might not keep up its growth. "That's the difference between a Los Angeles company and a Silicon Valley company," Zuckerberg said in "The Facebook Effect," "We built this to last, and these guys [at MySpace] don't have a clue." Kirkpatrick doesn't offer many details, but apparently NBC execs stopped by for a peek in 2005. REUTERS/Denis Balibouse In the summer of 2006, Yahoo decided to offer Facebook $1 billion. Facebook's investors and many of its executives wanted to sell, but Facebook was about to launch the News Feed, and if it went well, Zuckerberg figured the company would be worth way more than $1 billion. After announcing horrible Q2 earnings, Yahoo lowered its offer to $850 million. Facebook's board took 10 minutes to reject the lowered offer, according to "The Facebook Effect." In the fall of 2006, Yahoo came back to Facebook and suggested it would pay $1 billion or more, but by then, Facebook had opened the site to people beyond college and high school students. Registrations were up from 20,000 a day to 50,000 a day, Kirkpatrick reports. Even eager-for-an-exit VC and Facebook investor Jim Breyer was OK with passing on the deal. The one guy who wasn't, Facebook COO Owen Van Natta, was not long for the company. REUTERS/Adam HungerJonathan Miller, former Chairman and CEO of AOLIn the middle of 2006, then-AOL CEO Jonathan Miller decided he wanted to buy Facebook. He even convinced Time Inc. CEO Anne Moore to come in on the deal before he took it to AOL's parent company, Time Warner.  His plan: AOL would sell MapQuest and Tegic. Time Inc would sell IPC. Together they'd offer $1 billion plus. Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes nixed the idea. Kirkpatrick writes, "He said if they could live without those properties they should go ahead and sell them, then turn the cash over to the parent company." REUTERS/Jason Redmond Former Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer"Why don't we just buy you for $15 billion?" Microsoft's CEO asked Mark Zuckerberg in 2007. Determined to keep Facebook away from Google, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer offered to buy the company.  Ballmer knew Zuckerberg would never relinquish control over Facebook, so he came up with a deal based on Hoffman-LaRoche's acquisition of Genentech. Kirkpatrick explains, "Microsoft [would] acquire a small stake in Facebook at a $15 billion valuation. Then, Microsoft would have the option, every six months, to buy another 5 percent of Facebook. A complete takeover of the company would take 5 to 7 years." The acquisition never happened, but Microsoft did buy 1.6% of Facebook for about $250 million. That deal, which set Facebook's value at $15 billion, stipulated that Facebook would have to give Microsoft notice if it ever began to take a buyout offer from Google seriously. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Samsul Said Editor's note: Below is an interview with Sean Callow, a senior currency strategist at Westpac Institutional Bank. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Wednesday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? SEAN CALLOW: Buying the Aussie dollar against the New Zealand dollar. The cyclical tide is turning once again, so trade in the 1.06-1.07 region looks very cheap against a long-term average of 1.22. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? SC: The risk that the Fed declares "mission accomplished" on the U.S. economy too early, winding down QE when the economy is still sluggish. Emerging markets would suffer another wave of turmoil. BI: On the other hand, what is the most encouraging sign? SC: It is very encouraging to see the ECB being open-minded about further easing measures given slow growth and very low inflation. Draghi is proving a far better ECB president for the euro zone — and in turn the world — than Trichet. BI: What pieces of new information (e.g. economic data releases, price action in a given market over the next few days/weeks, etc.) do you think have the biggest potential to alter your outlook? SC: Over the next month, Australia's Q3 CPI and the RBNZ's policy meeting will be key to the AUD/NZD outlook. Also, April 30 will be a huge day, featuring the Bank of Japan semi-annual outlook meeting, U.S. Q1 GDP, and perhaps most important, euro zone CPI. BI: What do you perceive to be the most misunderstood trend or event in or characteristic of today's markets? SC: Aussie dollar bears who are counting on AUD to tumble on either a China growth slowdown or a collapse in Australian house prices will be waiting a long time. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew BoeslerHere they are: the most important charts in the world. We asked our favorite portfolio managers, strategists, analysts, and economists across the Street for the charts they deem the most important right now. This is what they sent us. Much of the focus is on the amount of slack left in the labor market and the U.S. economy in general. Many are focused on the euro, too, which has surprised many observers with its persistent strength. But there are a lot of other things going on — such as the drop in inflation expectations since the Fed began winding down quantitative easing (QE).
Thomson ReutersFileA gas pipe is pictured at an underground gas storage facility in the village of Mryn.KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine's state-run energy company Naftogaz has suspended gas payments to Russia until the conclusion of price talks, chief executive Andriy Kobolev was quoted as saying on Saturday. Russia, which last month angered Western powers by annexing Ukraine's Crimea peninsula, has raised the price it charges Kiev for gas and said it owes Moscow $2.2 billion in unpaid bills. It also says Kiev had failed to pay its bill on time. Russian gas giant Gazprom &lt;GAZP.MM&gt; earlier this month increased gas price for Ukrainian consumers to $485 per 1,000 cubic meters (tcm) from $268 for the first quarter, saying Kiev was no longer eligible for previous discounts. "The question of repayment of debt is directly linked to the maintenance of gas prices at the level of the first quarter," Kobolev told the Zerkalo Nedely weekly in an interview, referring to the original price of $268 per tcm. "We see no reason to revise the price. We consider the price at around $500 as non-market, unjustified and unacceptable. Accordingly, we have suspended payments for the period of the price negotiations." Kiev gets about half of its gas from Moscow and a large proportion of Europe's gas is pumped from Russia via Ukraine. High debts, which could justify a reduction in gas shipments to Ukraine, have raised the spectre of a repeat of previous "gas wars", when disputes between the two former Soviet republics led to a cut in onward supplies to western Europe. A repeat could hurt Russia as its public revenues depend on selling gas to Europe. Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Thursday that Moscow could cut off gas to Ukraine, potentially threatening European supplies, but later played down the threat. "I want to say again: We do not intend and do not plan to shut off the gas," he said on Friday. (Reporting by Pavel Polityuk; Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
