REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueIs this the end of the bull market? Is this the beginning of the crash? We can't help but ask these questions when we see stocks take a tumble from their highs. Currently, the S&amp;P 500 is down 2.8% from highs set last week. The Nasdaq is down 6.9% from highs set last month. If we look to history, things could get much worse before they get better. But this doesn't mean we're doomed for a crash. Here's an excerpt from Rich Barry's NYSE MAC Desk Mid-Day Update: In light of the fact that floor traders and the talking heads on the financial networks are sounding a bit “panicky” today about the recent sell-off in equities, we think that now is a good time for a little history lesson on “market corrections”. Corrections are a normal feature of the stock market, and they are healthy for the market. Since we haven’t experienced a correction since late 2012, market-watchers need to be reminded of their frequency. Since 1900, checkout these stats on how frequently corrections occur on average: 1.- 5% market corrections: 3x per year. 2.- 10% market corrections: Once per year. 3.- 20% market corrections: Once every 3.5 years. Those are the rough numbers. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly offers this chart of intra-year declines that every investor should pin to their walls. Bottom line: Sell-offs happen. And sometimes they're big. But they're normal. And they're certainly no reason to just bail out of the stock market. JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
    All year round American tourists flocks to European cities and towns to sample regional delicacies and experience the local culture.  While navigating the unfamiliar cobble stone streets and botching the local language, another strange element of street life that stands out is fashion. For men in particular, the striking contrast between the tailored European versus the casual, laid-back American attire is immediately apparent.  Here's our roundup of some of the most popular, and sometimes strange, fashion trends of European men. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Kamelia Angelova. Originally published in July 2013. FREE AppDownload
John Stage, the founder and owner of Dinosaur Bar-B-Que, has been satisfying Americans' insatiable appetite for slow cooked meat since 1983. He honed his skills on the road, along with his two partners, using a makeshift bbq to cater to motorcycle shows, fairs, and festivals across the country.  Eventually settling in Syracuse, his hard earned recipes transformed into the menu for the original Dinosaur Bar-B-Que. Over the last twenty plus years, he's built a small empire, which includes seven outposts. We caught up with him in the recently opened Brooklyn location to find out his secret for fall off the bone St. Louis style ribs.  Stage says  it's all about the right balance of "smoke, spice, sauce and pure pork."  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Washingtonian MOM magazine's spring issue has a profile of White House Press Secretary Jay Carney's wife, ABC News contributor Claire Shipman, that features a picture taken inside their home. In the background of the photo, you can see two framed Soviet-era propaganda posters.  One of Carney's posters is a version of this iconic design by artist Dmitry Moor with a soldier pointing his finger alongside text that says "Have YOU Enlisted?" in Russian: artnewsnviews.com The other poster features a female factory worker. According to this eBay seller, who is offering one for $1,660, the poster was printed on June 26, 1941, days after Russia began fighting the Axis powers in World War II. It encourages women take jobs vacated by men who have gone to fight. The woman in the poster is switching out a tag with a man's name to one with hers and the text says: "Women! Learn production, replace workers who went to the front! The stronger the hinterland - the stronger the front!"  eBay Carney and Shipman have a lot of history with Russia. They met in Moscow in the 1990s while he was writing for Time and she worked for CNN. Carney did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider Friday.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWith the Nasdaq down around 8% from its March 5 high, it may feel like the whole world is just caving in. The sell-off in the tech heavy index compares to the 3% decline in the S&amp;P 500 during that same period. But surely most of you are long-term investors, and therefore would prefer some long-term context. Early today, Crossing Wall Street's Eddy Elfenbein posted a seven-year chart of the Dow, the S&amp;P 500, and the Nasdaq. It illustrated how the Nasdaq far outperformed the other two indices sharply since the beginning of the bull market in March 2009. Jonathan Golub of RBC Capital Markets communicates a similar observation in a note to clients today. It's the ratio of the Nasdaq to the S&amp;P 500 since a year ago. As you can see, the Nasdaq has far outpaced the S&amp;P, and it has just barely begun to close that gap. RBC Capital Markets Basically, it shows that the Nasdaq investor is still way ahead of the S&amp;P 500 investor in the past year. Like many on Wall Street, Golub is reluctant to recommend selling unless a more obvious reason becomes apparent. "While the market is roughly flat for the year, the recent leadership rotation is causing understandable angst for many investors," he wrote. "We remain comfortable with our 2,075 S&amp;P 500 target and cyclical sector bias, including overweights in Financials, Industrials, Discretionary and Health Care. We would be more apt to change this outlook if we saw signs of either fundamental deterioration in the economy or indications that Fed policy was negatively impacting markets. Neither of these conditions are present, in our view." FREE AppDownload
The probable change in leadership is also accompanied by other indications that the long cyclical bull market may have ended.  The number of new daily highs in the market has diminished on each successive rally.  Margin debt is at record highs, both on an absolute basis and relative to GDP.  According to the Investor’s Intelligence Survey, bearish sentiment is at the lowest level since 1987.  Adding to the malaise, this is happening at a time when the Fed has begun to pull back from its Quantitative Easing policy that has boosted stocks in the last few years although the economy is still staggering along at a tepid pace of growth. Yesterday (Wednesday) the market overreacted on the upside to the release of the Fed minutes of the March meeting on the grounds that the FOMC appeared more dovish than originally thought. The ill-conceived rally failed to hold up and for good reason.  The Fed had already issued an explanatory statement after the meeting followed by a Janet Yellen press conference.  Nothing in the minutes changes the original statement or comments at the press conference.  The statement indicated that interest rates would be kept low for some time after QE ended.  When Yellen was pressed to state how long that might be she offhandedly said that it could be six months, but was subject to the incoming data as are all Fed decisions. To be sure, there was some question about the so-called “dots” release, based on a survey of the Fed governors that indicated a very slight rise in the fed funds rate one-to-three years out.  The minutes show the FOMC discussing how to explain this and avoid confusion, and that it did not mean a change in the Fed’s policy.  Furthermore, at her press conference Yellen explained that the “dot” projections changed slightly from time to time without necessarily indicating a change. In sum, we think there has been a distinct change in market leadership at a time when the Fed is tapering its QE program and economic growth is inadequate. In our view this is part of a topping process that is likely to result in a severe market decline.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCiti's Matt King is the latest to join the growing list of Wall Street strategists struggling to identify the catalyst of the ongoing market sell-off, which has seen the Nasdaq plunge by 8% in a month. From his new research note: What makes the moves particularly puzzling is the lack of an obvious cause. The Fed Minutes were generally perceived as dovish. That may help explain the rally in Treasuries, but not the sell-off in risky assets. The latest headlines in Ukraine are potentially concerning, and oil and gas prices have risen slightly, but EM generally has outperformed. Similarly, while the latest negative trade and price data out of China have us and others scrambling to shave growth forecasts, we struggle to see them as the cause of market weakness more broadly. This doesn't mean King and his peers are bad analysts. Since the dawn of financial markets, prices have had a tendency to make unexplained and often counterintuitive moves for extended periods of time. King does acknowledge there are reasons why we shouldn't be surprised by any of this. As is so often the case, almost the only unifying theme we can find is a squeeze on consensus positions. Aggregate CFTC data suggest duration shorts have again been nearing record levels. The rapid run-up in tech sector P/Es likewise suggests tech equity investors have been overextending themselves. And EM has had so much negative news that it feels likely to be the site of many tactical underweights, which are now coming under pressure thanks to signs of renewed inflows. Like many, however, King isn't convinced that the 8% sell-off we've seen in the Nasdaq is the beginning of something much worse. King believes that the global central banks that have been there for us since the financial crisis will continue to be there for us, at least in the near-term. To that, he offers some comfort to bond market investors. And yet for all that we share those longer-term concerns, we still see nothing to suggest that such a “Wile E Coyote” moment is even close to being reached. Indeed, if credit does follow other risky assets weaker here, we would buy, not sell. The fact remains that in this environment, central bank liquidity remains the major driver of spreads, whatever the fundamentals. While we might be on “borrowed time”, central banks still seem intent on supplying more of it. As we have said many times before, even with full Fed tapering, globally we still see too much money chasing too few assets. The past few weeks show outflows from money market funds, inflows to bond funds and inflows to credit funds, both in the US and in Europe. Investors are even putting a toe back into emerging markets. That implies more of the same money that investors are struggling to know what to do with. "[W]e seriously doubt that this is finally the Wile E. Coyote moment where investors look down and conclude markets are treading on air," he said. It's great imagery. Anyone who's long risk asset surely hopes he's right. FREE AppDownload
David Ogilvy & Associates RealtorsCTNews.com reports that the Copper Beech mansion in Connecticut, which was once the most expensive home for sale in the U.S., has officially sold for $120 million. The home was first listed for $190 million back in May of 2013, but the 12-bedroom mansion failed to attract a buyer. The price was chopped to $130 million in September, and after another $10 million discount, the gorgeous Connecticut property is now in contract, though there's no word yet on the buyer. The 50-acre estate dates back to the 1890s, and was owned by timber magnate John Rudey. The property carried a reported $120 million in debt, likely accounting for the sky-high initial sale price. The 12-bedroom home has 15,000 square feet of living space, 7,000 square feet of basement and attic space, and an 1,800-foot-long driveway. There's also a grass tennis court, innumerable gardens, apple orchard, greenhouses, 75-foot-long heated pool, and a carriage house. The estate was listed with Christie's International Real Estate and David Ogilvy &amp; Associates. FREE AppDownload
The market is less sanguine. A recent Bloomberg poll found only about 2/3 of the economists surveyed expected the ECB to ease policy in June. The remainder appear roughly divided between those expecting a May move and those who do expect it to stand pat. The Bloomberg survey found more economists expect the ECB to suspended the sterilization of the liquidity generated by the bonds purchased under Trichet's SMP program or a new long-term lending facility than QE or negative rates. A fifth of those survey expect a the end of the liquidity absorption efforts, which actually have been relatively smoothly conducted now for several weeks. Another fifth expect new lending facility. The survey found 16% expect QE and another 16% expect a rate cut. The euro is firm, having traded above $1.39 briefly today, for the first time since March 19 and the backing up of US rates after the FOMC meeting and Yellen's faux pas of defining "a considerable period". EONIA remains elevated above 20 bp, about twice the year ago level (while effective Fed funds at at 8 bp, half of what they were a year ago). The rise in EONIA comes despite the rise in excess liquidity in the Eurosystem of more than 20 bln euros over the past week. ECB officials continue to play down the generalized risk of deflation in region and claim that inflation expectations remain anchored. However, the real take away is that the ECB is decidedly split about taking more action. An anticipated bounce in the April CPI, for which a preliminary estimate will be made at the end of the month, is expected to buy time for Draghi to forge a broad agreement. A consensus is sought for such an important decision. Much of the official talk has focused on quantitative easing and ECB officials, including Draghi have signaled a preference for some private sector assets, which the US and the BOE did not do in their QE exercise. In particular, the officials have been talking more about asset backed securities (ABS). The ECB and BOE published a joint paper today urging regulators to support and promote a revival of the ABS market, which Draghi had called "dead". In particular, they wanted "prudently designed" high quality product. The point though is that the current ABS market seems too small for any serious QE program. Industry data indicate that total European issuance of securitized assets were about 251 bln euros in 2012 and the equivalent of 1.55 trillion euros in the US. In the first half of last year, Europe generated 83.5 bln of ABS, while the US packaged the equivalent of 880 bln euros. Some of the European ABS are being used already for collateral for borrowing from the ECB, which means they cannot be included in the universe of securities the ECB could consider buying under QE. All told, the ABS that are eligible as collateral at the ECB have almost been halved from the 2010 peak. To be sure, there is no shortage of debt and can be used for the creation of asset-backed securities. Total lending in the euro area is estimated at around 17 trillion euros. Earlier on in the crisis, the ECB did buy (~80 bln euros) of covered bonds, which are similar to ABS except that the issuing bank retains the risk on their balance sheets and are more favored by regulators. Many investors and, perhaps, policy makers well, expect that if the ECB would to adopt QE the euro would decline.  While understanding the argument, we are less sanguine.  Our argument is not based first principles and deduced from the idea that QE expands the supply of a currency and therefore, ceteris paribus, the currency should depreciate.    Instead, our approach is more modest.  It is through induction.    First, the most aggressive QE presently is the BOJ.  Since the yen put in its low against the dollar on January 2, it has appreciated by more than 3.25% even while the BOJ has bought more than $225 bln of assets.  Second, we note that the US dollar, on the Federal Reserve's real broad trade-weighted index,bottomed almost 3 years ago (July 2011).  At the end of last month, it was about 6.5% above that trough.   Third, we recall that the large scale QE by the Swiss National Bank did not prove effective, and officials responded by resorted to imposing a cap on the franc.  A QE operation, a new lending facility, or a rate cut could also induce more buying of the periphery European bonds as the chase for yield intensifies.  Most of the decline, say in Spanish bonds, for example, can be accounted for by the drop in inflation.  Consider that since October 2012, Spanish harmonized inflation has fallen from 3.5% to -0.2%.  The nominal yield of the 10- year bond yield has fallen from almost 6% to about 3.15%.  There is room for a further decline in real yields just to match what they were a year and a half ago.           Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Status Quo for the Bank of Japan  Credit Suisse’s Japan economists have long argued that the April 1 increase in Japan’s consumption tax from 5 percent to 8 percent would hurt domestic demand and economic growth. Given Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s aggressive approach to Japan’s two-decade struggle with sluggish growth and deflation, many expected the central bank to ease further in the first quarter. It didn’t. A quarterly Japanese business sentiment survey released in March showed that manufacturers expected business conditions to deteriorate over the next three months. Retailers were particularly pessimistic, which Credit Suisse’s Japan economists worry could signal a “consumption recession” in which second quarter household spending drops more than 8.5 percent. Retailers raised prices in response to consumer demand ahead of the tax hike, pushing inflation (ex-fresh food) to 1.3 percent in February, up from -0.3 percent last February. But as demand falls post-hike, prices will follow, Credit Suisse says. At an April 8 press conference, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda reiterated that he is not considering additional easing. But the central bank’s hand may be forced if Japanese equities markets falter. Politics may force it, too: Kuroda and Abe are reportedly set to meet this month to discuss monetary policy. Yellen’s Bombshell Clearly stunned by the effect of her comments, Yellen went into backpedal mode almost immediately. And she appears to have succeeded in unwinding the effects of her March 19 remarks. While yields on five-year Treasuries jumped 19 basis points the day she spoke, notes of all durations have decreased since. And the economic data still supports a dovish policy outlook for the Fed, according to a recent note from Credit Suisse’s fixed income and global research strategists entitled “Guidance on the Dots – When to Ignore Them?” Still, Credit Suisse expects economic data to start improving in the second half of the year, at which point Treasury prices are likely to starting falling again. The specific triggers that Credit Suisse thinks could cause the decline to begin: Unemployment hits 6 percent, inflation starts to rise, and production and retail sales show marked improvement. The strategists expect all three trends to take hold later this year and early next year, but Credit Suisse’s Investment Committee says in an April 10 report that it does not expect the Fed to hike rates until the second half of 2015.  China’s Copper Conundrum  Copper prices have been falling gradually since the beginning of last year, but they plummeted nine percent between March 5 and March 20, from $7,053 per ton to $6,430. Analysts expected a drop in red metal prices, but it came earlier and steeper than anyone anticipated. The decline was driven not only by a shrinking “scarcity premium” due to a buildup in the supply of unrefined copper concentrate, but also by concerns about China’s credit situation. Copper is widely used as loan collateral in China, and the selloff reflected market fears that a wave of loan defaults could result in large quantities of copper being dumped onto the industrial metals market. But Credit Suisse commodities analysts think there’s little chance of that happening. The analysts think that prices, which have recovered to $6,650 per ton since the March plunge, should bottom around $6,250 a ton in the third quarter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How To Limit The Impact Of Personal Experiences On Investing Behavior (BlackRock Blog)  Personal experiences can weigh on an investors' risk taking behavior and their expectations about the future, writes Nelli Oster an Investment Strategist in BlackRock's Multi-Asset Strategies Group. This often prompts investors to repeat behaviors that resulted in good outcomes and vice-versa but in doing so they stand to lose miss out on things that can help future performance.  Oster suggests a few ways in which investors can limit the adverse impact such behavior can have on their portfolio. " Key here is broadening one’s horizons, starting with an awareness of our tendency toward the personal experiences bias," Oster writes. "More specifically, individual investors and advisors would want to consider deliberately lengthening the time period on which they are basing their return and risk assessments to include different macroeconomic and market scenarios." She recommends scenario and stress testing portfolios for different environments. Oster also "advocate(s) using a rules-based or systematic investment methodology, whether simple quantitative screens or full investment models built to predict fair values, to help construct a portfolio." Why ETFs And Index Funds Are More Tax Efficient Than Actively Managed Products (Morningstar)  Jared Watts, portfolio manager for Morningstar Investment Management, thinks that ETFs and index funds tend to be more tax efficient than actively managed products. "The ETFs are more tax-efficient, simply because of the design where they have the ability to basically neutralize some of the tax impact that an active manager or mutual fund would not be able to do since they are required to make a distribution once per year," Watts told Morningstar's Christine Benz.  "ETFs have more flexibility in the overall timing of when that would take place just through the buying and selling of the underlying shares. So it's more of a structure type of difference between especially active mutual funds and ETFs." But it's important to remember that you could still be taxed when trying to sell these instruments. Trading Volume's Bad For Share Prices (Business Insider) "The stock market and trading volume have not been on friendly terms in recent years," Jeff Kleintop at LPL Financial told Business Insider. "In fact, over the past five years' low-volume days (when stock trading volume is below its 50-day moving average) stocks have generally gone up, as you can see in Figure 1. Conversely, when volume is above average, stocks have generally been flat to down." "When it comes to volume, be careful what you wish for. A common criticism of the bull market in recent years is that buyers do not have a lot of conviction because volume has not been strong. The implication has been if volume does not pick up, the market may decline. However, the past few years show the opposite: that markets climbed on relatively quiet trading for long stretches of time and then briefly pull back as volume jumps." LPL FinancialInvestment Managers Are Positive Despite Market Risks (Northern Trust) Investment managers are largely optimistic on U.S. economic fundamentals, according to a quarterly survey of 100 managers conducted by Northern Trust. 89% of those surveyed said there is "a small to modest probability (under 25 percent) that emerging markets challenges will spread to developed markets." Meanwhile, 79% said weak economic data is temporary and expect better data in Q2. Just 11% said "financial market volatility and a slowing rate of economic growth in emerging markets create a significant risk of contagion for developed markets." In terms of asset classes, managers were most bullish on U.S. large-cap equities and non-U.S. developed market equities. They were most bearish on  U.S. fixed income, cash and non-U.S. bonds. "Investment managers expect continued improving fundamentals within the U.S., supporting their bullish view on U.S. equities, despite less favorable valuations,” said Mark Meisel, senior investment product specialist of the Multi-Manager Solutions group. "When asked about investing in emerging markets, 41 percent of managers said there are still too many uncertainties and 27 percent responded that fundamentals do not support their current valuations." We Saw A Capitulation Into Emerging Markets This Week (Business Insider)  Emerging market stock and bond funds saw their assets under management rise by $2.9 billion in the week through April 9, according to new data from EPFR. This was the biggest combined inflow in over a year. Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch, said we saw a "capitulation back into EM," this week. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global FREE AppDownload
Ever since Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in 2008 a common assumption has been that the crisis happened because the state surrendered control of finance to the market. The answer, it follows, must be more rules. The latest target is American housing, the source of the dodgy loans that brought down Lehman. Plans are afoot to set up a permanent public backstop to mortgage markets, with the government insuring 90% of losses in a crisis. Which might be comforting, except for two things. First, it is hard to see how entrenching state support will prevent excessive risk-taking. And, second, whatever was wrong with the American housing market, it was not lack of government: far from a free market, it was one of the most regulated industries in the world, funded by taxpayer subsidies and with lending decisions taken by the state. Back in 1856 one of this newspaper's editors, Walter Bagehot, blamed crashes on what he called "blind capital"--periods when credulous cash, ignoring risk, flooded into unwise investments. Given not only the inevitability of such moments of panic but also finance's systemic role in the economy, a government had to devise some special rules to make finance safer. Bagehot invented one: the need for central banks to rescue banks during crises. But Bagehot's rule had a sting in the tail: the bail-out charges should be punitive. That toughness rested on the view that governments should as far as they could treat financiers like any other industry, forcing bankers and investors to take as much of the risk as possible themselves. The more the state protected the system, the more likely it was that people in it would take risks with impunity. That danger was amply illustrated in 2007-08. Having pocketed the gains from state-underwritten risk-taking during the boom years, bankers presented the bill to taxpayers when the bubble went pop. Yet the lesson has not been learnt. Since 2008 there has been a mass of new rules, from America's unwieldy Dodd-Frank law to transaction taxes in Europe. Some steps to boost banks' capital and liquidity do make finance more self-reliant: America's banks face a tough new leverage ratio. But overall the urge to regulate and protect leaves an industry that depends too heavily on state support. The numbers would amaze Bagehot. In America a citizen can now deposit up to $250,000 in any bank blindly, because that sum is insured by a government scheme: what incentive is there to check that the bank is any good? Most countries still encourage firms and individuals to borrow by allowing them to deduct interest payments against tax. The mortgage-interest subsidy in America is worth over $100 billion. Even Bagehot's own financial long-stop has been perverted into a subsidy. Since investors know governments will usually bail out big financial firms, they let them borrow at lower rates than other businesses. America's mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, used a $120 billion funding subsidy to line shareholders' pockets for decades. The overall subsidy for banks is worth up to $110 billion in Britain and Japan, and $300 billion in the euro area, according to the IMF. At a total of $630 billion in the rich world, the distortion is bigger than Sweden's GDP--and more than the net profits of the 1,000 biggest banks. In many cases the rationale for the rules and the rescues has been to protect ordinary investors from the evils of finance. Yet the overall effect is to add ever more layers of state padding and distort risk-taking. This fits an historical pattern. As our essay this week shows, regulation has responded to each crisis by protecting ever more of finance. Five disasters, from 1792 to 1929, explain the origins of the modern financial system. This includes hugely successful innovations, from joint-stock banks to the Federal Reserve and the New York Stock Exchange. But it has also meant a corrosive trend: a gradual increase in state involvement. Deposit insurance is a good example. Introduced in America in 1934, it protected the first $2,500 of deposits, a small multiple of average earnings then, reducing the risk of bank runs. Today America is an extreme case, but insurance of over $100,000 is common in the West. This protects wealth, and income, and means investors ignore creditworthiness, worrying only about the interest-rate offer, sending deposits flocking to flimsy Icelandic banks and others with pitiful equity buffers. The overall effect is not just to enrich one industry, but to mute the beneficial effects of finance. Healthy financial markets speed up an economy, channelling credit to firms that need it. They can also make an economy fairer and more competitive, providing the funds for those without them to challenge incumbents. Modern finance is a more slanted system in which savings are drawn towards subsidies and tax distortions. Debt-fuelled housing goes wild while investment in machines and patents runs dry. All this dulls growth. How can the zombie-like shuffle of the state into finance be stopped? Deposit insurance should be gradually trimmed until it protects no more than a year's pay, around $50,000 in America. That is plenty to keep the payments system intact. Bank bosses might start advertising their capital ratios, as happened before deposit insurance was introduced. Giving firms tax relief on financing costs is sensible, but loading it all onto debt rather than equity is not. And still more can be done to punish investors, not taxpayers, for failure. A start has been made with "living wills", which describe how to wind down a megabank, and loss-absorbing bonds, which act as buffers in a crisis. But Europe is far behind America here, and the issue of how to resolve huge, cross-border banks remains. The chances of politicians withdrawing from finance are sadly low. But they could at least follow Bagehot's advice and make the cost of their support explicit. The safety net for finance now stretches well beyond banks to undercapitalised clearing-houses and money-market funds. Governments should report these liabilities in national accounts, like other subsidies, and exact a proper price for them. Otherwise, they have merely set up the next crisis. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
Ever since Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in 2008 a common assumption has been that the crisis happened because the state surrendered control of finance to the market. The answer, it follows, must be more rules. The latest target is American housing, the source of the dodgy loans that brought down Lehman. Plans are afoot to set up a permanent public backstop to mortgage markets, with the government insuring 90% of losses in a crisis. Which might be comforting, except for two things. First, it is hard to see how entrenching state support will prevent excessive risk-taking. And, second, whatever was wrong with the American housing market, it was not lack of government: far from a free market, it was one of the most regulated industries in the world, funded by taxpayer subsidies and with lending decisions taken by the state. Back in 1856 one of this newspaper's editors, Walter Bagehot, blamed crashes on what he called "blind capital"--periods when credulous cash, ignoring risk, flooded into unwise investments. Given not only the inevitability of such moments of panic but also finance's systemic role in the economy, a government had to devise some special rules to make finance safer. Bagehot invented one: the need for central banks to rescue banks during crises. But Bagehot's rule had a sting in the tail: the bail-out charges should be punitive. That toughness rested on the view that governments should as far as they could treat financiers like any other industry, forcing bankers and investors to take as much of the risk as possible themselves. The more the state protected the system, the more likely it was that people in it would take risks with impunity. That danger was amply illustrated in 2007-08. Having pocketed the gains from state-underwritten risk-taking during the boom years, bankers presented the bill to taxpayers when the bubble went pop. Yet the lesson has not been learnt. Since 2008 there has been a mass of new rules, from America's unwieldy Dodd-Frank law to transaction taxes in Europe. Some steps to boost banks' capital and liquidity do make finance more self-reliant: America's banks face a tough new leverage ratio. But overall the urge to regulate and protect leaves an industry that depends too heavily on state support. The numbers would amaze Bagehot. In America a citizen can now deposit up to $250,000 in any bank blindly, because that sum is insured by a government scheme: what incentive is there to check that the bank is any good? Most countries still encourage firms and individuals to borrow by allowing them to deduct interest payments against tax. The mortgage-interest subsidy in America is worth over $100 billion. Even Bagehot's own financial long-stop has been perverted into a subsidy. Since investors know governments will usually bail out big financial firms, they let them borrow at lower rates than other businesses. America's mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, used a $120 billion funding subsidy to line shareholders' pockets for decades. The overall subsidy for banks is worth up to $110 billion in Britain and Japan, and $300 billion in the euro area, according to the IMF. At a total of $630 billion in the rich world, the distortion is bigger than Sweden's GDP--and more than the net profits of the 1,000 biggest banks. In many cases the rationale for the rules and the rescues has been to protect ordinary investors from the evils of finance. Yet the overall effect is to add ever more layers of state padding and distort risk-taking. This fits an historical pattern. As our essay this week shows, regulation has responded to each crisis by protecting ever more of finance. Five disasters, from 1792 to 1929, explain the origins of the modern financial system. This includes hugely successful innovations, from joint-stock banks to the Federal Reserve and the New York Stock Exchange. But it has also meant a corrosive trend: a gradual increase in state involvement. Deposit insurance is a good example. Introduced in America in 1934, it protected the first $2,500 of deposits, a small multiple of average earnings then, reducing the risk of bank runs. Today America is an extreme case, but insurance of over $100,000 is common in the West. This protects wealth, and income, and means investors ignore creditworthiness, worrying only about the interest-rate offer, sending deposits flocking to flimsy Icelandic banks and others with pitiful equity buffers. The overall effect is not just to enrich one industry, but to mute the beneficial effects of finance. Healthy financial markets speed up an economy, channelling credit to firms that need it. They can also make an economy fairer and more competitive, providing the funds for those without them to challenge incumbents. Modern finance is a more slanted system in which savings are drawn towards subsidies and tax distortions. Debt-fuelled housing goes wild while investment in machines and patents runs dry. All this dulls growth. How can the zombie-like shuffle of the state into finance be stopped? Deposit insurance should be gradually trimmed until it protects no more than a year's pay, around $50,000 in America. That is plenty to keep the payments system intact. Bank bosses might start advertising their capital ratios, as happened before deposit insurance was introduced. Giving firms tax relief on financing costs is sensible, but loading it all onto debt rather than equity is not. And still more can be done to punish investors, not taxpayers, for failure. A start has been made with "living wills", which describe how to wind down a megabank, and loss-absorbing bonds, which act as buffers in a crisis. But Europe is far behind America here, and the issue of how to resolve huge, cross-border banks remains. The chances of politicians withdrawing from finance are sadly low. But they could at least follow Bagehot's advice and make the cost of their support explicit. The safety net for finance now stretches well beyond banks to undercapitalised clearing-houses and money-market funds. Governments should report these liabilities in national accounts, like other subsidies, and exact a proper price for them. Otherwise, they have merely set up the next crisis. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
When Steve Jobs returned to the helm of Apple in 1997 as interim chief executive, the company he had co-founded was on the brink of bankruptcy. The tale of how Apple's visionary boss saved it from oblivion and then turned it into an innovation powerhouse that wowed the world with its iPods, iPhones and iPads is one of the greatest business stories of all time. Since Jobs's untimely death in 2011, there has been plenty of speculation about how Apple will fare without its renowned leader. Yukari Iwatani Kane, a former Wall Street Journal reporter who covered Apple in the last years of Jobs's reign, thinks she knows the answer. In "Haunted Empire", she concludes that a decline in Apple's fortunes seems inevitable. Ms Kane's instinct may be right, but unfortunately her disjointed narrative fails to make a convincing case for the prosecution. That is a shame because the notion of an Apple haunted by the spectre of Jobs is a powerful one. The company has yet to demonstrate that it can perpetuate its record of turning staid markets upside down with new money-spinning ideas. And its past success has made it a hunted empire that now faces stiff competition from Google, South Korea's Samsung and other rivals bent on disrupting everything from TV viewing to wearable computing--smart watches, smart glasses and so forth. Ms Kane recounts several episodes that she thinks illustrate the fact that Apple is already on a slippery slope of decline. These include controversies over working conditions and environmental practices at some of its Asian suppliers; its long-running legal tussle with Samsung over smartphone patents; and the bungled launch in 2012 of its own mapping app to rival Google Maps. Chapters in "Haunted Empire" recount such episodes in excruciating detail, but they often ignore the bigger picture. There is no doubt that Apple has been deeply embarrassed by revelations about working conditions at some of its suppliers. But its ability to source parts quickly and cheaply remains the envy of many competitors, who are keen to copy its methods. The wrangling over patents is more telling. By the end of April 2012 Apple and Samsung had filed more than 50 lawsuits against one another in 16 courts in ten countries. And the battle continues: in a San Jose court this week, Apple argued that Samsung owes it $2.2 billion for infringing patents on its devices. Ms Kane notes that Apple's campaign of litigation was inspired by Jobs, who was determined to stymie the advance of Google's Android mobile operating system, which Samsung has championed. But she fails to reflect on whether Apple's growing fondness for litigation is a sign that it is now more obsessed with protecting existing innovations rather than coming up with new ones. Then there is the issue of comparisons with the Jobs era. Ms Kane tends to look back at this through rose-tinted glasses. The launch of Apple's glitch-ridden mapping service under Tim Cook, Jobs's handpicked successor as chief executive, was bungled. But she neglects to point out that there were memorable hiccups in Jobs's time too. For instance, problems with an internal antenna marred the launch of the iPhone 4. In spite of the embarrassment, "Antennagate", as it was dubbed, did no lasting damage to the firm's reputation and it is hard to see the maps debacle doing any either. "Haunted Empire" could have probed more deeply into areas such as Apple's $159 billion cash pile. This is certainly impressive, but it may also be a sign that the company is running out of good ideas to spend its money on. The burden of responsibility for producing revolutionary new products lies squarely with Mr Cook and his senior team, notably Sir Jonathan Ive, Apple's design guru. Ms Kane is not optimistic about their prospects. She portrays Apple's new boss, who made his mark by managing its supply chain, as an uninspiring number-cruncher. And she muses on whether Jobs made a mistake by choosing the self-proclaimed "Attila the Hun of Inventory" to run it rather than someone with a more creative bent. Unsurprisingly, Mr Cook has rubbished "Haunted Empire", claiming that it "fails to capture Apple, Steve, or anyone else in the company". It also misses an opportunity to make a compelling case that Apple is past its prime. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Robert GalbraithThe U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan and the FBI are probing Herbalife, the Financial Times reported, citing unnamed sources familiar with the investigation. The stock erased its gains for Friday. It closed down $8.59, or 14.35%, to end at $51.25 per share. Herbalife told the FT they are not aware of an investigation. "We have no knowledge of any ongoing investigation by the DoJ or the FBI, and we have not received any formal nor informal request for information from either agency. We take our public disclosure obligations very seriously. Herbalife does not intend to make any additional comments regarding this matter unless and until there are material developments," the company said in a statement to the FT.  Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss products, has been at the center of a hedge-fund brawl.  Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman of Pershing Square is shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife, with a price target of $0. He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower-income individuals. As a result, he believes regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut it down.  Ackman's long-time rival, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, owns a massive long position in the company. He bought the stock shortly after Ackman publicly revealed his short position. He owns 16.8% of Herbalife's shares. Herbalife confirmed last month that it's under investigation by the FTC. Howewver, in a statement, the company said that it had no knowledge of an investigation by the FBI or DOJ (read the full statement here). "We have no knowledge of any ongoing investigation by the DOJ or the FBI," said the statement, "and we have not received any formal nor informal request for information from either agency. We take our public disclosure obligations very seriously. Herbalife does not intend to make any additional comments regarding this matter unless and until there are material developments." Also, Fox Business Network senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino is reporting that Herbalife is bracing for the possibility of an ABC "20/20" news magazine exposé. It's unclear what the report includes or when it will air — or if it will even air at all. According to Gasparino, ABC may have a possible whistleblower, though. Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt was another volatile day in the markets. And once again, the momentum stocks got wrecked. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@JeremyWS Jeremy Wilkinson-Smith passes along a chart he says is getting some play today, one that suggests the stock market sell-off may be just about over. The VIX curve has gone into backwardation today, as the bottom panel in the chart shows. In other words, VIX futures three months out have become less expensive than current-month VIX futures, meaning it costs more to hedge against a market downturn today than it does three months from now. This inversion of the term structure in the forward VIX curve is indicative of elevated market stress, and on the occasions when we've seen such an event in the past few years, the S&amp;P 500 has bottomed and headed higher. Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, calls this "the most important chart in the world." "I've used this before to show 'exhaustion' of stress, and it was a sharp buying signal four times in 2013," says Lutz. "We did get the signal on January 24, and proceeded to slide another 2% before bottoming and starting the recent leg to fresh highs." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronGeneral Motors CEO Mary Barra received an email in 2011 altering her to steering problems in cars that were recalled last month, Reuters reports: GM CEO received email in 2011 discussing steering problems in troubled GM models that were later recalled: document On March 31, GM announced it would recall more than 1.3 million cars "that may experience a sudden loss of electric power steering assist." Affected models were made between 2004 and 2010, by GM's Chevrolet, Saturn, and Pontiac brands. The steering issue is separate from problems with the faulty ignition switches on 2.2 million cars that can flip out of the “run” position while the car is moving, turning off the engine, cutting some electric power, and disabling the airbags. The automaker has been under fire in recent weeks over its delayed response to that issue (linked to 13 deaths), so news that Barra personally knew of an issue years before action was taken opens GM to more criticism of how it handles safety issues. It's still unclear why the automaker took so long to acknowledge and address the ignition switch problem. GM has placed two engineers on paid leave, "an interim step" in its own investigation into the botched recall. On Tuesday, the government announced a $28,000 civil penalty against GM for failing to respond fully to a request for information related to the recall before the set deadline. It will continue to fine GM $7,000 per day until the automaker fully answers all the questions asked. Despite the recall charge, GM "expects to report solid core operating performance in the first quarter financial results," it said in a statement earlier this week. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe stock market is selling off again, and once again it's the high-growth momentum stocks leading the market lower. And it so happens that these are among the most popular holdings of the world's big hedge funds. "These high growth/high multiple stocks feature prominently on our list of 'stocks that matter most' to hedge fund performance," noted Goldman Sachs' David Kostin earlier this week. "Having outperformed by 230 bp through February, our VIP basket dropped 2% in March while S&amp;P 500 climbed 0.8%. Long positions trail by 98 bp YTD. Short holdings created problems by rising 130 bp more than S&amp;P 500 YTD." The top of the list includes Google (-2.0%), Facebook (-1.6%), and Amazon.com (-2.1%). And it's not just the momentum names on the list that are getting slammed. Other stocks on the list include General Motors, which is down 4.3%, and Citi, which is down 1.3%. Here's a list of the top stocks on Goldman's "stocks that matter most" to hedge funds list. Note: These are based on holdings as of Dec. 31. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
youtubeA sharp sell-off in high-growth tech stocks has pulled the tech-heavy Nasdaq index down by around 7% from its March 5 high. During the period, Netflix is down 27%, Amazon.com is down 14%, Facebook is down 14%, and Google is down 12%. Meanwhile the S&amp;P 500 is down by 2%. "One reason for the recent sell-off in the US stock market appears to be a concern that valuations in the technology sector are stretched," notes John Higgins of Capital Economics. But because we're all human, we can't help but at least wonder if this is the beginning of something much worse. "Given the rout in technology shares after the bursting of the dot com bubble, it would not be surprising if some investors felt they were experiencing de´ja` vu. But comparisons with the early part of this century are misplaced. The technology sector is much less overvalued than it was back then." Higgins included the chart comparing the valuations of various industries during the two periods. "Consider that in March 2000 – the month in which technology shares peaked – the price/estimated operating earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 biotech index was 46, more than twice its level of 20 or so today," he said. "And the valuation of the information technology sector on this metric was nearly four times as high." To be clear, Higgins and Capital Economics are no raging bulls on the market. Their S&amp;P 500 target through 2015 is 1,900. However, their point is that there are probably other things to be more concerned about than stretched valuations. Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
U.S. stocks continue to slide following yesterday's losses. The S&amp;P 500 is down about 0.9% today and the Nasdaq is 1.4% lower. "So far the equity market sell-off has been concentrated in the U.S., with risk-correlated assets elsewhere doing relatively well," says Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "Now there are signals that USA equity risk off is becoming broader risk off, although the signals are still tentative. In particular, the U.S. equity sell-off, which was blown off initially by most equity markets, is beginning to spread both to EM and G10." Nearly all European indices closed down more than 1%. Spain's IBEX 35 was the worst performer there, finishing the week 1.5% below Thursday's closing level. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is at 2.62%, down about three basis points from yesterday and near the bottom of the range in which it has been trading since November. The U.S. dollar is little changed against the Japanese yen and the euro. "As well, we are seeing a bit of buyer’s regret on Greek bonds and some widening of spreads in other euro zone peripherals, basically unwinding about two weeks' gains," says Englander. "While these are still straws in the wind, if we enter a broad risk-off environment, the squeeze on recently-bought high-beta assets will be intense." The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top, from left to right, are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, five-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, news broke that IAC's dating app, Tinder, is worth $5 billion. Investors were clearly unaware that IAC was sitting on such a valuable commodity! As a result the stock shot to the moon. But then... IAC said the reported valuation was completely wrong. And well, the stock went red.  Screenshot FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Funds dedicated to investing in emerging-market (EM) stocks and bonds recorded their biggest combined inflows in over a year in the week through Wednesday, April 9, according to new data from EPFR, a firm that tracks global fund flows. EM equity funds expanded assets under management by $2.9 billion, marking the largest weekly inflow since February 2013, while EM debt funds took in $1.8 billion, the most since January 2013. This week marked the second week of inflows into emerging markets following 22 straight weeks of outflows. Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch, describes it as "capitulation back into EM." Russia-dedicated equity funds saw inflows this week totaling 1.9% of assets under management, while funds investing in Indian equities recorded inflows amounting to 0.3% of assets. Brazil equity funds, on the other hand, saw outflows on the order of 2.9% of assets under management, and China equity funds recorded outflows amounting to 0.2% of assets. FREE AppDownload
BIIBitcoin's price has been plummeting lately, giving plenty of ammunition to Bitcoin's many naysayers. But all the talk about Bitcoin's price fluctuations misses what we at BI Intelligence think is the real value of Bitcoin — as a payments network that could provide merchants with an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system.  In  a recent report from BI Intelligence, we explain how Bitcoin works for making transactions, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared to the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges and vulnerabilities that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWhile politicians and policy makers may disagree about how to capitalize on the recent U.S. oil and gas boom, they do share enthusiasm for what it may bring: energy independence. But since conflict broke out between Russia and Ukraine last month, an increasingly vocal cohort in Washington has been touting another idea: energy diplomacy. The country has long been isolationist when it comes to its own energy resources — crude exports have been banned since the 70s — but some now see the opportunity to use the fruits of the boom as a new and powerful foreign policy tool. Were the U.S. to export sizeable amounts of natural gas to Europe, the thinking goes, it could lessen the continent’s reliance on Russia for energy and weaken its regional influence. Influential lawmakers such as House Speaker John Boehner have called for accelerated plans to export liquefied natural gas (LNG) while also repealing the ban on shipping U.S. crude abroad. “The ability to turn the tables and put the Russian leader in check lies right beneath our feet, in the form of vast supplies of natural energy,” Boehner wrote in the Wall Street Journal in March. The argument gained even more weight last week, when Russia nearly doubled the price of gas it sends to Ukraine. Timely editorials or no, quick increases in U.S. exports of any sort are unlikely. For starters, the U.S. isn’t even in a position to increase exports of gas. Current export capacity wouldn’t support it, and new LNG terminals aren’t scheduled to come online until next year. Moreover, any hope of offering gas to Europe at lower prices than Russia’s may be a non-starter anyway. It costs money to ship gas, and unless the U.S. wants to literally give it away, those countries Washington might seek to influence may not be able to afford the prices required for an economic rationale as well as a political one. Politics will also come into play. The mere suggestion of exporting oil raises a host of thorny questions, starting with whether doing so would cause the price of domestic gasoline to rise or fall. And then there would be the inevitable criticisms: the U.S. has long chastised countries for engaging in petro-politics, such as when it condemned Hugo Chavez’ shipments of subsidized oil to regional allies like Cuba. All that said, the longer-term prospects of the idea are better than at first glance. Especially if you consider that lawmakers’ motivations are as much about economic considerations as they are about political ones, says Thomas Marchetti, energy equities strategist at Credit Suisse. While the approval process for exporting gas is tied in the requisite amounts of red tape, dozens of producers have already applied for licenses to build export terminals. And while most crude exports have been prohibited since the Energy Policy Conservation Act was enacted in the 1970s to protect the U.S. from price shocks, the dramatic increase in U.S. production has decreased its historical reliance on imported oil. U.S. daily crude output rose 15 percent last year to 7.5 million barrels and is on track to hit 9.5 million by 2016, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. There’s no question that there’s oil to sell. The debate is over the merits of selling it. U.S. refiners have enjoyed growing profits as increasing but captive U.S. supply has lowered the benchmark West Texas Intermediate price of U.S crude relative to Brent, the global benchmark, and a repeal of the ban would likely raise the price of the American crude they process. Environmental groups are also opposed, arguing that an increase in exports would encourage more fracking, which they believe causes pollution and potential water contamination. A third group of opponents worries that exporting crude could increase domestic gasoline prices. Both Marchetti and Jan Stuart, head of energy commodities research at Credit Suisse, say that last worry is misplaced. Their argument: Europe’s refineries are operating below capacity because they can’t get enough of the light crude they’re designed to process. As a result, European demand for imported refined products — including gasoline — has pushed those prices up. So the export of crude might actually lower U.S. gasoline prices in the long term. That fact notwithstanding, the mere suggestion of a possible increase in gas prices – whether or not it’s likely — could still make changing export laws politically untenable. “If Congress has to get involved, the chances of that happening are close to zero,” says Stuart. In an effort to circumvent a possible Congressional dead end, policymakers and lawmakers are exploring changing trade regulations enforced by the Commerce Department. There’s precedent for such maneuvering: U.S. producers can already export crude to Canada because of a free trade agreement. Other U.S. trading partners, such as South Korea, Mexico, Chile and Israel could theoretically get equal treatment, Stuart says. And that’s when politics sneak back in: consider South Korea, which has no domestic oil production, and therefore relies heavily on the Middle East for imports. If Washington starts to think that way, similar trade pacts with the European Union and Japan might not be far behind either. The most likely first step towards increased exports would involve a product called lease condensate. Under current rules, condensate is classified as crude oil because it comes directly out of a well as a liquid. The industry, on the other hand, doesn’t think of it as crude because the ultra-light liquid resembles a refined product. Lawmakers such as Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski, who sits on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, have argued that the Commerce Department should therefore reclassify condensates as an exportable product. In doing so, she has joined a growing chorus. Its refrain: the era of U.S.-as-crude-exporter could soon be upon us. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Daniel MunozMohamed El-Erian, CEO of Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO), speaks during a media briefing in central Sydney February 8, 2010.(Reuters) - Mohamed El-Erian, former CEO of Pimco, has been unwilling to respond to criticism from the bond investment firm's chief investment officer Bill Gross because of a strict non-disclosure agreement he made with Pimco, according to two sources familiar with his thinking. Pimco shocked investors in January when it announced that El-Erian was leaving the firm. He had been groomed to be successor to Gross, who is known as 'The Bond King' and who oversees nearly $2 trillion of assets. Gross said this week that the departure came as a complete surprise and El-Erian still hasn't explained why. "He hasn't spoken up, and that's a mystery to us and quite frankly an extreme disappointment," Gross told Bloomberg TV in remarks broadcast on Thursday. "He simply said that he wasn't the man to take the company forward. And he constantly repeated that without explaining it." "I thought I knew him better," added Gross, who turns 70 on Sunday. The sources close to El-Erian said that it shouldn't be a mystery to Gross as to why El-Erian, who was also co-chief investment officer of Pimco until he left the firm in March, hadn't commented publicly on the reasons for his resignation. If he breached the NDA, which ends in May, El-Erian could put any compensation package he received on his departure in jeopardy and potentially open him up to a lawsuit from Pimco, they said. Gross insisted on the non-disclosure pact before El-Erian's departure, these sources added. His comments about El-Erian's departure were the latest episode in a soap opera-style public falling-out between the two executives that has been playing out in the media in the past few weeks. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco did not return phone and email messages seeking comment on whether it may be prepared to lift the NDA's provisions. El-Erian declined to comment for this story. Gross could not be immediately reached for comment. Gross, who had shared the title of co-chief investment officer with El-Erian, became the sole CIO after his partner's departure. El-Erian retains a role at Allianz, the German insurer that owns Pimco, as its chief economic adviser. That is a part-time role. FREE AppDownload
AP There are plenty of legendary addresses in New York City, but 15 Central Park West stands out. The ultra-luxury condominium on the corner of West 61st St. and Central Park West has been home to a long list of bankers, celebrities, and assorted bold-faced names, including Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein and Sting. Author Michael Gross, who recently released a history of the condo called "House of Outrageous Fortune," calls it the world's most powerful address. Unlike many of New York's history-filled apartment buildings — especially its main rival across the park — 15 Central Park West is a relative newcomer. Completed in 2008 by developers Arthur and William Lie Zeckendorf, it offers a ridiculous array of amenities to New York's moneyed elite, including an in-house chef, a skylighted lap pool, and a private screening room. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsVenezuela's national police arrest an anti-government protester during riots in Caracas April 6, 2014. Protesters have been on the streets since early February calling for President Nicolas Maduro's resignation and complaining about a litany of problems from rampant crime to food shortages.The government says they are seeking a coup against Maduro.Forty-one people are dead in Venezuela, political leaders are thrown in jail for leading demonstrators through road-blocked streets, food shortages worsen, and inflation continues to rise. Yet the regional power to the north, The United States, says little and does less. There's a reason for this, and Venezuela's president, Nicolas Maduro, outed it in an interview with The Guardian this month. He said: "Is 100 years of intervention in Latin America and the Caribbean not enough: against Haiti, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Chile, Grenada, Brazil? Is the coup attempt against President Chávez by the Bush administration not enough? Why does the US have 2,000 military bases in the world? To dominate it. I have told President Obama: we are not your backyard anymore." The United States is led by devils, according to Maduro's predecessor, Hugo Chavez. It is trying to overthrow a Bolivian revolution hundreds of years in the making. The ideology of the new Latin American left, scarred from U.S. action throughout the 20th century, and especially during the Communist era, sets itself in opposition to the U.S. That means it can use the U.S. as a bogeyman whenever it likes. That is what the Obama Administration doesn't want in this case. "My view is that they have, over time, tried to distract attention from what's going on [on] the ground, and have been seeking to turn the U.S. ... into a scapegoat for what essentially has been the failure of the revolution," said former U.S. ambassador to Venezuela, Professor Patrick Duddy. This has to be a struggle between a Venezuelan government and a Venezuelan opposition, and the picture is complicated. When Maduro won the presidential election against opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski last April, he won by the narrowest margin since the Socialist movement Chavez started took power. "What we have seen is a deterioration of the Chavista vote and that the situation had, by April, seemingly settled into a 50-50 standoff," continued Duddy, who now teaches at Duke University. The election was proof that, slowly, the Socialist party had lost support. What the world is witnessing in the violence now is a truly divided society. In a New York Times op-ed, Maduro said that this was a struggle between the 99% against the 1%, but the hundreds of thousands of bodies that flooded the streets of Caracas when protests started in February tell another story. So what can the United States do? Senators like Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) can write op-eds saying Maduro is on a "charm offensive." They can say that they're "alarmed." They can propose bills that send money to (what Maduro calls) anti-government organizations in Venezuela. And they've done all that. Beyond that — and this is complicated — the United States can cut down on the oil it purchases from Venezuela. Forty percent of Venezuela's oil is sold to the United States. It's an important 40%, too, because many of the regional countries that Venezuela "sells" its oil to, buy it at rock-bottom prices through an agreement called Petrocaribe. Another portion of Venezuela's oil is shipped off to China to pay off a $40 billion loan. The United States also refines a lot of Venezuela's crude oil, as the country lacks the infrastructure to do so itself. All of this is incredibly important as oil exports are 50% of the country's income. Without them, Venezuela cannot finance the social programs that are the promise of Maduro's party. Without them he will lose support he cannot afford to lose. And if Maduro raises Venezuela's domestic oil prices, there will be hell to pay. "Venezuelans have historically considered very, very cheap gasoline basically a birthright," Professor Duddy explained. The last time a President tried to raise prices, in 1989, rioters filled the streets of Caracas and the city was in flames. Meanwhile, the economy is still in decline. This week the IMF released a report warning Venezuela to change its ways. Maduro is running out of time. That is why, encouraged by leaders like former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, he is meeting with opposition leaders today. He has told them not to expect much. But for his own sake, he may very well be bluffing. No one can end this but him. FREE AppDownload
Since the recovery began, many economists have been telling us that U.S. businesses will crank up spending as they replace their aging equipment and expand their operations. Unfortunately, that hasn't really been happening as companies have either hoarded their cash or returned it to shareholders in the forms of dividends and buybacks. But more and more economists are pointing to this one chart that suggests things have been picking up pretty aggressively since the beginning of the year. It's of loan growth, which has been accelerating. "The 13-week annualized growth rate increased to a new post-crisis high of 9.4% in the week ended March 19, before ticking down to a still-strong 8.1% in the week ended March 26, the latest available data," said Goldman Sachs Kris Dawsey, citing the Federal Reserve's weekly release on commercial bank assets and liabilities. "After adjusting for the effect of accounting changes in 2010, these growth rates are the strongest in the post-crisis period. Although most non-financial corporate investment in the United States is financed with internally generated funds and capital market borrowing, the state of bank lending is still important to track, in particular for small and medium-sized businesses that cannot directly access capital markets." Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders brought this to our attention earlier this week, saying this was a sign of "animal spirits" reviving. "Despite these caveats with regard to the value of C&amp;I lending as a leading indicator, we would certainly prefer to see strong lending growth rather than weak growth, if only as a further confirmation that business spending has firmed relative to the rate seen in the first half of last year," said Dawsey. Dawsey expects us to hear more about all of this as companies announce their Q1 financial result in the coming weeks. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Isrotel Exclusive CollectionIsrael's Beresheet Hotel in Mitzpe Ramon, where Roman Abramovich reportedly plans to spend Passover.Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich is spending almost half a million dollars on a Passover retreat in Israel, booking all 111 rooms in Mitzpe Ramon's Bereshseet Hotel to host family and friends for the upcoming holiday, a source told the Daily Mail.  Abramovich plans to stay from Sunday to Thursday, holding a banquet under a specially-constructed tent in the desert outside the hotel for the first night of seder, according to Jewish News. He will fly into Israel with his partner Dasha Zhukova and their two children in a private jet, and then take a limo to the hotel.  The estimated cost for Abramovich to rent the entire hotel is $450,000, which doesn't include the cost of the tent or any traveling costs.Isrotel Exclusive CollectionThe source told the Daily Mail that the reason for Abramovich's visit is that he “want[s] to be close to where the biblical action actually took place" in the Book of Exodus. The Beresheet Hotel is located in the Israeli desert near the ancient Spice Route. At 2,600 feet above sea level, the weather at the hotel is cool all year round, and guests are encouraged to bring warm clothing, even in the summer. All of the 111 suites have their own personal entrance halls. The 42 suites on the bottom floor have a private swimming pool, and the 69 other rooms have balconies and views of the surrounding desert.Isrotel Exclusive CollectionInside the hotel, there is a restaurant, lobby with fireplace, indoor heated pool, gym, sauna, spa, and a private movie theater. See more pictures of were Abramovich and his posse will be celebrating Passover below.Isrotel Exclusive Collection Isrotel Exclusive Collection FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDovi FrancesAt just 35, financier Dovi Frances holds the Guinness World Record for selling the most expensive single life insurance policy in history. Frances, who runs SG, LLC, in Santa Barbara, Calif., helped put together a $201 million policy for a "well-known" Silicon Valley billionaire in the tech space. It involved more than a dozen underwriters to put together the transaction. It was complicated, but Frances says that's his firm's specialty, addressing "the complex financial needs" of wealthy people. "Why would anyone need a $201 million life insurance policy?" I recently asked Frances over breakfast in midtown Manhattan. He said there's no more effective way to protect your estate than through life insurance. When you die, he said, your estate is taxed by the government at about 45 percent. If your net worth is $1 billion, then the tax would be in the hundreds of millions. The problem is that billionaires aren't necessarily liquid.  "The interesting thing about an event of death is this — you're not liquid. If you're worth $1 billion, you're not $1 billion liquid. You have some stocks, you have some assets," he said, adding that those things aren't easily liquidated. According to Frances, it's the high-net-worth folks who think ahead of time about the financial situation they'll leave behind. "Let's be honest. We have a very short period of time here. That's why you and I are so driven to make an impact. It's our show. The curtain will close. May as well make an impact and leave a mark and have fun while doing it. Most people don't think about the after when they're gone ... And because of that, many people ignore it. 'Oh, I'll take care of it later.' People don't do it. Sophisticated people do it because they have good advisers." At such a young age, Frances has drive. He considers his work his hobby. He loves building businesses.  Frances grew up in Israel, where he shared a bedroom with his three brothers. His father was an Israeli IRS agent who inherited a small auto garage outside Tel Aviv from Frances' grandfather. Frances' father turned the garage into a business with 400 employees and several locations. It could have been Frances' business, but it wasn't the path for him.  "I would have been wealthy," he said. "I wanted to do things by myself and live and die on my own sword."  Frances spent 4 1/2 years in the Israeli army (the requirement is 3 years for men). During that time, he was in the infantry and attended the officers' academy. He went on to graduate from business school, and then followed his older brother to Deutsche Bank in San Francisco in June 2008. He was a junior-level bank employee when he woke up and watched the news of the Lehman Brothers' collapse that September.  Despite the financial-market meltdown, Frances didn't lose his job. That's because there was one financial instrument that Deutsche Bank had that other banks didn't — loans. And Frances excelled in selling loans. However, when the government rolled out the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), his competitive advantage was destroyed. Other banks had started extending credit, and his pipeline was gone overnight.  He didn't give up, though. Instead, he thought of a new idea to get clients. "With that, I needed to figure out a way to reinvent myself as a banker. I decided to do something no banker has done before — direct letters to people who are not clients who reside in properties in excess of $5 million." Frances worked with Deutsche's legal and compliance to draft the letter. He sent out 2,000 and received two responses. One of those responses was from Sergey Grishin, a Russian billionaire. Frances said Grishin's chief of staff saw the letter and opened it. Grishin thought "Dovi Frances" was an interesting name. That's when the billionaire decided to reach out. Frances got an email from Grishin about 3 a.m., saying, "Hey, Dovi, I got the letter. I want to meet. I just bought this house for $27 million in cash! When are you available?" They met that same morning in Santa Barbara.  After, he managed to bring Grishin on board as a client. They did some deals together, and eight months later Frances left the bank to launch SG, LLC. (SG stands for Sergey Grishin.) SG was founded to help wealthy people secure jumbo loans. Since 2010, they've facilitated $550 million in loans for 450 families. Frances has built a family office for Grishin. They have an asset-management business for wealthy families as well as a venture-capital business called SG VC. This is only the beginning, Frances says. He plans to continue to work hard so that when he's no longer on this earth his survivors will also have a better life. "Hard work pays. It enables you to give better life chances to your survivors. Your kids, their kids. I want to do for my kids what my dad has done for me. I want to be able to offer them added value, to teach them discipline, creativity, and wisdom, while allowing them to go to good schools. Then they can go and find themselves."  FREE AppDownload
Pantheon Macroeconomics Preliminary results of the University of Michigan's April consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index advanced to 82.6 from March's 80.0 reading. Economists predicted a smaller gain to 81.0. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 97.1 from 95.7, and the economic outlook sub-index advanced to 73.3 from 70.0. Inflation expectations one year ahead edged down to 3.1% from 3.2%, while expectations for inflation five years ahead rose to 3.0% from 2.9%. "Before we get too excited, though, note that the index has been at this level or better several times in recent years, only for it then to fall back," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "We think the odds this time favor sustained strength, in the absence of fiscal/political chaos and with stable energy prices, though sentiment is vulnerable still to any correction in the stock market." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsInvestors have been dumping high-priced growth stocks, and many have been moving into lower-priced value stocks. Strategist Ed Yardeni has dubbed this phenomenon as an "internal correction." This is largely why the Nasdaq, which topped on March 5, has been underperforming the S&amp;P 500 in recent weeks. It's unclear what has triggered this. But these unexplained sell-offs are not new. Morgan Stanley's Katy Huberty goes over some past instances when the Nasdaq laggesd the S&amp;P (emphasis added): The average tech market correction lasts two months. Nasdaq underperformed S&amp;P 500 on 18 out of the last 26 trading days, shedding 7% since March 5th peak. We identified six other periods of similarly prolonged and significant underperformance in Nasdaq over the last 15 years (Exhibit 1). Two occurred post the dotcom bubble and the subprime mortgage crisis. While the tech sell- off during these periods are well understood, we note four other periods not related to macro volatility - July-September 2004, March- May 2005, May-August 2006, and November-December 2011. In 2004, it took 2 months for Nasdaq performance to normalize, in 2005 - 2 months, in 2006 - 3 months, and in 2011 - 1 month. Like Huberty says, these divergences tend to normalize. This suggests you may be able to make money by betting on the spread between the Nasdaq and S&amp;P 500 closing again. The more mature large-cap tech stocks, which Huberty covers, have largely dodged this sell-off. "We view Apple, HP, Seagate, and Western Digital as beneficiaries from the recent change in sentiment as investors seek exposure to value names in technology with downside protection and company specific catalysts," she said. "We view the recent pullback in Cognizant as a buying opportunity as we see potential for upward guidance revision in May on the back of an uptick in discretionary spend." Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerIn 2013 Imperial Tobacco, one of four major transnational tobacco companies, posted its first fall in profits in 17 years. One could be forgiven for thinking from the proposed introduction of new restrictions on tobacco products, such as standardised packaging, that Imperial’s announcement was symptomatic of the industry’s terminal decline. Declining rates of smoking in many developed countries and the introduction of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC), a global public health treaty which requires its signatories to introduce measures aimed at reducing tobacco-related diseases, may only serve to reinforce this impression. But despite growing regulatory risks there has always been a tendency to exaggerate news of the industry’s demise. Tobacco is still highly valued as an investment by financial institutions, with reports last summer of several funds holding an excess amount of tobacco stock in their portfolios; usually a sign that portfolio managers believe the stock will outperform other securities. Diversification into e-cigarettes might pay off some day, but profit margins are, for now, significantly lower, and proposed regulation could dramatically affect the market’s growth potential. The simple fact is that, for the foreseeable future at least, the financial strength of major tobacco manufacturers rests on conventional cigarettes. Notwithstanding declines in smoking in some developed countries, globally, sales of the majors have been remarkably buoyant and, until very recently, growing. Between 1960 and 2000, global cigarette consumption increased by 4% a year, reflecting the industry’s expansion into emerging markets. And despite signs of global volumes beginning to fall, more than three-quarters of the world’s smokers now live in the developing world. The significance of this is that, despite the successes of the FCTC (subsequent to ratification 127 parties have strengthened or adopted legislation), tobacco regulation is generally less restrictive in developing and transitional economies and is likely to remain so given that poorer countries have fewer resources to fight the huge range of strategies tobacco companies use to prevent, delay, and dilute public health measures. Of late, much attention has focused on international trade and investment treaties which tobacco companies have used to limit regulation. At least four African countries – Namibia, Gabon, Togo and Uganda – have received warnings from the tobacco industry that their laws violate international treaties, and in Namibia the government is still to put into effect a tobacco control law passed in 2010, following threats from the industry that the new statute violated the country’s international legal obligations. Litigation is costly, the outcome of international arbitration is difficult to predict and tobacco companies have deep pockets; all of which is likely to influence how countries design and implement health policy. Expansion in emerging markets is, therefore, likely to continue to offset declines in mature markets for a while yet. BAT’s volumes continue to grow in Asia, for example, despite lower volumes in South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand. Moreover, disposable incomes tend to increase with economic development, which creates greater scope for tobacco companies to offset falls in sales by raising prices and shifting smokers onto premium brands. Further, even in developed countries, smoking is not deteriorating as fast as many people might think. Between 2005 and 2011, the number of US smokers declined from 45.1 million to 43.8 million, representing less than a half per cent drop per annum. The drop in the demand for cigarettes tends to tail off in mature markets, reflecting the existence of a stubborn core of typically poorer smokers who are more difficult to reach with public health interventions. Another major driver of the industry’s rude financial health relates to the economics of the business itself. The major brands have evolved very little over some decades; the addictive nature of the product and brand loyalty mean there is little need for major product innovation which helps to keep research and development costs down. Similarly, the addictive nature of tobacco means that the price elasticity of cigarettes is relatively low (for a 1% increase in the price of cigarettes in high income countries, the demand declines by 0.4%). This permits persistent price rises that maintain relatively stable profit margins despite falling sales. Consequently, most major financial indicators for tobacco manufacturers – earnings before interest and tax, operating margins, and returns on equity – are consistently strong relative to companies in other sectors. One measure of how well tobacco stocks have performed, suggests that they had the highest return of 67 industry groupings in the decade to 2011. Stable and high profit margins underpin one of the major selling points of tobacco companies; persistently high dividend yields. Many fund managers pick stocks on their ability to reliably pay out dividends and, in the case of tobacco, high yields mean that investors can relatively quickly recoup their initial investment in the form of cash dividends irrespective of movements in the share price. And herein lies the clue to the massive political mobilisation of tobacco companies against standardised packaging. On balance, the measure is likely to reduce consumption over the long term, but it is the removal of the industry’s ability to charge a premium which constitutes the biggest threat to its status as a go-to investment. If allowed to spread, standardised packaging will put an end to the industry’s pricing strategy and, therefore, to its historically high margins and, with that, potentially, to the industry in its current form.  Gary Fooks receives funding from the National Cancer Institute at the US National Institutes of Health (Grant Number RO1CA160695). The content does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Cancer Institute or the National Institutes of Health. Gary is also a member of the UK Centre for Tobacco Control Studies (UKCTCS), a UK Centre for Public Health Excellence. Funding to UKCTCS from the British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, the Economic and Social Research Council, the Medical Research Council and the National Institute of Health Research, under the auspices of the UK Clinical Research Collaboration, is gratefully acknowledged. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/ColumbiaBusinessBlythe Masters, Head of Global Commodities at JPMorgan ChaseSince last summer, when JP Morgan announced that it would sell its commodities unit, Wall Street wondered what would happen to its powerful head, Blythe Masters. Then last month JPM found a buyer, and last week Masters announced she would exit JPM, her future uncertain.  Bloomberg has a report on what happened between those headlines. Masters put herself aside during the deal making, but made it clear she wanted to go with her unit. It didn't work out though because at the ultimate buyer, Mercuria, she simply wasn't needed. Without her unit, Masters knew she would lose clout at JP Morgan. So she left. Masters is generally credited with creating the credit default swap and enjoyed basically legendary status in the world of finance. In short, she was one of the most powerful women on the Street. When she started negotiating the deal for her unit — with suitors Blackstone, Mercuria and Macquarie — she was shuttled to and from meetings with armed security guards. It was said that all along, the intention was that she go with her business as CEO. From Bloomberg: Included in the binder that JPMorgan distributed to some of the bidders was an organizational chart titled, “Possible NewCo management team.” The chart listed the executive jobs that would exist after the sale of the bank’s commodities business, such as the president and chief operating officer. All remained blank, except the box for the chief executive officer. That contained Masters’s name. According to the report, Blackstone seemed like it would take the deal and Masters with it, but the private equity firm may have backed out when it found out about federal probes into Masters. Authorities are investigating whether or not she had a role in JPM's admitted manipulation of energy markets during her tenure there. When Mercuria stepped up, the firm made it clear it did not need Masters to go along. A person familiar with the transaction at JPM   had said that it might take months to find out what would happen to Masters, so the news that she would leave the firm for free fall surprised a lot of people last week. Before, it seemed possible that she would stay at the firm. JPM employees have said her exit would hurt morale, which been low since the London Whale trading loss lost the bank $6.2 billion in 2012 and robbed it of its golden status as the lone survivor of the turmoil of 2008. Chin up, everyone.  FREE AppDownload
via YoutubeThe Bureau of Labor Statistics just released its latest producer price index report, and it looks like inflation is a little hotter than expected. PPI jumped by 0.5% in March, which was much higher than the 0.1% expected. Excluding food and energy, prices jumped 0.6% versus expectations for a 0.2% gain. On a year-over-year basis, prices climbed 1.4%. The expectation was for 1.1%. Here's a chart from the BLS for some historical context: BLS FREE AppDownload
Flickr/woodleywonderworksThe North American power grid It's official. Off-grid energy is moving from the eco-fringe to mainstream. Last month US investment bank Morgan Stanley announced that the off-grid era had arrived: falling prices for renewable energy equipment and rising prices for energy supplied by power companies are fundamentally altering the business model of the trillion-dollar electricity industry. A key piece of the jigsaw came in another statement last month: Tesla Motors are now committing to a huge increase in battery production, bringing down the cost of energy storage capacity by over 50%. The power grid is like a giant battery and up to £500 per year of our energy bills is paying for the maintenance of that battery. Morgan Stanley calculates that Tesla's batteries will only cost an off-grid household £350 per year, rendering the Utility company business model obsolete. "Our analysis suggests utility customers may be positioned to eliminate their use of the power grid," says the Morgan Stanley report, Clean Tech, Utilities and Autos. "We expect Tesla's batteries to be cost competitive with the grid in many states, and think investors generally do not appreciate the potential size of the market." It's a moment that the off-grid movement has been waiting for. Back in 2007 I set off around Britain in a camper van to meet the people who were living this way, and wrote a book about it called How to Live Off-Grid. I visited deep green protesters in Devon and inner-city unemployed near Sheffield – but the most interesting communities were in Scotland and Wales where slightly different laws and a greater tolerance of social experiments has spawned a handful of a success stories. Then the main motivations for living off grid were ideological: either ecological, taking personal responsibility for reducing carbon and water; or alternatively a weariness with consumerism, a desire to spend less and consequently a need to earn less. But the following year came the banking crash, and interest in off-grid living grew sharply, although the motivations had shifted. Then, and still now, there was a feeling that one might have to look after oneself, that the State and politicians could no longer be trusted with our welfare in the event of social or economic or environmental collapse. Separately, the numbers who were going off-grid because there was simply no other affordable option also increased. In 2010 I repeated the same exercise in America where conditions are far more favourable for off-grid living. My books inspired thousands to try the off-grid life for themselves. Because of the planning obstacles already mentioned, the fastest growing segment of the British off-grid community are living on urban canals and rivers. In London, where I once wrote about a couple of dozen narrow boats moored in Springfield Park Hackney, there are now hundreds, perhaps thousands along the Lea Valley and all the way into Broadway Market in South Hackney, where the live-aboard owners run bookshops and cafes to cater to the landlubbers who flock to the area. Many are attracted to the low-cost way of living in one of the world's most expensive cities. "You'd be surprised how many people are living well in London with no money," said George, who kindly let the Guardian photograph me on his well-maintained narrow boat. George looked about 23, clean-cut and studious. He made his money, he said, repairing bicycles. His main expense was diesel fuel which he buys from passing tender boats. He has a couple of dozen moorings he uses as he shifts about the waterways on his "continuous cruiser" license. Another long-time resident of the moorings around Springfield Park, Jim Lynch, said "I didn't want to pay my rent money to property developers. "I've got a solar panel and I charge the batteries through the engine once very three days. I make my own diesel from vegetable oil." In America over the last few years. there has been a sharp rise in the number living off the grid – from under a million five years ago to over two million today, according to my own estimates. In the UK, growth is slower - land prices and our planning permission system inhibit progress - but there are encouraging signs. I am involved with a plan to turn a defunct coal mine into an off-grid village, and a new factory in south Wales has launched to produce solar powered gadgets of all sorts. Think about it for a moment – a sharp increase in the numbers living off-grid (currently between 75,000 - 100,000 in the UK and over a million in America) would fulfil a whole raft of policy objectives. With housing facing multiple crises of affordability and supply and, in the case of social housing, of funding and allocation, off-grid settlements offer an important new alternative. They can help solve three problems: cheap housing – how to enable it; energy security – how to improve it; and rural regeneration – how to kickstart it. Policymakers see it as too weird or fringe to support off-grid initiatives. But they are being timid. The Morgan Stanley analysts are not voicing their opinion of the merits of off-grid living in their forecasts, they are simply pointing to the facts of the matter. If the government's housing czars and energy strategists want a quick win, they need look no further than supporting two or three experimental off-grid communities. At a relatively low cost they could quickly create thousands of homes in rural areas plagued by unemployment and depopulation. These communities would have a lower carbon footprint than the average, and I believe that the houses would be cheaper to produce partly because they would not need the grid brought to their door. Also the rooms would be significantly smaller than in the typical home, since off-grid designs incorporate the understanding that heating and maintenance costs are lower in smaller buildings. Living off-grid is labour intensive and that in itself would generate some jobs. Food production and the turning of waste into energy would create some more. And I think that many off-grid communities in future will be filled with teleworkers since wireless 4G internet will be available at relatively low cost, without the need for any infrastructure other than a phone mast. Wireless routers consume no more power than a lightbulb. We need lawyers, architects, local authorities and house builders to help make this vision into a self-sufficient reality. Nick Rosen is editor of the website off-grid.net, a social hub for households that generate their own energy, harvest their own water, and manage their own waste. Nick is also the author of How to Live Off Grid - Journeys Outside the System (Bantam); Off the Grid – Inside the Movement for More Space, Less Government and True Independence in Modern America (Penguin). He can be reached at nick@off-grid.net. Interested in finding out more about how you can live better? Take a look at this month's Live Better Challenge here. The Live Better Challenge is funded by Unilever; its focus is sustainable living. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Krinsky, a technical analyst with MKM Partners, weighs in on the market selloff. Yesterday we talked about the potential volume pocket above 1869, and how that was likely an important line in the sand for the bearish case. That represented the upper end of volume based resistance, as well as the 0.618% retracement of the decline from last Friday’s highs to Tuesday’s lows. Given the weakness overnight, S&amp;P Futures are now entering a volume pocket on the downside, which has room to the 1790 level. The 0.618% retracement of the advance from the February lows, to the April highs is 1793. That seems a more appropriate area for a better low. Jonathan Krinsky FREE AppDownload
REUTERSMap of Europe showing how heavily EU countries rely on Russian gas imports. VIENNA (Reuters) - European Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger is working on a plan to help Ukraine pay some of its gas bills to Russia, he told Austria's ORF radio on Friday, saying there was "no reason to panic" about Russian gas supplies to Europe. "We are in close contact with Ukraine and its gas company to ensure that Ukraine remains able to pay and the debts that the gas company has to Gazprom do not rise further," he said, adding he would meet Ukraine's energy and foreign ministers on Monday. "I am preparing a solution that is part of the aid package that the IMF, the European Union and the World Bank is giving to Ukraine and from which payment for open bills will be possible." Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Thursday in a letter to leaders of 18 European countries that Russiawould cut natural gas supplies to Ukraine if it did not pay its bills and said this could lead to a reduction of onward deliveries to Europe. Oettinger advised against taking the threat at face vale, saying Russia wanted to deliver gas and needed the revenue. "Part of the bills is justified. Another part is unjustified. We will put together a package in the weeks ahead so that paying the justified open bills will be possible, but not according to Mr Putin's accounting but rather by what is contractually correct," he said. (Reporting by Michael Shields; Editing by Alison Williams and David Evans) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
    Sharing a cup of Turkish coffee is a way of life across the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. For centuries, this caffeine-concentrated beverage has been the fuel for lively political debate in conference rooms and cafes. A recent study published in Vascular Medicine suggests that it's not just good for relationship building, it's also good for you. Turns out the key is to boil your coffee — watch and learn how. FREE AppDownload
American banking giant JPMorgan just reported its first-quarter revenue and earnings, which fell sharply year over year. Earnings per share fell to $1.28 from $1.59 a year ago, which was worse than the $1.40 expected by analysts. Revenue fell 8% to $23.9 billion, which was worse than the $24.4 billion expected. The stock is down by about 2% in pre-market trading. Banks such as JPMorgan continue to feel the pain from two trends: one, falling mortgage activity and, two, falling fixed-income trading activity. The weakness is captured in two slides from JPMorgan's 22-slide earnings presentation. The first slide summarizes the consumer and community banking unit, which shows that mortgage production revenue plunged by 76% thanks to a 68% dive in mortgage originations. In its earnings release, management said mortgage-application volume fell 57% year over year and 17% from the previous quarter. This unit has seen 14,000 layoffs in the last year. JP Morgan The second slide summarizes the corporate and investment bank division. This is the unit that captures the firm's trading activities. As you can see, markets revenue is down 17%, largely due to a 21% plunge in fixed-income markets activity. JP Morgan Analysts expect these two trends to affect all the big banks. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ronen ZvulunUltra-Orthodox Jewish men and youths stand next to a fire during a protest in Jerusalem's Mea Shearim neighbourhood April 10, 2014. Hundreds of ultra-Orthodox Jewish men protested on Thursday against the jailing of a Jewish seminary student who failed to comply with a recruitment order. Last month Israel's parliament approved a contentious law that abolishes blanket military exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jewish seminary students, ending a tradition upheld since the state's foundation. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. JPMorgan earnings. JPMorgan Chase reported earnings of $1.28 per share for the quarter ended March 31, below the consensus $1.46 estimate. Revenues were $23.9 billion, below the $24.48 billion consensus estimate. The bank cited industry-wide headwinds in the markets and mortgages businesses. Shares are down about 2% in pre-market trading. Wells Fargo earnings. Wells Fargo also reports earnings this morning. Analysts predict the bank made $0.97 per share in Q1, up from $0.92 in the same quarter last year. Revenues are expected to come in at $20.6 billion, down from $21.3 billion a year ago. Shares are down slightly in pre-market trading following JPMorgan's earnings announcement. Markets sliding. Asian stock markets sold off overnight and European markets are down substantially following a nasty afternoon session in the U.S. on Thursday. S&amp;P 500 futures have fallen deep into the red following JPMorgan's lackluster earnings announcement. The U.S. dollar is down slightly against the Japanese yen and up slightly against the euro, and U.S. Treasury note futures have just gone positive on the day. BoJ minutes. The release of the minutes from the Bank of Japan's March meeting revealed an agreement that the Japanese economy was improving in line with expectations and that the recent sales tax hike would not derail consumer spending. "Clearly there is no sense from these minutes of any concern over the outlook for the economy that would indicate a need to change monetary policy," says Derek Halpenny, European head of global markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. "The minutes did note the potential hit from the sales tax increase and that the impact needed to be monitored — but the message that 'our monetary stance is working' was very clear." Chinese inflation. China's consumer price index rose 2.4% from a year earlier in March, up from 2.0% in February but right in line with expectations. "Inflation remains a food story in China," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Non-food prices have risen 1.5% from a year ago, down from 1.6% in February. Food price growth accelerated to 4.1% in March from a 2.7% year-over-year pace in February." Producer prices fell 2.3% from the previous year in March, slightly more than the expected 2.2% drop. China auto sales. The outsized growth in auto sales China has enjoyed in recent years is slowing. Sales rose 7.9% in March from a year earlier, down from the 11% growth rate recorded in the January-February period. Minivan sales fell 23%.  German inflation. Germany's consumer price index rose 1.0% from a year earlier in March, unchanged from February's pace and in line with consensus estimates. While inflation held steady in Germany, it fell in many other euro zone member states last month, including France and Italy. Some believe these weak inflation readings will put more pressure on the European Central Bank to take policy action if they continue. Rating changes. Standard &amp; Poor's maintained Finland's sovereign credit rating at AAA, but revised the outlook to negative from stable. "The action puts more pressure on the already shaky government and will deliver a hit to Finnish bonds, very dependent on the highest ratings," says Jan von Gerich, chief strategist for developed markets at Nordea. Elsewhere, Fitch maintained its BB+ rating on Portugal, but revised the outlook to positive, while Moody's maintained its Baa3 rating on Turkey, but revised the outlook to negative. Producer prices. U.S. producer price index data are released at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict prices rose 1.1% year over year in March, up from 0.9% in February. Excluding food and energy, prices are expected to have risen 1.1% year over year, unchanged from February. Consumer confidence. The University of Michigan releases the preliminary results of its April consumer confidence survey at 9:55 AM. Economists predict the report's headline index ticked up to 81 from March's 80 reading. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSChilean traders gesture as stocks fall at the Santiago Stock Exchange January 9. Good morning! After a brutal US session, the selloff has gone global. And it's continuing. First in Japan, the Nikkei fell 2.4%. That was slightly off the worst levels of the session, but that's still pretty rough, and it caused the index to have its worst week since Fukushima. Meanwhile, Europe continues to slide. Germany's DAX is currently down about 1.6%. The FTSE is down 1.2%. Earlier in the morning, US futures had indicated a very tiny bump, but that has completely reversed course. One negative catalyst today: JPMorgan has whiffed on earnings and the stock is down 2% in pre-market trading. NASDAQ futures are now pointing down 0.4%. FREE AppDownload
White HouseUS President Barack Obama threatened fresh sanctions against Moscow if it escalates the crisis over Ukraine, as pro-Russia separatists faced a Friday deadline from Kiev to lay down their arms. The president stressed that the United States, the European Union and other global partners must "be prepared to meet further Russian escalation with additional sanctions," the White House said in a statement, after Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke by phone on Thursday. The United States also delivered the warning to Russia at World Bank/IMF meetings in Washington, amid worries that a spiraling Ukraine crisis could hurt the world economy. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew told his Russian counterpart Finance Minister Anton Siluanov that in addition to the sanctions that followed Russia's annexation of Crimea last month, "the United States is prepared to impose additional significant sanctions on Russia if it continues to escalate the situation in Ukraine," the Treasury said. AFPUkraine's embattled leaders, scrambling to hold their splintered country together after the annexation of Crimea, on Thursday offered amnesty to pro-Russian separatists occupying eastern state buildings if they lay down their arms and halt a four-day siege. The olive branch came as the clock ticked down to a Friday morning deadline set by Ukraine's Interior Minister Arsen Avakov to resolve the tense situation in the east. Armed assailants who stormed the state security building in Lugansk and the seat of government in nearby Donetsk want to hold independence referendums like the one that led to Crimea's takeover by Russia last month. Acting President Oleksandr Turchynov, in power since pro-Russian leader Viktor Yanukovych was ousted in February, told lawmakers that Ukraine's latest secessionist crisis could be resolved peacefully. "If people lay down their arms and free the administration buildings... we guarantee that we will not launch any criminal proceedings against them," he promised. But the separatists dug in on Thursday, fortifying their barricades with razor wire, sand bags and old tyres that could be set on fire in case of a police assault. The Donetsk separatists earlier proclaimed the creation of their own "people's republic" and called on Putin to order Russian troops into Ukraine's eastern industrial heartland. In a further escalation of the crisis, Russia warned Europe on Thursday that its gas supplies would be in peril unless it helped to pay off Ukrainian debts. President Vladimir Putin's most direct warning about Russian gas deliveries -- vital to the health of the European economy -- came as relations between Moscow and the West plumbed new post-Cold War lows. The war of words over the ex-Soviet country adds extra urgency to the first round of direct talks that EU and US diplomats have convinced both Russia and Ukraine to attend, set for April 17 in either Geneva or Vienna. But Putin did not appear to be in a conciliatory mood as he dispatched a note to 18 EU nations warning that his energy-rich country was tired of accruing debts from the Western-backed leadership in Kiev, which the Kremlin does not recognize. He warned state gas firm Gazprom could be "compelled to switch over to advance payment for gas deliveries" and "completely or partially cease gas deliveries" if Ukraine fails to pay a $2.2-billion (1.6-billion-euro) debt. Putin added that "Russia is prepared to participate in the effort to stabilize and restore Ukraine's economy" but only on "equal terms" with the EU. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki condemned "Russia's efforts to use energy as a tool of coercion" and said the US was working with Ukraine to provide financing and help it find enough gas. Ukraine last week accused Russia of "economic aggression" after Gazprom raised the price of gas exports to Ukraine by 81 percent, to the highest price paid by any of its European clients. About 13 percent of the gas consumed by the EU's 28 countries transits through Ukraine, which was hit by two previous supply interruptions in 2006 and 2009 that also came during efforts to build closer EU ties. On Thursday NATO released 19 satellite pictures showing that up to 40,000 Russian troops armed with tanks and military vehicles have set up camp just east of Ukraine's border. "This force is very capable, ready to move quickly if ordered. It's a concern because it represents a real threat for Ukraine," said Brigadier Gary Deakin, director of NATO's Comprehensive Crisis Operations and Management Center. Romania's foreign minister Titus Corlatean, in an interview with AFP, urged NATO to redeploy its forces in eastern Europe and take a firm stand to prevent a contagion of the Ukraine crisis. Bucharest "is extremely concerned over developments in Ukraine which have a serious impact on international security," Corlatean said, stressing his country is "on the frontline". Meanwhile World Bank President Jim Yong Kim warned that the crisis would have far-reaching effects on Russia, forcing it into recession this year. "This is a very serious issue for Russia -- a very serious issue for its growth prospects," Kim told reporters. "So we simply urge all of the parties to continue with negotiations and find a peaceful means of moving forward." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronJPMorgan Chase missed on its first quarter earnings.  The bank reported EPS of $1.28 for the first quarter compared with $1.59 in the first quarter of 2013. First quarter revenue came in at $23.9 billion, down 8% from the first quarter of 2013. The largest U.S. bank was expected to report adjusted earnings per share of $1.46, according to average analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was expected to come in at $24.48 billion. The stock was last trading down 2% in the pre-market. JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon says that he's confident about the economy. "We have growing confidence in the economy – consumers, corporations and middle market companies are in increasingly good financial shape and housing has turned the corner in most markets – and we are doing our part to support the recovery. JPMorgan Chase provided credit and raised capital of over $450 billion for our clients during the first quarter of 2014, which included $5 billion for U.S. small businesses," Dimon said in the earnings release. Here's an excerpt from the release:  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM): JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) today reported net income for the first quarter of 2014 of $5.3 billion, compared with net income of $6.5 billion in the first quarter of 2013. Earnings per share were $1.28, compared with $1.59 in the first quarter of 2013. Revenue1 for the quarter was $23.9 billion, down 8% compared with the prior year. The Firm’s return on tangible common equity1 for the first quarter of 2014 was 13%, compared with 17% in the prior year. As previously announced, the Board of Directors intends to increase the second-quarter common stock dividend to $0.40 per share3 from the current $0.38 per share; and the Board has also authorized the Firm to repurchase $6.5 billion of common equity commencing within the second quarter of this year through the end of the first quarter of 2015. During the first quarter of 2014, the Firm repurchased $0.4 billion of common equity. The Federal Reserve Board informed the Firm that it does not object to the Firm’s proposed 2014 capital distribution plan. Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented on the financial results: “JPMorgan Chase had a good start to the year, given there were industry-wide headwinds in Markets and Mortgage. Consumer &amp; Community Banking deposit growth and card sales volume both remain above the industry average2, and we have made significant progress in Business Banking originations – up 22%. The Corporate &amp; Investment Bank was #1 in Global IB fees, with #1 positions in global debt and equity, global syndicated loans and global long-term debt. Gross investment banking revenue with Commercial Banking clients was up 31%. Asset Management had its twentieth consecutive quarter of positive net long-term client flows and had record loan balances, up 20%.” Dimon continued: “We have growing confidence in the economy – consumers, corporations and middle market companies are in increasingly good financial shape and housing has turned the corner in most markets – and we are doing our part to support the recovery. JPMorgan Chase provided credit and raised capital of over $450 billion for our clients during the first quarter of 2014, which included $5 billion for U.S. small businesses.” Dimon concluded: “As I said in my letter to shareholders this week, we will dedicate extraordinary effort in 2014 adapting to the new global financial architecture, and we will continue to make significant progress on our control agenda. We face the future with a strong foundation, a fortress balance sheet and excellent franchises built to serve our clients.” FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Gerald HerbertCleanup worker George Barisich poses for a photo on his boat in Chalmette, La., Friday, Feb. 28, 2014. CHALMETTE, La. (AP) — When a BP oil well began gushing crude into the Gulf of Mexico four years ago, fisherman George Barisich used his boat to help clean up the millions of gallons of spew that would become the worst offshore spill in U.S. history. Like so many Gulf Coast residents who pitched in after the April 20, 2010, explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig, Barisich was motivated by a desire to help and a need to make money — the oil had eviscerated his livelihood. Today he regrets that decision, and worries his life has been permanently altered. Barisich, 58, says respiratory problems he developed during the cleanup turned into pneumonia and that his health has never been the same. "After that, I found out that I couldn't run. I couldn't exert past a walk," he said. His doctor declined comment. Barisich is among thousands considering claims under a medical settlement BP reached with cleanup workers and coastal residents. The settlement, which could benefit an estimated 200,000 people, received final approval in February from a federal court. It establishes set amounts of money — up to $60,700 in some cases — to cover costs of various ailments for those who can document that they worked the spill and developed related illnesses, such as respiratory problems and skin conditions. It also provides for regular physical examinations every three years for up to 21 years, and it reserves a worker's right to sue BP over conditions that develop down the road, if the worker believes he or she can prove a connection to the spill. Some 33,000 people, including Barisich, are participating in a massive federal study that aims to determine any short or possible long-term health effects related to the spill. "We know from ... research that's been done on other oil spills, that people one to two years after ... had respiratory symptoms and changes in their lung function, and then after a couple of years people start to return to normal," said Dr. Dale Sandler, who heads the study overseen by the National Institutes of Environmental Health Sciences, an arm of the National Institutes of Health. "What nobody's ever done is ask the question: Well, after five years or 10 years are people more likely to develop heart disease, or are they more likely to get cancer? And I'm sure that's what people who experienced this oil spill are worried about." Sandler planned to discuss some early findings Friday during a midday news conference. The study is funded by NIH, which received a $10 million award from London-based BP, part of $500 million the oil giant has committed to spend over 10 years for environmental and health research. Researchers compiled a list of 100,000 candidates, drawn from sources including rosters of mandatory safety classes that cleanup crews attended and from records of people who were issued badges permitting access to oiled areas. They reached about 33,000 for interviews; and 11,000 of them agreed to physical examinations that include blood and blood pressure tests and measurements of lung function. Water and air samples taken during the spill also will be used to attempt to pinpoint how much exposure workers may have had to toxic substances. Sandler emphasized that making any direct correlation between health concerns and the spill could prove challenging because many of the workers held other jobs that put them in contact with oil. Some worked with boat engines, did regular hazard mediation work or worked at chemical plants. Many also are smokers. The researchers will try to account for smoking or other factors that could ruin health, and narrow in on problems tied to spill exposure. They plan to monitor the health of study participants for at least 10 to 15 years. Aside from physical health, Sandler also is interested in knowing whether chemical exposure, in addition to the stress of working the spill, might have contributed to any mental health problems. "We're not in a position to say that yet," she said. Fisherman and former cleanup worker Bert Ducote says he knows the physical and emotional pain. Ducote said dozens of boils have turned up on his neck, back and stomach since the spill — and he theorizes, though shared no medical records that could prove, that his problems stem from the cleanup. Ducote said he spent months handling the boom used to corral oil. Even with protective gear and rubber boots, he said his shirt often got wet with the combination of crude oil, sea water and chemical dispersant. Ducote, like Barisich, said he is filing a claim under the medical settlement. "That has been a disaster in our lives," said Ducote, from the town of Meraux, in coastal St. Bernard Parish. "The little amount of money they're trying to give us, it's never going to replace our quality of life, our health." In response, BP points to language in U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier's order approving the medical settlement. Barbier noted that both sides said the settlement was a fair and reasonable alternative to litigation, and that fewer than 100 of 200,000 potential class members objected. BP also lists numerous steps it took after the disaster to protect workers' health, including protective clothing and safety classes. Cleanup workers who faced possible contact with oil and dispersants were "provided safety training and appropriate personal protective equipment, and were monitored by federal agencies and BP to measure potential exposure levels and help ensure compliance with established safety procedures," BP said in an email to The Associated Press. Not all used that equipment, however. Dr. Edward Trapido, a cancer specialist and the lead researcher on a study of cleanup crews and their families that is underway at the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, said many worked without the protective clothing because of sweltering heat. Trapido said results of the long-term health studies could help improve response to future oil spills and other disasters. "Oil is not going away, and whatever kind of energy it is — whether it's nuclear, whether it's coal or oil — all of these have had problems in recent years where people get exposed to it," Trapido said. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
AP Images(Reuters) - Blythe Masters, who will leave JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; after a 27-year career, is under investigation by federal prosecutors in Manhattan, Bloomberg reported citing two people with knowledge of the matter. The probe was opened after a settlement last year with regulators that alleged JPMorgan manipulated power markets in the Midwest and California, the report said. The bank agreed last July to pay $410 million to settle the case. While Masters was not cited for wrongdoing, her name appeared in the regulator's order a number of times. It is not immediately clear what the Manhattan prosecutors are investigating. JPMorgan was not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. Masters, who began her career at the bank with an internship in London, wanted to continue as the chief of the commodities business even after its sale to Geneva-based Mercuria Energy Group Ltd, Bloomberg said. JP Morgan is selling its physical commodities to Mercuria for $3.5 billion and Masters is expected to leave the bank in a few months after assisting with the sale. (Reporting by Arnab Sen in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersKetchum speaks during the Investment Company Institute's Capital Markets Conference in New York(Reuters) - Wall Street watchdog FINRA is taking a broad look at the trading profits of banks and other middlemen in some bond transactions to examine whether some money managers are favored at the expense of other investors, the Wall Street Journal reported. FINRA is crunching through reams of trading data, looking for instances in which the middlemen have earned unusually large profits on bond deals, the Journal said, citing officials. The inquiry could lead to a regulatory instruction to the banks to reduce the spreads between buying and selling prices they charge on certain trades, or even to enforcement action, the newspaper said. FINRA is also investigating how banks apportion hot bond offerings among investors, FINRA Chief Executive Richard Ketchum said in an interview with the Journal. FINRA is scrutinizing the profits banks and other dealers make, known as markups and markdowns — the difference between selling and buying prices, the Journal said. In matched trades, where banks and other dealers join a buyer to a seller, profits of more than 1.5 percent to 2 percent would be "questionable," Ketchum told the Journal. FINRA could not be reached immediately for comment outside regular business hours. The spotlight on bond markets comes as regulators have launched several inquiries into potential inequities in the stock and commodities markets, where elite groups of traders have greater access to information at the expense of other participants. Last month, reports said that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission launched an investigation into the increasing number of complex bond deals on Wall Street that may create new opportunities for fraud. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane and Ankush Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Keoni Cabral on flickrDark pool.WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. securities regulators are considering testing a proposed reform that could drive business to major stock exchanges and away from alternative trading venues such as "dark pools" that critics say may be hurting investors by reducing the quality of pricing. The proposal, which has so far only been discussed among staff involved in policymaking at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, could limit how much trading occurs inside brokerages and in dark pools, according to people familiar with the matter. The measure aims to address a concern among some regulators and academics about the increasing level of trading that happens outside of exchanges. They say that the amount of trading being done in the "dark" means that publicly quoted prices for stocks on exchanges may no longer properly reflect where the market is, meaning that investors may not be getting the best prices for their trades. The measure under consideration, known as a "trade-at" rule, has long been sought after by exchanges like Nasdaq OMX and the New York Stock Exchange as a way to win back market share against off-exchange competitors such as Credit Suisse's Crossfinder, one of the largest dark pools in the United States. The talks within the SEC are at an early stage, and the pilot program would need to be approved by the full five-member commission, as part of an order instructing the public exchanges to carry out the study. The initial trade-at test would only apply to a small number of thinly traded stocks, as part of a broader study exploring ways to incentivize more active trading in smaller and mid-sized company stocks, the sources said. The results of any pilot would have to be effective enough to prompt the SEC to change its market rules. SEC spokesman John Nester declined to comment on the agency's plans. Currently, SEC rules require trades to be executed at the best available bid or offer, whether it be on a public exchange or in a dark pool, which doesn't publicly disclose bids or offers. A trade-at rule would force brokerages and dark pools to route trades to public exchanges, unless they can execute the trades at a meaningfully better price than available in a public market. It is unclear how the SEC would define a meaningfully better price. Dark pools were created to allow large investors to trade big blocks of trades without tipping off the broader market. Brokerages also offer similar dark markets internally to their clients. Such venues have come under fresh scrutiny, along with high-speed traders, after bestselling author Michael Lewis recently published a book alleging the U.S. stock market is rigged in favor of high-frequency traders. Dark pools, which are regulated more lightly than exchanges, have gained popularity for trades of all sizes because they allow firms to avoid paying exchange fees. Around 40 percent of all U.S. stock trades, including almost all orders from "mom and pop" investors that go through brokerages, now happen "off exchange," up from around 16 percent six years ago. Regulators in Canada and Australia have already taken steps to curb the growth of dark trading by requiring, for instance, that off-exchange trades be of a minimum size or have a significantly better price than can be found on an exchange. Authorities in Europe and Hong Kong are eying similar rules. The SEC for years has been studying market structure issues, an effort that intensified after the May 2010 "flash crash" when $1 trillion in shareholder equity was briefly wiped out of the market in a matter of minutes. The agency has taken a cautious approach, especially because its last overhaul of market rules in the early-to mid-2000s fueled the market fragmentation that gave rise to high-speed trading and dark pools. If the SEC ultimately proposes a "trade-at" test, it would be incorporated into a broader "tick size" pilot that is being developed to study whether widening the increments, or ticks, at which stocks are priced could incentivize more trading in small and mid-sized companies, the people said. The idea for a tick-size pilot originated in the 2012 law known as the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. It required the SEC to consider a pilot to study whether allowing smaller company stocks to trade in wider increments might help spur more trading. Today, all listed stocks for companies big and small are quoted in one-penny increments - a pricing scheme that has been around since 2001. Previously, stocks were traded in fractional increments, such as one-sixteenth of a dollar. While decimal pricing has helped reduce costs for investors in large companies, critics say smaller companies have suffered because brokers have a harder time turning a profit. As such, there is little incentive to produce market research on these stocks, or even to trade them, so they languish and become illiquid. Exchanges, including the NYSE and Nasdaq, have lobbied the SEC to include a trade-at provision in any such pilot. Without it, they fear that increasing the quote size will only drive more trades away from the exchanges because spreads will be even higher and dark pools will have a greater incentive to pull in more business, according to two other sources familiar with the exchanges' thinking. Now, SEC staff are thinking about dividing up the pilot into three groups of similar types of stocks, according to the people familiar with the agency's thinking. One group would trade with a wider tick size, most likely at nickel increments instead of a penny. Another group would continue to trade in penny increments as they do today. And the third group would trade at the wider tick size and also be subject to the trade-at rule. SEC staff are also considering whether to exempt orders for mom-and-pop investors from the trade-at requirement, the sources said. That's because these kinds of investors tend to be more worried about getting their trades executed, and less concerned about the price of the stock. Sang Lee, a co-founder of the market structure consultancy Aite Group, said it's not clear if expanding a trade-at rule beyond a pilot would have a positive impact. "I don't know if just throwing in another set of rules would not just lead to another set of unintended consequences," he said. The SEC in 2009 floated a plan that would require dark pools to make information about an investor's interest in buying or selling a stock available to the public instead of only sharing it with a select group of investors. However, the plan has failed to gain traction and has not been formally adopted. The people familiar with the agency's thinking said the move to include a trade-at test in the pilot has some support among the SEC staff. Republican SEC Commissioner Michael Piwowar has been among the most vocal agency members pushing for a tick-size pilot. In February, SEC Chair Mary Jo White also endorsed the idea, saying the pilot would become a reality. Neither have publicly discussed including a trade-at provision, and it is unclear how the five-member commission would vote on such a proposal. (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch in Washington and John McCrank in New York; Editing by Karey Van Hall, Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Earlier this week it was reported that a large Japanese department store saw a 25% plunge in sales in the first week of April. The ostensible reason: A big jump in the consumption tax from 5% to 8%, which may have caused consumers to front-run the tax, and which will likely contribute to a drag on consumption. And Japan has a bad history with this. As ING notes in its latest global macro outlook, the same thing happened in 1997. Consumers front-ran the tax hike and then sales plummeted. ING But what's really scary is what ING says were the ramifications of this tax hike: ...the Japanese government has pushed through the consumption tax hike, which raises the tax rate on purchased goods and services from 5% to 8% – still dramatically lower than equivalent taxes in other developed countries. The last time the Japanese government did this was in 1997, and the resulting economic slowdown not only sent Japan into a recession that it did not really emerge from for three years, but helped spark a crisis in the entire Asia region. Not what you want to see happening in the region as China slows as well. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi For amusement: Years ago, whenever there was a market sell-off, my friend Tak Hallus (Stephen Robinett) would shout at his TV tuned to CNBC "Bring out the bears!".This was because CNBC would usually bring on the bears whenever there was a sell-off, and bulls whenever the market rallied.Today was no exception with Marc Faber on CNBC:  And Faber from August 8, 2013:  And from October 24, 2012:  Since the market is up 30% since his 2012 prediction, shouldn't he be expecting a 50% decline now?Friday:• At 8:30 AM ET, the Producer Price Index for March from the BLS. The consensus is for a 0.1% increase in prices.• At 9:55 AM, the Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (preliminary for April). The consensus is for a reading of 81.0, up from 80.0 in March. FREE AppDownload
The price of oil fell further on Friday as recent signs of sputtering economic growth in China suggested demand for crude could weaken. Other factors influencing crude supplies included a report that U.S. crude reserves rose to a 38-year high and the delayed reopening of export terminals in Libya. Benchmark crude for May delivery was down 20 cents to $103.20 a barrel at 0740 GMT in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 20 cents to settle at $103.40 a barrel on Thursday. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oil prices, slipped 23 cents to $107.29 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange in London. Oil prices retreated from a five-week high this week after China report shrinking exports and imports for March, raising concerns about slowing growth in the world's No. 2 economy. Investors are nervously awaiting the release of first-quarter economic data next week that will shed further light on the situation. The U.S. Energy Department said the country's crude oil reserves rose for a fourth straight year to their highest level since 1976 as hydraulic fracturing methods have helped drillers unlock oil trapped in rock formations. Traders were watching for the reopening of four Libyan export terminals in Libya, which have been delayed as the central government and militias who had occupied the facilities have failed to reach a definite agreement. In other energy futures trading in New York: — Wholesale gasoline was little changed at $3.006 a gallon. — Natural gas rose 1.2 cents to $4.643 per 1,000 cubic feet. — Heating oil fell 0.4 cent to $2.935 a gallon. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
It is now nearly seven years since the start of the <U+FB01>nancial crisis, yet despite growing evidence in America and Britain of a return to relative normality, something remains profoundly broken at the heart of the world economy. One manifestation of this – much discussed among the of<U+FB01>cials, <U+FB01>nance ministers and central bankers gathered in Washington this week for the spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund – is the persistence of unnaturally low interest rates. Sometimes, economic developments creep up on you almost unawares – and then, all of a sudden, they are the established reality. One such phenomenon is now almost universal: even in Spain, long-term rates have fallen to the point where they are almost as low as in the US – a dramatic turnaround given that as recently as two years ago, yields on Spanish government bonds were off the scale over fears of a sovereign debt default. Even Greece, so bad a basket case that most of its sovereign debt had to be written off, has this week been able to tap the markets for new money at rates of close to 5 per cent. Two years ago, Greek bonds were yielding six times that. Optimists hail this change as evidence that Europe is <U+FB01>nally out of the woods. To some degree this is true. A series of 11th-hour interventions by the European Central Bank (ECB) – at just the point that it looked as if it was all over for the beleaguered euro – have succeeded in calming the crisis. But it is also indicative of a much more worrying possibility: the emergence of a permanently low-growth, low-in<U+FB02>ation, or even de<U+FB02>ationary world. At the start of the crisis, abnormally low interest rates were considered a temporary, but necessary, aberration that would disappear as soon as advanced economies got back on their feet. The general assumption was that over time, both short- and long-term interest rates would drift back to pre-crisis levels. This can no longer be taken for granted. A return to the good old days is looking ever more questionable. What economists call the natural, or “equilibrium”, rate of interest may have settled at a permanently lower level, with dramatic long-term implications for investment <U+FB02>ows, savings and asset prices. Very low interest rates are, in essence, the natural corollary of a stagnating economy. And that, at root, is what the newly de<U+FB02>ated Spanish bond yield is telling us. This is not, as the government in Madrid would like to believe, a sign of a resurgent economy, but rather of an economy that is likely to remain stuck with unemployment at near-record highs for years to come. Indeed, the markets assume the situation is so bad that the ECB will eventually have to abandon its scruples and start engaging in quantitative easing, forcing interest rates lower still. Low rates are also a re<U+FB02>ection of what market veterans call “searching for yield” – a trend much in evidence before the crisis, and one of its main underlying causes. If rates of return on conventional assets are poor to non-existent, investors will chase higher-risk investments, which in theory offer better value. Eventually, these yields too will get compressed, as more money pours in. In such circumstances, even Greek sovereign debt becomes attractive. When real interest rates are very low, investors will inevitably chase their way up this “yield curve”, thereby creating new asset bubbles and the potential for future <U+FB01>nancial instability. This is precisely what is concerning those in Washington. In its latest Global Financial Stability Report, the IMF warns about such dangers, citing the return in the US of record levels of junk-debt issuance, and of so-called “covenant-lite” lending, where normal credit safeguards are waived. Money has rarely been as abundant and cheap, but there is nowhere productive for it to go. So instead it gets invested in junk, risky emerging market assets, or in another bubble in the UK housing market. Central bank money-printing has made matters worse. While early fears that quantitative easing would drive up price in<U+FB02>ation have proved wide of the mark – it has, for instance, self-evidently done nothing for wages – it has certainly supported asset prices, as re<U+FB02>ected in the UK’s current explosive house prices. Today, George Osborne – <U+FB02>ush with pride at Britain boasting the best rate of growth in the G7 – will give a speech to the American Enterprise Institute. Only a year ago, he was accused by the IMF’s chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, of “playing with <U+FB01>re” by pursuing austerity in the face of a stagnant economy, so he is entitled to a little self-congratulation. He’s proved the “de<U+FB01>cit deniers” wrong; and now that they’ve switched tack to complain instead of “secular stagnation” – a permanently low state of growth – he’s determined to prove them wrong again. Yet the Chancellor must avoid any temptation to crow. Austerity, such as it is, has not prevented the UK economy from growing anew, but whether the sort of growth the Chancellor and the Bank of England have engineered is sustainable remains very much open to question. If it is only a resurgent housing market that is <U+FB01>ring up the UK economy anew, then he has plenty to worry about. And here’s where it gets confusing. For although the IMF is warning of the dangers of a renewed search for yield, it still thinks the world economy too weak to withstand a return to higher interest rates. On the one hand, the IMF advocates the maintenance – and in Europe even extension – of “unconventional monetary policies” to prop up demand. On the other, it warns of the renewed <U+FB01>nancial instabilities these policies will eventually create. Unfortunately, no meaningful way of squaring the circle is offered. Instead, the IMF puts its faith in the ability of central banks and regulators to micro-manage the expansion of credit through the use of “macro-prudential” tools. In Britain, this would involve the Bank of England taking the steam out of the housing market not by raising interest rates, which it is assumed would only destroy jobs, but by tightening up on mortgage lending conditions, so that funding for property purchases becomes scarcer and more costly than in other areas of the economy. I very much doubt this is going to work. When the crisis <U+FB01>rst hit, the Bank of Spain claimed to have everything under control, on account of its unique system of macro-prudential capital control. In the event, this proved about as useful as an umbrella in a hurricane. Regulators <U+FB02>atter themselves in thinking that they can outwit markets. In any case, the IMF’s latest World Economic Outlook comes to the conclusion that real long-term interest rates are never going to return to pre-crisis normality – or not within any foreseeable time horizon. They may rise a bit, but they won’t go back to the sort of levels we were used to. If this is right, it points to a deeply depressing future for advanced economies, one of permanently low investment in productive activity and repeated bouts of <U+FB01>nancial instability. If the Chancellor wants to prove the IMF wrong all over again, he needs to be much more ambitious with supply side measures that genuinely improve Britain’s productive potential. In seeking only to return the economy to the way it was, he’s been far too timid.  FREE AppDownload
Rupert Murdoch, one of the world’s most powerful and wealthiest men admits breaking up is hard to do, in a candid interview published in Fortune Magazine. Sure, there was the 83-year-old’s divorce from his wife of 14 years, Wendi Deng, but it was actually splitting his company into two publicly-listed businesses that was stressful. He was reluctant to do it on emotional grounds, but has no regrets. “I was reluctant to see the company split, and now I’ve got to say that I’ve been proved wrong. I think it’s been a great success,” he says. Here’s what he had to say about some of the important issues he’s faced in recent times. He didn’t address the phone hacking scandal in the UK, citing legal reasons. As for his third marriage, his focus is on their children, aged 12 and 10. “All I’m worried about or do worry about is two beautiful little girls from that marriage… they come and stay with me a great deal.” He wishes he could have divorced “quietly” and when he heard about Wendi Deng’s diary entries discussed other men, he was “shocked” but didn’t read them. Murdoch says people were discussing what was happening at his ranch – the details were outlined in Vanity Fair, which he regrets – but not telling him. The whispers reached him in Australia and his discovered the truth from staff on his return. He filed for divorce a week later “as soon as I could find a lawyer”. The New York Post lost around $40 million in 2012. Murdoch thinks it will go totally digital within 10 years, but the print edition of the Wall Street Journal will last another 20 years. Part of the future in digital is video: “I think newspapers come alive that way. We talk about “papers”. We should cut out the word “paper,” you know? It’s “news organizations.” They “didn’t do a good job” on Factiva, the news hub based around the WSJ and Dow Jones. “People loved Factiva. [We said to Factiva customers:] “Look, you’ve got to pay much, much more money, and you’ve got to take everything or nothing.” They said, “Nothing.” So we’re now repairing that,” Murdoch said. On paying $580 million for MySpace, sold six years later for less than 10% of that price to a consortium that included musician Justin Timberlake, Murdoch says “I think it was one of our great screw-ups of all time.” Mark Zuckerberg visited Murdoch’s ranch and “was all for us getting together. And I didn’t take him up on it. I think he’s done a brilliant job”, but Murdoch believes Facebook’s $200 billion value “is going to be very hard to justify in the long term” because he doesn’t have confidence in the permanence of any social app or network. His family are “horrified” he’s on Twitter and “think it’s ridiculous”, but News Corp CEO Robert Thomson thinks its good PR. There’s a second and possibly a third Avatar film in the pipeline. The sequel is due late 2016. If we make it, it will be the first time Jim Cameron’s been on time or on budget,” Murdoch says. His new Fox Sports 1 cable network is taking on the ESPN “goldmine” but expects “to lose a couple hundred million dollars for a year or two” before the turnaround. Meanwhile, Fox News will make more than $1 billion this year “and can do a lot better”. Fox got out of China because it wasn’t making any money and was a little fed up with official interference in the day to day running. Making movies there is impossible because “they want to censor every line in every movie, and they can take a month giving you a decision on one line” but he will try again. Last July Murdoch had lunch with sons Lachlan and James which included “a very serious talk about how we can work as a team”. Lachlan didn’t want to return to the business he left in 2005, but last month announced he was rejoining the board as non-executive co-chairman. “Lachlan is a wonderful human being with his feet very firmly on the ground,” his father says, going on to defend his other son, James, from the fallout over hacking allegations in London, saying it occurred “long before James took charge”. Lachlan’s investment Realestate.com.au was one of the best purchases the company’s made, having bought 44% for $1 million in 2001, then spending $100 million on a further 18%. It’s now worth $7 billion and Murdoch is keen to expand it internationally, regarding US companies such as Zillow and Trulia as overpriced. Murdoch declined to discuss why his daughter, Elizabeth, refused to join the News Corp board after selling her production company to them, but says they’re “a very, very close family”, thinks the stresses in the family have been repaired – his daughter gave a scathing lecture which questioned the values of News Corp and criticised her brother James; “I think she was hurt when I said I didn’t really love it or like it,” Murdoch said. He’s been spending up on property of late, buying a $57 million Manhattan apartment, plus a California vineyard. Murdoch jokes that you should live 20 years longer than your parents. His mother, Dame Elizabeth, died in 2012 aged 103. He says he’s in good health, despite having a fall and cracking his skull in a San Francisco hotel in January, which caused enormous pain. He says he’ll step down when his children tell him he’s losing his mental edge. He doesn’t care about what people say about him. As a leader, he’s “permanently curious” and that curiosity keeps him alive, even if he thinks “I probably waste my time being curious about things that have got nothing to do with the business sometimes”. But there’s one thing he’s not curious about: Murdoch’s never read a book about himself. The full interview is here. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
