Student loan debt is a growing problem in the United States (and might I say, the problem is also unique to the states as well). It is said to top $1.2 trillion by the end of 2014. It has already over taken credit card debt and auto loan debt coming in second to only mortgage debt. According to this article in the WSJ, average debt for the class of 2014 is $33,050 (an increase from $29,000 in 2013) and increasing. So why is debt increasing? Well, the obvious reason is that college tuition is getting more expensive. But why is tuition increasing? One argument (and one I agree with) is simple economics. It is crucial to hold a bachelors and a master’s degree (in my opinion) in order to have a well-paying job. The demand for higher education is very strong. However, on the flip side, the supply is arguably limited. We don’t see as many new colleges popping up each year and even if they did, they wouldn’t have the cachet to attract a large or even moderate number of students. This leaves the job of meeting demand to a limited number of universities allowing them the ability to squeeze as much out of you as possible. But with my education, I’ll be able to get a great job and easily payoff by debt… Maybe. That was the initial plan anyways, but as reality has proven, it’s easier said than done. Truth is, many of us go into college think this exact thought but as we enter the job market, it turns out our degrees don’t quiet hold up. I shouldn't say all degrees, certainly degrees in STEM fields, business (I hope, I’m bias because I fall into this category) have a greater return than say a bachelors in philosophy. But does that mean that everyone should go into engineering? Honestly, I don’t know. I would like to say no and want people to pick majors based on their interest but sadly with the current situation that doesn’t seem practical. So who is profiting from these loans? Well, the US government (mostly) and consequently the US economy. But here’s the thing, does the profits from the interest from the loans outweigh the long term drawbacks from the high debt rate? As the WSJ article explains, student loan is having an effect on the housing market recovery. Home ownership under the age of 35 is at a record low. The article also mentions that student loan debt may not be the cause citing rising home prices, caution lenders and stagnant wages among possible causes. However, I would argue that even with those reasons, added debt does not help. It effects credit scores dramatically which creates an obstacle for big purchases which in aggregate with outweigh the revenue that these loans generate for the economy. Not only has that, but having a ton of debt also effected one’s health which may also put a greater burden of the nation’s healthcare system. So what’s the solution? I believe the government should have an aggressive subsidization policy when it comes to tuition costs and best case scenario, foot the entire bill (similar to some Scandinavian countries). At the very least, lower the interest rates (maybe care a near zero percent similar to those offered to the banks?) and have an income based repayment scheme. To be clear, I’m not saying these are the only solutions just what makes sense to me. Let me know your thoughts on student loan debt and if you think they are worth it and if the current system is sustainable. This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
HP has found a new executive to take on a key role for its massive Printers and Personal Systems (PPS) division. It poached Stuart Pann from Intel, sources close to the company tell Business Insider. Pann is replacing the job vacated by Tony Prophet in April when he left to become the new head of marketing for Microsoft Windows. (Prophet was a new hire as part of the minor exec juggling Microsoft did when Satya Nadella became CEO.) Pann is a 33-year Intel veteran and ran Intel's complicated supply chain and operations team, helping the company keep expenses tight by buying exactly what it needed when it needed it. But he really made a name for himself helping Intel price its products, a source close to the company tells us. So hiring him is really about helping HP price products correctly and grow its revenues — something the HP sorely needs to do — not just tame expenses. HP's PPS division is a massive unit responsible for PCs and printers. For the first six months this year, it reported $27.8 billion in revenue. That's about three times the size of HP's next biggest unit, the Enterprise Group, which makes servers, storage and network hardware. CEO Meg Whitman has been saying 2012 that whipping the supply chain into shape is one of HP's biggest priorities to get the company back on track for both revenues and profits. Here's the email sent to the HPs troops Tuesday evening that announced the hire: Dion WeislerExecutive Vice PresidentPrinting and Personal Systems HP Restricted – For Internal Use Only PPS Team, For us to continue winning in the marketplace and beating the competition, it requires that we have the most innovative, efficient and knowledgeable Operations team. We need the team to continue to think end-to-end and develop great relationships with the key ecosystem of partners and suppliers. These attributes will help us to continually evolve our operations model to be the most innovative in the industry and I am excited that we have found the right leader for such a team. Today, after a thoughtful search, I am pleased to announce that Stuart Pann is joining HP as our new SVP, PPS Operations, effective July 7. Stu joins us after spending 33 years at Intel. Most recently, Stu served as Intel’s Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Business Management Group. During his time in the role, Stu led a pricing strategy that helped contribute to significant revenue growth for the company. He also served as co-general manager of the Customer Fulfillment, Planning and Logistics Group and took Intel from being unlisted in the Gartner supply chain rankings to currently holding eighth in the world!  Stu mentioned the tremendous caliber of the HP team as a key reason for joining HP. Indeed I do believe that we have a world class leadership team in Operations and am confident that Stu will help take the team to the next level. I know that Stu and the team will continue to make operations a competitive differentiator and advantage for HP. I am excited to have Stu join my leadership team.  Stu will be based in Palo Alto.  I’d like to personally thank Richard Bailey for his interim leadership of the team. I know we have a strong Operations team that is truly committed. I’m looking forward to the team’s continued success.  Please join me in welcoming Stu to the PPS family. Cheers,Dion FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - A story involving a disfigured 3-year-old Mississippi girl whose family said they were asked to leave a KFC restaurant because her appearance was scaring customers, has been found to be a hoax, according to a spokesman for the fried chicken franchise. Despite that, the company said it will honor a pledge to donate $30,000 toward the girl's medical bills to repair her deeply scarred and partially paralyzed face. The family of Victoria Wilcher said she visited a KFC outlet in Jackson, Mississippi, with her grandmother in May and staff told them her appearance was frightening other costumers. "Like the rest of America, the KFC family has been moved by the story of Victoria’s injuries and recovery," KFC spokesman Rick Maynard said in an emailed statement. "After the alleged incident was reported to us, two investigations took place, including one by an independent investigator. Neither revealed any evidence that the incident occurred, and we consider the investigation closed," he said. An unidentified source cited by the Laurel Leader-Call newspaper in Mississippi disputed the family's claim on Monday. The person said the child and her grandmother could not be seen on surveillance videos from two KFC locations and records showed no orders matching the food the grandmother said she ordered. KFC said the franchise had hired a consultant to investigate the Wilcher case after being unable to verify it. The child was attacked by three of her grandfather's pit bulls in April, according to the Clarion-Ledger newspaper. The family has received offers for free surgeries for Victoria and more than $135,000 in donations as word of the alleged KFC incident spread. A message posted on a Facebook page run by Victoria's aunt said the newspaper got the story wrong. "I promise it's not a hoax," the message said. "I have personally watched this family go without to provide for Victoria. They have not and would not do anything to hurt Victoria in any way." (Reporting by Colleen Jenkins and David Adams; editing by Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tony GentileUruguay's Luis Suarez (R) reacts after clashing with Italy's Giorgio Chiellini during their 2014 World Cup Group D soccer match at the Dunas arena in Natal June 24, 2014. Good morning, and welcome to Wednesday. Here’s what you need to know… 1. A sell-off towards the close led to the biggest fall in US stocks in more than a month. The losses weren’t huge: the Dow was down 0.6%, as was the S&amp;P, and the Nasdaq was down 0.4%. The VIX – an indicator of how much traders expect S&amp;P prices to move over the next month – gained 10%. The strong US economic data continued – new home sales boomed in May – and the trigger is believed to be a report of Syrian warplanes bombing Iraqi border towns. 2. The fall is likely to reverberate in Asian trade, with little in the way of data out today. ASX futures are at their lowest since April, after the ASX200 lost 0.4% yesterday while the Nikkei was largely flat. Shangai was up 0.3% while the Hang Seng was up almost 0.5%. 3. The Australian Greens are now pro-motorist. The Greens have surprised everyone – probably some of their own members – by declaring they will not support the reintroduction of indexation on the fuel excise, a measure proposed in the federal budget, which would have injected a new price signal into the economics of car use in Australia. It would have raised $2.2 billion over four years, but the money was earmarked for roads spending and the Greens want some earmarked for public transport instead. 4. Myer’s recruiting disaster. It emerged yesterday that Australian retail giant Myer fired a high-profile executive recruit, new group general manager of strategy and business development Andrew Flanagan, on his first day. Fashion giant Inditex, which owns Zara and where Flanagan had claimed to have worked, came forward to say they had never heard of him. Myer told Business Insider they had spoken to Flanagan’s two references who had vouched for his credentials. Myer is assessing its options. 5. Coulson guilty, Brooks cleared. Former News of the World editor Andy Coulson is facing jail time after being found guilty in the UK’s marathon phone-hacking trial against him and former News International CEO Rebekah Brooks. Brooks, who was charged with conspiring to intercept voicemails during her time as editor of the paper, which Rupert Murdoch decided to shut down over the scandal, was cleared. The Guardian reports police now want to interview Murdoch. 6. Aussies through. It was a mixed night for the Aussies at Wimbledon. At 19, Canberra talent Nick Kyrgios is the youngest player left in the mens’ draw after he downed French veteran Stephane Robert 7-6 (-7-2), 7-6 (7-1), 6-7 (6-8), 6-2. James Duckworth and Matt Ebden couldn’t get over seeded opponents but Lleyton Hewitt’s impressive four-set opening win over Poland’s Michal Przysiezny makes it seven Australians (SEVEN!) through to the second round – our best effort since 1999. 7. GSElevator is back. Today’s column is the Goldman Sachs Elevator Guide To Flying Like A Boss, with rules including “The exit row is first class for poor people”, and, “If you are afraid of flying, listen to Britney Spears on takeoff. You’ll be fine; no one is destined to die like that.” More here. 8. The sugar epidemic. A new study from Credit Suisse looks at the explosion in world consumption of sugar and calorific sweeteners, and its impact on health. The US is the No.1 consumer of sugar, but Australia makes the list of the next-biggest consumers, with an average of 35-38 teaspoons per person per day. The study notes that there’s growing awareness of the problems with sugar consumption but that this is closely tied to income, geography – and says that taxation, as with tobacco, might be an answer. 9. House Rules couples aren’t struggling, at all. The show makes a big deal of its lifechanging makeovers. But Woman’s Day claims five of the six couples are on Easy St. The worst offenders? WA’s blonde and blonder Carole and Russell, who claimed they were “so strapped for cash they desperately needed the show to help them pay off their mortgage”. To be fair, they probably did – Woman’s Day claims their property portfolio is worth $2.3 million. 10. Luis Suarez bit a guy. Who bites people? Liverpool and Uruguay star Luis Suarez, that’s who. For the third time in his career he bit defender – this time, the bitee was Giorgio Chiellini of Italy, and the morsel was from the shoulder. Uruguay won the game 1-0. It inspired this excellent headline from the Huffington Post:   This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons2 + 2 = ? appears to be one of the easiest problems in mathematics, and it is probably one of the first you ever encountered. If Kate has 2 apples and Matt gives her 2 more apples, then she has 4 apples. Obviously. But what if we told you that 2 + 2 = ? has stumped even some of the smartest mathematicians because it doesn’t necessarily have to equal 4? You’re probably wondering how that’s possible. Let's talk about watches. I get to work at 7 o’clock in the morning. This is what my watch looks like. It's first time that the smaller hand of the clock hits 7 on the clock’s face that day. SPCC Later in the day, I leave work at 5 o’clock in the afternoon. When I look down at my wrist, this is what my watch looks like. This is the second time that the smaller hand of the clock hits 5 on the watch’s face. The first time was at 5 AM. SPCC In other words, the smaller hand of my watch has hit all 12 numbers on the face, and then started again from 1. We can think of 1PM as 13 o’clock; 2 PM as 14 o’clock; and 5 PM as 17 o’clock. However, most people don’t say: “I’ll be done with work at 17.” They generally say: “I’ll be done at 5.” If you do this as well, you’re actually solving a complicated math problem without even realizing. What’s happening is that the watch’s hands operate in a system (the watch’s face) that has 12 numbers, but the watch’s hands are attempting to represent a system, which has more than 12 numbers (in this case, the system is a day which has 24 hours). We’re going to class the watch’s system “Modulo 12”, meaning that 12 is the highest number we can have on the watch which has the numbers 1, 2 , 3, 4 … all the way through 12. (Don’t freak out! Modulo is just the fancy math term for the math we are doing). As a result, to understand how the 17th hour in the day is represented on the watch, one must do 17 (the number outside of Modulo 12) minus 12 (the maximum number in Modulo 12) which equals 5 (which is a number within Modulo 12 to represent a number outside of Modulo 12). In other words, in the watch system, we can say that 12 + 5 = 5 because 5 represents 17. Weirder still, even though you’d think that 13 +4 = 17, in this Modulo 12 system, 14 +4 = 6 because 6 pm represents “18 o’clock.” Using what we learned here, let’s get back to 2 + 2 = ?. Believe it or not, you can actually create a Modulo system with any numbers. It does not have to be limited to Modulo 12 like with the clock with the numbers 1 through 12. Now, our new system is going to be Modulo 3 with the numbers 0, 1, 2. This is a little different from the watch, because a watch doesn’t have 0’s. Let’s quickly refresh what that means. Modulo 3 with numbers 0, 1, 2 means that after we reach the third number in our set of numbers, we start counting from the first number again. In this case, after we reach 2, we start again with 0. This is just like with the watch, when after we reached 12, we started again with 1. So now, let’s see what happens when we add 2 + 2 in a Modulo 3, (0,1,2) system. 2 + 2 = 4. But 4 is outside of the numbers that we can use which are 0, 1, 2. 2 is the highest possibility, and we are adding the next two numbers, which are 0 and then 1. Simply put, in this system, 1 represents 4 kind of like 5PM represented 17 o’clock in the watch problem. In mathematical terms, we now have 2 + 2 = 1. Cool, right? So now, if you want to sound smart in front of your friends, you can smile and say that 2 + 2 = 1 and explain it using nothing more than a watch on your wrist. FREE AppDownload
I admit to an ulterior motive in interviewing Jeff Klee, the founder and CEO ofCheapAir.com. Just as the name indicates, CheapAir.com is an online travel agency focused on finding customers the lowest possible price for air travel. This summer, like each of the past two, I had to buy four tickets to Minneapolis. I'm always amazed at how much they cost. Surely Klee would have an answer to this, right? Turned out he did, and he saved me a chunk of change. Here's how to use the same strategy for any of your business travel needs.  Klee admits that summer travel, whether business or personal, is especially challenging. Prices for domestic travel go up significantly; prices for international destinations hit the stratosphere. Still, there’s no law that says you have to overpay. Klee said that one of the best ways to avoid paying too much is to book tickets for a group one by one. To make this work, and reduce the risk that you'll end up with a super-expensive ticket, it helps to know a bit about how airlines set prices. Every airline, says Klee, will have 10 to 15 prices for each flight. How much you pay depends on how full the flight is. "When fares are changing, its not so much that the airlines are constantly repricing," says Klee. "It's that the lowest fare seats are getting sold out." As a result, you get pushed into the next highest price bracket. If, on the other hand, the flight isn't filling up, the airline will open up more seats at a lower fare. As you get closer to the departure date, the odds are much better that the prices will go up than that they'll go down. Now, say you need to buy four tickets. You'd think you’d be entitled to a better deal, since you're buying in bulk. Wrong. If there are only two tickets available at the lowest price, you're going to be pushed up into the next price bracket that has four tickets available. That's not what you want. You want the two tickets in the lowest price bracket. Then you want the next cheapest ticket, and the next cheapest after that. After all, they're all on the same flight. The solution is to search for your tickets one-by-one, and figure out how many tickets are available at each price level. In the example above, you can buy the two tickets in the lowest price bracket, and then buy the two others individually. If you do this online, there is a small chance that someone else will jump in line ahead of you, and you'll either have to pay an exorbitant price for that last ticket or put your party on two different flights. That's why Klee suggests booking your ticket with an agent -- yes, on an actual telephone --rather than online if at all possible.  Give it a try. For four round-trip tickets to Minneapolis, I had been finding prices starting at about $512 per ticket. When I looked for just one ticket, I found one for about $370. If I had been traveling with colleagues, I would have booked that one immediately and then looked for the next cheapest ticket. In this case, I wasn't going to buy individual tickets, because I couldn't take the chance that one (very young) person was going to end up flying on her own. Each ticket in the cheapest pair was about $390; the next least-expensive pair had tickets starting at $450. By buying the tickets in pairs, I paid about $1,680, saving about $368 over the "buy-em-all-together" price. After learning first-hand how anxiety-provoking this can be, I completely agree with Klee: Do this on the phone--not online--if at all possible. That being said: To save $368? The stress was totally worth it. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. MEB FABER: Investors Should Weight Markets And Companies By Value Not Price (Morningstar)  Morningstar's Samuel Lee interviewed Mebane Faber, founder and CIO at Cambria Funds how he chose which countries to invest in and which stocks within those country they invest in. "It turns out historically market-cap weighting has been a very suboptimal way to invest as it overweights expensive markets and bubbles," he told Lee in an email interview.  "A market-cap investor would have had 50% in Japan in the late 1980s in the biggest bubble we have ever seen (Japan is only 8% of world market cap now) and the majority of his assets in one of the most expensive markets in the world currently--the United States," he writes, adding however that he doesn't think the U.S. in a bubble. Instead he suggest weighting markets and companies by value as his ETF "Global Value" does.  KITCES: The Thing That Worries Me The Most (Financial Planning)  The Morningstar Investment Conference saw a massive gathering of folks from the wealth management industry gather in Chicago last week. Financial Planning attended the conference and one of their top takeaways comes from Michael Kitces, director of planning research at Pinnacle Advisory Group and author of Nerd's Eye View. "The thing that worries me most is this idea that we're so afraid of what happens to bonds, if rates rise, that we go into stocks," said Kitces. "Running from something where you can lose 5% to something where you can lose 45% is not a good risk management strategy." Buybacks Will Dry Up When The Next Recession Hits, Exacerbating The Eventual Bear Market (Dr. Ed's Blog)  "The bull market in the S&amp;P 500 since March 2009 has been marked by corporations buying back their shares and paying out dividends," writes Ed Yardeni at Dr. Ed's Blog. "From Q1-2009 through Q1-2014, S&amp;P 500 companies repurchased $1.9 trillion of their shares and paid out $1.3 trillion in dividends." But when the next recession hits, repurchases will disappear. "…Buybacks are a form of financial engineering since they boost earnings per share whether a company’s fundamentals are improving or not. They’ve certainly contributed to the bull market’s great run in an economic environment that has been widely described as “subpar.”  "When the next recession hits, corporate cash flow will decline and investors are likely to be less willing to buy corporate bonds. As a result, buybacks will dry up as they did during 2008, exacerbating the eventual bear market in stocks." High Net Worth Individuals Want More Support From Their Wealth Managers When It Comes To Their Social Impact Goals (Capegemini/RBC Wealth Management)  There is a gap between the support that high net worth individuals (HNWI) want from their wealth managers and what they get when it comes to social impact investing. This refers to a type of investing that has both a social impact and financial returns. "We identified a 14.6 percentage point shortfall between the support HNWIs currently receive and what they say they would like to have," according to the 2014 World Wealth Report. Latin America had the largest gap at 26.2%,  while it was smallest in Asia-Pacific ex Japan, at 6.1%.   Capegemini/RBC Wealth ManagementAdvisors Should Ignoring Small Accounts Are Missing Out (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors often ignore investors that don't meet a minimum account size because it's harder to make a profit. But by doing this, advisors are missing out on a huge chunk of the market, reports Matthias Rieker at The Wall Street Journal. "There is nonetheless at least one very good reason to target the small investor: It's a massive market, and it's underserved," writes Rieker. "According to research firm Cerulli Associates, 73% of American households are worth less than $100,000, but only 15% of advisers focus on such investors." It's argued that one of the reasons traditional advisors beginning to pay attention to less wealthy American households is because of the emergence of robo-advisors.  FREE AppDownload
U.S. crude futures are up more than 1% in Tuesday eastern time trading after the Wall Street Journal reported the Commerce Department approved exports of a form of unrefined oil, which the paper says represents a partial end to America's decades-old crude export ban. WSJ's Christian Berthelsen and Lynn Cook write that two U.S. energy companies have received permission to export a form of petroleum called condensate. Production of condensate has surged alongside the unprecedented output of U.S. shale oil.  U.S. firms have been banned from shipping raw crude since 1975, in the wake of the first Arab oil crisis. But it is legal to export refined products. Clearview Energy's Kevin Book says markets may be overreacting, since it's not clear Commerce has actually made any alteration to the crude ban by allowing condensate to be exported. "The [rulings] do not appear to have redefined condensate" as crude, he told BI in an email.  In a note to clients today, Alembic's James Sullivan predicted something like what WSJ is reporting, saying that it was likely the the Obama administration would make clear that certain hydrocarbons would be defined as condensates and not crude oil. Below is the chart for New York-traded West Texas Intermediate. Click here to read the full report on WSJ.com » Investing.com FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Bride of FrankensteinThe VIX had a huge day. The volatility index, which measures how much traders expect the S&amp;P 500 to move over the next month, gained more than 10% today amid the market's sharpest sell-off in over a month. Over the last three days, the VIX has gained more than 14%. Volatility has been absent from Wall Street for some time now, but today's action showed that volatility may be slowly returning to equity markets. The initial sell-off at around 1:00 pm EST was attributed to a Wall Street Journal report that Syrian warplanes struck targets in western Iraq. Bears really gained control of the day later in the session, a slide that seemed to have almost no news attached. With volatility depressed over almost an entire quarter, it seems unlikely that its return to the market will come in steady or measured steps.  All things considered, however, today's session wasn't a big deal. Only in the context of the recent lullaby market would a 120 point move in the Dow and 0.6% move in the S&amp;P 500 feel like a crash. Certainly makes you wonder if we've forgotten what real market volatility looks like. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Visitors pose on Argentine artist Leonardo Erlich's optical illusion installation "Dalston House" in east London June 26, 2013.U.S. home sales stats have turned up sharply following the bleak winter numbers.  This week, we learned existing home sales rose at a stronger-than-expected pace in May while new home sales saw its biggest  month-over-month increase in 22 years. This has raised some chatter about a housing snapback. But there is still one red flag: weak mortgage demand. "Homebuilders likely are gaining market share from private sellers - builders are more motivated sellers, and have better access to information - but sales cannot trend higher indefinitely with mortgage demand still so weak," wrote Jana McTigue at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Mortgage applications have been close to "rock-bottom levels," Ed Stansfield at Capital Economics wrote in a note earlier this month. Stansfield also points out that while lenders have loosened their credit standards by a bit, they still expect borrowers to "have an above-average credit rating" and  have "total debt payments on the mortgage and other loans" at 37% of income or less. This chart from Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics shows the difference between existing home sales and mortgage applications: Pantheon MacroeconomicsAnd there's this interesting chart from Bank of America's Michelle Meyer that uses Google Trends to chart the search for "homes for sale" against the search for "mortgage calculator." "Presumably after a person finds a property of interest, a natural next step would be to determine if it is affordable," writes Meyer. "We have not seen an increase in such searches. Perhaps this is because prospective buyers are discouraged by the lack of inventory or the asking price. Either way, it suggests that buyers are curious, but not committed at this point:" BAML FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWilliam Dudley, President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, speaks at Brooklyn College in the Brooklyn borough of New York(Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve can reasonably wait to raise interest rates until mid-2015 without risking an undesirable rise in inflation, an influential Fed policymaker said on Tuesday. "We think we can get the unemployment rate considerably lower and still not have an inflation problem," William Dudley, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, told a Puerto Rico accounting group. "We also don't have inflation at a level consistent with price stability." In May, the U.S. jobless rate stood at 6.3 percent, the lowest level since the end of 2008 and unchanged from April. Inflation has been running below the Fed's 2 percent goal, although some recent readings have been firmer. "The market expectations are that the Federal Reserve will start to raise short-term interest rates around the middle of 2015 -- that sounds to me like a reasonable forecast," Dudley said. "But, you know, forecasts often go astray." Dudley, who as chief of the New York Fed holds a permanent vote on the U.S. central bank's policy-making panel, speaks from experience: over the past several years the Fed has been frequently overly optimistic about economic growth prospects and officials have had to repeatedly to mark down their forecasts. At the same time the Fed has underestimated how quickly unemployment will drop; it now sees the jobless rate as approaching near normal levels later this year. Dudley's comments, which often reflect dominant sentiment at the Fed, suggest the central bank is in no hurry to raise rates from their current near-zero level once it winds down its bond-buying stimulus later this year. Traders of short-term interest rate futures currently peg June 2015 as the likely start of an expected gradual run of rate rises by the U.S. central bank. Speaking at a separate event, Charles Plosser, the hawkish chief of the Philadelphia Fed, said he had "growing concerns that we may have to adjust our communications in the not-too-distant future. Specifically, I believe the forward guidance in the statement may be too passive." Plosser's comments reflect concern among a minority at the Fed that the Fed may dally too long before raising rates, allowing inflation to spiral upwards out of control. Dudley on Tuesday made clear he did not share those concerns. "In the current environment, it is still very, very appropriate to continue to follow a very accommodative monetary policy because we're making progress toward our objectives but we have not yet reached our objectives," Dudley said.   (Reporting by Lisa Lambert and Howard Schneider; Writing by Ann Saphir; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Nest Seekers InternationalThree units in the Ritz Carlton Battery Park are selling as one penthouse apartment for $118.5 million, making it the most expensive listing in New York City, according to the Wall Street Journal.  The massive penthouse takes up the top two floors of the Ritz Carlton and has indoor space totaling 15,434 square feet, as well as 2,193 square feet of terrace. The three units are not yet combined, but cannot be purchased separately, according to the Journal. The Journal reports that one of the three apartments is owned by Gary Segal of Five Star Electric in Ozone Park. It was on the market last year for $56.5 million before being taken off. The second of the three apartments is a three-bedroom unit also owned by Segal.  The final apartment is a four-bedroom, five-bathroom unit owned by financier Randall Yanker. It was listed earlier this year for $23 million, then was taken off the market shortly after its price was lowered to $19 million. Even if this combined penthouse doesn't sell for its exact asking price, there's a good chance it will become the most expensive home ever sold in New York. A mansion at 15 Central Park West currently holds the record at $88 million. Ryan Serhant of Nest Seekers International is the listing agent for this property.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidMarkets tumbled as stocks fell the most in more than a month with the Dow falling triple digits and the volatility index, or VIX, rallying. Markets opened quietly, as they've done over the last few weeks, but an afternoon report from The Wall Street Journal that said Syrian warplanes bombed targets in western Iraq, seemed to give the market an initial push to the downside. The selling accelerated in the final hour of trade, and stocks closed just off their lows. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: 16 Facts About India That Will Blow Your Mind » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidMarkets tumbled as stocks fell the most in more than a month with the Dow falling triple digits and the volatility index, or VIX, rallying. Markets opened quietly, as they've done over the last few weeks, but an afternoon report from The Wall Street Journal that said Syrian warplanes bombed targets in western Iraq, seemed to give the market an initial push to the downside. The selling accelerated in the final hour of trade, and stocks closed just off their lows. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: 16 Facts About India That Will Blow Your Mind » FREE AppDownload
Turning 30 is a major step in life. Most will bring on more responsibilities and have less time to enjoy what the world has to offer. Try to fit these 15 things in before you turn the big 3-0 — you'll be happy you did.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Earlier today, we saw that the pace of home price growth slowed in April. According to the new Case-Shiller report, the index of 20 cities was up just 0.19% month-over-month and 10.82% year-over-year. But one thing jumps out from the report: a growing number of cities are reporting price declines. From Gennadiy Goldberg at TD Securities:  "The data shows a notable decoupling of home price gains across the 20 cities surveyed by the index. Just 15 cities saw home prices appreciate in April as 5 cities saw declines – the smallest number of cities showing monthly home price appreciation since February 2012.  "While we suspect that the S&amp;P/CS index could still regain some of its footing in the coming months as housing market activity re-accelerates, dissipating positive base effects should continue to weigh on the annual pace of home price gains. In fact, we look for home price gains to slow to a more manageable 6-8% y/y pace by the end of 2014." On a seasonally-adjusted month-over-month basis home prices were down in five metro areas: Cleveland (-0.6%), Washington (-0.4%), New York (-0.3%), San Diego (-0.3%), Atlanta (-0.03%). Here's the chart from TD Securities highlighting how many of the 20 cities see monthly price increases and decreases. TD Securities/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Check in early. Stay hydrated. Bring hand sanitizer. Consolidate credit card and hotel points. Thanks Condé Nast or USA Today; should I be taking notes? The only thing missing are the words ‘life hack.’ Simply put, there’s nothing glamorous or exciting about commercial air travel, especially domestically in the US. Although sitting between a Lager Lout and a ginger Scouse on an EasyJet flight from Luton Airport to Barcelona is hardly any better – except that you end up in Barcelona, instead of in Cleveland. So I thought I’d share with you the accumulated wisdom of my years spent traversing the globe – a definitive guide to make air travel palatable for you and those around you: John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals. <U+2028> FREE AppDownload
Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia argues that U.S. home prices are 3% undervalued compared with their long-term fundamentals.  To gauge whether home prices are over- or undervalued, Kolko considers "the price-to-income ratio, the price-to-rent ratio, and prices relative to their long-term trends using multiple data sources." But housing is as much a regional story as it is a national one — and regional markets are markedly different. The most overvalued housing markets are largely located in California, but again, Kolko doesn't think these are in bubble territory.  "Orange County, today’s frothiest market, is just 17% overvalued now versus being 71% overvalued in 2006 Q1," he writes. "Among the most overvalued markets today, only Austin looks more overvalued now (13%) than in 2006 Q1 (8%) – and that’s because Austin (and Texas generally) avoided the worst of last decade’s bubble and bust." TruliaMeanwhile, home prices are the most undervalued in Ohio. "But in several of the most undervalued markets, including Detroit and Chicago, prices are now rising year-over-year in the double digits," writes Kolko. "But those markets are unlikely to stay on the most-undervalued list for many more quarters." Trulia FREE AppDownload
YouTube/joblomovienetworkEven though they are usually only at a company for a short period, interns are still expected to abide by the same professional standards as any other employee. From interns who embarrassed their boss to interns who just embarrassed themselves, there have been many entry-level workers who were quickly shown the door. We've rounded up some of the best — or worst? — examples of bad interns for entertainment and education. Enjoy. FREE AppDownload
APAnalysts are starting to warn about the possibility of the second government shutdown in two years, due to the looming fight over the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. Chris Krueger, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities, wrote in a research note that the "ultimate trump card" for defenders of the bank is the potential for another government shutdown, since the Ex-Im Bank's charter's expiration on Sept. 30 coincides with the need to pass a new government-funding bill.  "We do not believe the government will again shut down on October 1, but if House Republicans make a serious effort to close Ex-Im it is conceivable that Senate Majority Leader Reid and the White House could line-up an FY15 [continuing resolution] with an Ex-Im Bank reauthorization and we return to a game of chicken in late September just like last year (just replace Ex-Im with ObamaCare) – only this time it is right before the midterm elections," Krueger wrote. A second shutdown in two years — particularly one that would begin with about a month to spare before the crucial midterm elections — seems unthinkable. But analysts began speculating about the possibility of a number of unforeseen macroeconomic events being introduced into the 2014 and 2015 calendar after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's stunning primary loss earlier this month. One Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider it could be a legitimate possibility. "Yes, I do see it getting that far," the aide said. "The Kochs have been on this campaign for years, and they are successfully recruiting Republican lawmakers into their ranks. The recent corruption charges at the Bank will only fuel their efforts." The aide was referring to a Wall Street Journal report on Tuesday, which contained details about the bank's suspension and/or removal of four officials amid allegations of improper behavior. One of the officials allegedly took cash in exchange for attempting to aid a Florida company in securing financing to export construction equipment to Latin America. Some of the groups opposed to the bank's reauthorization blasted out the story to reporters. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. Its charter expires at the end of September, unless Congress acts to renew it. Supporters of the bank were dealt a blow over the weekend, when incoming House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-California) signaled his opposition to reauthorizing its charter.  The dispute over the bank has made some unusual allies — the White House and the Republican establishment-friendly Chamber of Commerce both pressed the case for the bank's renewal on Monday, the day after McCarthy's comments brought the debate to the forefront. "This outcome would likely delight the White House and Senate Democrats who are too eager to remind voters of the previous shutdown and seek to isolate House Republicans as overly conservative/Tea Party," Krueger wrote of the potential of a shutdown. Here's where things could get tricky: Four top House Republicans are opposed to reauthorizing the bank — McCarthy, incoming House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-Louisiana), House Financial Services Committee Chair Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), and House Budget Chair Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin).  But their Republican counterparts in the Senate — as well as Republican governors  — have been more supportive in public statements about the bank. Moreover, GOP senators wouldn't want to risk a shutdown with a Senate majority on the line.  Businesses big and small also have an interest in the bank's reauthorization — the Ex-Im Bank supports more than 3,000 small businesses and is a huge benefactor for behemoths like Boeing, Caterpillar, and General Electric. Because of the business lobby and the more conciliatory tone toward the bank from Republican senators and governors, Krueger expects the bank's charter to be reauthorized — at least for a little while longer. "We ultimately believe the bank will prevail, but it will be a dog fight," Krueger wrote. "At the end of the day, we see Reid (and the powerful Washington Senators) marshalling the needed support of the business community and several Republican Senators and Governors to muscle a relatively short-term extension (likely not longer than six months) across the finish line." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan AlvaradoMemphis Depay of the Netherlands (R) celebrates after scoring a goal with teammates Arjen Robben (C) and Daley Blind during their 2014 World Cup Group B soccer match against Chile at the Corinthians arena in Sao Paulo June 23, 2014. Deutsche Bank's World Cup forecasts haven't been that bad. Like many firms on Wall Street, Deutsche Bank published a lengthy preview of the World Cup before the tournament kicked off. Strategist Henrik Gullberg analyzed FIFA rankings, historical performance, and group strength to find the best "value" picks in the tournament. Deutsche defined their value picks as teams undervalued when comparing the firm's assigned chances of that side winning the World Cup against what bookmakers were expecting. Gullberg's top value picks among what he called the "near contenders" were France and the Netherlands. The Netherlands have been stellar, and are so far the only team that has successfully navigated the group stage without a loss or draw.  France are also undefeated, and with a game to play have the second-most goals scored in the tournament with 8. A win or draw tomorrow against Ecuador will secure France victory in the group stage. Here's the table showing Deutsche's 15 best value picks. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
China’s wealthy real estate buyers are snapping up property a lot more often than their American counterparts, according to a new report from Sotheby’s International Realty, which breaks down profiles of wealthy real estate buyers around the globe. According to the report, 96% of affluent Chinese consumers have purchased a property within the past three years. In comparison, just 54% of affluent American consumers — those who have over $2 million in assets — have bought a property. Courtesy of Sotheby's Luxury Lifestyle Report Courtesy of Sotheby's Luxury Lifestyle ReportChinese real estate investors also rate location as a top priority, favoring Asia over both Europe and North America for their mansions. 48% want their home to be eco-friendly. For American real estate investors, location is also still a top priority. They prefer to live in North America, and value a property that they have designed themselves over an estate that is eco-friendly, historically significant, or with famous former owners. The annual Sotheby’s International Realty Luxury Lifestyle Report was compiled with data from a survey sent out to its affluent consumers over 25 years of age all over the world between January 28 and February 18, 2014. They also collected data from sothebysrealty.com from Google Website Analytics between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2014. You can read more about the methodology here. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe bull market in the S&amp;P 500 since March 2009 has been marked by corporations buying back their shares and paying out dividends. From Q1-2009 through Q1-2014, S&amp;P 500 companies repurchased $1.9 trillion of their shares and paid out $1.3 trillion in dividends. During the first quarter of this year, buybacks totaled $637 billion at an annual rate, nearly matching the previous record high during Q3-2007. As I have often observed in the past, corporations have an incentive to borrow in the bond market and use the proceeds to buy back shares when their earnings yield exceeds the corporate bond yield. That’s been the case since 2004 thanks to the Fed’s easy monetary policies under both Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke, and now Janet Yellen. Buybacks are a form of financial engineering since they boost earnings per share whether a company’s fundamentals are improving or not. They’ve certainly contributed to the bull market’s great run in an economic environment that has been widely described as “subpar.” When the next recession hits, corporate cash flow will decline and investors are likely to be less willing to buy corporate bonds. As a result, buybacks will dry up as they did during 2008, exacerbating the eventual bear market in stocks. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Zaitech. (1) A brief history of Zaitech. (2) Japan as a role model. (3) Bigger than ever. (4) History tends to repeat itself. (5) Buybacks are a form of financial engineering. (6) Bond funds are “shadow banks.” (7) Laing warns that ETFs are weapons of mass financial destruction. (8) Eurozone’s bond bubble. (9) JGBs at 0.6%. (10) China has excesses galore. (11) Reaching for yield in emerging markets. (12) No exit from NZIRP? (13) Janet Yellen and Bette Davis. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
 Richard Chilton has been on Wall Street since 1978. In that time he's built his hedge fund, Chilton Investment Company, into a firm with about $4 billion assets under management. To do that, he's had to learn to sniff out who will make an excellent employee and who will not. In a recent interview with Skiddy von Stade, the CEO of the finance career site OneWire, Chilton offered some invaluable tips for working at a hedge fund — and what might ruin your chances of getting hired. Specifically, he mentioned three things he never wants to hear someone he's interviewing say. Check them out below: For more insight from execs, subscribe to OneWire's YouTube channel. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/pasukaru76We have gone 46 days without a 1% move in the S&amp;P 500. That is, 46 days without a 1% move up or a 1% move down. If the S&amp;P 500 doesn't break this streak today, it will tie for the second-longest streak since 1993. The current streak is already the longest since 1995. This is Wall Street in the dark. As we noted yesterday, Friday and Monday saw two of the tightest daily trading ranges in the last 20 years. In recent weeks, we've covered the lack of action on Wall Street, which is kind of running into the famous Louis C.K. contradiction: "Everything is amazing, and nobody is happy." The above streak numbers come to us courtesy of Rich Kleinbauer of RMK Research &amp; Markets, who notes that the only two streaks longer than the current run came during the early 1990s bull market. In that market, the S&amp;P 500 went seven years without a 10% correction. The last time we saw a 10% correction was the summer of 2011. Kleinbauer writes: "Today, the S&amp;P is one its 3rd longest streak without a 10% correction and will tie the 3rd longest streak without a 1% correction. Is this an indication that the next 10% correction may be several years away? I'm thinking 'yes.'" In morning trade, the S&amp;P 500 is up 0.2%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghA model of a shark is seen in the roof of a house in Oxford October 26, 2013.Home prices climbed at a slower-than-expected pace in April, according to latest Case-Shiller report. However, the report continues to show far higher price gains than other reports. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics has repeatedly argued that the declining share of cheap foreclosed home sales has been skewing average home prices higher.  "The y/y rate has averaged 12.0% in the three months to April, down from a peak of 13.6% in the three months to Dec, but this still looks too high to us; we think the CS data do not properly account for the declining proportion of foreclosure sales," he wrote following the release. "Both the FHFA and NAR price data are much weaker, and, we think, more reliable." Back in April, he explained his rationale: "As foreclosed homes typically sell for much less than regular private sales, a decline in the proportion of foreclosure sales will raise reported prices. The correlation between changes in the proportion of foreclosures and the rate of increase of Case-Shiller home prices is not perfect, but it is real." The median sales price of all U.S. homes was $180,000 in May, according to RealtyTrac's latest report. The median price of distressed sales, which stood at $120,000, was 37% lower than the median price of non-distressed properties, at $190,000.   Distressed sales have also been declining. Short sales and distressed sales accounted for 14.3% of all sales in May, down from 15.6% in April, and down from 15.9% a year ago.  The latest FHFA home price report showed that on the month, home prices were flat in April, while they were up a more modest 5.9% from a year ago. Others too have noted that the Case-Shiller report is slower to reflect slower pace of home price growth. Here's  Paul Diggle at Capital Economics: Paul Diggle/Twitter Meanwhile, here's the chart from Shepherdson that shows that Case-Shiller home prices are running much higher than NAR's median home price figures: Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
GlobalPropertyGuideThis morning, Dubai's stock market crashed 8%. The catalyst was trouble in the country's real estate sector — the CEO of Arabtec, which built the Burj Khalifa, resigned yesterday amid hundreds of job cuts. If you've been paying attention to Dubai real estate recently, this may not have come as a total surprise.  According to Global Property Guide, prices climbed 10% in Q1 against Q4, and 32% YOY — easily the largest jumps in the world. The IMF warned last month of “unsustainable price dynamics and an eventual correction,” and that megaprojects could create risks to Dubai’s government-sponsored entities, which are looking at debt levels of 141% percent of Dubai GDP.   Bloomberg reported the country’s central bank recently said rental yields in Dubai, as well as Abu Dhabi, had fallen below historical averages while real estate prices rose, suggesting the market may be imbalanced. Somehow none of this alarmed HSBC, which wrote in April, "We expect this trend to continue at least for the next two years as the economy recovers and Dubai maintains its reputation as a safe haven in the region.” In their partial defense, the IMF's broader take on the country was mostly upbeat.  But none of this looks terribly reassuring.  FREE AppDownload
Don Arnold/Getty ImagesThe Conference Board's consumer confidence index for June came in at 85.2. Expectations were for a reading of 83.5. Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board said, "Consumer confidence continues to advance and the index is now at its highest level since January 2008 (87.3). June’s increase was driven primarily by improving current conditions, particularly consumers’ assessment of business conditions. Expectations regarding the short-term outlook for the economy and jobs were moderately more favorable, while income expectations were a bit mixed. Still, the momentum going forward remains quite positive." The index's May reading was revised down to 82.2 fom 83.0. Here's the full release from The Conference Board: The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index®, which had increased in May, improved again in June. The Index now stands at 85.2 (1985=100), up from 82.2 in May. The Present Situation Index increased to 85.1 from 80.3, while the Expectations Index rose to 85.2 from 83.5 in May. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was June 13. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: "Consumer confidence continues to advance and the index is now at its highest level since January 2008 (87.3). June's increase was driven primarily by improving current conditions, particularly consumers' assessment of business conditions. Expectations regarding the short-term outlook for the economy and jobs were moderately more favorable, while income expectations were a bit mixed. Still, the momentum going forward remains quite positive." Consumers' appraisal of current conditions improved in June. Those claiming business conditions are "good" increased to 23.0 percent from 21.1 percent, while those stating business conditions are "bad" decreased to 22.8 percent from 24.6 percent. Consumers' assessment of the job market was also more favorable. Those stating jobs are "plentiful" edged up to 14.7 percent from 14.2 percent, while those claiming jobs are "hard to get" declined to 31.8 percent from 32.2 percent. Consumers' expectations were generally more positive in June. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 18.8 percent from 17.7 percent. However, those expecting business conditions to worsen increased to 11.4 percent from 10.7 percent. Consumers were more positive about the outlook for the labor market. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead increased to 16.3 percent from 15.2 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs edged down to 18.7 percent from 18.9 percent. Fewer consumers expect their incomes to grow, 15.9 percent versus 18.0 percent, but those expecting a drop in their incomes also declined, to 12.1 percent from 14.5 percent. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerDemand for new homes went bonkers in May. Sales surged 18.6% to an annualized rate of 504,000 units. Economists were forecasting a 439,000 pace. "This is a very welcome jump in sales - the biggest m/m increase in 22 years but the usual caveats apply," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "These data are hyper-volatile, with a margin of error of +/-17.3%, and are subject to potentially large revisions." According to the report, the median sales price for homes sold during the month was $282,000. The average price was $319,200. "The seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale at the end of May was 189,000," reported the Census Bureau. "This represents a supply of 4.5 months at the current sales rate." "While housing data largely disappointed in April relative to our expectations of a rebound following weather-related softness in Q1, the solid May prints in both new and existing home sales provide encouraging evidence that housing activity will end Q2 on a much stronger note," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. From the report: Census   FREE AppDownload
The Richmond Fed's survey fell to 3 in May, down from a reading of 7 in April. Consensus was for a reading of 7. "Retail sales fell and big-ticket sales slackened, while shopper traffic rose more slowly than in May," the Fed said. Meanwhile, revenues accelerated at non-retail services firms.  Service-sector respondents said they were optimistic about business prospects for the next six months. Manufacturing conditions softened, with the hiring sub-index falling to a reading of 3 from 10.  Here's what it's looked like recently: Econoday FREE AppDownload
APSince it swept into Congress during the 2010 wave elections, the Tea Party has claimed small victories in blocking President Obama's legislative priorities and extracting spending cuts through debt-ceiling ceasefires. But if things go their way this fall, they would get their first true scalp: the Export-Import bank. Reinvigorated by the GOP primary loss of House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, the Tea Party is on the verge of claiming perhaps its biggest policy victory in Washington. Its victim would be an institution that has existed for 80 years and far beyond the Obama era — since the New Deal era of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration.  "It would be a huge victory, not only within the context of the Obama era but in terms of efforts to unwind the New Deal," said Dan Holler, the communications director of Heritage Action, which supports letting the bank's charter expire at a Sept. 30 deadline. Conservatives began moving against the Ex-Im Bank in 2012, when its reauthorization received the fewest votes since the administration of President Nixon. But two recent events elevated the Tea Party's standing in the battle — the loss of Cantor, a supporter of the bank and a key broker in a the 2012 deal to reauthorize its charter, and the promotion of Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-California), who is set to become the House Majority Leader in August. McCarthy's move up means Ex-Im Bank opponents will have friends in the No. 2 and No. 3 House GOP slots — both McCarthy and incoming House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-Louisiana) are opposed to reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank's charter. For years, the Tea Party movement has railed against "cronyism" and "corporate welfare." Now, the movement has found something to point to as an example. "We had this sea change in 2012 where people saw the bank as this perfect example of everything that's wrong with Washington," Holler told Business Insider on Monday, referring to the 93 votes against the bank's reauthorization back then. "You can have big companies going to this bank, which is backed by taxpayers, and using this bank to help themselves. This isn't the proper role of the federal government. We're kind of on the hook here like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, if things go wrong." Chris Krueger, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities who has been following the Ex-Im Bank fight, said a win from the Tea Party would be their most significant win since the disastrous plunge into federal government shutdown last year — if not their biggest yet. "They have legislative momentum again," Krueger said in an email. "[But] you have to give them credit for sequester and holding the line on sequester." FREE AppDownload
tune2tune on statigr.amMorgan Stanley's CEO James Gorman wrote in an internal memo that the bank received 90,000 applications for summer analysts and associates, Bloomberg News Michael Moore reports.  The bank extended offers to 1,000 of those who applied. That's a 1.1% acceptance rate. Based on those numbers, it's harder to score a summer internship at Morgan Stanley than to get into an Ivy League. Last year, Goldman Sachs' COO Gary Cohn said they had 17,000 applicants for 350 summer analyst positions. That gives Goldman about a 2% acceptance rate for internships. FREE AppDownload
Trulia's proprietary "Bubble Watch" index suggests home prices are actually  3% undervalued in Q2 2014, relative to long-term fundamentals, writes Jed Kolko at Trulia.  To gauge whether home prices are over- or undervalued, Kolko considers "the price-to-income ratio, the price-to-rent ratio, and prices relative to their long-term trends using multiple data sources." "Sharply rising prices aren’t necessarily a sign of a bubble; a bubble is when prices look high relative to fundamentals," explained Kolko. Kolko expects that home prices will be neither over nor undervalued come Q4 2014 or Q1 2015. How does this compare with the top and bottom in housing? According to Trulia's index, home prices were 15% undervalued at the Q4 2011 bottom and 39% overvalued at the Q1 2006 top. For those worried about a newly inflated housing bubble though, Kolko writes that there's no reason to worry since the pace of home price growth is actually slowing. Here's a look at the latest Bubble Watch chart: Trulia   FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoChef Danny Meyer — of Shake Shack, Gramercy Tavern, and The Modern fame — is being forced to move his flagship restaurant, Union Square Cafe, out of its now-hip namesake home, says The New York Times. Yes, the restaurant does have NYC culinary landmark status, but that still doesn't save it from the same problem plaguing establishments all over Manhattan — the rent is too damn high. The space that Meyer rented out for $8 per square foot, or $43,000 a year, in the mid-'80s is now going for $650,000. Meyer says that increase, combined withe renovations it needs to maintain the quality of the entire experience, makes it impossible for him to stay. Plus, Meyer doesn't believe in taking money from one restaurant to sustain another (i.e. taking Shake Shack money to prop up Union Square Cafe). His model is that if an establishment can't stand on its own, it can't thrive. So what model is working? The same one New Yorkers have been seeing restaurants and clubs take on since the financial crisis and even before. Many are finding homes within hotels, malls, apartment buildings, and the like that offer restaurants and clubs lower rent because they draw in foot traffic. Meyer first rented the space from the current owner, Ari Ellis', father. The younger Ellis, for his part, thinks it's better for both parties if they part ways. "There are landlords out there willing to do back flips to get a Danny Meyer restaurant," he told the NYT. Later adding: "A Shake Shack could do very well in that space." For the full story (with some choice quotes from Chef Bobby Flay) head to the NYT&gt; FREE AppDownload
    We all lead incredibly busy lives, and sometimes it can be really hard to think about fitness. Especially since it might seem like you have to be in the office all the time. We visited Crossfit South Brooklyn to help solve that problem for you and discovered this awesome 4-minute workout that you can do right at your desk. FREE AppDownload
emilykneeter/flickrThis morning we got home-price data that showed slowing momentum. Prices were up over 10% from last year, but those gains are down a bit from recent peaks. And, in general, the housing numbers have been mixed. Starts and sales, though up significantly from recent years, remain quite low by historical standards, and don't appear to be on the verge of surging higher. In an email, Stan Humphries, the top economist at real-estate site Zillow, had the best characterization of the market that we've seen. Read this whole thing, especially the part that we've highlighted: “There’s no doubt that these can be confusing times for ordinary people trying to read the tea leaves. Home sales are up for the month, but down for the year. Case-Shiller is way up for the year, as always, but slowing. Inventory is coming back, but not at the low end of the market. Negative equity is falling, but is still extraordinarily high in many areas ... The reality is that the market is moving from one defined by distortions including high negative equity and constricted inventory, to one defined by fundamentals like household formation rates, jobs and income growth. Unfortunately, some of these fundamentals are still fairly weak. This is a multi-year process that we are far from done with. This ride is not for the faint of heart, but we are slowly getting back to normal.” Humphries is absolutely right about all of the distortions that have characterized the market in recent years. First there was the crash, obviously. Then the snapback. Then all the sales of distressed homes and huge investors scooping up homes in droves. All of these things are fading, and now we have something increasingly resembling a normal housing market. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVRobert ShillerNobel prize-winning economist Robert Shiller has warned about the high valuations in the stock market. But he always caveated that with the fact that he was very much invest in stocks himself. However, his tone has changed today. "I'm still in the market," said Shiller on CNBC this morning. "But I'm thinking of pulling back somewhat." Shiller noted that the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio was unusually high right now at 26. "Historically, it hasn't been that high many time in history," he said. "1929, 2000, 2007..." CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.  If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 17x, the stock market is considered expensive. "It's really hard to forecast the market," he said. "It might continue this boom. But on the other hand, it is looking really high."   FREE AppDownload
i am real estate photographer via flickrThe 20-city S&amp;P Case-Shiller home price index climbed 0.19% month-over-month in April. Expectations were for prices to rise 0.8%. Year-over-year, home prices rose 10.82%, below expectations for an 11.5% year-over-year rise. The Case-Shiller report showed that 19 of its 20 cities saw lower annual gains in April than March.  The report's three California markets — Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco — saw returns worsen by about 3%. Boston was the only city that saw its annual rate improve.  This chart from S&amp;P shows the year-over-year change in home prices for Case-Shiller's 10-city and 20-city composite indices. S&P Dow Jones IndicesThis chart from S&amp;P shows the city-by-city breakdown of price increases. Of note are Detroit, which has seen prices increase 15% year-over-year, Las Vegas, which has seen prices rise 18.8% year-over-year, and San Francisco, which has seen prices rise 18.2% year-over-year. S&P Dow Jones IndicesThe FHFA reported that U.S. home prices were flat in April. The change for March remained 0.7%, as had been previously reported. Year-over-year, the FHFA said home prices were up 5.9%, with the U.S. index 6.9% below its April 2007 peak and roughly the same as the July 2005 index level. FREE AppDownload
Credit SuisseA new study from Wall Street bank Credit Suisse exposes the "dietary impact of 'sugar and sweeteners' and their role in the ongoing health debate surrounding obesity and diabetes." The accompanying video — "Sugar: Sweet With a Bitter Aftertaste" — visualizes the sorry state of sugar consumption. The harrowing effect of sugar consumption on American waistlines isn't necessarily new news, but Credit Suisse does an excellent job of breaking down just how out of control it has gotten (especially in the U.S., where they had to literally adjust the y-axis of one of their charts so that U.S. soda consumption could be mapped). We grabbed some screenshots from Credit Suisse's video to break it down. FREE AppDownload
BonhamsThings got intense at the Bonhams auctionhouse in Sydney earlier today. A Chinese blue-and-white porcelain "dragon" box with an estimated value of around $1,000-$2,000 sold for a whopping $138,178. William Albano points us to an Art Daily report, which explains that the bidding came down to two unnamed collectors, one online and one in the salesroom. According to Art Daily, the in-room bidder won. The box is 16.3 cm high, 23.8 cm wide, and 23 cm deep. Some folks have warned that art valuations are in a bubble. However, this is really the concern of only the super-rich. Legendary short-seller Jim Chanos has recommended shorting auctionhouse Sotheby's to play the bubble. "This is still driven by art, which is socially acceptable conspicuous consumption," Chanos said. "It's one of the ultimate barometers of the 1 percent, or the one-tenth of 1 percent." For now, auctions like this recent one in Sydney continue to confirm that art prices are still going up. FREE AppDownload
APSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - A group of influential Internet moguls aim to fix what they refer to as the "big money problem" in Washington politics by, well, raising cash. Forming a Super Political Action Committee (PAC) called Mayday, the executives hope to raise $12 million by the midterm elections in November in hopes of supporting candidates who are committed to changing how elections are financed. Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak joined the campaign late last week, alongside Union Square Ventures' Fred Wilson; Paypal cofounder and libertarian activist Peter Thiel; and LinkedIn cofounder Reid Hoffmann. Their approach - using big money to fight big money - may seem odd, but the organizers note on the campaign website that they "embrace the irony." "You have to work with the system you've got," said Harvard law professor Lawrence Lessig, who along with Republican strategist Mark McKinnon came up with the idea to form a Super PAC. "I don't think it makes sense to back out to play the game." The organizers plan to use the funds to support five political candidates who will push for campaign finance reform. Lessig said he is considering both Democrats and Republicans to ensure the effort crosses party lines. As a Super PAC, Mayday can raise unlimited amounts of money to bankroll political campaigns or causes so long as it operates independently of the candidates they support. The organizers have called Mayday "the Super PAC to end all Super PACs" Lessig, a founding board member of Creative Commons and former board member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, told Reuters the objective is to find a way to change the way that elections are funded. In its first two weeks, the imitative garnered $1 million from grassroots donations. In addition, Thiel and Hoffmann, venture capitalists Brad Burnham and Fred and Joanne Wilson, and Chris Anderson, organizer of the TED conference, agreed to donate $1 million apiece. Lessig hopes to raise an additional $5 million by July 4. If successful, Mayday will launch a much larger campaign in 2016 to reverse laws that have granted undue political influence to corporations. According to Lessig, the goals for the campaign are "narrow." Mayday is not a veiled effort to advance the tech agenda, he repeatedly stressed. "If we're successful, some of our donors will have less influence than they do now, personally and through their corporations," he added. "They are spending money to reduce their political influence." This wouldn't be the first attempt to curb the explosion of outside spending. A similar effort, dubbed Soros’ Friends of Democracy, is being run by Jonathan Soros, son of billionaire financier George Soros. “Until we fix the root problem – the big money problem – we’re going to keep dealing with attack after attack on a free, open and innovative Internet," Wozniak said in a video to promote the Mayday campaign. (Reporting By Christina Farr; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsVertex Pharmaceuticals stock is rocketing higher after the company reported positive results from a study for its cystic fibrosis treatment. In pre-market trading, shares were up as much as 55%. Vertex's study showed, "statistically significant improvement" in lung function for cystic fibrosis patients with a certain gene mutation. Adam Feuerstein of TheStreet wrote following the results that they were, "Maybe not a home run, per se, but sticking with the baseball analogy, I'd say the study results are a base-clearing triple." Vertex said that it will seek approval for the treatment with the U.S. FDA and European Medicines Agency in the fourth quarter. Feuerstein wrote in his report that last year, he laid out a way Vertex could generate $10 billion annual sales from cystic fibrosis treatments. These results are a huge part of that equation. These results are a great example of the binary events that pharmaceutical investors face when a company's drug trial results or regulatory approvals are released.  Following a trial result or regulatory meeting, shares of pharmaceutical companies are apt to rally sharply higher or completely tank. Today, Vertex shareholders will feel like winners. FREE AppDownload
Here's a chart of public construction spending (highways, schools, etc.) as a percentage of GDP. FRED During the crisis, state and local governments got absolutely hammered, massively cutting infrastructure spending. That pullback compounded the overall weakness, and it's continued for years even after the recession has ended. But it might finally be about to turn around. A survey of dealers of Caterpillar equipment, performed by Credit Suisse, turned up this observation: "Dealers noted some signs of life in multi-family housing, automotive, hospitals, schools and data centers. Dealers also noted government spending has bottomed and energy in most cases remains solid, although mining is still dead." There are several signs of a rebound in the US economy. If government spending turns back higher, this is yet another significant tailwind. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSChinese traders work at their computer terminals at the Shanghai Stock Exhange June 16, 1998.BEIJING (Reuters) - Legendary Chinese oil trader "Crazy Yang" Qinglong, who started China's oil business with Iran in the 1990s and was renowned as a hard-drinker who bear-hugged Iranian officials, has died, said company officials and former acquaintances. "He's a legend, a tough man, a man of perseverance," said an oil industry executive who plans to attend Yang's funeral at his hometown in southwestern Yunnan province. "You can hardly find a second such Chinese official who achieved what Yang has achieved." Yang, 62, who died of cancer on Sunday, set up China's state trader Zhuhai Zhenrong Corp around 1995 after "high-level military friends" wanted someone to formally import crude oil from Iran. At the time, Iran was supplying oil to China to pay for arms supplied by Beijing during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war. By 2001, Yang's state trader was supplying 16 percent of China's crude imports, importing 11 million tonnes of Iranian crude or 220,000 barrels per day. A decade later Zhuhai Zhenrong was the biggest supplier of refined petroleum products back to Iran, according to the U.S. State Department. The Chinese oil trader brokered the delivery of more than $500 million in gasoline to Iran between July 2010 and January 2011, contravening U.S. sanctions law. Yang was a hard-drinker from a military background who always wore an army-green jacket, with a matching canvas bag slung over his shoulder. Stories of Yang banging his fist on a table demanding that a Chinese refiner take Iranian oil or how he greeted Iranian officials with a bear-hug and hoisted them into the air, painted an image of a larger than life character. He would regale dinner companions with how he spent much of his youth in a mental hospital. Yang called himself "Crazy Yang". "Some (Chinese) officials scoffed at Yang for his not totally refined behavior like hard drinking, but I respect Yang as oil industry person who did something to serve the country's political needs, not just in pursuit of commercial gains," said the executive who plans to attend Yang's funeral. Yang was the person who connected China's current state energy majors CNPC, Sinopec and CNOOC with Tehran, sources said. Former colleagues attribute Yang's success to his eloquence, consummate networking skills and ambition. "Crazy Yang's superb networking skills and his unusual personality are the valuable assets that few Chinese officials of his position can match," said a former Zhenrong trader. In quieter moments, colleagues said Yang was something of a bookworm and movie-buff. They said he read and re-read biographies on Napoleon and Hitler and the 18th century Chinese classic 'A Dream of Red Mansions'. He took staff to the cinema to watch Hollywood movies 'Gladiator' and 'Saving Private Ryan'. Yang retired in 2011 to become Zhenrong's advisor. "China's Iranian oil business has been carried on till today largely because of Yang's heritage," said the former Zhenrong trader.   (Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon This is a good quick nugget. Credit Suisse surveyed dealers of Caterpillar equipment. These dealers have a great perspective on the economy, since they sell heavy equipment to folks in a range of economic endeavors, spanning the public and private sectors. Anyway, read what they have to say, it's really positive: Green Shoots Continue in US: For 2014, 95% of the dealers we surveyed are exceeding their forecasts, with the year now expected to be up 8-12% y/y versus 5-7% initially forecasted. Positive housing commentary was fairly broad-based, whereas non-residential is mixed but better on the margin. Dealers noted some signs of life in multi-family housing, automotive, hospitals, schools and data centers. Dealers also noted government spending has bottomed and energy in most cases remains solid, although mining is still dead. Dealer inventory levels are very low, and dealers are already concerned about lead times across multiple lines of equipment. Used equipment remains hard to come by, and rental is strong. Pricing remains competitive, particularly for CAT, DE, and Komatsu. That last line about dealer inventory and pricing helps bolster the inflation thesis. FREE AppDownload
NestGoogle-owned thermostat and smoke alarm maker, Nest Labs, has announced a new programme to encourage developers to integrate their products and services with Nest's own devices. Over the past year, a multitude of connected devices have come onto the market – ranging from a from a toothbrush that analyses your brushing habits to a smart door lock that sends you a text when it is activated. All of these devices claim to be part of the 'smart home' of the future. But the vision for the smart home is not just about hooking up everyday objects to the internet. It's also about connecting them to one another. Nest's developer programme allows anything from lighting to appliances to fitness bands and cars to connect with the Nest Learning Thermostat and Nest Protect alarm, with the aim of making homes safer, more energy efficient, and more 'aware'. To kick off the programme, Nest has partnered with a range of brands including Mercedes-Benz, Jawbone, Whirlpool, Logitech, Chamberlain, LIFX and IFTTT. For example, your Mercedes-Benz car can now tell Nest when you’ll be home so that your thermostat can start heating or cooling at exactly the right time to ensure the house is the right temperature when you walk in the door. Or your Jawbone UP24 band can detect when you wake up and tell Nest to start to heating up or cooling down the home before you even step out of bed. If you're out for the day, your Nest thermostat can have your Whirlpool washer and dryer keep clothes fresh and wrinkle-free when the cycle ends. The dryer can also switch into a longer, more energy efficient cycle when you’re away. Or if Nest Protect detects elevated smoke or carbon monoxide levels, LIFX light bulbs can flash red to let you know there might be danger and help signal those who are hearing impaired. These integrations are just the beginning, according to Nest, and the company hopes that many developers – from global corporations and small companies to startups and tinkerers – will build integrations with Nest products using the Nest application programming interfaces (APIs). Google Ventures and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers have also launched a 'Thoughtful Things Fund' to help smaller developers get the support and visibility necessary to get their projects off the ground. "We have no idea what people are going to do, and that's part of what makes this so exciting. It's a lot like when the iPhone came out, there were the apps that Apple pre-loaded, and then there were the thousands of apps that people went to on to build," said Matt Rogers, founder and vice president of engineering at Nest. "We did a hackathon internally to see what people would do, and we had a developer do a Shabbat app, to make the temperature constant from Friday night to Saturday night because he was Jewish. We had a developer create a Twitter handle for his house, so he could Tweet his house to say he's coming home." Rogers explained that customers will be able to see and manage all their integrations within the Nest app, but the intention is not to replace existing apps, which offer their own unique interfaces and experiences. "We don't really believe in this 'one app to rule them all' strategy, because what happens is you lose a lot of the interesting features and benefits that each product brings," he said. Nest requires all developers to let users know what information they are requesting and why they are requesting it, so that when users choose to authorise a connection between their Nest device and another product, they understand exactly what they’re authorising and how it will benefit them. Nest also limits the amount of data held by developers by not sending them personally identifiable information about users or permitting them to retain more than 10 trailing days of data. Users can choose to disconnect an integration at anytime.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mariana BazoSenior soccer players take part in a match at a soccer field in Miraflores, in Lima, June 19, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Putin Pulls Back. "The upper house of Russia's parliament, the Federation Council, will on Wednesday revoke a resolution authorizing military intervention in Ukraine at President Vladimir Putin's request, the Interfax agency reported, citing the deputy head of the chamber's international affairs committee, Andrei Klimov," reports Reuters' Jason Bush. The prospect of less turmoil has Russian stocks and bonds rallying. Carney Confusion. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney made some dovish comments, emphasizing muted wage growth and slack in the labor markets. The British pound is tanking on what appears to be a reversal in tone. Earlier this month, Carney made a statement that sent hawkish chills down the market's spine. Here's what he said on June 12: "There’s already great speculation about the exact timing of the first rate hike and this decision is becoming more balanced. It could happen sooner than markets currently expect." The New Japanese Stimulus Package Is Out. "Prime Minister Shinzo Abe unveiled a package of measures on Tuesday aimed to boost Japan's long-term economic growth, from phased-in corporate tax cuts to a bigger role for women and foreign workers, but applause from investors is likely to be muted after Tokyo backpedalled on bolder reforms," reports Reuters' Tetsushi Kajimoto and Stanley White. "Abe took office 18 months ago pledging to end deflation and generate sustainable growth with a three-pronged strategy of monetary easing, fiscal spending and reform." German Sentiment Data Disappoints. The German IFO business climate index fell to 109.7 in June from 110.4 in May. Economists were forecasting a 110.3 print. "Leading indicators in the euro area’s largest economy continue to show weakness," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. This is slightly surprising given the ECB announcement of further easing in June, and stock markets reaching new highs in Germany." Dubai's Stock Market Is Crashing. Dubai's stock market fell by as much as 8% earlier today, and it's down by over 20% in the last month. Leading the way lower is construction company Arabtec, which has been tanking amid layoffs rumors. Markets Mixed. Some markets are up and some markets are down. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down by 0.2%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%, Germany's DAX is flat, and Spain's IBEX is down 0.1%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed flat and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.3%. U.S. futures are in the red with Dow futures down 23 points and S&amp;P futures down 3.6 points. Home Prices. The S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home prices index report will be published at 9:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate home prices climbed by just 0.85% month-over-month in April or 11.73% year-over-year. "With the past year's uptrend in home prices, distressed sales have been shrinking as a proportion of total sales," noted UBS's Coffin. "At the same time, however, distressed properties have been appreciating somewhat faster than non-distressed. The net effect has been an increased contribution to overall prices from distressed sales. Broader measures of prices, such as the SP/CS, have benefited, while narrower measures, such as the FHFA, have lagged somewhat." New Home Sales. The new home sales report will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate sales climbed 1.6% to an annualized pace of 440,000 in May. "There was a modest pickup in the NAHB index of prospective buyers traffic on the month, and mortgage rates declined to their lowest levels of the year in May, both of which suggest a modest rise in sales after a soft start to the year," said Barclays economists. Consumer Confidence. The Conference Board's index of sentiment will be updated at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate the index  improved to 83.5 in June from 83.0 in May. "A variety of factors combine to suggest consumer confidence, as measured by the Conference Board, rose in May," said Credit Suisse economists. "These include a pause in gasoline price increases, improving news on the job front, and the continued uptrend in the broad stock indices." A Golfer, A Gambler, And An Investor... "Federal authorities have sought information from two companies in connection with an insider-trading probe examining the activities of investor Carl Icahn, sports bettor William T. Walters and professional golfer Phil Mickelson, according to people familiar with the matter," reports the WSJ's Susan Pulliam and Michael Rothfeld.  The reported investigation involves trading in Dean Foods and Clorox. "I have never given out inside information," said Carl Icahn after initial reports in May. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Timothy A. ClaryUS singer Michael Jackson performs at the world-famous Apollo Theater in York, April 24, 2002Michael Jackson fans will place flowers on his grave in Los Angeles this week to mark the fifth anniversary of his death, but half a decade on, the pop icon's financial fortunes are positively blooming. The self-proclaimed King of Pop was struggling to avoid bankruptcy when he died on June 25, 2009. At the time, he was in rehearsals for a series of comeback shows he hoped would resurrect his earlier jaw-dropping wealth. But in five years since, the Michael Jackson Estate -- which runs his affairs on behalf of Jackson's mother and three children -- has earned over $700 million, according to a new book about the singer's business empire. "Michael Jackson is making more money now, five years after his death, than he had been since the prime of his career," Zack Greenburg, author of "Michael Jackson Inc.," told AFP. Die-hard Jackson fans staged a flash mob Sunday ahead of Wednesday's anniversary -- when more are expected to pay their respects at the Forest Lawn cemetery just outside Los Angeles, where the pop megastar is buried. While the business side is going well and fans are celebrating his legacy, it's been a tough few years for his family -- both through losing Jackson himself, and because of the frenzy of legal action unleashed by his shock death. One of the biggest was the criminal trial of Conrad Murray, the doctor who, while treating Jackson for insomnia, gave him the clinical anesthetic propofol that killed him at his Holmby Hills mansion five years ago. Murray was eventually convicted of involuntary manslaughter and jailed for four years. He was released last October after two years behind bars. Then came the civil trial brought by Jackson's aging mother Katherine, who sued tour promoters AEG Live claiming they negligently hired an incompetent doctor and drove her son to his death. A jury threw out her claims. But while the family came to grips with their loss, the Michael Jackson Estate, led by executors John Branca and John McClain, got straight down to business five years ago. Above all, they had to rapidly generate revenues to stave off the massive debts that Jackson had built up in the last five years of his life. In his heyday, Jackson -- whom Greenburg said "fundamentally changed the formula for monetizing fame forever" -- was making over $100 million a year, with hits including 1982's "Thriller," still the biggest selling album ever. He had also bought the Beatles back catalogue for $47.5 million in 1985, an investment estimated to be worth $1 billion today. But the child molestation charges that engulfed Jackson in the mid-2000s brought an end to the good times. Jackson, who temporarily went to live in Bahrain, almost had to sell his beloved Neverland ranch. In his final years, he was still going on massive spending binges, taking loans on his assets to cover the bills. At the lowest point, his debts totaled some $500 million, forcing him to plan for the doomed comeback concerts in 2009. After Jackson's death, one of the estate's first money-making ventures was the "This is It" motion picture, patched together from footage of rehearsals for the doomed final tour. The film made some $200 million worldwide. A few months after his death, Sony and his lawyers signed a record contract said to be worth over $200 million by The Wall Street Journal -- foreseeing the release of seven albums over 10 years. The estate also did deals with Cirque du Soleil for both a touring show and a permanent show based at the Mandalay Bay casino in Las Vegas. Only last month, Jackson was back on stage -- as a hologram -- performing at the Billboard 2014 Music Award event in Las Vegas. Jackson, or rather his hologram, sang and moonwalked to "A Slave to the Rhythm" recorded in 1991 and included on the recently-released album "Xscape," the second since his death, following "Michael" in 2010. Greenburg said the star's financial turnaround, in death, was unprecedented. "If you look at the numbers, it's actually over $700 million in five years. Over that period of time... no living artist has gotten anywhere close to that," he told AFP. "Regardless of where the King of Pop's spirit resides, one thing's for sure: Michael Jackson, Inc. is alive and well," he concluded in his book. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mosab Omar  The Dubai stock market crashed today, with the main index falling over 6.5%, after being down 8% at one point. Bloomberg The market has been in a bear market even before today, having fallen about 20% over the last month. One big negative driver has been Arabtec, a big construction company, whose shares have been plunging amid layoff rumors. The stock is down 50% this month. Something to know is that Dubai is one of the hottest real estate markets in the world and it got crushed in the last crash. Here's a chart showing just how insane Dubai's gains have been. Prices rose 32% in Q1 from a year ago. So this is definitely something to watch. GlobalPropertyGuide FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPortugal's Finance Minister Maria Luis Albuquerque attends a news conference in LisbonLISBON (Reuters) - A month after Portugal emerged from its international bailout, its lenders are far from the promised land they might have hoped for. Most predict losses for 2014 due to a weak economy, low credit demand and a resulting price war that depressed loan rates to levels the chief executive of second-largest listed bank, Millennium BCP's &lt;BCP.LS&gt; Nuno Amado, says are too low. Yet while ratings agencies continue to hold the sector among Europe's weakest, several of the country's most senior bankers told Reuters they believe the worst is over. "They (rating agencies) were late in understanding the situation of many banks (before the crisis) and now I think they are late again in recognizing the major improvements that are taking place in Portuguese banking," said Fernando Ulrich, chief executive of Portugal's third-largest listed bank BPI &lt;BBPI.LS&gt;. It was day-to-day concerns of growth and recovery that were last week top of the minds of Amado, Ulrich and the chief executive of Santander Totta, Portugal's third-largest bank, rather an executive shakeout at their rival Banco Espirito Santo &lt;BES.LS&gt;. After months of wrangling with the Bank of Portugal, BES's founding family agreed to cede its seats on the bank's board and their patriarch Ricardo Espirito Santo Salgado stepped down as chief executive. The central bank's key aim was to avoid any threat to BES and any risks to confidence in the broader banking system, which has assets of almost 460 billion euros ($624.5 billion) or 2.8 times Portugal's economic output as measured by GDP. The three largest Portuguese banks are valued at 1.003 times their book values, just a whisker away from the 1.01 times average multiple of the banks that make up the STOXX Europe 600 &lt;.SX7P&gt; banks index, according to Reuters data. At the heart of the banking sector's outlook is the state of the domestic economy. As Portugal emerges from its deepest recession since the 1970s, unemployment has fallen from its 16.3 percent high in 2031 to 14.9 percent by March 2014, but remains well below the single-digit levels that were the pre-crisis norm. It is a populous banking market. A short stretch of Lisbon's main thoroughfare, Avenida de Liberdade, boasts branches of Portugal's four big domestic banks, along with a Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; branch and an outlet of Spain's BBVA &lt;BBVA.MC&gt;. Nearby, at the Praca Marque's de Pombai, stand branches of Britain's Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; and Banco do Brasil &lt;BBAS3.SA&gt; - both of which are reportedly considering pulling out. Portugal's banks had an average return on equity of minus 10.2 percent in 2013, against a positive 6.6 percent for Europe's 30 largest quoted banks. With 45 billion euros of cheap ECB funding - one of the highest levels in the euro zone - Portuguese banks should have an advantage over peers. "We view the operating environment for Portuguese banks as still difficult," said Pepa Mori, lead analyst for the sector at ratings agency Moody's, pointing to concerns about bad loans, weak profits and low loan demand. Her colleague Johannes Wassenberg gives short shrift to suggestions ratings agencies are slow to recognize improvements. "That’s the eternal reaction of issuers when we take rating actions that are not upgrades," he said. Moody's recently upgraded its outlook for the Portuguese state, but not for its banks, while fellow agency Standard &amp; Poors upgraded the outlook for the sovereign and all banks except BCP, but still has considerable qualms. S&amp;P's methodology gives Portuguese banks a score of seven out of 10, where 1 is lowest risk, meaning it sees the sector as among the weakest in the eurozone. Moody's Wassenberg said: "It's a very very fragile economic environment ... Some of the banks are extremely vulnerable." Many equity analysts are also cautious on Portuguese banks. Reuters data shows BCP is the only one of the top three listed lenders with an overall "buy" rating, with seven of 13 analysts recommending it. But BPI's Ulrich does not believe Portuguese banks are structurally weaker than those in the rest of Europe. "The banks that had losses last year was mainly due to a very high level of credit impairments, and I don’t see why this would repeat." Reuters research shows impairment charges ate up 54 percent of total income at Portugal's three largest listed banks in 2013, dipping to 52 percent in the first quarter of 2014.   CHEAP LOANS Banks predict a fall in loan losses this year, but the ratio of bad loans to total loans could continue to rise from the 16.9 percent of loans deemed "at risk" at the end of March. One banking expert familiar with the Portuguese market, who asked not to be named as he is not authorized to speak to journalists, said he fears the system could already be storing up its next round of non-performing loans by lending too cheaply, at rates which don't adequately reflect the level of risk being taken. "The interest rate was, for the good names, one year ago near 6 percent. We are now speaking about 2 percent," said Santander Totta's Antonio Vieira Monteiro. Monteiro insists he can still make money at these rates, particularly since he has 3.7 billion euros of ECB funding costing him just 0.15 percent per year. Santander Totta's profits were up 300 percent for the first three months of 2014. But his peers don't all share his rosy view. "In my opinion they (loan prices) are coming down too fast,” said Amado. "There is a risk that the prices are too low.” The BPI boss believes the ECB's new cheap four-year funding program could help boost lending volumes, since it will enable banks to make more longer-term loans. But BCP's Ulrich - whose bank is set to announce a 2 billion euros share issue, according to sources familiar with the matter - said companies won't start borrowing again en masse until there are clearer signs of economic recovery. Another trend which could be positive would be a reduction in the number of banks. "In a shrinking market it would make sense to have fewer banks," said Ulrich. "The economics of consolidation are there, but I don’t think it will happen." Monteiro agreed that prospects of consolidation are slim in the short term, since banks must first get control of their own issues. "I think we are two thirds of our way, we have to do one third more," said Amado of the sector's restructuring effort. "I understand that we have a much more difficult situation vis-a-vis our European counterparts, however, I don’t understand why, if we passed the last three or four years as we did, we have not an opportunity that is larger, in terms of evolution." Pre-crisis, Amado's bank had 10,000 staff and 1,400 branches in Portugal. By the end of 2015, it will have 7,500 staff and 698 branches. "Do you see many other companies doing that?" International diversification also helps, he said. Major banks all have large operations outside Portugal, including some with returns on equity as high as 30 percent. Their overall performance is winning some fans, with shares across the three largest listed banks up an equally weighted average of 53 percent in the last two years. "Portuguese banks show multiples that are comparable with banks in other countries," said Ulrich. "I think the markets are recognizing the recovery."   (Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
A couple weeks ago, Bank of England chief Mark Carney sent a chill down the spine of global markets when he said rate hikes might come sooner than expected. Now it sounds like we're getting a little walkback. In comments today, he's emphasizing that wage growth has been surprisingly muted and that the system still has slack, meaning inflation isn't a big risk. So now it sounds like there's no rush for the Bank of England to raise rates. As such, the pound is tanking From FinViz: FinViz Anyway, the general mood seems to be confusion, about what exactly the policy message is that's being sent. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philip BrownIndia is one of the world's largest economies, and it has the second largest population. This means things in India tend to be fairly large-scaled — consider its network of roads, consumer spending, or its youth population. But it also experiences some problems on a large scale like suicides and road accidents. We pulled together some staggering statistics from the sub-continent. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Claro Cortes IVThe crackdown on corruption has been a hallmark of Chinese president Xi Jinping's reign. Increasing corruption in the party was seen as one of the biggest threats to its survival, and Xi has made it clear that he will stomp it out.  So it isn't surprising that top officials in China are wary of doing anything that could make it seem like they are corrupt in anyway. And that, means officials are even wary of being caught playing golf. David J. Merkel of The Aleph Blog, interviewed Dan Washburn, author of "The Forbidden Game", on the implications of golfing in China. Golf is largely considered the domain of the wealthy, since a round of golf in a Shanghai suburb can reportedly cost 1,000 yuan ($160), about 50% of the monthly minimum wage in Shanghai. Here's an excerpt from Merkel: From the book Prisoner of the State, Zhao Ziyang, even while in captivity was allowed to go golfing.  Now, many in the Party distrusted Zhao because he had adopted too many Western habits and modes of thought.  Has golf been legitimized for Party members to partake in, so long as they aren’t too flamboyant about it?  I don’t think so. Golf remains a taboo topic for China’s political elite, perhaps even more so now than in years past thanks to Xi Jinping’s ongoing crackdown on government corruption. Simply put, Chinese officials shouldn’t be able to afford to play golf in China. Their salaries are modest (last year, it was reported that President Xi’s annual salary is just $19,000) and golf in China is extremely expensive (it can cost $150, often more, to play 18 holes). So, while most Chinese assume that all government officials have other sources of income, playing golf on a regular basis would be a rather conspicuous admission of double-dealing. We all know some Chinese officials are filthy rich, and some indeed do play golf — but they still need to do so on the sly. Anyone in two minds about Xi's crackdown on corruption should read this excellent piece by Jamil Anderlini in the Financial Times that notes, that by going after Ling Zhengce, brother of Ling Jihua, a former top aide of Hu Jintao, Xi has taken an "autocratic turn." "But the assault on the Ling clan, and by extension Mr Hu, is just the latest jab at some of the most powerful ruling families in China, including some who were previously seen as patrons to Mr Xi," writes Anderlini. Click here for Merkel's complete Q&amp;A » FREE AppDownload
Rebecca FondrenGet excited! There's a ton of juicy economic data coming out today. Per Calculated Risk, there are 5 numbers coming out between 9 AM and 10 AM ET. They are: The Case-Shiller Home Price Index, The FHFA Home Price Index, New Home Sales, The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index, And The Richmond Fed Manufacturing Index. We'll be covering each LIVE, and by the end of it, we should know more about the state of the US economy, from the perspective of housing, consumers, and businesses. The latest data appears to confirm an ongoing uptick in the economy. We'll see if today's numbers corroborate that. FREE AppDownload
APPresident Obama signs the Ex-Im reauthorization into law in 2012.House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's stunning loss in his Republican primary introduced a number of potential unpredictable macroeconomic events into the 2014 calendar. But perhaps nothing stands to lose more than a bank that came into existence in the New Deal era of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration. The movement toward the death of the Export-Import Bank, first targeted by conservative grassroots as a priority in 2012, has finally appeared to hit its stride. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. Its charter expires at the end of September, unless Congress acts to renew it. Cantor was largely responsible in 2012 for brokering a deal to extend the Bank's charter and raise its lending authority to $140 billion. But on Sunday, incoming House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy signaled a major shift when he called for the closure of the bank.  "One of the biggest problems with government is they go and take hard-earned money so others do things the private sector can do," McCarthy, who voted for the Bank's reauthorization in 2012, told Fox News' Chris Wallace on Sunday. "That's what the Ex-Im Bank does. The last authorization with the Ex-Im Bank directed the president and the Treasury secretary to wind down the Ex-Im Bank, negotiate with the other countries to wind them down so we have a level playing field." When asked directly by Wallace if he thinks the bank should close, McCarthy said, "Yes, because it's something that the private sector can be able to do." The Ex-Im Bank, as it is typically called, was established under a 1934 executive order from Roosevelt as part of his desire to expand trade with the newly established Soviet Union and with Cuba. The bank became an independent entity in 1945.  It is the official export agency of the U.S. And its mission, according to its website, is to "assist in financing the export of U.S. goods and services to international markets." The Ex-Im Bank has been deeply involved in historically significant projects and transactions, including the constructions of the Pan-American Highway and Burma Road. Essentially, the Ex-Im Bank assists U.S. companies in their exports to provide them with an advantage against foreign companies, particularly if those foreign companies receive their own subsidies from their governments. This includes direct loans and loan guarantees to foreign buyers of U.S. goods and services, working capital guarantees, and export-credit insurance. Some of the biggest U.S. beneficiaries of the bank include companies like Boeing, General Electric, and Caterpillar. In its latest annual report, the Ex-Im Bank said it was responsible for supporting up to 1.2 million jobs over the past five years. In 2013 alone, that number was 205,000, according to the bank. (The bank employs fewer than 500 people.) Its reauthorization throughout history has not been controversial. Fourteen of the 16 times its reauthorization has come up for a vote, it has passed by either unanimous consent or voice vote in at least one chamber of Congress.  But over the last two years, the bank has come under increasingly intense scrutiny because opponents have latched on to the cause the bank provides "corporate welfare."  The Club for Growth, Heritage Action, and other conservative groups have launched campaigns calling for it to shut down. In the House, the powerful House Financial Services Committee Chair Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) has led the charge against reauthorization. McCarthy, soon to be the No. 2 House Republican, became the most significant member of Congress to join the bandwagon.  "We're starting to see the Republican Party as a whole not reflexively saying, 'If this is good for big business, I'm in favor of it,'" Dan Holler, the communications director for Heritage Action, told Business Insider on Monday. The Tea Party-supported argument, one advocated by Heritage Action and others, centers around claims the Bank is a form of "crony capitalism" and "corporate welfare." In many ways, it embodies the larger fundamental dispute within the Republican Party. Though many in the establishment view the bank as a good function of government, conservatives see it as an overreach. They compare it to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two entities that were taken over by the U.S. government in 2008 amid the financial crisis. "We had this sea change in 2012 where people saw the Bank as this perfect example of everything that's wrong with Washington," Holler said, referring to the 93 votes against the Bank's reauthorization back then, the most since the administration of President Richard Nixon. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters"You can have big companies going to this Bank, which is backed by taxpayers, and using this Bank to help themselves. This isn't the proper role of the federal government. We're kind of on the hook here like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, if things go wrong." Cantor's shocking loss and McCarthy's unexpected rise progressed the issue from a potentially bitter fight to one in which the Tea-Party types in the GOP seem to have the upper hand in the battle.  The White House and the Republican establishment-friendly Chamber of Commerce both pressed the case for the bank's renewal on Monday, one day after McCarthy's comments re-ignited the debate. The National Association of Manufacturers has also been lobbying on behalf of the bank, arguing manufacturing would be crushed by the bank's expiration. And on Monday, a group of more than 40 Republican members of Congress had signed off on a letter urging House leadership to take action to renew the Ex-Im Bank's charter. There are 60 other countries that have credit export agencies, which supporters of the bank say would be more than happy to scoop up sales and jobs from U.S. companies by being willing to offer similar support.  "What do we want to do? Give this business to the Europeans and the Chinese?" Tom Donohue, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, told reporters in a conference call on Monday.  Added a spokesperson for Caterpillar in a statement: "For the U.S. to close the Ex-Im Bank in this environment is surrendering export markets and economic growth in the U.S." The bank says it provided $27 billion to support an estimated $37.4 billion in U.S. export sales in fiscal year 2013, which helped sustain the more than 200,000 jobs. And it says it is a self-sustaining agency, claiming it has sent $1.6 billion back to the U.S. Treasury since 2008 in excess revenue.  Facebook/ Turkish AirlinesOne of the leading advocates for the bank is Tony Fratto, a former Bush administration White House and Treasury official who is now a partner at Hamilton Place Strategies. Fratto was described by a NAM official on Monday's conference call as one of a "dream team" of advocates for the bank, along with former House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt and former Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour. Fratto told Business Insider on Monday that about three-fourths of Ex-Im Bank critics have "no idea what they're talking about." Why? The single biggest thing every critic gets wrong, Fratto said, is the claim McCarthy made Sunday — that the private sector can and will pick up the slack. That's because no one in the private sector is currently structured to do what the Ex-Im Bank does. "That is flat-out wrong," Fratto said. "That will not happen. There is no private-sector response to what Ex-Im does. There are structural problems with our financial system and the needs of small and medium exporters. They will not do that business. Not because it's not good business, but because it's not their business. They can't do it." The problem is twofold. Using the bank SunTrust as an example, Fratto said smaller banks don't have the expertise to do what the Ex-Im Bank does. It doesn't have enough knowledge of the global landscape to facilitate deals in countries as diverse as Venezuela, Nigeria, Turkey, and Vietnam at the same time.  (For reference, the Ex-Im Bank's portfolio includes a range of 170 countries, and the Bank says about 90% of its transactions are to small businesses.) The second problem, according to Fratto: The big banks and insurers that do have that expertise have no interest in facilitating the small transactions that are the bread and butter of the Ex-Im Bank. "In no one's imagination is SunTrust going to come in and cover 40 countries just to do some trade finance deals. And it will never be profitable for Bank of America, or HSBC, or these other global firms who do possess the knowledge and reach and scope to do these one-off, little deals for some U.S. exporters," Fratto said. APOne real-world example cited by representatives from the Chamber and from NAM on the conference call Monday was FirmGreen Inc., which makes equipment used to purify biogas. Donohue said on the conference call that its CEO, Steven Wilburn, told lawmakers in April that his company lost a $57 million contract to a South Korean company because of the Ex-Im Bank's uncertain future. "We are hearing from large and small companies alike who are realizing that the numbers of competitive offers on big projects and on small ones would fundamentally change if this type of financing is not available," Donohue said. And the big beneficiaries of the bank, like Boeing, are worried about the possibility of its charter expiring. The company told Business Insider in a statement it would "be placed at a competitive disadvantage" to companies like Airbus, which has similar backing from export-credit agencies in France, Germany, and the U.K. "The airplane market is highly competitive, and every deal is won or lost by the slightest of margins. Any uncertainty in financing availability could unnecessarily tilt the field against Boeing, putting thousands of manufacturing jobs at risk," the company said in the statement. In all, the vast majority of companies want the Ex-Im Bank to continue. Delta, which has been a corporate outlier on the issue, says it wants the charter to be renewed, even as it presses for reforms to be on more of a level playing field with Boeing. Opponents of the bank are already declaring near-certain victory ahead of the Sept. 30 deadline. The incoming No. 2 House Republican, McCarthy, has now announced his opposition. A spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner told Business Insider he has made clear the debate should be left to members and, especially, the Financial Services Committee, which is chaired by Hensarling.  "Folks laughed at me when I was talking in March and April that, yes, the Ex-Im Bank was going to expire this year," Heritage Action's Holler said. "And each and every month since, we've gotten more and more momentum. There's no doubt that in the past couple weeks, things have really accelerated. And you'd be hard-pressed to find somebody who's talking optimistically about the Bank being reauthorized." About the only source of optimism left for backers is the fact the Ex-Im Bank supports more than 3,000 small businesses, which are included in every single district in the U.S. But on the contrary, there have been a number of recent Chamber-supported issues that haven't found their way through the House, including one of its biggest — immigration reform.  When asked if there would be "consequences" for lawmakers who resisted extending the Ex-Im Bank's charter, Donohue demurred. And he knew it. "I suppose you have to ask the voters. And if you think I ducked your question, you’re exactly right," Donohue said. For its part, a spokesperson from the Ex-Im Bank said it didn't have a reaction to McCarthy's comments, other than that it was still "optimistic that Congress will do what it has always done and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank." FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Carrie KellenbergerGood morning! Markets aren't really doing anything right now. Yesterday was one of the narrowest trading days in decades (in the US) as volatility and volume continue to bleed out of this market, much to the consternation of the financial services industry. Today things are quiet again. European stocks are basically flat, as are US futures. There's a lot of economic data today including the Case-Shiller home price index, Consumer Sentiment, and The Richmond Fed manufacturing index. So there will be plenty of stuff to chew over. FREE AppDownload
