Thomson ReutersBoeing 787 Dreamliner under construction is pictured at the Boeing facility in EverettSEATTLE (Reuters) - Workers at planemaker Boeing's  Everett plant near Seattle are following extra safety measures after three air bag-related accidents, including the death of a technician last month, the company said on Friday. No one was seriously hurt when an air bag deployed on Dec. 13 as a seat supplier technician was working on a Zodiac Aerospace seat on a plane being readied for delivery, Boeing spokesman Wilson Chow said. "We understand that employees are concerned," Chow said, adding the company was holding meetings with workers and was implementing additional safeguards and inspections. "We are confident the system is safe to work on and to be around, and the seat-belt air bag poses no risk to the flying public," Chow said. The accidental discharge of a seat-belt airbag happened because a bent connector pin caused a short circuit, he said. Chow confirmed a third incident but could not provide specifics, such as injuries or cause. A technician for aircraft interior supplier Jamco America died after being struck in the face when a passenger seat air-bag inflator discharged while he and another technician from a different supplier were working on a 777 on Nov. 13, the Seattle Times newspaper reported. A source who declined to be named said that workers were now following extra safety measures, including using caution tape to cordon off the seats.  The Dec. 13 incident involved an actual air bag deployment, Chow said, while the Nov. 13 incident happened as the system was partially assembled. "There is widespread concern," Connie Kelliher, spokeswoman for International Association of Machinists, District Lodge 751, told the newspaper. "We are actively involved and working to ensure our members concerns are addressed."  (Reporting by Alwyn Scott in New York and Eric M. Johnson in Seattle; Editing by Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles and Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
This year has seen a ton of watershed moments, from Scotland's historic vote for independence to the moment humans landed a probe on a comet for the first time ever.  In 2014, we also celebrated the youngest ever Nobel Peace Prize recipient, poured buckets of ice water over our heads, watched Kim Kardashian try to break the internet, and saw Alex from Target became an online sensation. Some of the news from 2014 was incredibly sobering. Ebola wreaked havoc in West Africa, Ferguson, Missouri became an epicenter for racial tension, Sony Pictures got hacked in what's been described as an act of cyber warfare by North Korea.  See how many of 2014's biggest events you can spot in the infographic below. For a complete list, check out Beutler Ink's blog.  Beutler Ink Here are a few of our favorites: A Polar Vortex blasted the nation with arctic air. Beutler Ink Thousands protested the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner, who were both black, unarmed, and killed by police officers. (Brown was shot, and Garner died after being put in a chokehold.) Beutler Inkl Hackers backed by North Korea launched a cyberattack against Sony Pictures in retaliation for "The Interview," which portrayed the assassination of that country's dictator. Beutler Ink Gay marriage bans were struck down in a number of states, including South Carolina and Kansas.  Beutler Ink Scotland voted against becoming an independent nation.  Beutler Ink Malala Yousafzai became the youngest ever Nobel Peace Prize winner, Emma Watson gave a sensational UN speech on feminism.  Beutler Ink Ellen DeGeneres took the most popular selfie of all time. Beutler Ink Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto denied being the creator of Bitcoin.  Beutler Ink And South Park character Randy Marsh revealed he is actually singer-songwriter Lorde. Beutler Ink
Thomson ReutersIllustration file picture shows a man typing on a computer keyboard in WarsawNEW YORK (Reuters) - Even as the Sony Corp cyber attack laid bare the kinds of vulnerabilities that typically drive companies to buy insurance policies, the lack of a risk model for insurers means such protection is not always easy to get. Unlike earthquakes, tornadoes or even terrorism, there are no existing models to calculate how much a so-called "cyber hurricane," cutting across a swath of companies, could cost. Without that, insurers cannot be sure how much risk they can afford to underwrite. At least two risk modeling companies, RMS and AIR Worldwide, are trying to solve that puzzle, building a model that can help gauge how much havoc – in dollars and cents – such cyber breaches can cause. "Everybody's being attacked at this point," said Scott Stransky, manager and principal scientist at AIR Worldwide. "We're hoping to change that game." While high-profile attacks at retailers such as Target Corp and Home Depot Inc this year have spooked consumers, the devastating cyber attack on Sony hammered home that plenty of damage can be done beyond stolen credit card numbers. "Sony has become a watershed event," said Kevin Kalinich, global practice leader for cyber/network risk at Aon, a consultancy and insurance brokerage. The insurance industry has been banging the drum about the breadth of cyber risk for 10 to 15 years, Kalinich said. "Finally we've gotten their attention." In a 2014 study, the Ponemon Institute and IBM found that the average total cost of a breach in the United States was $5.9 million. Major attacks can cost far more. The Sony attack could cost as much as $100 million, according to one estimate. In August retailer Target reported gross expenses of $148 million related to a December 2013 breach. A 2014 McAfee study estimated cybercrime cost the global economy anywhere from $375 billion to $575 billion annually. The United States is largely a mature insurance market, with coverage for cars, homes and other risks common. But cyber is a new frontier for insurance companies looking to grow. While estimates vary widely for how many U.S companies carry policies for such risks, the data suggests room for growth. A 2013 survey from insurance industry data company Advisen and insurer Zurich found 52 percent of companies say they purchase at least some cyber liability coverage. However, a Fortune 1000 survey that same year from insurance broker Willis found a far lower number, at only 6 percent, though Willis noted cyber coverage is likely under-reported. Part of the problem with figuring out who's protected against a breach is the same as figuring out how to protect them in the first place: No one wants to talk about having been hacked. It's unlike, say, with typhoons, for which there is readily available data stretching back decades. There is no such record for cyber attacks, and data is the lifeblood of modeling. "Getting the historical data for cyber is a huge challenge," AIR's Stransky said. The firm is developing a model that it hopes to bring to market within "much sooner" than five years, although he would not say how much sooner. Another speed bump: The constantly evolving nature of cyber attacks. Because hackers are constantly devising new ways to get into systems – from basic social engineering like guessing simplistic passwords to sophisticated viruses – any risk model must be dynamic. A completed model could potentially do something no one seems able to figure out: understand what a cyber event might look like across not just one company, but, as with a large-scale weather event, across many companies or industries. That possibility comes ever closer to reality. A breach at a major cloud provider, for example, could sow disaster among hundreds or even thousands of companies. RMS is talking to insurers with an eye to developing a model that can start gauging probabilities of widespread attacks as early as next year, said Andrew Coburn, a senior vice president with the firm. A working model, he said, could help insurers feel more confident in underwriting more of this kind of risk. "They've been writing relatively low limits," he said. "It's an issue that the insurance industry needs to grapple with."   (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Boeing logo is seen at their headquarters in ChicagoBy Alwyn Scott SEATTLE (Reuters) - Boeing Co  has more than enough 787 Dreamliners in the production pipeline to meet its year-end delivery target of 110 aircraft, despite concerns a shortage of seats could cause the world's biggest aircraft maker to miss its target, according to industry experts and a Reuters review of its factory. A Reuters survey of jets in production at Boeing's factory in Everett this week showed 14 of the high-tech planes parked outside, and at least five undergoing assembly inside. Boeing has to deliver 14 787s in December to meet its year-end target, after delivering 96 through the end of November. The company has delivered eight 787s this month, leaving just six for the remainder of the year, according to industry sources and plane-spotting blog All Things 787. Concern about the target rose after French seat maker Zodiac Aerospace SA  said on Dec. 11 that production delays on seating would continue to affect its profits. Boeing declined to comment. The pace of 787 deliveries is important to Boeing investors as a gauge of progress in lowering the cost of building each jetliner. In theory, aircraft become cheaper to produce over time as workers learn procedures and iron out kinks on the factory floor. Three years after the 787 entered service, Boeing continues to lose as much as $30 million on each 787 it produces, according to Richard Aboulafia, an analyst at Teal Group. He bases the figure on Boeing's deferred production cost, which reached $25.2 billion in the third quarter, more than analysts  expected. "The continued creep up in 787 deferred production costs means that profitability ramp-up of the program may be slower than previously expected," Ron Epstein, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients at the time. Boeing has said it is incurring more deferred costs in part because it is buying parts for new variants of the 787 to ensure  they are on hand when the factory needs them. Epstein expects Boeing to beginning digging out from those costs late next year or early next year, but that depends on smooth production and the steady delivery of 787s to customers.  (Reporting by Alwyn Scott. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
What's the best way to market a condom? A sampling of ads from around the world shows that a lot depends on the prevailing attitudes about sex. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video
 It's not looking good at star analyst Meredith Whitney's hedge fund, Kenbelle Capital, according to Bloomberg's Max Abelson. Since her fund started trading in November 2013, it has lost two top executives, and a major investor is asking for his money back. Whitney became the talk of Wall Street during the financial crisis, when she correctly called that Citigroup would be forced to cut its dividend. After that she predicted that the US was facing a deluge of municipal-bond defaults. That never happened. The launch of her hedge fund was met with a mix of excitement and mocking. She opened with $50 million in cash and targeted returns of 12% to 17%. Instead she lost 4.5%, according to Abelson. Executives Brittani Caetano, the fund's CEO, and Stephen Schwartz, an SAC Capital vet and cofounder, have left the firm. It is a fund connected to BlueCrest Capital, which is asking for its money back. For more on this, head to Bloomberg &gt;&gt;    FREE AppDownload
Michael Sivak/University of Michigan This chart comes from a recent report by Michael Sivak at the University of Michigan's Transport Research Institute. Sivak is studying whether what he calls "motorization" — people driving cars — has peaked in the U.S. As you can see, both miles driven per thousand dollars of GDP and gallons consumed per thousand dollars of GDP have plummeted since the 1970s. What happened? Does this mean that the U.S. will continue to drive less and use less fuel to achieve GDP growth in the future? And what does that mean for the auto industry? That's the important part. The biggest innovation in cars over the past 40 years hasn't been safety (although cars are much safer than they were in the 1970s) or even the arrival of electric vehicles. No, the most important innovation in the past four decades has been steadily increasing fuel efficiency. Levels of economic activity to which American are accustomed can be achieved by driving less and burning less gas. And this trend — down and to the right in the charts — looks set to continue. And the auto industry isn't worried. After all, this was its idea! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex GrimmStocks gained ground on Friday to finish a wild week that saw the S&amp;P 500 gain almost 100 points from the close of trade Tuesday to the close on Friday. Late in the day on Friday, the S&amp;P 500 peaked above its all-time closing high, but closed off this level, though each of the three major US indexes gained more than 2% on the week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Stocks rose for the third straight day and the S&amp;P 500 went just below an all-time high on Friday. In an email on Friday afternoon, the NYSE's Rich Barry captured the mood on the exchange floor, writing: "After a whopping 4.5% rally in just two days - the best 2-day rally in over three years - what can the market possibly do for an encore?! Finish out the last full week of the year with a bang? Set a single-day volume record in light of today's quad-witch/index re-balancings?? At this point, anything is possible, but we still believe this market has some room to go higher." And higher the market went.  2. Friday also marked a "quadruple witching," as expirations for stock index options, stock index futures, single stock options, and single-stock futures all expired on Friday. As a result, volume was heavy on the NYSE, with Barry noting that volume on Friday was 232% higher than its three-month average.  3. Oil rallied on Friday, with West Texas Intermediate crude futures gaining more than 5% at one point to nearly $59 a barrel. The rally in oil came as the commodity remains at the center of the market's attention. The number of US oil rigs in operation, however, declined again last week, according to the latest report from Baker Hughes. Baker Hughes said that US rigs in operation fell by 18 to 1,875 after last week showed that 27 rigs fell out of operation, which was the biggest weekly drop in almost two years.  4. And while things calmed down a bit in US markets, the global economy, particularly for countries tied to oil, remains unsettled. On Friday, the Nigerian central bank imposed capital controls, limiting currency dealers in the country from depositing funds overnight, preventing after-hours trading and bets placed for or against a single currency. 5. The biggest headlines on Friday were away from the stock market, as the FBI officially blamed North Korea for the Sony hack that has lead, among other things, to Sony canceling the premier of the movie "The Interview." In a news conference on Friday, president Obama said the hack "caused a lot of damage, and we will respond." Business Insider's Military &amp; Defense staff has the breakdown of the various options the White House now must weigh.  Don't Miss: Howard Marks Gives A Crystal-Clear Explanation Of How Oil Prices Work » FREE AppDownload
AdamL212/FlickrThe time machine probably won't look like thisIs this the best art project ever?  Future Time Machine: Future Time Machine seeks to create a dialogue with the past and future by harnessing the power of compounded interest to amass enough money to create a fully functional time machine. An investment of $1000 will be put in a legal trust for 500 years. Assuming a modest 4% annual return, the investment will be approximately 328 billion dollars in the year 2515, at which point it will be spent on scientific research and the construction of a time machine. First stop for the time machine will be 2015 with a reception for the time travelers. There will be a variety of speakers lecturing on the ethics of time travel and what the future may have in store. The steps of this project are: WHAT COULD GO WRONG?!?! Actually, though, thinking about what kinds of things could go wrong is what makes this so great. As a financial journalist, my first question is: who is going to get rich off stealing this money, and how long is it going to last? My bet is 20 years. And it will be stolen by the lawyer in charge of the trust. But who knows! The project was just given a grant by the Idea Fund, part of a Houston-based arts group called Diverse Works. Idea Fund gives grants to projects that are "artist-generated, or artist-centered projects that exemplify the unconventional, interventionist, conceptual, entrepreneurial, participatory, or guerrilla artistic practices that occur outside of the traditional frameworks of support."  (h/t Ben Davis) FREE AppDownload
President Obama is not happy with North Korea - but he's also not happy with Sony for not coming to the government before pulling "The Interview." Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
A Lange and Sohne, InstagramA Lange & Sohne has a killer Instagram account if you're into watch porn (you are).Every man needs a time piece, but it's not always the right time to drop a few thousand dollars for one.  With that in mind, Business Insider put together a list of some of the best watches on the market at every price point. That means there's one in here for your kid brother graduating from high school, your cousin who just had a baby, and the man who has everything but could use a little something more. There's even an option for those who don't want to buy. Our friends over at Eleven James — a kind of Rent-the-Runway for your wrist — helped us out with this story. Their model, and the very the idea that you don't have to commit to a piece for the rest of your life, is catching on even among the most passionate watch collectors. "Gift giving is always fraught with uncertainty, and buying something as personal as watch for your special someone is even more fraught, thanks to all the different brands, styles and price points on the market today," said Adam Craniotes, a lifelong watch collector and contributing writer for numerous publications. "This is where a company like Eleven James shines, since it allows the client to 'test drive' a variety of watches, with the only criteria being that they're happy with what's on their wrist. Even for seasoned collectors, the gift of an Eleven James membership would be a welcome sight under the tree come Christmas morning." So consider that. They carry serious brands like A. Lange &amp; Sohne, Panerai, Patek Philippe and more. You can also consider going vintage. It's more work, but it will make you look like a true aficionado. That said, you'll need to be careful. Make sure whatever you buy has as many of its original parts in tact as possible — the face and the dial especially. "The dream watch for a vintage watch collector is a watch that has never been serviced or messed with at all," Benjamin Clymer, founder of watch publication Hodinkee, told us this spring. Seiko Men's "Solar Drive"  Price: $175 Bulova Men's 96B175 "Precisionist" Stainless Steel Watch Price: $470.60 Vintage Omega Seamaster Price: $385 'The Runwell' Leather Strap Watch, 36mm Price: $800 Check out a few others at Nordstrom. Movado Faceto Stainless Steel Watch Price: $3,495 Blue face Rolex Milgauss Price: $8,290+ Cartier Roadster Stainless Steel Extra-Large Automatic Chronograph Bracelet Watch Price: $11,000 Glashutte Original Panomatic Counter XL Price: $20,080 Audemars Piguet Grande Complication Price: Who cares at this point? FREE AppDownload
The holiday cheer did not last long. With Thanksgiving leftovers barely finished, sales reports came in suggesting a difficult start to the traditional U.S. holiday shopping season. The National Retail Federation’s initial estimate of sales during the four-day weekend was $50.9 billion, down 11.3% from $57.4 billion in 2013. However, that report was quickly followed by a strong November retail sales print. Which one should investors believe? My view is that holiday sales are stronger than the initial report suggests and are likely to remain that way. Here are four reasons why I’d expect a good holiday shopping season. Black Friday sales matter less than they used to. Pre-Thanksgiving promotions and lingering bargains have conditioned shoppers to pay less attention to ‘door buster’ promotions and Black Friday sales. As a percentage of overall holiday retail activity, Black Friday sales have been declining since 2012. Gas prices are plunging. Wholesale gasoline prices have declined by over 40% since June, tracking the decline in crude oil prices. Spending at the pump now makes up less than 9% of the overall retail sales, which is the lowest percentage since April 2009. This translates into billions of dollars that can and likely will be spent elsewhere. Wage growth is picking up, albeit from low levels. In November hourly wages rose 0.4%, the largest monthly gain since June 2013. Not only are Americans earning more per hour, but they are also working more hours. Hours worked in November were 33.8, up nearly half an hour from February’s level. While we have seen numerous wage spikes quickly dissipating in the past five years, the recent acceleration in job creation suggests wage growth should be modestly higher in 2015. Americans are wealthier. Thanks to a rebounding housing market and booming stock market, U.S. household net worth is at an all-time high, up by more than 30% since the third quarter of 2011. Although it is unfortunate that many Americans are sitting out the stock market rally or are still underwater on their home equity, the more affluent segment is likely to spend more due to the wealth effect. While I have been and continue to be cautious on consumer-related sectors over the long term, for this holiday season the stars are aligning in a very positive way. A stronger labor market, some wage growth and higher wealth are translating into higher confidence. The University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index is now at 93.8, up from 80 in March and at the highest level since January 2007. Back in late October we upgraded our view of consumer discretionary companies from underweight to neutral. At least for the 2014 holiday season, the U.S. consumer is likely to recoup a bit of their old swagger. FREE AppDownload
We've shown you how to get perfect skin, but a big part of that is shaving properly. And unless your father was a barber, you probably don't know the proper way to shave — or worse, you use an electric shaver. Here's the right way to do it, which ensures perfect skin every time: First, make sure you wash your face before you start shaving. This will stop any bacteria lying dormant on your face from getting into any of your skin's pores that will open during the shaving process, which would cause irritation or acne. Then, splash you face with warm water. This will open up your pores, make your beard hairs softer, and makes it easier for your razor to make contact with your skin.  Apply your normal shaving cream. Then, shave only with the grain of your beard (the direction your hair is growing). Use short strokes and don't go over any areas more than once. Apply only a little pressure as you shave, letting the sharpness of the razor do most of the work for you. This will minimize your chances of ingrown hairs and reduce irritation. Rinse your razor often. After you're done, make sure you rinse your face with cold water to close your pores. When it comes to razors, skip those multi-bladed razor offerings. Any razor with more than one or two blades will only end up irritating your face. After you're done shaving, apply a soothing aftershave balm, like Dove Men's Hydrate Post Shave Balm. It's important to note, however, that many things called "aftershave" are frequently alcohol-based, which will dry out skin. You want something that will moisturize and protect, or that contains aloe vera if you commonly get razor burn.  It's that simple.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex GrimmStocks gained ground on Friday to finish a wild week that saw the S&amp;P 500 gain almost 100 points from the close of trade Tuesday to the close on Friday. Late in the day on Friday, the S&amp;P 500 peaked above its all-time closing high, but closed off this level, though each of the three major US indexes gained more than 2% on the week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Stocks rose for the third straight day and the S&amp;P 500 went just below an all-time high on Friday. In an email on Friday afternoon, the NYSE's Rich Barry captured the mood on the exchange floor, writing: "After a whopping 4.5% rally in just two days - the best 2-day rally in over three years - what can the market possibly do for an encore?! Finish out the last full week of the year with a bang? Set a single-day volume record in light of today's quad-witch/index re-balancings?? At this point, anything is possible, but we still believe this market has some room to go higher." And higher the market went.  2. Friday also marked a "quadruple witching," as expirations for stock index options, stock index futures, single stock options, and single-stock futures all expired on Friday. As a result, volume was heavy on the NYSE, with Barry noting that volume on Friday was 232% higher than its three-month average.  3. Oil rallied on Friday, with West Texas Intermediate crude futures gaining more than 5% at one point to nearly $59 a barrel. The rally in oil came as the commodity remains at the center of the market's attention. The number of US oil rigs in operation, however, declined again last week, according to the latest report from Baker Hughes. Baker Hughes said that US rigs in operation fell by 18 to 1,875 after last week showed that 27 rigs fell out of operation, which was the biggest weekly drop in almost two years.  4. And while things calmed down a bit in US markets, the global economy, particularly for countries tied to oil, remains unsettled. On Friday, the Nigerian central bank imposed capital controls, limiting currency dealers in the country from depositing funds overnight, preventing after-hours trading and bets placed for or against a single currency. 5. The biggest headlines on Friday were away from the stock market, as the FBI officially blamed North Korea for the Sony hack that has lead, among other things, to Sony canceling the premier of the movie "The Interview." In a news conference on Friday, president Obama said the hack "caused a lot of damage, and we will respond." Business Insider's Military &amp; Defense staff has the breakdown of the various options the White House now must weigh.  Don't Miss: Howard Marks Gives A Crystal-Clear Explanation Of How Oil Prices Work » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Oil Hasn't Impacted The Growth Of The Solar Industry (Advisor Perspectives)  "The oil price is not a driver of the solar sector, and solar's basic economics do not support the fall in solar companies' share prices, which is why we think now is an attractive time to own solar company shares," writes Edward Guinness. Although it's difficult to predict how a new industry will turn out, "it appears that solar has reached a tipping point in scalability and cost, and we can very easily see an industry 10 or more times bigger than what we have today," writes Guinness. Already, annual solar installations have exceeded the IEA targets by 7 years. Additionally, utility costs are forecasted to fall 30% between 2030 and 2050. And finally, Guinness writes that solar might be installed for $1,000 per kW by 2020 — 10 years before the IEA's expectations. Wells Fargo Advisors Will Be Increasing Death Benefits And Deferred Awards (The Wall Street Journal) Wells Fargo Advisors is looking to increase deferred compensation and will also be providing family death benefits, reports Michael Wursthon. The firm will increase base payouts, especially for the top producers. Additionally, they will be adding a length of service bonus of 15 years or more, which will increase pay by 0.5%. "When we put our listening ear to the wall with financial advisers, there were definitely some opportunities for us to make our deferred plan better," said David Kowach, the president of Wells Fargo Advisors' private client group. Guaranted Income Is The Key To Secure Retirement (Financial Advisor Magazine)  "US workers have a better chance of being financially secure in retirement if their employer-sponsored retirement plan includes a guaranteed income stream, according to Prudential Financial," reports Financial Advisor Magazine. Only 20% of households with defined benefit plans risk not being able to maintain their standard of living during retirement. On the flipside, 53% of those with the defined contribution plan do. Investors Are Backing Away From Volatile Equities (Reuters)  "World investors lifted exposure to bonds and cut back on more volatile equities as sentiment was buffeted by a Russian currency crisis, an uncertain growth outlook and rapidly declining energy prices," according to a Reuters poll, reports Chris Vellacott. The average allocation to stocks in balanced portfolios fell by nearly 1 percentage point, down to 48.2%. On the other hand, the allocation to bonds, rose for the fifth month running up to 38.2%. Typically, during volatile times, investors look to bonds, which are considered to be relatively stable. RCAP Says That All Allegations Against Schorsch Are "Unfounded" (Wealth Management)  The former chief accounting officer of American Realty Capital Properties filed a $50 million lawsuit against the former chairman Nicholas Schorsch, in which she accused him of ordering her to manipulate quarterly financial results. However, "RCS Capital CEO Michael Weil said the allegations against Schorsch are 'unfounded' and that the ordeal should have 'no material impact on the long-term strength of our business model or our operating results,'" reports Diana Britton. All of this is connected to back in October when ARCP announced a $23 million accounting error. Last week, Schorsch resigned from his role as chairman of ARCP, but is still the chairman of RCAP. FREE AppDownload
Oil prices have crashed since the summer. But oil price volatility is not new. Indeed, the price of WTI crude surged by 5% today alone. In a new note to clients, Goldman Sachs analysts offer this cool annotated chart of the history of crude oil prices. Goldman Sachs
Looking good is hard. Here are three websites that make it easy and convenient for you to raise your game and 'own' your own style. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Oliver Burkeman, the author of "The Antidote: Happiness for People Who Can't Stand Positive Thinking," gave us a sobering answer when we asked him what he considers his biggest mistake.   Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
Stack Commerce If you've always wanted to improve (or acquire) your digital skills, check out Train Simple. It offers award-winning Adobe training videos that'll help you improve your skills. If you're looking to make the next step in your career, or change industries, these courses will help get you started. Get 84% off Lifetime Access to 5,000 Adobe Training Videos ($500 $79).  You can get unlimited access to over 5,000 training videos that cover topics like: Classes range from beginner to advanced, and come with certificates of completion. All of the course files you need come with the lifetime membership. What you need is a web browser with Flash Player, or an iOS or Android device to access the videos. Check out the video below:  Thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce, you can get it here for 84% off the usual price. Get 84% off Lifetime Access to 5,000 Adobe Training Videos ($500 $79). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
The value of all homes in the US increased by $1.7 trillion in 2014 to $27.5 trillion, according to Zillow. That's an appreciation of 6.7% year over year. Home prices increased 8% in 2013. "Looking at the total value of the U.S. housing stock proves just how huge and important the housing sector is to the overall economy," wrote Zillow Chief Economist Dr. Stan Humphries in a press release. "Virtually nowhere else will you see gains of more than a trillion dollars in one year represent only single-digit percentages of the total market. Houston led the jump in year-over-year home prices with homes worth $353 billion, a 13% increase. It was followed by Atlanta ($373 billion, up 10.5%) and San Jose ($544 billion, up 10.2%). Homes in Los Angeles have the highest cumulative value in the country, at $2.3 trillion. Indianapolis was the only major market tracked by Zillow to see a price decline in 2014, with homes falling 2.6% to $100 billion. Zillow forecasts an increase in home prices next year at a slower pace. "As we conclude 2014 and look ahead at 2015 and beyond, housing will play a bigger role in the broader economic recovery, Humphries wrote. "As the job market improves and more households form, more people will search for homes to buy and rent, which will translate into more people buying appliances and home goods and lead to more jobs for home builders and contractors. Housing is well positioned to continue the great strides already made this year." FREE AppDownload
Cisco is now going after rival Arista Networks with two guns instead of one. In addition a lawsuit filed earlier this month accusing Arista of patent and copyright infringement, Cisco has now gone to another legal body, the US International Trade Commission. Cisco is asking for an injunction blocking Arista from importing and selling products in the US. Cisco claims that Arista's products violate 12 Cisco patents. A blog post by Cisco lawyer Mark Chandler explains: "The ITC generally acts more quickly than typically occurs in district court cases, which will help us in our efforts to obtain orders to stop Arista’s unlawful actions as quickly as possible." As we previously reported, these lawsuits by Cisco are personal, because so many of Arista's employees are ex-Cisco folks. Arista is a newly public networking equipment company formed by two famous Valley billionaires, Andy Bechtolsheim and David Cheriton, and run by a whole bunch of ex-Cisco employees including its CEO, former star Cisco engineer Jayshree Ullal. Arista had a hugely successful IPO in the summer and has been blowing out its quarterly results with growth and profits. Cisco said in its original legal filing that the tipping point that made it decide to sue was an article about Ullal published by Fortune in March. "I would never compete with Cisco directly in the enterprise in a conventional way. It makes no sense. It would take me 15 years and 15,000 engineers, and that’s not a recipe for success." AristaArista CEO Jayshree UllalCisco took that to mean she's competing in an unconventional way. The company is also upset that Arista is marketing itself by declaring how much its products mimic Cisco's, it said in its legal filings. It takes years of training, and thousands of dollars, to become a Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE). Ullal said in a 2013 article in Network World, that Arista deliberately designed part of its own software, the "command line interface" to be similar to Cisco's: "... a Cisco CCIE expert would be able to use Arista right away, because we have similar command-line interfaces and operational look and feel." In one of the more entertaining examples of the alleged infringement, Cisco's lawyers argued that Arista didn't just copy some of Cisco’s technology, it also copied Cisco's user manuals, right down to the typos. Shortly after the lawsuit was filed, Ullal spoke at Barclay's Global Tech conference and admitted that some of the manual was copied. She suggested that someone was going to be fired over it, saying: This is something that is completely unacceptable to me, that less than 1% has been copied. We are taking care of the individual and personnel who's doing it. I own up to that. That's a mistake. I apologize to Cisco for it. We're going to fix it in a week. Then she argued that Cisco didn't invent the command-line interface software and therefore can't claim ownership of it. "I have been in networking companies before Cisco was founded that adopted that CLI. ... is it really disputable that they have the copyright on the CLI?" As to the patent violation claims, she deflected, pointing out, "Cisco has a patent portfolio, they say, of 13,000, so it's hard to find these 14." She has a point there. We understand that Cisco's patent portfolio is more like 14,000. Ullal has characterized these lawsuits as a classic tactic used by a big company whenever they get nervous about an upstart. They sue. How much damage Cisco will able to do with these suits isn't yet clear, but investors have cooled on this 2014 IPO star. Arista's stock is still down about 9% since the first lawsuit was announced, trading below $70. FREE AppDownload
Sock Fancy/FacebookIt's hard easing into the real world, whether you're working for a big corporation or a small startup. That's why the young men in your life need a bit of guidance, as well as the accessories, gadgets, and tools to help them not only transition, but transition with style. From a keychain breathalyzer (don't get drunk at the office holiday party!) to a deluxe shaving kit, here are 18 gifts every young professional will thank you for. FREE AppDownload
Retailers like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Aeropostale, and American Eagle are facing slow traffic and declining sales.  The brands are shuttering stores and changing their strategies to lure back customers.  Business has gotten so bad that famed Abercrombie CEO Mike Jeffries abruptly retired last week after more than two decades on the job.  Three major trends have led to the decline of Abercrombie and other major teen retailers, retail expert Robin Lewis writes on his blog.  Here are the trends.  For years, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and others ruled teen retail. Young customers unquestioningly bought the brands' logo t-shirts and expensive jeans.  But fashion fashion retailers like H&amp;M and Forever 21 have changed the game. These brands offered wider assortments, cheaper prices, and fresher styles than the typical teen retailers.  As a result, teens were hooked and haven't looked back.  Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has been particularly hurt by this trend, according to Lewis. While American Eagle and Aeropostale tried to offer more trendy clothing, Abercrombie has only recently begun changing its styles.  While the economy has recovered from the Great Recession, apparel retailers continue to struggle.  Macy's CFO Karen Hoguet told analysts that consumers had priorities other than clothing and housewares.  "Shoppers are spending more of their disposable dollars on categories we don’t sell, like cars, healthcare, electronics, and home improvement," Hoguet said in a call with investors. To make matters worse, teens are increasingly spending money on technology and fast food.  When their limited dollars are going toward iPhones and lattes, there isn't much leftover for clothing.  Teen retailers have adjusted prices accordingly, but many customers have already moved on to fast fashion.  US customers are fed up with logos and are increasingly wearing nondescript clothing.  This trend favored the fast fashion retailers.  Abercrombie &amp; Fitch's business was built on the idea that people would pay for the status of its brand.  But as brands became less important, teen retail started hurting.  Abercrombie has stated it will phase out logos by 2015.  American Eagle and Aeropostale have also started offering trendy pieces over logos.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThank you, Janet Yellen! You didn’t disappoint me. You are still the “Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market!” As I’ve noted many times before, the S&amp;P 500 tends to rise after Yellen speaks about the economy and monetary policy. The S&amp;P 500 soared 4.5% on Wednesday and Thursday in response to the dovish FOMC statement and Yellen’s bullish press conference. On Wednesday, I wrote: However, the plunge in oil prices and the turmoil in the junk bond market might increase the likelihood that the Fed will delay the so-called "lift-off" of interest rates beyond mid-2015. "None and done" in 2015 is a distinct possibility for Fed policy. Let’s see what Fed Chair Janet Yellen has to say later today. I’m counting on her to continue to be the "Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market.” On Tuesday, I wrote, “The FOMC might surprise us and keep ‘considerable time’ in the statement.” I noted that inflationary expectations are falling. I also wrote: The distress in the junk bond market might also dissuade the FOMC from changing the "considerable time" language. In any case, Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s press conference on Wednesday afternoon could have a big impact on the markets. I’m still betting that she is the "Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market.” On Monday, I noted that FRB-Chicago President Charles Evans, one of the Fed’s uber-doves, has called on his colleagues to be patient and to delay raising interest rates.  Wednesday’s FOMC statement confirmed my analysis: Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy. The Committee sees this guidance as consistent with its previous statement that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset purchase program in October, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. The FOMC remains dovish and patient. It will be even more dovish and patient next year when Evans will be a voter. Two of the three dissenters (Richard Fisher and Charles Plosser) were hawks, who are retiring. The FOMC has to be concerned about the financial stresses caused by the plunge in oil prices and the strength of the dollar, as evidenced by the spike in junk bond yields and the selloffs in the bonds, stocks, and currencies of emerging economies. That’s why they are willing to be patient for a considerable time longer.Dr. Ed's BlogYesterday's Morning Briefing: Grand Central 24/7. (1) Fairy Godmother. (2) The FOMC will be even more dovish and patient next year. (3) Evans will get a vote next year, and two hawks are retiring. (4) FOMC clearly concerned about financial instability related to dropping oil prices, soaring dollar, and and rising junk yields. (5) Central banks succeeding in inflating wealth. (6) Their transmission mechanisms to their economies aren’t working so well. (7) Weak data stimulate PBOC to ease and Chinese stocks to soar. (8) ECB’s Coeuré pushing for QE. (9) November crude oil demand drowned in sea of oil. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload

XE.comThe Nigerian central bank has imposed limits on currency trading in the country in order to slow the plunge in the value of the naira.  The WSJ reports that "The bank is barring dealers from depositing their currency-trading funds overnight, preventing them from after-hours trading and placing bets for or against a single currency at the close of a trading session." The currency has been crushed lately as oil prices continue to fall. It doesn't help that the Nigerian national elections are approaching in February. The campaigns are likely to both be expensive and contribute to social unrest within the country. To muddle the picture just a little more, Nigerian oil workers were on strike for four days this week. According to Businessweek, "the two unions also wanted the authorities to expedite the passage of the petroleum industry bill, curtail crude theft and pipeline sabotage, and address what they say are unfair labor practices by some energy producers."  After negotiations, union leaders called off the strike this morning. Here's the bigger picture of the naira crisis:  XE.com FREE AppDownload
The number of US oil and gas rigs in operation dropped again last week. The latest active rig count data from oil driller Baker Hughes showed that total rigs in operation fell by 18 last week to 1,875. The prior week, the rig count fell by 27 — to 1,893 from 1,920 the prior week — which was the biggest weekly drop in almost two years.  The number of rigs in operation is seen a leading indicator on drilling activity, which is being closely watched amid the massive decline in oil prices seen over the last several months.  Among major US shale plays, rigs in operation in the Permian Basin fell by 9, Williston rigs declined by 7, and Marcellus rigs declined by 1. Eagle Ford rigs in use, however, rose by 2 last week. The biggest declines in the report were in Canada, where oil rigs in operation fell by 25, from 215 to 190, as gas rigs fell 15 to 201 from 216. With the drop on Friday, total Canada rigs in operation are now below year-ago levels at 391 against 398 last year. Here's the last year of US weekly total rig counts. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Douglas Elliman Real EstateTotally worth $16 million.Bill White, the chairman and CEO of consulting firm Constellations Group, has sold his renovated townhouse in Chelsea for an even $16.25 million, according to Curbed. He originally bought the townhouse with his husband Bryan Eure, senior vice president for business development at brokerage firm Willis and Global, for $4.6 million back in 2012. Barring renovation costs, that means they made roughly $11.65 million in just three years. According to an Instagram post from estate agent Fredrik Eklund (who shared the listing with colleague John Gomes), the townhouse was visited by Barack Obama, Jennifer Lopez, and Mark Wahlberg. An anonymous LLC known as DRGB Y Asociados bought the home, according to property records. The townhouse has six floors and four bedrooms, and comes with 6,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor space. Douglas Elliman had the listing.
Thomson ReutersSan Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Williams speaks during an interview with Reuters in WashingtonSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - U.S. inflation will likely stay "well below" the Federal Reserve's 2-percent target next year, but that won't stop the Fed from pressing ahead with plans to raise interest rates, a top U.S. central banker said on Friday. "Thinking about policy liftoff sometime next year, it will be driven by what's the progress we've made on our employment mandate, and also where do I see inflation going over the next few years," San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams, who will rotate next year into a voting spot on the Fed's policy-setting committee, told Bloomberg Radio. "You have to look through the short-term fluctuations of things, look to the next year or two ahead and think about where is the economy going to be," he said. "Monetary policy as we know takes a year or two to have its full effects." The Fed on Wednesday said it would be "patient" in raising rates next year, a term that Fed chair Janet Yellen said suggests rates will stay at their near-zero level for at least the next two policy-setting meetings. Williams is typically seen as a centrist whose views are in line with those of Yellen.  (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
Marcus Samuelsson was twenty-four when he became the youngest chef to receive a three-star review from the New York Times.  It was a breakthrough moment in his career, but not the one that stands out the most for him.  Here, he fondly remembers the event that eventually led him to New York and to the top job at Aquavit, the restaurant where he earned those spectacular three stars. Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
It's generally accepted that younger investors, who have more time to let their money ride out the market waves, have a higher tolerance for risk than their older counterparts. New data from investing app Openfolio found that investors under age 25 are taking full advantage of this truth. By analyzing the investments of 2,500 hundred of their user profiles, Openfolio found that the youngest investors are indeed taking more risk ... but they don't have much to show for it. Older investors, who take less risk, experience returns nearly three times as high as the under-25 set. "It doesn't surprise us that young investors take more risk," explains Openfolio cofounder Hart Lambur, "but it does surprise us that they take more risk and their returns are significantly worse." This risk, Lambur explains, comes largely from two patterns in particular: buying disproportionate amounts of stock in their favorite companies, and "swinging for the fences," trying to win big. This disparity is illustrated below: Openfolio "Younger investors are much more geared to invest in single stocks or single name companies," Lambur says. "They own a much smaller percentage of funds and ETFs." Specifically, they tend to hold about 61% of their portfolio in stocks, compared to the 49% of the older groups.  Openfolio "I don't want to opine too much on what the younger millennial thinks," Lambur continues, "but even in my own experience, I identify with the concept of buying a company you really like, or the concept of trying to swing for the fences and beat the market." However, he cautions, "You learn over time that if you're making bets like that, they're more bets, less investments — and they don't pan out." Openfolio There is an upside, though: Investors start seeing better returns as they get older (and more conservative). When Openfolio broke the users down into smaller cohorts, they found that users age 50-plus saw the best returns of any group. Those under 25 saw the lowest, so there's really only room for improvement. "I think we're seeing with older investors that there's a lesson learned," Lambur concludes. "There's less concentration on single name companies, and a greater understanding of diversifying a portfolio with funds and ETFs." Openfolio FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Boeing logo is seen at their headquarters in ChicagoGENEVA (Reuters) - The European Union launched a trade dispute at the World Trade Organization on Friday to challenge "billions of dollars" of allegedly illegal U.S. subsidies for Boeing Co , the WTO said in a statement. The EU case argues that Washington state broke WTO rules by offering Boeing "vastly expanded" tax breaks to manufacture its new 777X model in the state. The EU and the United States have still not resolved a decade-old trade dispute about subsidies for Boeing and its European rival Airbus.  (Reporting by Tom Miles; editing by Ralph Boulton) FREE AppDownload

FlickrMigrants workers are rushing out of Russia in huge numbers because of the weaker ruble. "Yes, migrant workers are leaving Russia. More than 25% of migrant workers are planning to leave Russia and work elsewhere after the new year," the head of the Russian Federation Migrants, Mohammad Amin said, according to NewsRu. He added that it's specifically the migrant workers that are leaving, while those that are living and working illegally are staying in the country. The head of the "Tajik Migrant Workers" Karomat Sharipov noted that many Tajik workers in Russia have high-interest rate loans in dollars back home, the report said. So now that the ruble is weaker, the workers will need to find work elsewhere in order to pay off those loans. And there's also a secondary reason why foreign workers are leaving Russia: Starting January 1, migrant workers will be required to take a new exam about Russian culture, history, and legislation according to NewsRu. The problem here is that the mandatory exam will cost 30,000 rubles, which is just way too expensive for most migrant workers — especially now that the ruble is weaker. From the larger perspective, the fact that migrant workers are starting to bolt could lead to a huge demographic change for Russia. Russia has seen troves of foreign workers moving into the country in recent years. In fact, the country saw the second-largest number of international migrants in 2013 (behind only the US.) Many migrant workers have been moving to Russia in order to look for opportunities. Since the country has been experiencing a major brain drain in recent years, increasingly better opportunities have been opening up across the board. Overall, the Russian population and workforce could be seeing some drastic changes soon. Elena Holodny/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Family Dollar store is seen in Chicago(Reuters) - Family Dollar Inc  will delay a shareholder vote on the potential acquisition by Dollar Tree Inc , CNBC said, citing sources. Family Dollar will start the shareholder meeting and then adjourn it, CNBC said. (http://cnb.cx/1zEZqsP) A Family Dollar spokesman said the special shareholder meeting to vote on the Dollar Tree deal remains scheduled for Dec. 23. The company had earlier set the meeting for Dec. 11, but postponed it to Dec. 23. Family Dollar has agreed to be acquired by Dollar Tree for $8.5 billion in cash and stock after twice rejecting higher all cash bids from bigger rival Dollar General Corp , citing antitrust concerns. Dollar General took its $9.1 billion offer directly to Family Dollar's shareholders in September. Dollar General said on Friday it was actively engaged in discussions with the Federal Trade Commission on the number of stores it will have to divest to gain regulatory approval. It did not give further details. Family Dollar's shares were down 0.4 percent at $79.15, while Dollar General's shares were down 1.7 percent at $70.07. Dollar Tree's shares were down 1 percent at $68.43.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bengaluru, Editing by Siddharth Cavale and Don Sebastian) FREE AppDownload
After months of whispered warnings, Russia’s economic troubles made global headlines when its currency collapsed halfway through December. Amid the tumbling price of oil, the ruble has fallen too. Topping most lists of reasons for the collapse is Russia’s failure to diversify its economy. At least some of the flaws in its strategy of putting all those eggs in that one oil-and-gas basket are now in full view. Once upon a time, Russia did actually try some diversification — back before the oil and gas “solution” came to seem like such a good idea. It was during those tumultuous years when history was pushing the Soviet Union into its grave. Central planners began scrambling to convert portions of the vast state enterprise of military production — the enterprise that had so bankrupted the empire — to produce the consumer goods that Soviet citizens had long gone without. One day the managers of a Soviet tank plant, for example, received a directive to convert their production lines to produce shoes. The timetable was: do it today. They didn’t succeed. Economic development experts agree that the time to diversify is not after an economic shock, but before it. Scrambling is no way to manage a transition to new economic activity. Since the bloodless end to the Cold War was foreseen by almost nobody, significant planning for an economic transition in advance wasn’t really in the cards. But now, in the United States at least, it is. Currently the country is in the first stage of a modest defense downsizing. We’re about a third of the way through the ten-year framework of defense cuts mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011. Assuming Congress doesn’t scale back this plan or even dismantle it altogether, the resulting downsizing will still be the shallowest in U.S. history. It’s a downsizing of the post-9/11 surge, during which Pentagon spending nearly doubled. So the cuts will still leave a U.S. military budget higher, adjusting for inflation, than it was during nearly every year of the Cold War — back when we had an actual adversary, the aforementioned Soviet Union, that was trying to match us dollar for military dollar. Now, no such adversary exists. Thinking of China? Not even close: The United States spends about six times as much on its military as Beijing. Even so, the U.S. defense industry’s modest contraction is being felt in communities across the country. By the end of the ten-year cuts, many more communities will be affected. This is the time for those communities that are dependent on Pentagon contracts to work on strategies to reduce this vulnerability. To get ahead of the curve. There is actually Pentagon money available for this purpose. Its Office of Economic Adjustment exists to give planning grants and technical assistance to communities recognizing the need to diversify. As we in the United States struggle to understand what’s going on in Russia and how to respond to it, at least one thing is clear: Moscow’s failure to move beyond economic structures dominated by first military production, and now by fossil fuels, can serve as a cautionary tale and call to action. Diversified economies are stronger. They take time and planning. Wait to diversify until the bottom falls out of your existing economic base, and your chances for a smooth transition decline precipitously. Turning an economy based on making tanks into one that makes shoes can’t be done in a day. FREE AppDownload
Mr PorterIt's hard to buy gifts for a gentleman. They have to be tasteful, useful, thoughtful, and aesthetically pleasing. A gentleman, after all, has standards. And think about it: Do you really think he'll like getting a single tie? Again? Business Insider put together a list of creative items that might be the very thing a gentleman wants without knowing it. After all, those are the best kinds of gifts. FREE AppDownload
 JPMorgan Chase probably has the broadest — and weirdest — history of any American bank.  Its story includes a role in killing the first secretary of the treasury, helping to win World War I, and contributing to the 2008 financial crisis.  Like the other major Wall Street firms, landing a gig at JPMorgan is a ticket to a higher tax bracket. One example: The investment banking vice president salary is reported as $172,902, and bonuses boost that to $337,121.  To get in the door, just as with the other big banks, it helps to go to the right university. To find out which schools provide the right path, we used LinkedIn's super-smart college search utility to find the undergraduate programs with the most alumni at JPMorgan.  They are: 1. The Ohio State University (1,811 alumni)  2. University of Phoenix (1,081 alumni) 3. University of Mumbai (989 alumni) 4. Baruch College, City University of New York (774 alumni) 5. Franklin University (745 alumni) 6. University of Delaware (660 alumni) 7. New York University (619 alumni) 8. Rutgers University — New Brunswick (524 alumni) 9. Ohio University (474 alumni) 10. Arizona State University (463 alumni) 11. DePaul University (463 alumni) 12. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (405 alumni) 13. Penn State University (403 alumni) 14. Miami University (342 alumni) 15. Columbus State Community College (313 alumni) As you can see, JPMorgan recruits from the heartland.    FREE AppDownload
It’s not just a function of wallet size.  Most men are happy to receive the things we feel guilty about buying or are too lazy to buy for ourselves… But of course, what we really want are the things we didn’t even know we wanted. Last year’s list, which included a Tesla for the lake ($120,000), fossilized Triceratops skull ($200,000), backgammon set ($5,000), and the greatest Christmas movie of all time ($20), is worth revisiting; there’s no expiration date on great ideas.  John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals.   FREE AppDownload
In July, research and consulting firm Corporate Insight presented an impressive number: $15.7 billion. That was the amount of money managed by the online investment platforms known as robo-advisers. By once again analyzing 11 leaders in the field this December, Corporate Insight has determined that since its last analysis, these robo-advisers have taken more than another $3 billion under management for a total of nearly $19 billion. This number represents a 21% increase since July, and a 65% increase since the first time the data was collected in April. "The continued growth of the newcomers and the recent actions of the major players prove that online advice is not a fleeting fad," Corporate Insight analyst Grant Easterbrook wrote in an email to Business Insider. "Human advisers must realize that the disruptive powers of the web and automation are here to stay." Corporate Insight looked at the influence of online platforms Wealthfront, Betterment, Assetbuilder, Covester, Financial Guard, FutureAdvisor, Jemstep, MarketRiders, Personal Capital, RebalanceIRA, and SigFig. Easterbrook says the innovative new partnerships and products announced by Fidelity, TD Ameritrade, TradeKing, and Charles Schwab, as well as the $161 million raised in funding rounds by four of these 11 robo-advisers this year, is clear evidence that robo-advice is being welcomed into the mainstream. The growth, segmented into "discretionary control" (money that's directly managed) and "paid investment advice," is shown in the chart below: Grant Easterbrook / Corporate Insight FREE AppDownload
 The FBI officially blamed North Korea for the unprecedented Sony hack in a statement on Friday morning. From the statement: As a result of our investigation, and in close collaboration with other U.S. Government departments and agencies, the FBI now has enough information to conclude that the North Korean government is responsible for these actions. While the need to protect sensitive sources and methods precludes us from sharing all of this information, our conclusion is based, in part, on the following: · Technical analysis of the data deletion malware used in this attack revealed links to other malware that the FBI knows North Korean actors previously developed. For example, there were similarities in specific lines of code, encryption algorithms, data deletion methods, and compromised networks. · The FBI also observed significant overlap between the infrastructure used in this attack and other malicious cyber activity the U.S. Government has previously linked directly to North Korea. For example, the FBI discovered that several Internet protocol (IP) addresses associated with known North Korean infrastructure communicated with IP addresses that were hardcoded into the data deletion malware used in this attack. · Separately, the tools used in the SPE attack have similarities to a cyber attack in March of last year against South Korean banks and media outlets, which was carried out by North Korea. The FBI's statement follows weeks of rumors and speculation that the rogue state was responsible for targeting Sony Pictures Entertainment in retaliation for Kim Jong-un assassination movie "The Interview," which Sony has agreed not to release in the face of ongoing threats of leaks and further attacks. The attack was "far more destructive than any seen before on American soil," intelligence officials have concluded, according to The New York Times. But there's still very much we don't know about the attack, as even the FBI statement acknowledges. Earlier Friday a US official reported that the North Korean hack may have a Chinese link either through collaboration with Chinese actors or by using Chinese servers to mask the origination of the hack. The White House via Flickr As far as US options in response, there are few immediate options, all of which come with risks. In any case, the best course may be through the Chinese government.  "The only lever that I can see is China," Dave Aitel, a former NSA research scientist and CEO of the cybersecurity firm Immunity, told Business Insider in an interview. "And what you may see is that it comes out there were some Chinese resources involves in this, and then pressure them to get on board." One option is sanctions against the North Korean regime. But Pyongyang is already heavily sanctioned and additional measures would complicate relations with China. "The Obama administration has been reluctant to embrace " the sanctions approach, Associated Press reports. "The biggest impact would be felt by banks in China, complicating US efforts to curry better ties with Beijing." Another option is cyber retaliation. But that risks escalation. One proactive move the US should consider, Aitel told Business Insider earlier this week, is "declaring certain cyberattacks terrorist acts and the groups behind them terrorists," which would "set in motion a wider range of legal authority, US government/military resources, and international options."  In any case, the US will need a new policy when it comes to cyberattacks by state-backed actors. "This is not something you say 'President Obama solved this tomorrow,'" Aitel said, noting that "deep down the policy engine of the US is very slow, and this case is very complex and has to do with China as well." If China is involved — as opposed to undefined "Chinese actors" — then pressuring Beijing becomes even more difficult. China routinely hacks US companies in search of intellectual property such as military technology and "to learn about how a company might approach negotiations with a Chinese company," according to FBI Director James Comey. YouTube/NTDTVChinese government hackers The attack on Sony, more than three weeks ago, was conducted by hackers calling themselves "Guardians of Peace." The November hack is the second major attack in which hackers targeted American corporate infrastructure on a large scale with the primary goal of destroying it (as opposed to stealing from it or spying on it).  Dozens of terabytes of information were taken. Chaos has gripped the entertainment world as hackers dumped information online and news organizations scrambled to cover every possible angle. Here's a roundup of some of the leaked information: President Barack Obama was expected to address the issue at a 1:30 p.m. (13:30 EST) end-of-year news conference.  Here's the trailer for 'The Interview":    FREE AppDownload
One Federal Reserve president thinks the Fed is taking "unacceptable" risks.  On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve released its latest monetary policy decision, and perhaps the most notable element was the three dissents among the ten voting FOMC members.  On Friday, one of these dissenters, Minneapolis Fed president Narayana Kocherlakota issued an explanation of his dissent, writing that the Fed is taking "unacceptable" inflation risks and should be willing to bring back QE if inflation continues running below the Fed's 2% target. Kocherlakota wrote, "I dissented from the decision at the Federal Open Market Committee meeting earlier this week. After that meeting, the FOMC communicated its intention to continue gradually removing accommodation. In my view, this communication creates an unacceptable downside risk to inflation and inflation expectations." Kocherlakota added that, "The FOMC should also make clear that, if this forward guidance were to prove inadequate, it would be willing to use additional tools, such as asset purchases, to bring inflation back to its target."  Kocherlakota is seen as the most "dovish" member of FOMC, or the member most in favor of the Fed keeping monetary policy accommodative.  Inflation data on Wednesday morning showed that headline CPI, which includes the cost of food and energy, fell 0.3% in November as gas prices tumbled 6.6%. In her press conference on Wednesday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said the effects of lower gas prices on inflation were likely to be "transitory," and also said that if labor market conditions improve, current levels of inflation would be acceptable for the Fed to begin the process of raising interest rates.  Earlier this month, Kocherlakota said he would step down from his post when his term expires in 2016, and Wednesday was the last meeting that Kocherlakota, however, served as a voting member of the FOMC.  On Wednesday, Noah Smith had a great story on Kocherlakota over at Bloomberg View, outlining the ideological shift that Kocherlakota has undergone since joining the Minneapolis Fed. Back in 2009, Kocherlakota was seen as one of the most hawkish members of the Fed, but will exit as — by far — the biggest dove among Fed governors.  And he is not going quietly. Here is Kocherlakota's full note: I dissented from the decision at the Federal Open Market Committee meeting earlier this week. After that meeting, the FOMC communicated its intention to continue gradually removing accommodation. In my view, this communication creates an unacceptable downside risk to inflation and inflation expectations. Three key facts led to my decision. Despite these facts, the FOMC communicated its intention after this week’s meeting to continue gradually removing monetary accommodation. In my assessment, the FOMC’s failure to respond to weak inflation runs the risk of creating a harmful downward slide in inflation and longer-term inflation expectations of the kind that we have seen in Japan and Europe. I see this risk to the credibility of the inflation target as unacceptable, given how hard it would be for the FOMC to respond successfully if this eventuality did indeed materialize. I would have preferred for the FOMC to communicate that it will keep the target range for the fed funds rate unchanged as long as the one-to-two-year-ahead outlook for the inflation rate remains below its target of 2 percent. The FOMC should also make clear that, if this forward guidance were to prove inadequate, it would be willing to use additional tools, such as asset purchases, to bring inflation back to its target. FREE AppDownload
There's a story from Bloomberg this morning about oil producers and how they hedged prior to the price crash that is really good for understanding the way American shale producers have thought about the oil market up until this point ("Drill, baby, drill!" seems to be it, mostly). It's also a pretty clear explanation of some of the finance going on in energy right now.  "You’re not going to go drill holes in the ground if you think prices are going down,” is how a Houston-based hedging consultant described producers' thought process to Bloomberg. But down they've gone. So what now?  As the price of oil drops, a lot of American producers have been saying that in the short term low prices are fine, because they're hedged. But they also took some risks with those hedges that are not turning out so well for them lately. The basic idea is that the producers were so bullish on the price of oil they didn't do straight swaps to hedge for price swings, but instead did what's called a three-way collar (sometimes called "three-way costless collars"), where they sell additional put options at a lower price than the floor of the original collar. So instead of a floor and a ceiling for prices, there are two floors and a ceiling. Selling put options for that lower floor makes the whole trade cheaper for producers (and/or allows them to buy more expensive options to raise the prices of the original collar) — unless the price of oil goes below the floor, in which case they start losing money. And for a lot of producers, that's where we are now. Here's how it works in practice, from the Bloomberg story:  Pioneer used three-ways to cover 85 percent of its projected 2015 output, the company’s December investor presentation shows. The strategy capped the upside price at $99.36 a barrel and guaranteed a minimum, or floor, of $87.98. By themselves, those positions would ensure almost $34 a barrel more than yesterday’s price. However, Pioneer added a third element by selling a put option, sometimes called a subfloor, at $73.54. That gives the buyer the right to sell oil at that price by a specific date. Below that threshold, Pioneer is no longer entitled to the floor of $87.98, only the difference between the floor and the subfloor, or $14.44 on top of the market price. So at yesterday’s price of $54.11, Pioneer would realize $68.55 a barrel. Is this bad? Eh, it's better than being unhedged for sure. Obviously there are disadvantages, like all the money left on the table by creating that extra floor. But that's the nature of the game.  Anyway, it's something to pay attention to if oil prices stay below $70 for a while. FREE AppDownload
BBCA kid in Indonesia who digs tin out of mud to make your iPhone.The BBC traced Apple's supply chain back to its roots and found that, among other things, tin used in iPhones comes from dangerous mud mines in Indonesia that employ and kill children and that Chinese people who assemble iPhones work such long hours that they occasionally fall asleep on the job. These discoveries are startling and depressing. At the very least, they should remind us that the true cost of iPhones is much higher than what we, Apple's rich customers, actually pay for them. If this really is news to you, though, you've been living in denial. If you're suddenly appalled at Apple, moreover, you should acknowledge a few things: None of this is to say that some of the truth about the parts and labor that go into your iPhone isn't depressing and horrifying. It is. It is also not to say that Apple shouldn't keep trying to do better. It should. But as you go around wagging your finger at Apple today, be honest about your own contribution to this problem. Today's economy is global. Some of the people who make the products you use every day have jobs and lives that you would consider appalling. You know this. You just fortunately don't have to think about it very often. You are also choosing to continue buying these products, even though you know what goes into them.  That's your choice, not Apple's. So you might as well own it. SEE ALSO: Documentary Expose Lethal Tin Mines Where Kids Get Killed Finding Ore For Your iPhone FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderArianna Huffington, Daymond John, and Mark Cuban.The New Year is just around the corner, which means it's resolution season.  To help you make the most of the change in calendar, we asked industry leaders and world-changing entrepreneurs, including Arianna Huffington and Mark Cuban, what they're resolved to do in 2015.  FREE AppDownload
You can't rely entirely on your lucky game piece if you want to demolish your friends and family members in a game of Monopoly.  Here are a few math-based game tricks that you can take straight to the bank.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Narrated by Sara Silverstein. Special thanks to Walter Hickey. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/John KolesidisIndependent Greeks leader Panos Kammenos (centre) with senior party figures.Greek markets went through the floor when prime minister Antonis Samaras announced that he was pushing ahead a vote to approve the country's President to this month. On Monday Dec. 8, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras announced that the vote (which is conducted among legislators, not the wider population) would go ahead this month. By Thursday, the resulting chaos had wiped 20% off the Athens Stock Exchange. There's a huge amount of speculation about whether the current government will be able to get enough support. It needs 180 of 300 MPs, and it only has 155. So the vote will come down to a handful of small parties, one of which is the Independent Greeks. Unlike some of Greece's other anti-austerity parties, several are former members of the governing New Democracy party who may vote in favour of presidential candidate Stavros Dimas. Independent Greeks MP Pavlos Haikalis made the shocking allegation this morning that a consultant who's worked for Deutsche Bank and Greece's Piraeus Bank tried to bribe him to vote with the government. The implied allegation is that if the banks new they had his vote, there might not be a general election and the stock market would see a sudden upward pop. Banks would also avoid being targeted by the hard left Syriza coalition, which is the current frontrunner in the polls. Haikalis says he has recordings of the conversations, adding: “They gave me 700,000 euros in cash as a first instalment and following this an agreement for bank loans, as well as contracts with an ad agency." Despite the attempt, it doesn't sound like he was persuaded. He added, "it goes without saying that I wouldn't vote for Stavros Dimas". Whether the Independent Greeks MPs vote with or against the government will likely determine whether there's a snap election, which would likely be won by radical leftists Syriza, who have investors pretty terrified. A poll just released has Syriza at 36.5%, seven points ahead of governing New Democracy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a logo of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) in TurinDETROIT (Reuters) - FCA US, the former Chrysler Group, is recalling almost 288,000 Dodge Ram pickup trucks globally that had been under review by U.S. safety regulators over complaints that a loose fastener might cause the rear axle to lock up or detach. The 287,945 Ram full-size pickup trucks from model year 2005 are being recalled because the rear axle pinion nut may loosen, increasing the risk of a crash, according to the company and documents filed with the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. A spokesman for FCA, a unit of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, said there had been three accidents and one injury related to the issue. In June, NHTSA opened a U.S. probe into an estimated 260,000 Ram trucks from that model year for this issue after receiving 15 consumer complaints. The loose pinion nuts were the suspected cause of the problem at the time. NHTSA said then that the consumers who had complained about the problem reported little or no noise or other warning before the lock-up or separation of the rear axle. Consumers reported incidents that occurred at speeds of 50 miles per hour (80 km per hour) or greater, and two said the trucks went into an uncontrolled spin, NHTSA said. In February 2013, Chrysler recalled 370,297 vehicles, including Ram 1500 pickup trucks from model years 2009 to 2011, for similar problems. In the new recall, dealers will install a retention feature to the pinion nut at no cost, according to the NHTSA documents. The recall is expected to begin on Feb. 13. Affected by the recall are 256,956 trucks in the United States, 21,779 in Canada, 8,802 in Mexico and 408 outside of North America, the company spokesman said.  (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
CNBCBill GrossBill Gross' new employer thinks he's Peyton Manning. A profile of Bill Gross' new employer — Janus Capital — from Bloomberg's Mary Childs finds the Colorado-based investment manager comparing Gross that state's favorite athlete: Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning.  "Bill Gross is our Peyton Manning, that game-changing level of talent for us," Janus CEO Richard Weil told Childs. "People are looking at us." As Bloomberg's Matt Levine noted on Friday, the football metaphor adds to Bill Gross' already-known comparisons to race horse Secretariat and basketball star Kobe Bryant.  And this latest report from Childs comes after her must-read profile of Gross' last days at PIMCO published earlier this month, which revealed the tensions brewing between Gross and his PIMCO colleagues. Earlier this week, we heard from Gross in a TV interview with CNBC, in which he said that TIPS "look great" just a week after rival star bonds investor Jeffrey Gundlach said "TIPS are for losers." You can read Childs' full report here » FREE AppDownload
The Russian economy has been through a lot. Over the last year, Western sanctions and crashing oil prices bruised the Russian economy. And this week was particularly bad. In an attempt to stabilize the ruble and inflation, the central bank raised rates up to 17%. Instead, the ruble plummeted to new lows reaching as low as 80 rubles to the dollar on Tuesday. But this isn't the first time Russia's seen economic problems. Over the last 150 years, the Russian economy experienced some serious blows in line with political upheavals: the Russian Civil war, WWII under Stalin, the fall of the Soviet Union, and the 2008-09 financial crisis. Check out the what's being going on over the last century and a half below (and if you need it bigger, just click on the image.) Goldman SachsSource: Barro-Ursua data set, IMF, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research.
Thomson ReutersA Mercedes-Benz logo is seen on a car displayed on media day at the Paris Mondial de l'AutomobileDETROIT (Reuters) - Mercedes-Benz is recalling 8,279 Sprinter vans in the United States because of a potential oil leak that would increase the risk of a fire or a stalling engine, according to documents filed by U.S. safety regulators. Daimler AG's  Mercedes is recalling certain Sprinter 2500 and 3500 vans from model years 2014 and 2015 because oil may leak from around the chain tensioner gasket in the four-cylinder diesel engine, according to documents filed with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The leaking oil may also be a road hazard for other vehicles, increasing the risk of a crash, the NHTSA documents said. Mercedes was not immediately available to comment. Dealers will replace the chain tensioner gasket at no cost, and owners will be notified around Dec. 26, according to the NHTSA documents. On Thursday, separate NHTSA documents showed that 4,871 Mercedes sedans and SUVs were being recalled for the same problem.  (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVHoward Marks. In his latest note to investors, Oaktree Capital's Howard Marks writes about what's on the top of everyone's mind: oil. Marks walks through a discussion on the error of forecasts (they often stick too close to the current status) and the failure of most investors to really consider things that seem unlikely ("tail events").  But looking at the so-called second-order — or what some people might call "knock on" — effects of economic events is where Marks thinks investors really ought to do their soul searching. Here is Marks' sketch of the self-correcting aspects that are likely to emerge from the recent drop in oil prices: As Marks writes: "In other words, lower oil prices — in and of themselves — eventually make for higher oil prices." In his note, Marks also talks about the error of forecasting, namely that it sticks too close to consensus.  Recent Wall Street research has repeatedly discussed the idea that we are in a "new era" of oil prices, meaning that the days of $100 oil are over and that after prices stabilize oil will be something like $70 or $80 a barrel for the foreseeable future.  But for Marks, this consensus means it is almost certainly wrong.  REUTERS/Brendan McDermidByron Wien. A lack of demand has been blamed, in part, on the current decline. But more than just this "reasonable" bullish forecast for oil, Marks says that with Brent prices at $110, bulls most likely saw oil going to $120, while bears saw oil falling to $100. And given the recent move in oil prices, this is a stunning lack of imagination.  Marks starts his note discussing this year's move in Treasury yields: yields have fallen, while basically everyone on Wall Street thought they would rise. For Marks, the forecasting error from the consensus shows that not only is the thing that "everyone knows" unhelpful at best and wrong at worst, but this call for rising Treasury yields was uniformly inquiring about the wrong thing — it was the decline in oil prices, not the Fed's interest-rate decisions, that proved the definitive investing event of 2014.  In his paper, Marks highlights a classic quote from economist Rudiger Dornbusch, which can't be repeated enough: "In economics things take longer to happen than you think they will, and then happen faster than you thought they could." And so maybe the investors Wien met with this summer who said Brent crude would go to $120 will be right. But if they are right, which Marks' feedback loop suggests they are likely to be, it will almost certainly be for the wrong reasons.   FREE AppDownload
The eurozone is about to fall into deflation, but that's not the most amazing problem the continent has had with its money. This amazing graphic from Goldman Sachs researchers shows just how severe hyperinflation was in Germany during the 1920s. In fact, using a 10-year moving average, the current troubles in Germany and Europe are barely visible. Germany's post-World War I hyperinflation actually breaks the chart. The inflation was so severe that at the time, doctors thought it caused a mental illness in which patients couldn't stop writing zeros.  According to "This Time Is Different," a book by economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, inflation peaked at over 200 billion percent — billion with a "b" — in 1923.  Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovRussian President Vladimir Putin. Evgeny Gavrilenkov, the chief economist at the investment banking arm of Russia's largest lender Sberbank CIB, has warned that actions taken by the Russian authorities to bail out Russia's troubled banking sector could cause a "full-scale banking crisis". "If the Central Bank of Russia continues to provide refinancing in exchange for non-marketable securities that banks can generate in almost unlimited amounts, the system will gradually ramp up to full-scale banking crisis," Gavrilenkov said. That is, the emergency measures undertaken by the central bank to pump liquidity into the country's banking system in order to prevent widespread defaults could end up coming back to bite it. In essence he thinks that banks may prove unable to pay back loans from the central bank with interest rates now set at 17% and the collateral that they pledge in exchange for it may not be of sufficient quality to cover the losses. He estimates that servicing over 7.3 trillion rubles of debt at current interest rates will cost the banks somewhere in the region of 1.2-1.3 trillion rubles ($20 billion) a year. Last week Russian central bank head Elvira Nabiullina announced that "the Bank of Russia plans to consider the introduction of foreign currency lending on the security of non-marketable assets" is an effort to calm investor fears about the health of the country's banks. However, Gavrilenkov suggests that this move may increase risks in the system rather than alleviate them. Indeed he pointed the finger for the plight of the ruble, which has fallen over 40% this year, squarely at the central bank and the Russian Finance Ministry for "pumping the economy with additional liquidity". In remarks that could be interpreted as highly critical of the government, he also said the unprecedented injections of liquidity had "coincided with a significant increase budget expenditures". There are already clear signs of stress in the banking system. The interbank lending rate, the interest rate that banks charge to lend to each other, jumped to 27.3% yesterday, the highest rate since data started being collected in 2006 according to Bloomberg. The news suggests that confidence in the banking sector is quickly eroding and that banks are becoming concerned with the quality of their peers' balance sheets. Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov admitted on Friday that the country's banks have insufficient capital to meet their capital adequacy ratios. Following his remarks Russia's lower house of parliament rushed through a draft law to give the banking sector a capital boost of up to 1 trillion rubles ($16.5 billion), Reuters reports. The bill passed three draft readings in a day, a process that frequently takes weeks to complete, in a sign that the government is concerned about the financial sector. In a note on Thursday Morgan Stanley warned that Russian banks are a major area of concern: "In addition to margin pressures driven by CBR interest rate hikes, risk of corporate default poses an immediate threat to banks’ earnings, in our view. Cost of risk has increased significantly in corporate portfolios over the past nine months and appears likely to accelerate from here." These worries have already led to a significant easing of standards by the central bank. On Thursday it announced that banks would no longer have to mark their assets to market and could use the average exchange rate from the previous quarter to assess how much foreign capital they require to cover foreign-currency denominated debt repayments. In essence, the central bank is allowing the banking sector to indulge in a bit of balance sheet fiction during a time of stress. Bank of RussiaBank of Russia emergency measures for Russian companies. The question, however, is whether current balance sheet stress is predominantly related to the  ruble exchange rate (as in, it is a liquidity problem) or whether the problems are more fundamental (a solvency problem that could lead to default and collapse). As Morgan Stanley puts it, "the Russian banking sector looks to be a risk-absorption buffer between the CBR’s policy and real economy, seemingly poised to bear the brunt of interest rate and depreciation-related adjustment". For the Russian authorities the issue that must now be addressed is to what extent they can differentiate between banks under stress due to temporary factors and fundamentally damaged institutions. Supporting the latter could end up being an extremely costly and ultimately unrewarding enterprise for the Russian state. FREE AppDownload
Michael Steele/Getty ImagesAmerican Evelyn Stevens, right, beats the world's No. 1 rider, Dutchwoman Marianne Vos, to win Flèche Wallonne Féminine in Belgium on April 18, 2012. After graduating from Dartmouth in 2005, Stevens worked as an analyst for Lehman Brothers before taking a job as an associate at investment fund Gleacher Mezzanine (known today as Arrowhead). Both jobs paid well, but the work was intense and left little time for much else. Then one day in late 2007, while on vacation in San Francisco, Stevens’ sister talked her into doing a local cyclocross race, which at first seemed like a crazy idea. She’d played tennis in college, went to the gym, and did some running, but she rarely pedaled a bike, let alone raced one. And yet there, in Golden Gate Park, at age 25, she raced for the first time. Somewhat anticlimactically, she crashed and got banged up, but she finished and was immediately hooked — "in love" even. “I was like, ‘This is awesome — this is for me,’” she says about that first race. Seven years on, far from Wall Street, Stevens ranks among the world’s best cyclists. At 31, she’s in the prime of her career. With major victories already crowding her palmarès, or race résumé, she’s now targeting the sport’s most coveted prizes: next year's world championships and Olympic gold, which could be hers in 2016. Stevens recently sat down with Business Insider to talk about her remarkable, if improbable, career trajectory. We met her at a training camp in Richmond, Virginia, which in September 2015 will host the world championships. Ethan GladingStevens came to pro cycling a decade later than many of her competitors, but talent and determination have made her a star of the sport. Usually held in Europe, worlds are coming to the US for only the second time ever (the first world championships in the US were held in Colorado Springs in 1986). It’s an extraordinary opportunity for American cycling, and probably a once-in-a-lifetime chance for Stevens. “To have worlds in the US — wow,” she says. “I feel lucky just having it in my career. Next year is the year going into the Olympics, so the world championships are always a really big goal in that year. I’ve never met a woman racer who doesn’t want to win worlds. We don’t have the three-week Tour de France [as the men have]. We have World Cup races and we have the Giro, which there’s not a ton of coverage of. And to be racing here with your stars-and-stripes on, in your home country, it’s fantastic.” It all started after that first race in California. Stevens bought a bike of her own, but back in New York City she met an “intimidating entry point” — Manhattan traffic. So she’d walk her bike from her apartment over to the West Side Highway, then pedal up the path. “I had no idea what I was doing at first,” she says. “I thought everyone in Central Park was a pro. I was in T-shirts and never looking the part.” She signed up for a cycling clinic, where she honed her bike-handling skills and learned how to ride in a pack. In one of her first big amateur races, she didn’t just win but broke away solo and caught the pro field that was up the road. “That was pretty cool,” she says, “even though at the time it was like, ‘This is awkward — I don’t know how to pass them.’” While still working long hours, she fantasized about going pro, but she was hesitant. In several races, she had shown real talent, but she would be coming very late to the professional ranks. Most pros start racing as kids or teens. One well-known rider, Ina-Yoko Teutenberg, whom Stevens would later be teammates with, started competing when she was 6.  Nick Davis PhotographyIn October, Stevens joined nearly two-dozen of the top US cyclists for a training camp in Richmond, host of the 2015 world championships. Stevens risked it anyway, and quit her job in July 2009. She won more than a half-dozen of the toughest races in the US, in addition to taking silver at the national time-trial championships. That September she went to the world championships in Switzerland, finishing 15th in the road race — a staggeringly impressive performance for someone brand new to the sport. She has now competed in six world championships in a row. She still smiles when she thinks about that first trip. “I went to worlds with a bike that I’d paid for with my own money, a helmet I bought, sunglasses I bought, and shoes I bought,” she says, laughing. “At the time that didn’t seem weird, but I got 15th and my first professional contract started in 2010.” As for pay, salaries for female cyclists vary widely, and are much lower than men's. The top riders earn over $100,000, but there are many who earn far less than that. There are bonuses, prize money, and endorsements. USA Cycling offered large bonuses to medal winners at the London Olympics, where American Kristin Armstrong won gold. Still, women’s cycling is far behind men’s when it comes to both pay and media coverage. According to Ernst &amp; Young, as reported by the Guardian, the minimum wage for male UCI WorldTour cyclists — the sport’s highest level — is €35,000 [$43,000] a year, with the average salary reported at €265,000 [$325,000] in 2012. “Female elite cyclists reportedly earn just €20,000 [$24,500] per annum – and those are the lucky ones,” the Guardian wrote in November. Since 2010, Stevens has since won some of the sport's most prestigious races — and she has twice won the US time-trial title. Perhaps her most impressive victory was in the grueling one-day classic Flèche Wallonne Féminine, in Belgium, where she went to the line with, and decisively beat, world champion Marianne Vos, whom many consider to be the greatest bike racer in the history of the sport, male or female. Watch the finish of the Flèche Wallonne Féminine 2012, when Stevens raced the world's No. 1 rider:  Stevens' first coach, a former pro named Matthew Koschara, has not been surprised by her success. He calls her a “one in 10 million” talent. “She has the right appetite, physiologically and psychologically,” Koschara told Business Insider. “She’s old school, she’s hard core — she’s a fighter.” He points to Stevens’ remarkable power-to-weight ratio, and although he won’t reveal stats from the time he coached Stevens, he says her three- and 10-minute power numbers, measured in watts, were “huge.” At five-foot-six and 120 pounds, she’s compact and very powerful. “Evie is a very unusually naturally gifted person,” he adds. “She came so late to cycling, but I’d say she’s among the top three or four cyclists in the world.” Whereas she could win on 20% of courses a few years ago, she can now win on 80% of them, according to Koschara. A natural climber, she’s worked hard to become a more complete, all-around cyclist who can win on the flats and cobbles and in crosswinds. “She’s made up any deficit she may have had coming late to the sport,” he says. “I’d be surprised if she didn’t medal in Richmond and Rio.” Stevens says she approaches cycling as she did investment banking: with tenacity. After turning pro, she dedicated herself completely — she was "hyper-focused" — just as when she’d started her business career.  “With investment banking and finance, it’s not a world you gradually go into it,” she says. “It’s not like I started and they told me, ‘Take your time, get comfortable, leave at 5 p.m.’ You’re on deals, you’re operating on a high level quickly. "If you want to get to that high level, you have to go after it,” she adds. “Investment banking is like pro cycling: It’s not a career you have for 30 years. You realize, ‘I’m going for it.' For my career in cycling, every day it’s like, ‘What do I need to do better? What do I need to train?’ You can’t become complacent." One big difference in Stevens’ life these days is how much more sleep she gets — eight hours, plus naps, about double what she used to get. “You have to sleep in and you have to eat healthy, and, no, you can’t drink seven Diet Cokes to keep you awake,” she says. “If you’re tired you have to rest.” For Stevens, businesses would operate at a much higher efficiency level if employees slept more: “I think about how many errors I probably made while being sleep-deprived. If I ever ran a company I’d have sleep pods.” (She's still thinking about one day getting an MBA.) Ethan GladingStevens realizes that Richmond 2015 will probably be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for her to win a world title on US soil. From the outside, if you meet Stevens in person, say, over coffee in downtown Richmond on a sunny fall day, it’s easy to think she’s intelligent and extremely determined. Her opponents on the road may also point out she's fearless and hungry. They might talk about the time she threw down with the world champ on one of the toughest uphill finishes in bike racing, and won. If Stevens continues her climb to the very top of world cycling, there will be more such stories to tell. “Cycling is a very finite sport, kind of like the world of finance, but magnified," she says. "There’s highs, there’s lows, and you see it so instantaneously — the crashes, the wins." “I’ve had some big wins, but I’m not at the top level yet. So it’s like, ‘What do I need to do to become top level?’ I think it’s the same in finance. For those moving up that ladder, they’re constantly looking and thinking, ‘How do you do it differently? How do you do it better?’ It’s a constantly moving process.”
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning, and happy “Quadruple Witching” Friday - US Futures are higher, led again by Technology as Nasdaq rallies 35bp - however Headlines “ECB considers making weaker euro zone states bear more QE risk” has taken the wind outta the EU rally in the last hour, knocking Germany into the red by 40bp in heavy volume.   Many of the PIIGs markets getting hit much more sharply, with Spain and Italy off 1.4% and falling quick.   The MICEX is under pressure, but the Ruble is stabilizing, and German Consumer Confidence comes in strong – so this is ECB driven.    Over in Asia, Shanghai jumped another 1.7% as doves grow louder, the Nikkei jumped 2.4% as the Yen fell, and Aussie strongest day in 18mos - Miners acting well overseas, while Roche #s weigh on Healthcare  The 10YY is holding yesterday’s gains, resting just above 2.2%, while the treasury curve is mixed after yesterday’s steepening.   Bunds didn’t have quite the selloff we saw in Treasuries yesterday, and they are well bid again this AM near 60bp.    The $ is making headway against both Euro and Yen (Nothing unexpected from BOJ), so the DXY is moving to challenge 2014’s peaks at 89.55 – a headwind for commodities.   The Oil complex is rebounding into CME expiry today for WTI, with both benchmarks gaining 1.5% despite the CME raising margins on Coal, Crude, and Natty.  Natty gas is off small, while Wheat is retreating quickly from yesterday’s Russia spike.   Reminder - All the main State Street ETFs go Ex. Divvy today.    SPY, QQQ, DIA, XOP, XLE – and we will have a few Fed headlines, starting with Fed's Evans at 10, the Kansas City Fed Manf. Activity index at 11, Fed's Lacker Speaks on Economy at 12, and Energy players will be focused on the Baker Hughes Rig Count at 1.   “Commitment of Traders” data hits at 3:30. FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsJan Hatzius. And Friday, he followed up with what actually happened. Overall, he did pretty well.  We jotted down a quick rundown of his questions and his self-assessment below. Check it out: That's about a 7 out of 10 (we'll give the unclear verdicts a half point here).  In markets and economics, 70% correct for one-year forecasts is pretty good if you ask us. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/U.S. Coast Guard/Petty Officer 3rd Class Myeong Hi Coast Guard members conduct flare training on Plum Island, Massachusetts.Good morning! Here's what you need to know in markets on Friday.  The EU Is Stepping Up Its Squeeze On Putin. European Union leaders on Thursday urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to make a "radical change" in his stance on Ukraine as they boosted sanctions against Crimea despite fears of economic blowback from Russia's spiraling financial crisis. France Splits From EU On Russian Sanctions. "If gestures are sent by Russia as we expect, there would be no reason to impose new sanctions but on the contrary to look at how we could bring about a de-escalation from our side,” French President Francois Hollande said according to Bloomberg. From Bloomberg: "Hollande is the first major European Union leader to offer to ease the Kremlin’s economic pain as a wobbly truce in eastern Ukraine reduced casualties over the past week in the conflict that's cracked Europe's post-Cold War order." German Consumer Confidence Hit An 8-Year High. Despite some gloomy headlines about Germany's economy recently and various signs that the country's growth is slowing, consumers seem to be unfazed. The GfK consumer confidence index hit 9, the highest the index has been since the end of 2006. China Revised Up The Size Of Its Economy. China has revised up the estimated size of its economy for 2013 by 3.4% to 58.8 trillion yuan ($9.5 trillion), the National Bureau of Statistics said Friday, adding that the revision would not affect economic growth this year. Ruble Strengthens. "Russia's ruble strengthened on Friday after Finance Minister Anton Siluanov confirmed his ministry had sold foreign currency and on expectations that exporters will step up dollar sales," Reuters' Alexander Winning reports. Siluanov also said the ruble would definitely firm at the beginning of 2015. Markets Are Mixed. US futures are higher, with Dow futures up 46 points and S&amp;P futures up 5 points. Europe is mostly lower, with France's CAC 40 down 0.4%, Germany's DAX down 0.3%, Spain's IBEX down 1.1%, and Britain's FTSE 100 up 0.4%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 2.39%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.25%. Very Light US Economic Data. At 11 a.m. ET, we'll get the Kansas City Fed's manufacturing activity index. Economists expect this index to be unchanged at 7 in December. The US State Is Getting Rid Of Its Shares In Ally Financial. The US Treasury Department will sell its remaining 54.9 million shares of Ally Financial, acquired under the government's bailout of the auto lender, Ally said Thursday. Aer Lingus Rejected A Bid From IAG. The Irish airline Aer Lingus has rejected a takeover bid from IAG, the airline group that owns British Airways, according to the Financial Times. IAG is headed by Willie Walsh, Aer Lingus' former chief executive. A Private Equity Firm Is Trying To Buy American Apparel. The clothing manufacturer American Apparel has been approached by the private equity firm Irving Place Capital for a possible takeover, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources. FREE AppDownload
Amazon increased the price of its annual Prime subscription to $99 in March. The company offers many services to its Prime members including free two-day shipping, unlimited streaming of Amazon Prime Instant Video, and access to the Kindle Lending Library. We considered the actual value of these services to determine whether a Prime membership was worth the cost.   Not included in the video above: Amazon's newest benefits for Prime members. Prime Music allows unlimited streaming of over 1 million songs. Amazon also added free unlimited photo storage on Amazon Cloud Drive. If you take advantage of these new perks, it makes the membership even more valuable. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Tyrone Siu/ReutersStudents count chips during a gaming lesson at a mock casino run by the Macao Polytechnic Institute (MPI) Gaming Teaching and Research Centre in Macau March 6, 2014. By night, Ieong Man Teng was dealing baccarat to gamblers at the Wynn Macau casino. By day, he was mobilizing thousands of fellow dealers to protest on the street for better working conditions and higher pay. That made him one of the people on Beijing's watch list earlier this year in Macau, the world's biggest gambling hub. Ieong, 29, said associates of prominent businessmen in Macau and a Macau politician who sits on the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) warned him in face-to-face meetings, including one at a local cafe, to tone down his activities. He did not name the politician. "They said they were passing on a message from people up there (Beijing). I consider these to be threats," Ieong said. The CPPCC, a largely ceremonial but high profile advisory body to China's parliament, did not respond to questions sent by fax. Ieong's experience is part of a broader squeeze in Macau, where Beijing is tightening its grip after a series of grassroots protest actions in the former Portuguese colony. Unnerved by pro-democracy protests roiling neighboring Hong Kong, China has moved firmly in Macau to stifle any parallel challenge to the central government's authority. President Xi Jinping visits Macau on Dec. 19-20 to celebrate the 15th anniversary of its handover to the mainland with the territory at a crossroads. Macau's gambling take, which makes up 80 percent of its revenues, has suffered the biggest decline since the industry was liberalized in 2001. This is partly because Xi's sweeping crackdown on corruption has scared off high-rollers, including corrupt officials. Xi is also helping inaugurate a second five-year term for Macau Chief Executive Fernando Chui, who was re-elected by a pro-Beijing panel in August amid unprecedented political protests. Au Kam San, a pro-democracy Macau lawmaker, said Beijing still viewed Macau as more controllable than Hong Kong. But the protests from July to October by Ieong’s gambling union, in a city where casinos raked in $45 billion last year, troubled Beijing. "The gambling union is much more important and it has a higher risk for Beijing because it's mobilizing potential is much stronger," Au said. "It's seen as a threat to Beijing.” ReutersCharts Macau's casino revenues and year-on-year growth since 2006.The fact that gaming is so closely connected with the mainland means that Beijing cannot just look at economic growth and tax revenue "when looking at Macau's overall well-being," Li Fei, deputy Secretary General of the National People's Congress Standing Committee said in a speech in Macau on Dec. 3. "It must think from the perspective of China's economic and social stability and development." Beijing's Liaison Office in Macau and the Macau government did not respond to Reuters questions sent by fax and email. Like Hong Kong, Macau is ruled under the one country, two systems model that affords its residents wide-ranging personal freedoms that don't exist on the mainland. Critics say these have been eroding under pressure from China. Last month, the University of Saint Joseph issued a document, titled "USJ policy on political activities," that places limits on political discussion at the Catholic institution. When asked to provide a copy of the guidelines, the university's Pro-Rector for Academic Affairs and Development Vincent Yang told Reuters they were for internal use only and declined to give more details. The guidelines were issued after a professor at the University, Eric Sautede, was dismissed in June after writing a column in a local newspaper extolling a candlelight vigil in Macau commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square student-led protests. Peter Stilwell, the rector of Saint Joseph's, said Sautede was sacked for violating the primary principle of the Church, "which is of non-intervention in local political debate". Bill Chou Kwok-Ping, a professor at the University of Macau and prominent civil rights activist, was let go in August for similar reasons. The University said it chose not to renew Chou's contract because he violated professional conduct regulations by not remaining politically neutral. Macau's Tertiary Education Services Office is discussing guidelines that would assess universities and tertiary institutions for various issues, including funding, on the basis of whether they adhered to the principle of "love China, love Macau", according to a person who attended the meeting. The tertiary office did not respond to Reuters questions sent by email. Situated at the mouth of China's Pearl River delta, Macau has traditionally been sympathetic to Beijing, with around half of its 600,000 population having emigrated from the mainland over the past three decades. As a result, there has been little grassroots protest in the city since China resumed control in 1999. That changed in May. A record 20,000 people took to the streets to protest poor public services and a bill that provided lavish perks for senior civil servants. Then, in August, Macau activists organized an unofficial referendum asking residents whether they trusted their chief executive - as the territory's head of government is called - and if full universal suffrage should be introduced. At the same time in Hong Kong, tensions were rising over a plan by activists, also demanding full democracy, to paralyze the central business district. The results of the Macau referendum showed that 89 percent of the nearly 9,000 people who took part didn't trust Chui. The sole candidate for chief executive in the August election, he was chosen by a panel of 400 largely pro-China loyalists. Data released on the poll's online site also showed that 95 percent of the participants said they were in favor of allowing all registered voters to cast ballots for a chief executive. Macau authorities moved quickly to disrupt the referendum, shutting polling booths. They also arrested five people for breaching privacy laws because the ballot asked for telephone and ID card numbers to prevent fraudulent voting. Jason Chao, one of those detained, told Reuters he fled Macau for a few days at the end of the referendum to dispose of all the data, defying orders from police to hand over the information. Chao, a computer software developer and leading member of the New Macau Association, said he refused to let police officers search his apartment. "There's a trend for them to use the criminal justice system as justification for getting information from you, for searching your house," Chao said in an interview in Macau, referring to the local authorities and the Chinese government. "They're doing it to essentially deter us from escalating the movement." Ahead of Xi's visit, Chao has met with men he described as plain clothes policemen and had informal meetings with representatives from Beijing, who described themselves as researchers but were not affiliated with any institution, he said. Macau police declined to comment on questions sent by email. Chao said he was told his group's annual pro-democracy protest held on the anniversary of Macau's handover could go ahead as long as it didn't target President Xi. "They invited me to lunch and didn't put it in a straight-forward manner," he said. "They diplomatically said that if you decide to do your annual demonstration as normal, it will be fine as long as you don't do other things targeting Xi Jinping." (Reporting by Farah Master and James Pomfret; editing by Bill Tarrant and Peter Hirschberg) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Pavel GolovkinA woman waits in a line to pay for her purchases at the IKEA store on the outskirts of Moscow, Russia, Wednesday, Dec. 17, 2014.The collapse of the ruble has forced companies operating in Russia to undertake extreme measures in an effort to remain profitable as the cost of imports skyrockets. And Russians have responded by panic-buying. Fear over price hikes has sent demand for foreign goods surging as customers try to buy goods before the stores have a chance to raise the cost further. This has led to scenes not seen in the country since the late 1990s as people queued for hours just to get into some shops. Even large multinational companies have had to take drastic action. Well-known brands such as Apple and IKEA have had to suspend sales and increased prices over recent weeks as they struggle to keep up with the falling value of the currency, while car companies including General Motors, Jaguar, Land Rover, and Audi have all suspended shipments to the country. Russian shoppers trying to get onto the homepage of the Apple Store over recent days have been met with a "currently unavailable" sign: Apple The suspension came after the company raised the price of an iPhone 6 by around 25% to 39,990 rubles in an effort to offset the currency falls. Meanwhile, those looking to do some Christmas shopping at IKEA this week were also disappointed. An attempt to increase prices forced sales of kitchen furniture and appliances on the Swedish retailer's website to be suspended until Dec. 20 "due to a large number of customers orders". IKEAIkea website. Shoppers posted pictures of panic-buying by consumers in Moscow on social media as IKEA was forced to close a number of physical stores. IKEA-<U+0433><U+0438><U+0439><U+043D> <U+041C><U+043E><U+0441><U+043A><U+0432><U+0430> <U+0434><U+0430><U+0445><U+044C> <U+0441><U+0430><U+043B><U+0431><U+0430><U+0440> . pic.twitter.com/cI3iKgh6LO #Moscow. #IKEA. Midnight: according to @ZhidoBandera: <U+041C><U+043E><U+0441><U+043A><U+0432><U+0430>. <U+0410><U+0439><U+043A><U+0438><U+0430>. <U+041F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043D><U+043E><U+0447><U+044C> http://t.co/5ArsZ80l3P pic.twitter.com/ziVlqF4OU7 #Russia #TheFall And here are more photos from the Associated Press showing the fevered activity at an IKEA store on the outskirts of Moscow: AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin AP Photo/Pavel GolovkinWomen push carts with their purchases at the IKEA store on the outskirts of Moscow, Russia, Wednesday, Dec. 17, 2014.  AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin McDonald’s has also moved to raise its prices with the cost of a Big Mac up by 2.2% to about 94 rubles, Bloomberg reports. Across the country consumer prices having risen around 25% in 2014, due to a combination of the ruble crash and sanctions placed by the Russian government on imports from the European Union. Staples such as pork and sugar have risen by 25%, and the price of fish and seafood has also leapt up by more than 15%. The pace of the increases has caused a stampede of nervous shoppers trying to buy up as much as they can before retailers hike up prices even further. Russia's 24-hour news channel RBC TV has been showing the scale of the queues:  Having touched record-highs of 80 rubles to the dollar and 100 rubles to the euro on Wednesday, the currency has strengthened significantly as the government and central bank appear to finally be coordinating their actions. It remains to be seen whether it will be enough to regain people's confidence in the stability of the currency and reverse the panic of the past few weeks. FREE AppDownload
Russia's lower house of parliament passed a draft law that would give the banking sector a capital boost of up to 1 trillion rubles ($16.5 billion) on Friday, part of measures to shield banks from Western economic sanctions. Russia's financial sector is reeling from the country's slide toward recession and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis that have restricted banks' access to international capital markets, driving their funding costs sharply higher. The State Duma said on its website it had passed the bill in all three required readings — speeding up a process that can sometimes see laws languish in parliament for weeks. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters on Friday banks could start receiving the additional capital early next year and that the law would cover all the risks banks faced. The draft law still needs to be passed by the upper house of parliament and then signed into law by President Vladimir Putin. The latest aid package for banks comes after the government provided state support in the form of additional capital to banks including VTB earlier this year. The central bank also eased regulation of the banking sector earlier this week as part of measures to stabilize the ruble, which is down some 45% against the dollar this year. The draft law does not clarify which banks could benefit, but a similar means of supporting banks was a backup option in the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. Siluanov said the banks that would benefit would be selected based on the importance of the role they played in lending to the wider economy. Top lender Sberbank would not receive additional capital as part of the measures, according to the head of the State Duma's financial markets committee. Sberbank could however receive additional capital from the central bank if needed. (Reporting by Elena Fabrichnaya and Alexander Winning; Editing by Elizabeth Piper) FREE AppDownload
How well do you remember the most important financial and economic events of 2014? You've got the chance to find out now: Goldman Sachs' end-of-year crossword just came out, and it's great, again. Last year's effort by Goldman was described as "the nerdiest crossword puzzle of all time". Here's hoping that this year's can top that.  So if you know your deflation from your disinflation, and remember why Pari Passu and Petro Poroshenko made the news for different reasons this year, give it a go (answers below). Goldman Sachs And here are your clues. They're related to different Goldman 'Top of Mind' notes sent through the year, but you can definitely get them without any help. Goldman Sachs Scroll down a little further to get the answers for this year. No cheating:   Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach A closeup of the eyes of ECB president Mario Draghi.FRANKFURT - European Central Bank officials are considering ways to ensure weak countries that stand to gain most from a fresh round of money printing bear more of the risk and cost. Officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, have told Reuters that the ECB could require central banks in countries such as Greece or Portugal to set aside extra money or provisions to cover potential losses from any bond-buying, reflecting the riskiness of their bonds. Such a move could help persuade a reluctant Germany to back plans to buy state bonds. There is currently a stand off between the ECB and Germany's Bundesbank over ECB preparations to buy sovereign bonds, so-called quantitative easing (QE), to shore up the flagging euro zone economy. But while the idea may help overcome opposition in Germany, which is worried that fresh money printing could encourage reckless spending and leave it to pick up the tab, critics will argue that any such conditions curtail its scope and impact. Although a release of new money to buy state bonds appears all but certain, how it will happen remains fluid. The ECB's Governing Council holds its next monetary policy meeting on Jan. 22., with market expectations high for fresh stimulus. Requiring weaker countries to set aside extra provisions would signal that more of the risk of potential losses would rest with national central banks, rather than the ECB in Frankfurt. "Losses are taken ... by the nation states," said one official. The ECB declined to comment. The national central banks would most likely be the ones tasked with buying their country's bonds, as part of a wider ECB program. While easing the burden on countries like Germany whose bonds are highly rated, the ECB could place a heavier burden on more risky countries such as Greece, requiring them to set aside more money in order for the ECB to buy their debt. It now costs roughly 1.1 million euros ($1.35 million) to insure 10 million euros of Greek bonds against default, for example, making it roughly half as risky as war-torn Ukraine. If Greece's central bank also had to set aside more to cover the risks of its bonds, that could curb the dividend it pays the Athens government or possibly even require an injection of capital. Lobbying by the small group of countries opposed to fresh money printing is now gradually shifting towards changing the shape of quantitative easing rather than try to block it altogether. The Bundesbank is demanding that any new round of bond buying be subject to strict limitations. Its president, Jens Weidmann, this week outlined two such possibilities – restricting ECB buys to bonds of countries with a top-notch credit rating or allowing each central bank to buy their country's bonds at their own risk. "Even if you say it's not too early for QE, there is still something to be said about how you set it up," said one euro zone central bank official. "If the central bank would only buy bonds from its own country, then the chances and risks would go to that central bank. What happens if there is a loss? It would be good if the central banks have made adequate provisions." Similar provisions, where the risk of some loans taken as security for credit rests with a national central bank, already exist, officials said. The suggestion of such pre-conditions underlines the deep divisions over fresh money printing in Europe. But while setting such a precondition for any resulting losses would help win over Germany, it threatens to further undermine the notion that all 18 countries of the euro bloc are on an equal footing. ($1 = 0.8137 euros) (Additional reporting by Marc Jones. Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
 Publicis Groupe chief Maurice Lévy, once described by Sir Martin Sorrell as the “Freddy Krueger” of the advertising industry because he continues to work in his demanding role right into his seventies (he’s 72-years-old), has admitted enough is enough.   He will definitely be retiring in the next five years, Lévy told Bloomberg’s Francine Lacqua during the Leaders’ Lunch program, which airs on Bloomberg Television in the UK today at 5 p.m. GMT. Lévy has held the role of Publicis chief executive since 1987. He first joined the company in 1971 as the advertising group’s IT director. He had originally wanted to retire in 2011, but the Publicis board extended his stay. This year his term was once again extended until spring 2017, but with Publicis’ penchant for keeping him just that bit longer, industry insiders, including old rival Sorrell have remarked that he will “never retire.” Not so, said Lévy. When asked by Lacqua where he will be in five years, Lévy replied “I will be retired…definitely.” This year has seriously taken its toll on Lévy. Publicis’ planned $35 billion merger with Omnicom that would have created the world’s biggest agency network collapsed in May. On the company’s most recent earnings call, Lévy admitted its lousy third quarter results, which were not in line with expectations, were his fault for being too distracted by the Omnicom project. In the interview with Bloomberg, he described 2014 as “the year of all the dangers” and an “annus horribilis.” And it has affected him personally. Lévy thinks 2015 will be a better year, targeting growth of around 5%. But he added that the current economic situation “is not something that is bringing a lot of satisfaction and joy.” He is also “paranoid” about digital disruption and how “this digital thing” will transform some of Publicis’ clients. The interview seems to confirm that 2017 will definitely, this time around, be the year Lévy retires. And with Saatchi &amp; Saatchi global chief Kevin Roberts also due to retire that year, bets are fairly open as to who will become Lévy's successor. Business Insider hears that the industry favorite to take up the role is Arthur Sadoun, the Frenchman Lévy promoted to CEO of the Publicis Worldwide agency network last year. He is also part of Publicis Group’s executive committee.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Matthew HorwoodOsborne: ludicrously optimistic.Government borrowing in November stood at £14.1 billion. It's finally heading in the direction the government wants again, down from the same month last year. But that's the first good news for the Treasury in a while now. After several months of rising borrowing, the UK racked up £75.8 billion in extra borrowing from April to November. Overall, that's just £500 million less than it was in the last financial year, a measly 0.65% reduction.  For comparison, borrowing was meant to fall by 11.4% this year, according to a March 2014 forecast by the Office for Budget Responsibility, which sets forecasts for government spending. That forecast that now looks ludicrously optimistic. Tax revenues, which have been a constant disappointment, were boosted in November by £1.1 billion in fines levied on banks, something that's unlikely to be repeated in the future. So even with the revised targets set out in the Autumn Statement, unless the government has a rabbit to pull out of its hat in the final third of the year it's not going to meet the goals. The repeated failure to meet the targets set, and constant upward revisions in debt, means that the US deficit-cutting programme is going a lot more smoothly than the UK's. In Britain, there are years and years of belt-tightening yet to come. Here's Capital Economics on the figures: Borrowing in the remaining four months of this fiscal year will have to be a chunky £6bn or 27% lower than it was last year for the OBR’s new full-year borrowing forecast of £91.3bn to be met. Admittedly, January 2015 should see a £3bn or so boost to self-assessment tax receipts, which relate to the 2013/14 year to which some taxpayers deferred income to take advantage of April 2013’s cut in the top rate of income tax. But even accounting for that boost, borrowing will still have to be £3bn or 12% lower than last year – a tall order. What’s more, we continue to have our doubts as to whether even strong economic growth will bring about the much bigger reductions in public spending in future years as set out in the current fiscal plans. So while November’s public finance figures are a step in the right direction, the road to fiscal sustainability look set to be long and bumpy. FREE AppDownload
 Apple has dramatically increased its app prices in Russia following the collapse of the ruble and out-of-control price inflation in the country, 9to5mac reports.  On Friday, the company told developers it was altering prices of apps and in-app purchases in the Russian App Store.  It's happened in the same week that 9to5mac notes the company completely stopped product sales in its online Apple Store. While Russians can no longer buy an iPhone over the internet, Apple stopped short of also shutting its separate app store in Russia. But it has raised prices for apps by nearly 100%. A 99 pence/99 cents app now costs 62 rubles. The ruble is now so unstable that Apple is basically unable to price its products correctly.  The decisions come amid the ongoing financial crisis in Russia. Essentially, Apple is re-evaluating its pricing in the country in an attempt to combat uncertainty. The ruble's price has been incredibly unstable against the dollar — making it really difficult for Apple to correctly price the products it is selling in Russia. The iPhone 6 is now 25% more expensive for Russians, for example.  The ruble has lost about 40% of its value this year, which means that it if Apple had not changed its prices or halted sales, it would be selling items for super cheap — maybe even at a loss. For Russians, however, the price hike is yet another part of their economic nightmare. The more prices rise, the comparatively poorer Russians become. This is what the Russian App Store looks like right now. Translation: "Currently unavailable at this time."  Apple    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRaymond Kwok, co-chairman of Sun Hung Kai Properties, arrives at High Court in Hong KongHONG KONG (Reuters) - A former top Hong Kong civil servant was found guilty on Friday of accepting millions of dollars in bribes from the city's largest property developer, Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. Raymond Kwok, co-chairman of the company, was found not guilty of three charges in the graft case. But his brother and fellow co-chairman, billionaire Thomas Kwok, was found guilty of one count of conspiracy to commit misconduct in public office. The case, involving payments to former chief secretary Rafael Hui, has thrown a spotlight on the cozy relationship between the city's powerful developers and government in the former British colony. Hong Kong returned to Chinese rule in 1997 and has a separate legal system from the mainland. (Reporting By Yimou Lee, Lizzie Ko, Farah Master and Twinnie Siu; Editing by Anne Marie Roantree and Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's ruble strengthened on Friday after Finance Minister Anton Siluanov confirmed his ministry had sold foreign currency and on expectations that exporters will step up dollar sales. At 8:15 a.m. GMT (03:15 a.m. EST), the ruble was around 2.7 percent stronger against the dollar at 59.85 and gained 2.7 percent to trade at 73.65 versus the euro. The ruble's recovery is in contrast to intense selling pressure earlier this week, when the ruble at one stage had fallen about 20 percent against the dollar on the day before rising again, threatening the relative financial stability on which President Vladimir Putin has built his popularity. Analysts at Rosbank said that given what they saw as the central bank's conservative approach to rouble liquidity, the expansion of its forex repo mechanism and policy of preserving its reserves, the rouble could stabilize at around 60 to 62 rubles per dollar. Russian government efforts to put pressure on exporters to not hoard their forex revenues are seen as another positive for the Russian currency, which is down some 45 percent against the U.S. currency this year. The end-of-month tax period begins in earnest next week, when Russian exporters have to convert their overseas earnings into rubles to pay taxes to the state budget. Siluanov said early on Friday that the rouble would definitely firm at the beginning of next year. His verbal interventions are seen as part of government efforts to talk up the Russian currency. The central bank has spent over $80 billion defending the currency so far this year amid a collapse in oil prices and Western sanctions over Ukraine that have dented investors' appetite for Russian risk. The bank has scaled back its support for the rouble since last month, however, when it floated the currency. (Reporting by Alexander Winning, Editing by Elizabeth Piper and Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Neil HallEuropean shares are climbing on most of the major indices after an extremely strong day for equities worldwide on Thursday. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: +0.73% Germany's DAX: +0.51% UK's FTSE 100: +0.70% Spain's IBEX: +0.45% Italy's FTSE MIB: -0.30% Asian markets closed up too. Japan's Nikkei ended up 2.39%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 1.25% and China's Shanghai Composite ended 1.67% higher.  US futures are nudging higher too: The Dow is up 74 points and the S&amp;P 500 is 7.25 points higher.  There's no major data out today, but UK public finances at 9:30 a.m. GMT will offer a signal of whether the Treasury can reach its borrowing targets this fiscal year. To manage that, borrowing needs to fall by 25% over the next five months in comparison to the same period last year, according to Lloyds.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussia's Finance Minister Anton Siluanov attends the Reuters Russia Investment Summit in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said on Friday the rouble would definitely firm at the beginning of next year. He also confirmed the ministry had been selling foreign currency and it could buy some for its own purposes at the start of 2015. The rouble has suffered steep falls against the U.S. dollar this year. (Reporting by Elena Fabrichnaya, Writing by Lidia Kelly, Editing by Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
Hellmann's mayonnaise maker Unilever has withdrawn its lawsuit against the maker of "Just Mayo." Unilever filed suit against Hampton Creek earlier this year claiming the name of the small California company's product amounted to false advertising. The consumer-products giant, whose U.S. arm is based in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, had said that "Just Mayo" has no eggs and therefore doesn't meet the definition of mayonnaise. It argued that the word "mayo" implies that the product is mayonnaise, and that Hampton Creek was stealing market share from Hellmann's. Hampton Creek has said that it marketed its product as "mayo" rather than mayonnaise specifically to meet labeling regulations. Unilever said Thursday that it decided to withdraw the lawsuit so that Hampton Creek can address its label directly with industry groups and regulatory authorities. Hampton Creek has had "positive conversations" with industry groups and government officials, said the San Francisco-based company's CEO, Josh Tetrick. He said that Hampton Creek may make the word "just" larger on the label but has no plans to change the product's name or its labeling. Just Mayo's label states that it doesn't contain eggs. The label features a white egg with a plant growing in front, which Tetrick has said is the company's way of showing that they use plants instead of chicken eggs. Unilever, which also sells the Best Foods brand, holds the biggest share of the U.S. mayonnaise market, estimated to be worth $2 billion annually, according to market-research firm Euromonitor. But some of its products aren't exactly mayonnaise either. Shortly after filing the lawsuit it tweaked references on its websites to products to refer to them as "mayonnaise dressing" rather than mayonnaise. Tetrick said that the lawsuit has been a boon to Hampton Creek, boosting sales of Just Mayo and giving the company "the opportunity to tell our story to millions of people." He commended Unilever for dropping the lawsuit, saying the company is "a classy bunch of people who realized that this isn't aligned with their corporate ethos." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gene Blevins Los Angeles city firefighters battle a massive fire at a seven-story downtown apartment complex under construction in Los Angeles, California December 8, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Friday. 1. Eight children died Friday morning in a mass stabbing in Australia. 2. The United Nations has requested more than $8.4 billion for 2015 to help nearly 18 million people affected by the war in Syria. 3. British police are looking into the murders of three young boys as part of an ongoing investigation into child abuse allegations dating back to the 1970s.  4. Investigators said arson was the cause of a massive fire in an unfinished Los Angeles apartment building last week that caused an estimated $30 million of damage. 5. European Union leaders agreed to a new round of sanctions against Crimea, banning all investment in the region as further punishment for Russia's annexation of the region from Ukraine. 6. Canadians are fretting that renewed relations between the United States and Cuba will ruin their vacation spot, currently free of American tourists.  7. Russian President Vladimir Putin said the country could bounce back from the current economic crisis within two years during a three-hour news conference on Thursday. 8. Sierra Leone's leading doctor Victor Willoughby died of Ebola on Thursday, bringing the West African country's death count from the virus to 109. 9. A new BBC documentary alleges that Apple sources the tin for its iPhones from Indonesian mud pits where children work in dangerous conditions. 10. Scientists discovered a new fish that sets the record for the world's deepest during an expedition to the Mariana Trench.And finally ... Brown bears, grey wolves, the Eurasian lynx, and wolverines are making a comeback in Europe, after being driven to near extinction decades ago. FREE AppDownload
© AFP Yoshikazu TsunoAsian markets rally for a second straight session on December 19, boosted by another strong performance on Wall Street, with Tokyo jumping 1.59 percent thanks to the weaker yenHong Kong (AFP) - Asian markets rallied for a second straight session Friday, boosted by another strong performance on Wall Street while renewed confidence helped push the dollar back towards the 100 yen mark. Tokyo jumped 1.59 percent thanks to the weaker yen, while Sydney climbed 1.66 percent, Seoul rose 1.29 percent and Hong Kong added 1.43 percent. Shanghai eased 0.20 percent. Global markets tanked at the start of the week on fears about the global economy as oil prices plunged and crude exporter Russia was also hammered by Western sanctions over Ukraine. However, they have rebounded over the past few days in response to a Federal Reserve statement Wednesday indicating interest rates would be hiked no sooner than mid-2015. On Wall Street the Dow surged 2.43 percent, the S&amp;P 500 shot up 2.40 percent -- the first time since 2002 the index has risen more than two percent on successive days -- and the Nasdaq gained 2.24 percent. The Fed's stance brought relief to emerging markets, which have seen huge capital outflows as traders return to the United States in expectation of better returns. Brokerage IG said it expects "emerging markets to continue their run as they track the momentum seen in major global markets". Currency traders have also returned to the dollar after it tumbled earlier in the week against the yen, which is considered a safe bet in times of turmoil. The greenback -- which fell to as low as 116.30 yen Wednesday -- was at 118.92 yen early Friday, compared with 118.81 yen in New York. The euro bought $1.2286 and 146.11 yen against $1.2287 and 146.00 yen in US trade Oil prices tacked higher after plumbing new five-and-a-half-year lows Thursday on the back of a supply glut. US benchmark West Texas Intermediate for January delivery rose 84 cents to $54.95 while Brent crude gained 60 cents to $59.87. Gold was at $1,197.95 an ounce, compared with $1,210.13 late Thursday. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New YorkBy Ross Kerber BOSTON (Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co will soon issue a report outlining improved controls it has been enacting in the wake of recent missteps, including its role in the 2008 financial crisis, according to a shareholder activist who has seen a draft. The report could add pressure on other banks to show tangible changes to policies after a slew of scandals tainted the industry, according to the activist, Seamus Finn, chair of the board of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility. The report details policy changes, including guidelines on when the bank can claw back executives bonuses, specifics about how it manages risk, and details about the responsibilities of its board of directors, Finn said. A JPMorgan official, Joe Evangelisti, said the bank would not comment on the report until it is issued, likely in the coming days. Members of Finn's group have pushed the bank to issue the report. Finn said his organization was satisfied with the draft. "There's clearly an acknowledgement of their mistakes," he said. JPMorgan is the largest U.S. bank with over $2.5 trillion in assets. In 2013, the bank agreed to a record $13 billion settlement with U.S. regulators over charges related to its role in the U.S. mortgage crisis - a key factor in the 2008 global financial meltdown. In 2012, one of its traders, known as the "London Whale", lost more than $6 billion on bad derivatives trades, also raising the ire of regulators, and critics of the industry concerned by a lack of oversight. JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Jamie Dimon has already vowed improvements to the bank's standards. Finn said JPMorgan's report could serve as a model in his group's talks with other banks such as Wells Fargo &amp; Co and Bank of America. He said that while the new report does not seem to offer many new specifics, it will be helpful in judging the bank in the future. Religious groups and labor unions have been among the most vocal shareholder activists calling for stricter corporate governance coming out of the financial crisis.  (Reporting by Ross Kerber; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Alan Crosby) FREE AppDownload
