TOKYO (Reuters) - Two years before Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy, a half dozen employees at the Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange challenged CEO Mark Karpeles over whether client money was being used to cover costs, according to three people who participated in the discussion. The question of how Mt. Gox handled other people's money - the issue raised by staff in the showdown with Karpeles in early 2012 - remains crucial to unraveling a multi-million dollar mystery under examination by authorities in Japan. A bankruptcy administrator and police are seeking to determine how a Tokyo start-up that shot from obscurity to dominate global trade in bitcoin managed to lose more than $27 million in old-fashioned cash held in a bank as well as bitcoins worth close to $450 million at today's prices. The still-unresolved issue has thrown a spotlight on how Mt. Gox functioned as a hybrid between an online brokerage and an exchange. Essentially, the more than 1 million traders who used Mt. Gox at its peak had entrusted a 3-year-old firm to hold their money safely until they decided to cash out. A court-appointed bankruptcy administrator on Friday said an initial examination of Mt. Gox - key to determining whether Mt. Gox's users will be able to recover some of what they had on deposit with the exchange - would not be complete until May, citing the involvement of authorities in the case. GROWING STRAINS In interviews with Reuters, current and former employees at Mt. Gox described the strains that emerged over the handling of customer money just as the firm was gearing up for expansion and bitcoin was edging out of the shadows as an investment and a means of online settlement. By early 2012, a small group of Mt. Gox employees, all of whom worked on one-year contracts, began to worry that customer funds had been diverted to cover operating costs that they estimated to be rising. Those costs included rent in a Tokyo high-rise that also housed offices for Hulu and Google, high-tech gadgets such as a robot and a 3-D printer and a souped-up, racing version of the Honda Civic imported from Britain for Karpeles, people who have reviewed expenses said. Unlike Karpeles, the employees say they did not have access to the financial records of Mt. Gox. They asked for a formal meeting with the then-26-year-old Karpeles in early 2012, those involved said, and asked him to respond to their estimate that Mt. Gox was spending more than it was taking in. They were also concerned that company expenses were being paid from the same bank account used for customer deposits. Karpeles told the group that customer money was not being used to fund the business, but declined to provide details on how the business had covered any loss. The meeting broke off after about an hour, those who participated said. Several of the staff say they left the inconclusive meeting frustrated that Karpeles would not share proof that client deposits had been protected. For his part, Karpeles believed he had thwarted a challenge to his leadership by staff who had no right to see the books of a firm he owned and was funding, a person familiar with his thinking said. Mt. Gox referred questions to its lawyers who had no immediate comment. The former Mt. Gox employees who spoke to Reuters asked not to be named because of potential legal complications. Tokyo police have taken evidence from Mt. Gox in recent days as part of an early-stage inquiry into what the company has described as possible theft. It is unclear how Japanese law would treat any such diversion of customer funds as Mt. Gox was not regulated as a financial institution. As a private firm in which Karpeles held an 88 percent stake with no declared debt, Mt. Gox was under no obligation to share any details on its finances. ACCOUNTING Mt. Gox said in its February 28 bankruptcy filing that hackers may have exploited what it called "a bug in the bitcoin system" to steal virtual currency from the exchange. It has not offered an explanation for the missing $27 million in cash. By 2012, from its offices in Tokyo's Shibuya neighborhood, Mt. Gox was handling at least $14 million in bitcoin trades per month, according to its estimates - equivalent to almost 90 percent of global trade in the digital currency at the time. Mt. Gox's only revenue came from a transaction fee initially set at 0.6 percent of trades and later discounted for big transactions, according to the company. Daily cash revenue for the exchange was just over $1,500, according to figures it posted on its website in August 2012 in a bid to reassure its traders that it was solvent. The company's accounting was complicated by it recording some revenue in bitcoin, which it used to cover some expenses, such as buying computer gear, a person who reviewed those transactions said. By April 2013, up to $20 million was flowing into the exchange every day, with $300,000 being cashed out, Karpeles told Reuters in an interview then. Karpeles was the only person at Mt. Gox who had access to the bank accounts, and each withdrawal request was handled manually, slowing the process, three former employees said. In its bankruptcy filing Mt. Gox did not list what remained in its bank accounts, including Mizuho Bank, which had been its main bank in Japan. It said it owed 1.3 million bitcoin traders $55 million based on deposits it had taken. (Additional reporting by Taro Fuse, Ritsuko Ando and Antoni Slodkowski; Editing by Kevin Krolicki and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
In recent years, as income and wealth inequality have grown as matters of concern, the term "1%" has become a popular way to connote the rise of a super-elite that has separated itself economically from the rest of society. We've all seen the charts showing, in various ways, how much the 1% have seen their wealth grow, while everyone else's has stagnated. But talking about the 1% actually misses the real story. New research from economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman (.pdf), via HouseOfDebt, shows that really it's only the 0.1% who've seen their share of the wealth surge. Here's what happens if you decompose the % of total wealth held by the top 1% in the United States. Saez and Zucman So basically, if you're a poor schmo whose wealth is in the top 1% but not above the top 0.5%, you haven't seen gains at all. And it's mostly the same for people between 0.5% and 0.1%. It's really only above that where the outsize gains have accrued. And really, it's only the top 0.01% of the wealthiest individuals who have seen the ridiculous gains everyone talks about.  Check out the full presentation from Saez and Zucman here »   FREE AppDownload
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderWe make it the old-fashioned way — with buckets.Kurt Vonnegut, a resident of the northeastern United States, used to say that there were actually six seasons in the year in this part of the world: winter, spring, summer, and fall...and "locking" and "unlocking." "Locking," Vonnegut said, comes between fall and winter, when leaf-season is over and the world is hunkering down but real winter has yet to arrive. "Unlocking" comes at the end of the winter, when the world has begun to thaw, but it's still in no way spring. These two seasons tend to be bi-polar and confusing. But if you live in the northern United States and have access to some woods, there's a fun thing you can do with the "unlocking" season... Make maple syrup! That's what I did when I was a kid.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA mascot dressed as a character from the mobile game "Candy Crush Saga" walks the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during the IPO of Mobile game maker King Digital Entertainment Plc March 26, 2014. IPO activity on Wall Street is heating back up. This week saw King — the maker of the addictive game Candy Crush — go public, only to see its stock tank three straight days in a row. Also this week we got the S-1 filing from Box, which makes a cloud-based file system, and though the company is a phenomenon, it's bleeding an unholy amount of cash. Still! The IPO window is open. So is the bubble back? Is it 1999 all over again? The answer is no. And if anyone says that this is 1999 all over again, it's because they don't remember 1999. To wit, let's take a look at the IPO of a company called Sycamore Networks, a maker of networking gear. It went public in October 1999. Here's how CNET described the offering: At the opening, shares peaked at 270.88, then traded between 200 and 250 before closing at 184.75, giving the company a market capitalization of $14.4 billion. Trading volume was heavy at 9.9 million shares. Sycamore closed with the biggest market value ever achieved by an Internet-related company in its first day of trading, according to CommScan. It is also achieved the fourth-largest gain--386 percent--for a U.S. stock on its first day of trading. So the company had a market cap of $14.4 billion. How did the financials look? Sycamore generated $11.3 million in revenue and posted a loss of $19.5 million for the year ended July 31, compared with no revenue and a loss of $693,000 the previous year. All of the company's revenue so far has come as a result of a contract with telecommunications carrier Williams Communications, according to the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filing. So this company had ONE customer worth $11.3 million. That means the company was debuting with a price-to-sales ratio of 1274. King, by contrast, has a market cap of $5.7 billion against trailing revenue, according to Yahoo Finance, of $1.8 billion. So that's a price-to-sales ratio of just over 3. King is also wildly profitable. So, to back up. The Sycamore IPO came public with a price-to-sales ratio of over 1,000. With King it was just over 3. And while the former wasn't profitable, King is extremely so. Also, it should be noted that Sycamore went on to surge for the next several months. That being said, Sycamore's stock is very sad these days. After peaking at a reverse-split adjusted price of over $1,600 per share, the stock is now trading on the pink sheets at about 50 cents per share, a decline of well over 99%. Yahoo Finance The amazing thing is that Sycamore wasn't an isolated story. It's a story that was repeated over and over again. In December, the maker of Linux servers ,VA Linux went public with a $10 billion market cap on revenue of just $15 million. It's fine to look for signs of froth in the current market (and when you look at the action in the biotechs and the fuel-cell companies, it's easy to get nervous). But please don't embarrass yourself by talking about "99." FREE AppDownload
Talking about a country's total "debt" is always risky. For example, if you're talking about government debt, then it's important to understand the nature of the debt. Is it in the government's own currency that they can freely print (like Japan, the U.S., and U.K.)? How much of the debt is external? When looking at private-sector debt, financial debt can complicate the picture (so a country like the U.K. ends up looking like it uses much more debt than it does, simply because finance is a bigger part of the economy). This chart from Citi looks simply at household and non-financial-sector debt by key regions around the world. You can see how China's private-sector debt has surged past everyone, nearing 200% of GDP. Citi This has become one of China's primary policy concerns. Leadership is concerned (probably rightly) about the sustainability of an economy that's built so much on debt. It's also why the first-ever corporate default, which happened earlier this month, is so worrisome (how many more will there be?). Bigger picture, it's why more and more people are talking about China having a "Minsky Moment" when all of this debt build-up will end up in some kind of big, bang crash. FREE AppDownload
    Wal-Mart is an absolute behemoth in the world of retail. It hauls in a massive $405 billion dollars in sales annually. That's more than Kroger, Target, Costco, and Walgreens combined. And the incredible facts don't end there. FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressOne reason the U.S. economy is still weak is that big American companies are "maximizing profits" instead of investing in their people and future projects. This behavior is contributing to record income inequality in the country and starving the primary engine of U.S. economic growth — the vast American middle class — of purchasing power. (See charts below). If average Americans don't get paid living wages, they can't spend much money buying products and services. And when average Americans can't buy products and services, companies that sell products and services can't grow. So the profit obsession of America's big companies is, ironically, hurting their ability to grow. One solution is for big companies to pay their people more — to share more of the vast wealth that they create with the people who create it. Business Insider, St. Louis FedProfits as a percent of the economy.Big American companies have record profit margins, so they can certainly afford to do this. But, unfortunately, over the past three decades, what began as a healthy and necessary effort to make our companies more efficient has evolved into a warped consensus that the only purpose of a corporation is to "maximize earnings." This view is an insult to anyone who has ever dreamed of having a job or company that is about more than money. And it is a short-sighted and destructive view of capitalism, an economic system that sustains not just this country but most countries in the world. This view has become deeply entrenched, though. These days, if you suggest that great companies should serve all of their constituencies (customers, employees, and shareholders) and that American companies should share more of their wealth with the people who generate it (employees), you get called a "socialist." You get called a "liberal." You get told that you "don't understand economics." You get accused of promoting "wealth confiscation." You get told that, in America, people get paid what they deserve to get paid: Anyone who wants more money should go out and "start their own company" or "demand a raise" or "get a better job." In other words, you get told that anyone who suggests that great companies should share the value they create with their employees instead of just lining the pockets of shareholders is an idiot. Business Insider, St. Louis FedWages as a percent of the economy.After all, these folks say, one law of capitalism is that employers pay their employees as little as possible. Employees are just "costs." You should try to minimize those "costs" whenever and wherever you can. This view, unfortunately, is not just selfish and demeaning to the people who do the work and create the value. It's also economically stupid. Those "costs" you are minimizing (your employees) are also current and prospective customers for your company and other companies. And the less money they have, the fewer products and services they are going to buy. Obviously, the folks who own and run America's big corporations want to do as well as they can for themselves. But the key point is this: It is not a law that they pay their employees as little as possible. It is a choice. It is a choice made by senior managers and owners who want to keep the highest possible percentage of a company's wealth for themselves. It is, in other words, a selfish choice. It is a choice that reveals that, regardless of what they say about how much they value their employees, regardless of what euphemism they use to describe their employees ("associate," "partner," "representative," "team-member"), they, in fact, don't give a damn about their employees. These senior managers and owners, after all, are earning record profits while choosing to pay their employees so little in many cases that the employees have to live in poverty. And the senior managers and owners add insult to injury by blaming the employees for this: "Wall Street"Greed WAS good, back in the early 1980s. But then we overdid it..."If they want to get paid more, they should start their own company. Or get a better job." It is no mystery why America's senior managers and owners describe the decision to pay employees as little as possible as a "law of capitalism." Because this masks the fact that they are making a choice. But it is a choice. If big American companies were struggling to earn money, as they were in the early 1980s, we would not be having this conversation. Even if big American companies were only earning average profits, this wouldn't be an issue. But the "efficiency" and "shareholder-value" drive that began in the 1980s has now gone too far the other way. Just look at these charts... CHART ONE: Corporate profits and profit margins are at an all-time high. American companies are making more money and more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. Full stop. This means that the companies have oceans of cash to invest or share with their employees. But they're not investing it or sharing it with their employees. Because they're too risk averse, profit-obsessed, and short-term greedy. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART TWO: Wages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low. Why are corporate profits so high? One reason is that companies are paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. And that, in turn, is another reason the economy is so weak. Those "wages" represent spending power for American consumers. American consumer spending is revenue for other companies. So the profit maximization obsession of American corporations is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART THREE: Fewer Americans are employed than at any time in the past three decades. Another reason corporations are so profitable is that they don't employ as many Americans as they used to. This is in part because companies today regard employees as "costs" instead of human beings who are dedicating their lives to organizations that, in turn, are supporting them and their families. (A win-win! Imagine that!) As a result of frantic firing in the name of "efficiency"  and "return on capital," the U.S. employment-to-population ratio has collapsed. We're back at 1970s-1980s levels now. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART FOUR: The share of our national income that American corporations are sharing with the people who do the work  ("labor") is at an all-time low.  The rest of our national income, naturally, is going to owners and senior managers ("capital"), who have it better today than they have ever had it before. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed, Bureau of Labor Statistics In short, the obsession with "maximizing short-term profits" that has developed in America over the past 30 years has created a business culture in which executives dance to the tune of short-term traders and quarterly earnings reports, instead of balancing the value created for employees, customers, and long-term owners. That's not what has made America a great country. It is not what has made some excellent American corporations the envy of the world. And it's hurting our economy. FREE AppDownload
Last month Venezuela exploded, as discontent with the Socialist government that has ruled the country for more than a decade reached a boiling point. You can blame food shortages and inflation; you can blame joblessness and corruption. Ultimately, though, these problems have been compounded by the fact that Hugo Chavez is dead, and his party — The United Socialist Party of Venezuela — lacks the legitimacy he gave it in life. Now Chavez's successor, Nicolas Maduro, must deal with country-wide protests, with dissenting mayors in major cities, and the make-shift barricades protestors are building to keep government forces at bay. Thirty-three people have died, and the Venezuelan economy is continuing its downward spiral. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins Maduro inherited Venezuela from Hugo Chavez in April 2013. He beat middle-of-the-road opposition politician Henrique Capriles Radonski, with the lowest margin of support in years. The regime, however, made it a point to connect Maduro to his predecessor as much as possible — sometimes bordering on the farcical. "Sometimes I come at night, sometimes I sleep here, often," said Maduro of Chavez's grave site back in September 2013. "You don’t even realize it. The neighbors sometimes realize." He also once said that Chavez appeared to him in the form of a little bird and whispered in his ear. AP Photo By last November the country was suffering from an economic malaise that could not be ignored. Consumer price inflation had climbed to 49% by September; staple products like toilet paper and beans were getting hard to come by. To combat this evil, Maduro requested sweeping powers from the Venezuelan legislature, mostly ruled by his party members. The new powers would allow the president to essentially rule by decree when it came to economic matters. Maduro said the new measures would allow him to "unfold a permanent offensive against the corrupt and their political backers." Capriles, on the other hand, said that he "is seeking once again scapegoats to blame for their own mistakes ... The government is trying to deviate attention from the serious economic crisis that is hurting Venezuela." REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsHenrique Capriles Since then, the economy has only gotten worse. In a recent research report Citi wrote Venezuelan public debt has ballooned to 53.4% of GDP, and estimates GDP will contract by 1% in 2014. As the economy was tail spinning, the Venezuelan legislature was busy basing its budget on inflation targets in the mid 20% range. It also created a "Vice Ministry of Happiness" to figure out how to deal with unrest. Maduro, for his part, was ordering soldiers to take over toilet paper factories and announcing that construction workers had seen the face of Chavez in a subway work site. Election day in December was set on "The Day of Loyalty" commemorating Chavez's leadership. AP Photo Things fell apart on "Youth Day" — the Feb. 12 holiday in which students remember the legacy of South America's colonial liberator, Simon Bolivar. There had been smaller protests before, but it was on this holiday —and in the days after — that the crowds really started pouring into the streets. Reuters "I've had enough," said an angry Maduro. "You can accuse me of what you want, I am obliged to defend democracy and the peace of the people." He told the people that the protests were coming from a "Nazi Fascist" current, and the government started fighting back. People started dying on both sides. AP PhotoA student shot in the head is carried by other protesters inside a police vehicle in Caracas, Venezuela, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2014. Thousands of Venezuelans opposed to President Nicolas Maduro took to the streets in Caracas in a show of force following two weeks of sometimes violent anti-government protests that have swept across the country. (AP Photo/Alejandro Cegarra) As the protests spread outside of Caracas to more remote parts of the country, the deaths and injuries suffered by the opposition became more high profile. Genesis Carmona, Miss Tourism 2013 for her home state of Carabobo, was shot in the head and died a little more than a week after the protests really took hold. Instagram, orgmisscarabobo New leaders emerged from Feb. 12, as well. Leopoldo Lopez, former mayor of the city of Chacao, became a rallying point for protests. He represented a political view even more to the right than Capriles, and the government put a warrant out for his arrest. On Feb. 18, Lopez gave himself up, said goodbye to his wife Lilian and went to jail. Imágenes para la historia pic.twitter.com/Iyui1naQe4 Reuters Following Lopez, the government arrested several other mayors including the mayor of San Cristobal. It's a Colombian border town where food lines are long, and protesters built barricades to keep out government forces. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, February 27, 2014. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called on Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade.  According to reports, shoppers at government grocery stores are marked with permanent marker to keep their place in these long lines. Once they get inside stores, though, it's possible that they won't find what they're looking for. Twitter, Friedrich Hayek The leaders of the protest have started appealing to international bodies like the Organization of American States. Opposition politician Maria Corina Machado appealed to the body in Washington last week, but Venezuela's allies — including countries like Ecuador, Argentina, and the Caribbean islands, which receive oil subsidies from the country — voted to take her comments off the record. They also agreed not to debate the situation at all. Now Machado is headed back to a country where she is wanted for treason, and has been stripped of her protections as a legislator. Check out an interview she did with Fusion after her appearance.  The official death toll in all this turmoil officially stands at 34. As a sign that the government is more concerned about the economic situation than it has been in years, it is loosening restrictions on the dollar, which is meant to curb capital flight. Still demonstrators are out on the street even today, demanding the release of opposition politicians. Here they are wearing masks of the faces of incarcerated Mayors.  Experts like Eurasia Group's Ian Bremmer have argued that Venezuela is not Ukraine because of the government's continued control of the military and popularity among working class and poor Venezuelans. But as things get more and more violent, it's unclear how long Maduro can hold on without taking dramatic steps to crush his opposition. And who knows how the opposition will react to that. REUTERS/Carlos Eduardo Ramirez (Anti-government protesters stand in front of a National Guard armoured vehicle during a protest against Nicolas Maduro's government in San Cristobal March 22, 2014. Two Venezuelans died from gunshot wounds during protests against Maduro, witnesses and local media said on Saturday, pushing the death toll from almost two months of anti-government protests to 33.     FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons The age of renewables is upon us, Citi says. In a new note titled "The Age of Renewables is Beginning – A Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE)," Perspective, Citi's alternative energy team led by Shar Pourreza, writes that we can expect across-the-board price decreases in solar and wind, which will continue to fuel the renewable energy generation boom. Renewables energy, primarily solar and wind, costs continue to decline and are increasingly competitive with natural gas peakers (natgas plants that turn on during periods of high demand — ed.) and CCGT (combined cycle gas turbine) plants on an LCOE (the lifecycle cost of an electricity generation system — ed.) basis. Here are the projected cost decreases for solar: Citi adds the caveat that the rates of price declines vary among residential, commercial, and utility-scale projects, but that the overall downward trend holds. Price declines will also be seen in wind, thanks to: Here's Citi's wind outlook: CitiMeanwhile, natural gas prices are going to keep going up — Citi's "long-term" (exact dates aren't specified) gas price forecast is $5.50/mmbtu. And the cost of running coal and nuclear plants is slowly becoming prohibitive. In conclusion:  In peak power generation, solar is increasingly attractive vs. gas peakers from an LCOE and fuel diversity perspective. In baseload generation, wind, biomass, geothermal, and hydro are becoming more attractive vs. CCGT plants but other considerations influence adoption of renewables. Citi is in fact bullish on certain publicly traded utilities that have most nimbly adapted to the renewables boom, including Edison International and Pacific Gas and Electric in California; Duke Energy in the South, DTE Energy in Michigan, and Westar Energy in Kansas. They also like SunEdison, SunPower, and First Solar. They have not initiated coverage on SolarCity. FREE AppDownload
Linette Lopez, Business InsiderPartiers while out at NYC club stalwart, Cielo, on Friday, March 21, as part of London DJ crew Horsemeat Disco's new monthly residency at the club. New York City is a better place to party than it has been in almost 20 years. That's right. I said it. Call your older cousin who used to party at The Tunnel every night and gives you "man-you-should-have-been-there" stories every time he sees you. Dig out your old pictures of made-up club kids freak dancing at Limelight back in '92. I don't care. Saying the past was better than what we have now is easy. It excuses you from finding killer parties, and New York City has them — more than it's had in a long time. "If I go out and I'm not working the next day, I'm out til 6 or 7 am," said Bruce Tantum, editor of Time Out New York's nightlife section. "There are more illegal options too." (Not that we'd sell them out here.) A brief history lesson for those of you who don't know what the old-timers have been complaining about. It all started with Mayor Giuliani. You wouldn't know it to look at the guy, but he was basically a 19th century school marm when it came to partying. If there was joy, he found it and killed it. Strict cabaret laws made it harder to dance, higher rents made it harder for clubs to find space. That's when bottle service took over NYC clubs. And you probably know about that bottle service stuff: Throw down a couple hundred for a bottle that you can get at your local liquor store for $30, wait in line with a bunch of girls you may or may not have recruited down the street because there are too many guys in your group, kiss a promoter's butt. Get in. Be crowded. Or don't get in, get rejected. At this point in 2014, New York City's club scene has evolved beyond that. DJ culture has created segments of dance music for everyone from your sorority 'woo-girls' in heels and band-aid dresses to your genuine club kids wearing sneakers and tees because they want to get down. "The scene's really diverse now," said Sascha Lewis, CEO of culture site Flavorpill. "You can have a night out where you can hear Questlove play a great hip-hop soul funk set. You can go to Output and hear some dirty techno from Europe ... and you can go to an amazing underground house music party." The list goes on. Don't want to stand in line for a meatpacking club but you want to hear music from Top 40 charting DJs? Fine. Pay a fee and get into Marquee or Pasha, no problem. For the music snobs — the real heads — last year New York City got Output, a 436-person club with one of the best sound systems in the country located in Williamsburg. More recently, Output got a (weirder) little sister in Verboten — a club just down the street that promises much of what Output does: long nights, internationally respected DJs, open parties, and lots of dancing. For the real warriors, there are the sweaty dance parties taming Bushwick, like Bossa Nova Civic Club and Tandem. And what if you want to party at some weird hour? Flavorpill has your back for that. Want a dance party at noon? Go to a Lunch Break party. How about one right after Happy Hour ends at 7 p.m.? Then you should check out The Get Down. Part of the reason for all of this is because the Brooklyn scene grew up. The guys who eight to 10 years ago had just gotten out of college or moved to the city from bubble-wherever have grown up. They have bills to pay, so they've started amazing venues like Brooklyn Bowl. "It lends more legitimacy to the scene than the sweaty one-off parties in warehouses that used to dominate it," said Lewis. "The whole Burning Man meets Brooklyn barrage of before was edgy for what it was, but everyone had to grow up." This isn't to say that the underground scene is dead. Quite the contrary. It's still humming along, throwing bigger, later parties. Yes, sometimes they get busted — but isn't it worth it to see a French kid who doesn't speak a word of English happily dancing on a trampoline next to a do-or-die New Yorker who just drove over with his friends from Bayside, Queens? Like I said, the scene's diverse. For most people, night time is the most free time they have crammed together in one go. Days are often full of drudgery — of phone calls, appointments, and small-time conversation. At night, though, you can go out and find whatever makes you happy. Night belongs to you. That's what makes all this worth reading about in the first place. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider's transportation reporter Alex Davies drove the 2014 Ferrari F12berlinetta. With a maximum speed of 210 mph and a base price of $315,000, it goes without saying that the car is a blast to drive. Before you hit the road, you might want to learn how to start it and get it into first gear. Davies shows you how to use the paddle shifts.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
China is on its way to becoming the world's largest economic superpower. Most economists expect China's economy to surpass the size of the U.S. economy sometime in the next few decades. To those who grew up in the latter half of the 20th Century, China's rise seems startling. How did China come out of nowhere in only a few decades to dominate the world? But when you take a longer view of history, this rise isn't surprising. It's just the balance of world economic power returning to normal. The chart below from Ian Bremmer of Eurasia Group shows the share of world GDP from the birth of Christ to the modern day. As you can see, it's the U.S. that is the overnight success. And in terms of global share, we're already on the decline. China's economy is just returning to its normal place in the world... Ian Bremmer, Eurasia Group FREE AppDownload
YouTube/NewburghBrewingThe craft beer versus mega brewer narrative is one of the better underdog, David and Goliath stories out there right now. Craft brewers care about ingredients and taste and are slowly but surely grabbing market share from the big boys. The small brewers focus on quality and forgo the multimillion-dollar Super Bowl ads and billion dollar acquisitions of global competitors like beer behemoths Anheuser-Busch InBev and MolsonCoors Brewing, endearing them to millions. But when it comes right down to it, craft brewers need their big beer rivals, now more than ever. That's because macro brewers like MillerCoors — the SAB Miller and MolsonCoors joint venture in America — are spending large sums of money on industry innovation geared toward water conservation — innovation that small brewers could not afford to develop on their own. Water is something many Americans take for granted. Not only is the water we drink clean, but its supply is ample. Or at least, it used to be. California is currently dealing with its worst drought in 165 years. While it is certainly the most devastated state from a U.S. agriculture perspective, it is not the only state suffering. Take, for example, Colorado. MillerCoors' most famous brewery, and the nation's largest, is in the city of Golden. For the last six years, it has been dealing with below-average run-off from the Colorado Rockies because of below-average snowfall in the mountains. The run-off meets 85% of the water needs for the entire region. With few options for an alternative water supply, conservation is taking on an unprecedented level of importance. When you look at how many of barrels of water are needed to produce one barrel of beer — not including farming ingredients — MillerCoors stands out. It takes the average brewery five barrels of water to churn out one barrel of beer. MillerCoors has a companywide average of 3.8 barrels, but that varies by brewery. At the company's Eden, NC and Fort Worth, Texas breweries, it operates ratios of 3.34 to 1 and 3.47 to 1, respectively. It has a goal of achieving a company-wide ratio of three-and-a-half barrels of water to one barrel of beer by 2015. For what it's worth, Anheuser-Busch InBev has cut its water consumption by 19% since 2009. Water's importance to beer is obvious: crack open a cold one, and it is 95% water in there. Less intuitive is the sheer volume of water needed to produce the grains used in the brewing process. When you factor in the entire lifecycle of a can of beer, growing its ingredients accounts for an astounding 90% of its water needs. So, how has MillerCoors made these changes? By spending money, of course. The company employs not one, not two, but eight agronomists who work directly with the farmers who supply ingredients to its breweries. In 2011, MillerCoors gave a $1 million grant to the Nature Conservancy to turn a standard barley farm into a state-of-the-art irrigation innovation center. The nonprofit in turn unleashed its team of irrigation specialists on the land, who then implemented a flurry of changes ranging from soil sensors to redesigned spigots. The new farm saved 270 million gallons of water in its first two years, and 400 million gallons in its first three. It's an impressive commitment, but it is not one that every brewer can make because of the sheer cost involved. MillerCoors will innovate and implement, discovering best practices and driving costs down. Eventually, these new techniques and technologies will become the new industry standard. That's something that will benefit all brewers, great and small. FREE AppDownload
Like most broke university students, Steve Siebold wanted to get rich. But unlike most college kids, he did something about it. “In 1984 I was a sophomore in college,” he recalls. “And I was sitting in class listening to business professors telling me the odds of succeeding in business were so slim that it would take years to get there.” But Siebold wasn’t interested in waiting years. So he tracked down a millionaire—and requested an interview. That millionaire, in turn, introduced him to another millionaire and so on. Since then, Siebold has interviewed more than 1,200 millionaires and even billionaires. “It’s really a 30-year study at this point,” he says. Given all of the, ahem, rich knowledge that Siebold has collected over those three decades, he decided to share his insider findings in a book, “How Rich People Think.” His biggest takeaway? “[Becoming a millionaire] isn’t about money,” he says. “It’s about psychology.” Intrigued to learn more about how the mind can possibly pave the way to millionaire-hood, we sat down with Siebold to pick his brain. Steve Siebold: Well, there are obviously exceptions—say, if you’re psychologically handicapped or have other serious setbacks—but, for the most part, the average person in America can get rich. After being around wealthy people for so many years, I’ve learned that they’re no smarter than the rest of us. They’re just ordinary people with extraordinary focus and drive who are looking for gaps or what’s missing in the marketplace—for what can be filled. Sure, some people seem to be predisposed to being entrepreneurs. One guy I interviewed built a $90 million company from scratch, and he seemed to just have that inner drive, which can be an advantage. But all you really need is the desire. Take a single mother who can’t pay her bills or get a job—she has a strong need. And if you have a strong enough desire, you can develop the skills necessary to become an entrepreneur. That’s the way most Americans become rich. Absolutely. Saving is so important. My point is that the average person last year made $38,000 in income. If I’m making $38,000, and I’m saving 10%, that’s only $3,800 a year. I’m going to be 300 years old before I can retire. What the wealthy do is focus on earning more. If you can make $200,000 a year, then you’re saving $20,000—a big improvement. RELATED: How Much of My Paycheck Should I Save Each Month? That’s where the entrepreneurial mindset comes in. You look for small business opportunities. Niche markets. You don’t have to open a McDonalds, but maybe you start with a small lawn-mowing or pool-cleaning business or selling things on eBay—technology has opened up so many opportunities. Remember that it’s not about the money, but your way of thinking. Rich people look for problems to solve, and then cultivate the skills, passion and talent to solve them. You wouldn’t take fitness and health advice from someone who’s not fit, so why would you take money advice from someone who’s not rich? For starters, be around the rich. Some people may think it’s extreme, but before I was wealthy, I moved into a neighborhood I couldn’t afford. I wanted to be around rich people—not to make deals with them, but to learn their mindset. I don’t recommend doing the same thing, but you can go to places where rich people congregate, such as charity auctions, seminars, country clubs. Listen to how they talk about money and opportunity. Compare their mindset to yours—and then consider adjustments. Number two: Get away from people who tell you that your [business idea] can’t be done because you don’t have enough education, money, talent. Listening to those people—and believing them—can quickly derail your plans. Lastly, discover what your talents are and how you can use them. I was a professional tennis player, and when I started teaching, I wasn’t making very much money. The millionaires I was around at the time told me to start thinking about the talents that I had, which is part of thinking like an entrepreneur. The one thing I really focused on with athletes was the mental toughness side of sports and cultivating that focus. The millionaires said that’s a skill that most people don’t have—and find a place where they’re missing that. So long story short, over a period of six or seven years, I started training the skill of mental toughness to salespeople in large corporations … and that’s how I made my own millions. The heart of it is that everybody has certain talents—they just don’t recognize what they’re worth. They listen to the average person, with no money, tell them about money. You wouldn’t take fitness and health advice from someone who’s not fit, so why would you take money advice from someone who’s not rich? It doesn’t make sense.   FREE AppDownload
Flickr User Clementine Gallot (www.flickr.comIn 2012, Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney told a small conference of supporters that “47 percent” of Americans were dependent on the federal government and give nothing back. “My job is not to worry about those people," he said. "I’ll never convince them they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives,” he said, in a video that was secretly recorded by a bartender at a private Romney fundraiser. The video soon went viral, and the “freeloader” myth became part of the national conversation. Interestingly, new research shows that red states, so designated because they are deemed to be politically conservative and tend to vote Republican in national elections, receive more federal government funding than blue states, which tend to vote Democratic in national elections. The researchers say that blue states typically receive less government funding in general than red states, when funds are calculated as a percentage of total revenue, according to a recent report from Wallet Hub, an online personal finance site. Researchers from the site looked into tax returns, state revenue and the number of federal employees per capita to determine how dependent certain states were on the federal government. “The idea of the American freeloader burst into the public consciousness when #47percent started trending on Twitter,” the report said. “While the notion is senselessly insulting to millions of hardworking Americans, it is true that some states receive a far higher return on their federal income tax investment than others." In first place is Alaska, for which government money accounts for only 20 percent of total revenue. Mississippi, where federal funds represent 45.84 percent of the state's revenue, came in last place. Click on the map below to see exactly what percent of each state's revenue comes from the government.  FREE AppDownload
