Good morning – it’s Thursday in a big week. Let’s go… 1. Boom. Nearest the pin with Australia’s GDP figures was Soc Gen, which in a Bloomberg survey Tuesday correctly called the year-on-year growth number at 3.5%. Also yesterday we got a withering assessment of the stock market from Soc Gen’s famous equity bear, Albert Edwards. The two things are almost entirely unconnected, but still… 2. … it was the number that surprised everyone. Only one bank had a more bullish expectation – Morgan Stanley – in that Bloomberg survey. The 3.5% growth rate for Australia’s economy really did catch everyone offside. Amid a lot of talk about how that number can’t be sustained, or that it might be a bit of a mirage, it’s worth remembering that almost all of the smartest economic minds in Australia underestimated the growth of the economy. 3. To the markets and trade is starting to thin out ahead of two huge events in the next two days. In the Asian timezone we can expect to wake up to historic-low interest rates from the European Central Bank, possibly including a negative interest rate – charges for banks to hold money – in the ECB policy decision tonight. The Australian dollar is still trading the mid US92.5c range – closer to US95.3c this morning after the GDP print yesterday. On Friday night we get the US jobs report. 4. What it all means politically is that the Coalition is now in a bit of an awkward position where they’ve been telling people Australia is in crisis when, in fact, it is clearly not. (This is not a political point, just a statement of fact.) Australia has some huge momentum that will cover some evil from the harsh US winter that dragged on growth. So the economy isn’t a problem, but the structure of public spending sure is – and that’s what the government is banking people will come to understand over the coming weeks. 5. And the scoreboard from overnight is that the markets were up a bit. The Dow was up 0.1%, the S&amp;P 500 up 0.2%. and the Nasdaq up 0.4%. Record highs. Greg McKenna has more here. 6. Today and tonight we get HSBC services PMI for China, as well as Australia’s trade balance numbers. Later there’s initial jobless claims out of the US ahead of the May jobs report. The big show, though, is the ECB announcement mentioned above. 6. Venture capital disaster. Mark Carnegie’s not exactly a rogue investor – you might say he’s the face of slightly-non-consensus investing in Australia. But he’s always good for a quote and today he hasthis: “The truth of the matter is, Australian venture capital as an industry has been an unmitigated disaster. A trained monkey could have done better than the professional venture capital ­industry in Australia.” Harsh and unfair, but he is calling attention to a really important point in the Australian investment landscape. Also, where are the investors? Just asking. 7. What not to do. A developer from Atlassian, Australia’s poster-boy technology company, somehow decided to make the following points in a post about Maven software It will be clear to regular readers but in case you’re dropping in: this is shared without approval. It’s a good reminder that if you’re speaking publicly and will be representing your company, run it past someone first. Or more importantly, avoid these opinions in the first place. 8. Sydney is beautiful at all times of the year, but everyone you run into has been raving about this year’s Vivid festival. The north end of the CBD and parts of Darling Harbour are in lights for four more days. Business Insider’s Executive Life editor Simon Thomsen has the guide to what you have to see. Go have a look. 9. Take heart. Even a Renaissance man is occasionally on the job hunt. This is a great insight into what kind of a time the late 1400s was for an artist in Europe. Leonardo da Vinci, trying to break out of artist-laden Flornce, had to pitch himself as an intentions man in Milan to get a leg-up. Here’s a rundown of his cover letter to prospective employers, including the classic: “I will assemble catapults, mangonels, trebuckets and other instruments of wonderful efficiency.” 10. On indulgence. Business Insider reached 1.2 million Australian UBs in May, another record for us. For six months now BI has been the most-read business publication in the country. We’re also bigger on the new Nielsen ratings platform, Answers (it gave us a reach of around 480,000 Australians in April.) And we’re only getting started. Thanks for reading! Bonus item: Think your working conditions and / your commute are hard? Watch this video about bus drivers having to wear nappies.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
That would value T-Mobile at around $32 billion. The deal should be announced this summer, possibly in July. Sprint has reportedly agreed to pay T-Mobile a $1 billion breakup fee if the deal falls through. And there's a good chance it might. Regulators will apply intense scrutiny to a Sprint purchase of T-Mobile. AT&amp;T tried to buy T-Mobile a few years ago, but the government stopped the deal. Overall, Sprint's purchase of T-Mobile would be a $50 billion deal, including debt, according to the WSJ. Deutsche Telekom, the German company that owns a majority stake in T-Mobile, would keep 15% to 20% of the company if the deal goes through. T-Mobile decline to comment. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Clients Should Remember The Importance Of Investible Benchmarks (Advisor Perspectives)  Clients should look for "investable benchmarks" not just indexes that are frequently used as benchmarks, writes Jason M. Laurie of Altair Advisers in a new Advisor Perspectives column. "One of the most significant flaws is that indexes, not index funds, are widely used as benchmarks to compare performance," writes Laurie.  "That may seem like a distinction without a difference, but it is not. Indexes are theoretical; they represent a group of securities without any costs and free from all the practicalities of implementing a portfolio, whereas, index funds are the real thing. Not surprisingly, the performance of an actual index fund may differ considerably from that of the index benchmark it is attempting to replicate." Laurie admits that picking such benchmarks isn't easy. "Choosing investable benchmarks requires an advisor to review all available funds and ETFs to find those that best mimic active strategies, but on a passive basis," he writes. "Benchmarks should be selected based on their historical performance, standard deviation, portfolio characteristics, fund size, liquidity and fees in order to find new benchmarks that most closely resemble their investment targets." Here's How Much The Average Money Manager At A Hedge Fund Made Last Year (Institutional Investor's Alpha) Institutional Investor's Alpha is out with its annual hedge fund report which shows that compensation for hedge fund portfolio managers surged last year. Only 16 hedge funds outperformed the S&amp;P last year, which ended up 30%. "Fueled by fat bonuses, total compensation for senior portfolio managers rose 27.6 percent, to $1,465,468, according to the 2014 Hedge Fund Compensation Report by Institutional Investor's Alpha. Junior-level portfolio managers did even better, with their compensation surging 81.3 percent over 2012, to a mean of $887,717. " Investors Need To Look For Three Things In A Nontraditional Bond Fund Strategy (Investment News)  Non-traditional bond funds, like unconstrained bond funds, are popular when interest rates are low. Unconstrained bond funds or 'go anywhere funds' allow managers to choose debt securities in the U.S. or abroad; government and corporate. Raman Srivastava, manager of the Dreyfus Opportunistic Fixed Income Fund, told Jeff Benjamin at Investment News, that the popularity of these funds is being "driven by a search for fixed income without the duration risk, as people look for a way to diversify against the main risk in fixed income." "A key question for investors to be asking are how a portfolio manager intends to deliver the returns they’ve become accustomed to [in nontraditional bond funds]." "In my opinion, there are three main things to look for in a strategy: It needs to be able to move tactically across all parts of fixed income. You have to be active. …Secondly, security selection will be much more important than in the past. …And finally, you have to have the right tools to be able to manage risk, because you have to be able to take risk up and down." A Large Number Of Retirees Wished They Had Waited To Collect Social Security Benefits (FA Mag)  38% of retirees surveyed by Nationwide Financial Retirement Institute said they wished they had waited longer before collecting their social security benefits. "Social Security can represent up to 40 percent of the total income the average worker receives throughout retirement and when and how to file are some of the most important financial decisions they make in their lifetimes," David Giertz of Nationwide Financial told FA Mag. SocGen: Here Comes A Decade Of Crummy Stock Market Returns (Business Insider)  Societe Generale's analysts updated their 10-year outlook for the global stock markets and they think investors should not expect the double-digit annual returns we've seen recently. "US equities face three headwinds: cyclically-adjusted valuations (CAPE, starting date 1881) have returned to very expensive territory, corporate margins stand at historically high levels, and after already five years of growth from the 2009 trough, we estimate that the probability of another recession kicking in is close to 100% within the forecast timeframe (the longest cycle ever was 120 months, or 10 years),” they write.  "But US equities have supports as well, such as impressively strong balance sheets and the beginning of a new M&amp;A cycle, backed by a highly reactive central bank." They project the S&amp;P 500 will get to 2,500 by 2024, which is about 3% growth per year. FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderYou'll have to get up at the crack of dawn to take part in Silicon Alley's hottest new party. Daybreaker is an event created by General Assembly co-founder Matthew Brimer and Super Sprowtz founder and CEO Radha Agrawal — and it gets going early. Starting at 7 a.m., young professionals gather to dance, network, and have a good time. For those looking for an even earlier start, yoga with Lululemon starts at 6 a.m. The party takes place at hot night clubs around New York City, but there's a strict policy against illicit substances. "It's a great way to start the day off with a bang, and without alcohol," Brimer said to Business Insider. "It's very much a workout." The hosts' techie friends are taking note, too. Brimer and Agrawal say that New York City-based startups have been well-represented at past Daybreaker events: Soundcloud, Shutterstock, Flavorpill, and Thrillist, to name a few.  "What's exciting about Daybreaker is that it fosters this community where entrepreneurs can be creative," Brimer said. "So there's the physical aspect, but also the social energy, open-minded, and artistic side to it."  Business Insider attended a recent Daybreaker event to see what the hype is all about.
Joe Mitchell/ReutersSome of the world’s top businesses may want to look into taking a page out of the San Antonio Spurs’ playbook. As the San Antonio Spurs enter the NBA Finals seeking a fifth championship in 16 years, it has effectively transcended sports, evolving into no less than a management exemplar, one cited by people who run businesses as a textbook case worth emulating. Like a modern-day Ford Motor Co., the American archetype that pioneered efficient assembly, the Spurs stick rigorously to their system, achieving unparalleled quality by focusing on the fundamentals of their game. In the vein of Steve Jobs, the Apple Inc. founder and taskmaster who pressed for total commitment to product innovation, Spurs coach Gregg Popovich demands complete buy-in to the collective from the individuals on his team, disdaining highlight reel dunks in favor of unselfish ball movement. And like Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and its famed chairman Warren Buffett, Spurs managers have a way of buying low, finding value in late-round draft picks that would be squandered by other teams, in other words, finding sleeper stars who secure championships. “They both represent 'old school,’” Roger Nusbaum, an ETF Strategist at AdvisorShares, said. “Berkshire is mostly old school, bottoms-up stock-picking execution, and the Spurs are old school basketball for the most part. Not flashy for the most part." Under Popovich's reign and led by star big man Tim Duncan -- perhaps the least exciting and hardest-working superstar in the history of his sport -- the Spurs have won nearly 70 percent of its regular season games while reaching 17 consecutive postseasons. In all but three playoffs, the team has advanced beyond the first round. In short, in a crowded marketplace full of serious-minded, deep-pocketed competitors from larger cities, the Spurs have managed to secure something rare: a near-dominant hold over their industry. Of course, the Miami Heat and its highest-profile superstar, LeBron James, aim to complicate this chapter in the management textbook when the two teams square off on Thursday night for Game One of the best-of-seven NBA Finals. Oddsmakers have the Spurs favored to beat the star-studded Heat, which is coming off consecutive championships. Yet if they were a publicly traded company, the Spurs might already have notched its place in “Good to Great,” the 2001 best-selling management book by Jim Collins. He cited 11 “great companies” and used seven characteristics that boost a company from “good to great.” They included such characteristics as humble leaders driven to do what’s best for the company, adding talent and find the right role for them as well as promoting a culture of discipline. The Spurs can check all those boxes. There are few star players more humble than the reserved Duncan, and few coaches who are more no-nonsense and intense than Popovich. The team actively signs players who buy into Popovich’s system of spacing and ball movement. The team consistently proves its discipline and teamwork, and did so again in the 2013-2014 season by leading the league in assists and having the lowest number of personal fouls. Terance Wolfe, a professor of clinical management and organization at the University of Southern California’s Marshall School of Business, sees the parallel with how the Spurs achieved sustained success and how businesses thrive, even though the aging Spurs roster lacks superstars of the caliber of the Heat's LeBron James or the Oklahoma City Thunder's Kevin Durant. Wolfe cites the business performance model of “strategy, structure, people, and process.” “Strategy is having a clear and compelling goal,” he said. “The structure is: are we organized to meet that goal? And then, do we have the right people and capabilities? And that doesn’t necessarily mean superstars.” The Spurs have reached their second consecutive Finals without a “true superstar.” All-Star veteran guards like Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili are routinely overlooked as the top players at their position, though their contributions have paid major dividends for the team, and Duncan is viewed as past his prime at age 38, yet he is still considered an elite defender and rebounder. But the Spurs’ system has extended beyond Duncan, Parker, and Ginobili, as Popovich has actively found solid complementary players over the years like defensive specialists and long-range shooters like Bruce Bowen and Kawhi Leonard, and serviceable big men who stretch the court with outside shooting like Robert Horry and Matt Bonner, as well as hard-nosed player like Malik Rose and Boris Diaw. All the players know their roles, and all fit into Popovich’s coaching process. “The process is kind of part of the glue. It’s the culture you create within your organization. It’s the reward system. It’s the leadership style and coaching style,” said Wolfe. “It sounds like Popovich’s coaching style is just a good fit. It fits well for his organization, and it seems to fit well for his players.” San Antonio’s impressive run has been described as “boring,” but what the Spurs lack in style points they more than make up for in results -- not unlike the reputation Toyota secured as its global mode of mass production set a new bar for manufacturing efficiency. Before recent years characterized by lethal ignition problems, recalls, and lawsuits, Toyota was known for saturating suburban communities with unsexy models that regularly won awards for reliability. Only the purist regards the Spurs as must-see TV, yet with little drama or mystery they keep winning. Of the 30 teams in the NBA, only the Los Angeles Lakers have had more championships since 1997. But the Lakers are coming off a horrendous season, and also struggled from 2004-2007, after superstar Shaquille O’Neal left the team due in part to clashes with teammate Kobe Bryant. The Spurs have never had such problems amongst their star players. While the model of surrounding a team with superstars at the expense of a balanced and deep team has had success, it also has had notable failures. The Lakers flamed out in the 2003-2004 season when they added legends Gary Payton and Karl Malone, and did so again when they added star players Dwight Howard and Steve Nash in 2012-2013. Wolfe referenced a college basketball team that attempted to be the “UCLA of the East” by stockpiling top talent in the 1970s. “The University of Maryland was consistently putting out a pretty good basketball team,” he said. “They had a coach named Lefty Driesell. But then he recruited a group of superstars, and they just started fumbling all over the place, because everybody wanted the ball. So he had tremendous difficulty creating that sense of teamwork, because they all wanted to be individual contributors. “So at the end of the day, you need to have people who are prepared to work as a team. You have to have the right coaching, which is the right structure piece. “The coaching and organization need to be in place. You need to have a clear goal, and sense of purpose or mission.” If there is a team with a clear goal and a sense of purpose, it’s the Spurs. Owner Peter Holt bought the team in 1996 for $76 million, and has not only retained Popovich but also general manager R.C. Buford, who has held the position since 2002. Buford has been responsible for adding crucial role players to complement Duncan. The triumvirate of Holt, Popovich, and Buford has produced such positive results that there has been little impetus to rock the boat. This is in sharp contrast to most NBA teams, which often go through multiple coaches and GMs in a span of five years let alone a dozen or more. The Spurs haven’t even changed their uniforms in that time, let alone their management. These decisions have paid off for Holt. Forbes estimates the value of the Spurs at $660 million. They are the 10th most valuable team, despite playing in one of the smaller media markets. The Spurs entered the season ranked ahead of the Los Angeles Clippers by Forbes, and were recently sold for $2 billion. The Spurs may not be able to maintain this success for much longer, but they have at least provided a blueprint in how efficiently an organization can run. Nusbaum believes that the Spurs are just one model to look at and learn from. “There are countless recipes for success, including sticking to the basics and focusing on execution,” said Nusbaum. FREE AppDownload
Starting some time in 2006, the number of 18-34 year olds living with their parents started to rise. And it kept on climbing following the onset of the financial crisis. Only recently has it begun to dip.  In fact, a third of 18-34 year olds now live with their parents, according to Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok. And this means there is a significant pent-up demand for housing. Deutsche Bank has previously been argued that shared households represent pent-up demand, and that this pent up demand could eventually prove to be bullish for the housing market when it is unleashed. Slok now specifies: If individuals per household returns to levels seen in the 2000-2003 era, more than 4 million new households could be formed. Unfortunately, Slok doesn't state what the likelihood is that this will occur. But it does give us an idea of the slack we're facing in the housing market.  Deutsche Bank/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson We recently declared that the fracking debate was over. Despite clear evidence of the shale boom's local environmental effects, it's probably added about 50 basis points to GDP, shrunk the trade deficit, and created tens of thousands of jobs. Despite all that, Goldman Sachs believes America has left tons of figurative barrels and cubic feet on the table by not more aggressively investing in spurring demand. While the U.S. share of global upstream (that is, production) investment outpaced funds into Saudi Arabia and Russia by 10:1, the rest of the world outspent the U.S. on demand-side investment — places to put all those resources — by 15:1. "...Far less attention has been paid to the economic opportunities North America has failed to harness from the revolution," Goldman's Steve Strongin, Jeff Currie and Daniel Quigley warn. "Instead, the United States seems more on track to export shale, as the United States has lagged other countries in generating the demand – and the high-value manufacturing jobs that come along with this demand – needed to consume shale gas. In this respect, we believe that the shale revolution may stall and not see the full longevity of the “demand response” phase."  What we are experiencing, the Goldman team says, is a failure of ambition and foresight on the both public and private sides of the energy policy equation. "To successfully develop domestic gas demand over the longer term, business and government leaders need to work together to solidify the confidence that is required to attract capital over the next 30 years," they write. How big could the missed opportunity get? Goldman projects up to 2 million new jobs could be created over the next decade, 1.0% of additional GDP, and at least a 5% incremental reduction on greenhouse gas emissions. Goldman Sachs Goldman sees three main areas where demand for shale resources could be expanded. First, manufacturing. Despite what you may have heard about a manufacturing renaissance, Goldman says that on a comparative basis the U.S. has massively underspent to transition its manufacturing base toward its newfound shale stocks.  Even though natural gas prices in the United States are 60% to 75% lower than in Asia and Europe, energy-intensive manufacturing has failed to rise significantly or to create much- needed jobs. Since the onset of the shale revolution in late 2010, key energy-intensive manufacturing sectors such as chemicals and petroleum products have underperformed the broader economy by 2.2% p.a. and have generated only 5,000 new jobs, compared to 40,000 jobs if these industries had grown in line with US manufacturing more generally. You may recall Jan Hatzius made this same argument a year ago. Apparently little has changed. Here's the chart comparing to output of products that would use shale resource-based inputs: Goldman Sachs   Next up is transportation. Goldman says that spending up to $5.1 trillion to boost gas-based capacity in our vehicle fleet would allow us to reduce our energy bills by as much as 10% by 2035. Consumers would see the most immediate return on natural gas-based ethanol, for which, as it stands, there is almost no refining capacity in the U.S. Plus, the renewable fuels standard makes no exception for this kind of ethanol, further impeding its adoption. While the cost of doubling down on gas-based ethanol could run as high as $3.7 trillion, "[j]ust because something costs a lot does not mean it’s not worth doing," Goldman argues.  There is another scenario whereby the U.S. doubles down on electric vehicles. This would cause electricity demand to surge, which in turn would stimulate demand for more natural gas power plants. Even a gradual shift would accomplish this: Based on our supply/demand analysis of the US power market, we believe the new capacity our base case forecast includes could meet gradual increases in electric vehicle demand for power, but could add 8-10 Bcf/d in natural gas demand from the US power sector. We also assume that this incremental natural gas generation would lead (relative to our base case) to a minor increase in CO2 emissions from the power sector, albeit an increase of only 5%-10%. Finally, there's the power and environment case: If we switched out all unscrubbed coal plants with natgas plants (a scenario not likely to be fully realized, but a version of which is not out of the question) natural gas-fired power generation would grow by 22 Bcf/d over the next 25 years, to 40% from 23% of the overall power mix. Goldman:  Natural gas plays two important roles in a successful environmental power strategy. First, it provides the bridge away from coal toward cleaner renewables – gas is more able to respond in the short term to coal retirements (for example, by increasing utilization at current facilities). But second, it is an important complement to renewables, able to respond at short notice to the intermittency of renewables generation. We're already begun to feel the effects of our lack of investment. While there was ample natural gas around to get us through the grueling winter, electricity prices spiked anyway because the gas could not be delivered to where it needed to go. While much of the country enjoyed the standard price of $4/mmBtu, prices in large metro regions in the Northeast soared to above $120/mmBtu because of that lack of adequate infrastructure. Policy and market design adjustments throughout the Northeast appear necessary to enable more potential gas/power customers — whether those of regulated utilities, merchant power companies or large commercial/industrial companies – to enter multi-year gas/power contracts that could then stimulate more gas infrastructure development. Alternatively, clarity to producers that pipeline expansions will be approved over an acceptable investable time horizon are likely be needed for producers to fund new pipelines. Both of these outcomes could lead to additional supplies of gas flowing to New England markets and accommodate greater residential/commercial use of natural gas, reducing the use of fuel oil. So where do we wind up if the status quo persists? Goldman says we appear shockingly willing to allow exports to carry American resources outside our shores, and all because we can't be bothered to put in the effort to allow it to be consumed here. This will provide some growth, but far less than what could be accomplished. A clear commitment to keeping the export ban in place would stimulate downstream refinery capex investment to catch up to the upstream investment, helping to absorb growing domestic light crude production. On the other hand, if the export ban was lifted, US crude oil production would realize its strongest growth potential. However, with domestic prices converging back to seaborne crude oil prices, the margin advantage of domestic refiners would diminish and limit capex growth in the downstream sector. While export volumes would increase, the United States would be exporting the “value added” of processing its shale oil along with these barrels. A strong indictment. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesRafael Nadal of Spain serves during his quarter-final match at the French Open in Paris June 4, 2014. The S&amp;P 500 made a new record high, though markets were calm as the recent pattern of exceptionally low volatility continued. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Flickr / cmikedYesterday we wrote about how it's clear that there's been a sharp spring snapback for the economy after the hard winter. One look at auto sales — which just hit a 7-year high — and you can see that the economy was artificially depressed in the first few months of the year and that there was a lot of pent up demand. Today the Fed's Beige Book confirmed that the economy is growing in every region of the country. Now the question is: Are we finally going to get growth at a pace that's above what we've seen since the economic crisis, or did May experience a one-time spurt that was purely the result of economic catch up. Well, the June data will likely answer this question. If it backslides, then May was all about economic catchup. If it's strong, we might be at a new pace of growth.  The moment of truth for the economy is now. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe Federal Reserve is out with its latest Beige Book report, and it's become clear that drought conditions across the U.S. are becoming a problem. From the text:  "Agriculture conditions proved challenging in many Districts, with drought conditions reported by some Districts and excessive moisture reported in others. Drought conditions existed in parts of the San Francisco District, particularly in California and Arizona, resulting in a reduction in crop plantings and reduced herd sizes. Dallas also noted widespread drought conditions, especially in the Texas panhandle, as did the Chicago District in parts of Iowa. On the other hand, rains delayed plantings of crops in parts of the Atlanta and Minneapolis Districts. Planting progressed well overall in the Chicago District and in Idaho as reported by San Francisco. Minneapolis and San Francisco reported a loss of hogs due to a fatal virus, contributing to higher hog prices. More generally, low cattle supplies and strong demand resulted in high beef prices in Minneapolis and Kansas City. Both Kansas City and Dallas reported problems with the quality and quantity of the winter wheat crop, though winter wheat crops were generally in good condition in the St. Louis District." Last month, Mike Carlowicz of NASA Earth Observatory noted that as of May 6, half of the U.S. was experiencing some level of drought conditions. More recently, BI's Dina Spector chronicled the problems facing California's Central Valley, known as the "nation's salad bowl," which is has been hard hit by drought. Overall, the Beige Book was pretty solid, showing economic activity expanded in all 12 of the Federal Reserve's Districts. Following the report, the markets are little changed, keeping with the recent pattern of notably low volatility in financial markets. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris KeaneA worker uses an electronic screwdriver to install the motherboard on the reverse side of a 32-inch TV at Element Electronics in Winnsboro, South Carolina May 29, 2014. All 12 Federal Reserve districts saw economic activity expand in May, with the pace of growth climbing most around Cleveland and St. Louis. Activity around St. Louis slowed, according to the latest edition of the Fed's beige book. Retail sales grew at a moderate pace across most of the country, the Fed said, although lingering wintry weather weighed on retail activity in the Northeast. Half of all districts reported climbing vehicle sales. Tourism was strong. In housing, low inventories constrained sales in the Northeast and around Kansas City. Residential construction activity was mixed, the Fed said: Half of all districts reported increases, but a few indicated weakness. Multi-family construction remained particularly robust. Manufacturing activity expanded throughout the nation, and was especially strong along the East Coast and around St. Louis and Kansas City. The labor market strengthened, and several Fed Districts reporting shortages of skilled workers. However, in most Districts, wage increases have remained generally subdued. Some prices moved up a bit, but most held steady. "Contacts continue to believe that the U.S. economy is improving," the Boston Fed reported. "One source terms the recent weakness 'just a hiccup.' " The only serious concern, Boston recounted, were overseas sales. "Europe is still a mess."  Other choice quotes: Full release »  FREE AppDownload
Sallie Krawcheck—who was once the most powerful woman on Wall Street running Merrill Lynch's global wealth management unit— just launched the first-ever women-focused mutual fund.  Almost two years after leaving Wall Street, Krawcheck purchased women's networking group 85 Broads, which was previously a Goldman alumnae group named after the address of the bank's old headquarters. It was reported at the time she was considering launching an investment arm.  She just renamed the 30,000-plus member organization to "Ellevate", referring to the group's mission to advance women in the workplace.  (She came up with that name while on a run). Now, Ellevate Asset Management has teamed up with Pax World Management LLC to launch the Pax Ellevate Global Women’s Index Fund—a mutual fund that will invest in companies around the world that advance women.  "This is a fund that will be investing in the top 400 companies in the world for advancing women— So based on proportion of women on boards, proportion of women in senior management, etc. and directing investment capital toward those companies." She doesn't consider investing in companies based on gender diversity a "non-performance related" factor either. She pointed out that research shows how greater diversity in senior management is associated with a range of good things such as higher return on equity, lower volatility and greater client focus.  "But there has not been a mutual fund or an index fund out that has been investing in this." Some of the companies the mutual fund is investing in include Pepsi, Lockheed Martin, Procter &amp; Gamble, GE, Estee Lauder, Aetna and TD Bank. These companies, she explained, are ones where women hold about 31% of the board seats and 24% of senior management positions compared to the global averages of 11% for each of those factors.  "What was interesting to me...these are are broad, global, high quality companies. We're not talking about niche plays here." The new mutual fund also has the potential to shed light on the opportunity for gender diversity in the senior ranks.  "One of the great things about capitalism is you can shine lights on things and the capital goes where the returns are."  Like any fund, though, there's the possibility of underperforming broader indices.   "I think we're going to. Right, at some point, that's what happens with funds. This is for long-term investors. This is not for short-term investors. We believe based on the research the performance will come out," she said. "If you have conviction about something, you take a little risk and then you have to take a stance."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiECB President Mario Draghi at the monthly ECB news conference in Frankfurt March 6, 2014.The European Central Bank is set to meet tomorrow in Frankfurt, Germany to talk over and potentially update its monetary policy.  The ECB is scheduled to announce its latest monetary policy decision at 7:45 am ET. That'll be followed by a press conference with ECB president Mario Draghi slated for 8:30 am ET.  Economists are expecting the central bank to cut interest rates, including putting its deposit facility rate into negative territory. The deposit facility is currently at 0.0% The ECB's benchmark interest rate is currently at 0.25%. That rate is expected to be cut between 10 and 15 basis points to either 0.15% or 0.10%.  A Bloomberg report earlier today, citing two euro-area central bank officials, said Draghi is likely to indicate that any interest rate cut will not be the final one. In our ECB preview last week, we noted that economists at Goldman Sachs will be looking closely at Draghi's delivery, noting that the "tone" of his communication will matter more for markets than the mechanics of what the central bank announces. Inflation data out of the Eurozone this week has also kept the pressure on the ECB to act. Eurozone inflation, reported yesterday, grew at an annualized rate of 0.5%, lower than the 0.7% rate in April and below the 0.6% that was expected.  This chart from Pantheon Macroeconomics shows how the ECB has fallen short of its 2% inflation goal over the last year-plus. Pantheon Macroeconomics Herve Amourda at Societe Generale said the inflation reading, "strengthens our call for bolder action from the ECB." As we noted last week, Soc Gen's Michael Martinez believes the ECB will signal an asset purchase program totaling EUR 25 billion per month beginning in the second half of the year.  Capital Economics' Jack Allen believes that easing from the ECB will not necessarily weaken the euro, which has already weakened considerably against other currencies since the May ECB meeting. Google Finance The firm still sees the euro falling to $1.30 from $1.36 by year-end, but believes that short of announcing an asset purchase program, or quantitative easing, the currency's reaction to tomorrow's announcement will likely be muted. Eurozone unemployment was also reported this week, and ticked down to 11.8% from 11.7%, but the currency-bloc's employment recovery has been paltry at best.  Markets have been almost unprecedentedly calm in recent weeks. The ECB meeting this week and the U.S. jobs report Friday could finally give investors hungry for direction something to chew on. Tomorrow, we'll find out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeToday I thought we’d spend some time with one of investing’s greatest minds at a critical point in history. The below is excerpted from Warren Buffett’s 1989 letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. Buffett was commemorating twenty five years at the helm of Berkshire, a period during which he’d grown the company’s book value from $19.46 per share to $4,296.01 — a compounded annual rate of 23.8%! Rather than take a (much-deserved) victory lap on this occasion, the 59-year-old Buffett dedicated his letter on this auspicious anniversary to all of the things he and Charlie Munger had done wrong. In retrospect, he was right to be humble at the time — his Salomon Brothers disaster was already well underway but he’d had no idea what was going on in New York at the time. What Buffett would eventually call “The most important day of my life,” wouldn’t unfold for another couple of years. In the meanwhile, it is the late eighties, the bull market is raging and Buffett has, along with Fidelity’s Peter Lynch and the fictional Gordon Gekko, become the human embodiment of America’s newfound love affair with the stock market. This is an amazing piece of business writing. If you haven’t read it, you’re not a complete investor. Take the time out to do so today, you’ll thank me. — JB From the 1989 Berkshire Hathaway 1989 letter to shareholders: To quote Robert Benchley, “Having a dog teaches a boy fidelity, perseverance, and to turn around three times before lying down.” Such are the shortcomings of experience. Nevertheless, it’s a good idea to review past mistakes before committing new ones. So let’s take a quick look at the last 25 years. • My first mistake, of course, was in buying control of Berkshire. Though I knew its business – textile manufacturing — to be unpromising, I was enticed to buy because the price looked cheap. Stock purchases of that kind had proved reasonably rewarding in my early years, though by the time Berkshire came along in 1965, I was becoming aware that the strategy was not ideal. If you buy a stock at a sufficiently low price, there will usually be some hiccup in the fortunes of the business that gives you a chance to unload at a decent profit, even though the long-term performance of the business may be terrible. I call this the “cigar butt” approach to investing. A cigar butt found on the street that has only one puff left in it may not offer much of a smoke, but the “bargain purchase” will make that puff all profit. Unless you are a liquidator, that kind of approach to buying businesses is foolish. First, the original “bargain” price probably will not turn out to be such a steal after all. In a difficult business, no sooner is one problem solved than another surfaces — never is there just one cockroach in the kitchen. Second, any initial advantage you secure will be quickly eroded by the low return that the business earns. For example, if you buy a business for $8 million that can be sold or liquidated for $10 million and promptly take either course, you can realize a high return. But the investment will disappoint if the business is sold for $10 million in ten years and in the interim has annually earned and distributed only a few percent on cost. Time is the friend of the wonderful business, the enemy of the mediocre. You might think this principle is obvious, but I had to learn it the hard way — in fact, I had to learn it several times over. Shortly after purchasing Berkshire, I acquired a Baltimore department store, Hochschild Kohn, buying through a company called Diversified Retailing that later merged with Berkshire. I bought at a substantial discount from book value, the people were first-class, and the deal included some extras — unrecorded real estate values and a significant LIFO inventory cushion. How could I miss? So-o-o — three years later I was lucky to sell the business for about what I had paid. After ending our corporate marriage to Hochschild Kohn, I had memories like those of the husband in the country song, “My Wife Ran Away With My Best Friend and I Still Miss Him a Lot.” I could give you other personal examples of “bargain-purchase” folly but I’m sure you get the picture: It’s far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price. Charlie understood this early; I was a slow learner. But now, when buying companies or common stocks, we look for first-class businesses accompanied by first-class managements. • That leads right into a related lesson: Good jockeys will do well on good horses, but not on broken-down nags. Both Berkshire’s textile business and Hochschild, Kohn had able and honest people running them. The same managers employed in a business with good economic characteristics would have achieved fine records. But they were never going to make any progress while running in quicksand. I’ve said many times that when a management with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that remains intact. I just wish I hadn’t been so energetic in creating examples. My behavior has matched that admitted by Mae West: “I was Snow White, but I drifted.” • A further related lesson: Easy does it. After 25 years of buying and supervising a great variety of businesses, Charlie and I have not learned how to solve difficult business problems. What we have learned is to avoid them. To the extent we have been successful, it is because we concentrated on identifying one-foot hurdles that we could step over rather than because we acquired any ability to clear seven-footers. The finding may seem unfair, but in both business and investments it is usually far more profitable to simply stick with the easy and obvious than it is to resolve the difficult. On occasion, tough problems must be tackled as was the case when we started our Sunday paper in Buffalo. In other instances, a great investment opportunity occurs when a marvelous business encounters a one-time huge, but solvable, problem as was the case many years back at both American Express and GEICO. Overall, however, we’ve done better by avoiding dragons than by slaying them. • My most surprising discovery: the overwhelming importance in business of an unseen force that we might call “the institutional imperative.” In business school, I was given no hint of the imperative’s existence and I did not intuitively understand it when I entered the business world. I thought then that decent, intelligent, and experienced managers would automatically make rational business decisions. But I learned over time that isn’t so. Instead, rationality frequently wilts when the institutional imperative comes into play. For example: (1) As if governed by Newton’s First Law of Motion, an institution will resist any change in its current direction; (2) Just as work expands to fill available time, corporate projects or acquisitions will materialize to soak up available funds; (3) Any business craving of the leader, however foolish, will be quickly supported by detailed rate-of-return and strategic studies prepared by his troops; and (4) The behavior of peer companies, whether they are expanding, acquiring, setting executive compensation or whatever, will be mindlessly imitated. Institutional dynamics, not venality or stupidity, set businesses on these courses, which are too often misguided. After making some expensive mistakes because I ignored the power of the imperative, I have tried to organize and manage Berkshire in ways that minimize its influence. Furthermore, Charlie and I have attempted to concentrate our investments in companies that appear alert to the problem. • After some other mistakes, I learned to go into business only with people whom I like, trust, and admire. As I noted before, this policy of itself will not ensure success: A second-class textile or department-store company won’t prosper simply because its managers are men that you would be pleased to see your daughter marry. However, an owner – or investor – can accomplish wonders if he manages to associate himself with such people in businesses that possess decent economic characteristics. Conversely, we do not wish to join with managers who lack admirable qualities, no matter how attractive the prospects of their business. We’ve never succeeded in making a good deal with a bad person. • Some of my worst mistakes were not publicly visible. These were stock and business purchases whose virtues I understood and yet didn’t make. It’s no sin to miss a great opportunity outside one’s area of competence. But I have passed on a couple of really big purchases that were served up to me on a platter and that I was fully capable of understanding. For Berkshire’s shareholders, myself included, the cost of this thumb-sucking has been huge. • Our consistently conservative financial policies may appear to have been a mistake, but in my view were not. In retrospect, it is clear that significantly higher, though still conventional, leverage ratios at Berkshire would have produced considerably better returns on equity than the 23.8% we have actually averaged. Even in 1965, perhaps we could have judged there to be a 99% probability that higher leverage would lead to nothing but good. Correspondingly, we might have seen only a 1% chance that some shock factor, external or internal, would cause a conventional debt ratio to produce a result falling somewhere between temporary anguish and default. We wouldn’t have liked those 99:1 odds — and never will. A small chance of distress or disgrace cannot, in our view, be offset by a large chance of extra returns. If your actions are sensible, you are certain to get good results; in most such cases, leverage just moves things along faster. Charlie and I have never been in a big hurry: We enjoy the process far more than the proceeds — though we have learned to live with those also. We hope in another 25 years to report on the mistakes of the first 50. If we are around in 2015 to do that, you can count on this section occupying many more pages than it does here. ___ I told you that was awesome. Hope you got some helpful stuff out of it. By the way, this coming spring of 2015 will mark the 50th anniversary of Buffett’s tenure at the firm. Hopefully – and as promised – he’s already preparing his next list of mistakes from the second 25 years of his chairmanship.  This article originally appeared at The Reformed Broker.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The consensus appears to expect the ECB to announce a move to negative deposit rates tomorrow. It seems reasonable that many investors with euro balances would have adjusted them in anticipation of the ECB's move.  This anticipation likely helps explain the euro's four cent slide over the past month.   The impact of negative deposit rates is the subject of much debate, as it is unprecedented among large central banks.  While many observers seem to play down the potential disruptive impact, we have emphasized several potential negative knock-on effects for large depositors, which include governments, businesses and investors.  We think there could be adverse implications for money markets.  In addition, we are sympathetic to arguments that a negative deposit rate would perversely be contractionary rather than stimulative.   The BIS head Caruna expressed similar caution yesterday.  He argued that the entire edifice of finance is predicated on positive interest rates.  He said the consequences of negative interest rates are not well known and that the advantages of such a move "are not obvious".  It may not convince banks to lend or business to borrow or invest.    Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Crude prices just plunged 1.1%. This is a strange development, since the EIA just reported supplies of U.S. crude declined 3.4 million barrels this week, which would suggest prices should rise. Instead, West Texas Intermediate contracts fell to as low as $102.60 from $103.64, according to Investing.com. RANSquawk suggests it may have had something to do with Ukraine's new government announcing decentralization of powers, meaning supplies will be less subject to government fiat. Prices have since come back up a bit. Investing.com FREE AppDownload
Our very own Graham Flanagan is a proud Alabaman, which means he has a very prominent Southern drawl. We sat him down with professional voice and dialect coach Patricia Fletcher to get him to speak with a neutral American accent.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis &amp; Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Stephane Mahe Novak Djokovic celebrates after winning his quarter-final match at the French Open.The markets are higher after a busy morning of economic data. The Dow is up 8 points (0.05%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 3 points (0.2%), and the Nasdaq is up 15 points (0.4%).  At 1,927, the S&amp;P 500 is above Monday's record-high close of 1,924.97. This morning, ADP's May private payrolls report showed companies added 179,000 jobs in the month, short of the 220,000 analysts had been expecting. Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi said the report indicates that, "The job market has yet to break out from the pace of growth that has prevailed over the last three years." The U.S. trade deficit also widened 6.9% in April to $47.2 billion. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said the report suggests trade should be a small drag on GDP in the second quarter.  ISM's May non-manufacturing reading climbed to 56.3 from April 55.2 reading. Expectations were for a reading of 55.5. As of yet, there have been no revisions to the number.  Markit's May U.S. services PMI climbed to 58.1 from 55.0 the prior month.  The Federal Reserve is also expected to release its latest Beige Book report on economic activity at 2 pm ET.  Some major equity movers include: FREE AppDownload
Birchbox and Megan Willett/Business InsiderOne of the things successful people do in the morning is wake up and exercise. The major challenge, of course, is to look polished and put together after the gym. We asked the team at Birchbox Man to help us compile a list of the very best products to carry with you to the gym that will keep you fresh all day at the office. This 3-in-1 time-saving product keeps both skin and hair hydrated with a creamy lather. The scent is also fantastic — a combination of bergamot, tarragon, and jasmine for a woodsy aroma. Towel dry your hair and keep it in place with this cross between a wax and a soft clay. It holds well through both wind and rain, but doesn’t make hair feel greasy or stiff to the touch. These one-time wipes exfoliate, cleanse, tone, and hydrate. Just unfold and swipe across your face and neck to get rid of any oil, grime, or sweat that may still be lingering after your shower. This invisible solid stick is gentle on skin and has a clean, citrusy scent that controls odors without being overbearing. Even if you’re out running all day and miss a shower, this stuff will still keep you smelling good. For the ultimate odor and sweat prevention, sprinkle some Bálla for Men Powder under your arms after applying your everyday deodorant. It contains talcum powder, zinc oxide, and zinc stearate to absorb moisture and stop odor and wetness, before or after your workout. If you went harder than usual at the gym, this soothing salve will help ease your overworked muscles and joints. The scent is a combination of eucalyptus, wintergreen, methanol, and peppermint that won’t overwhelm you, but will still help relieve soreness. After sweating and taking a hot shower, put more moisture back into your skin. This body cream has aloe and shea butter to soften up any rough patches, while also fighting pore-clogging bacteria and preventing irritation. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCoal stocks have been among the markets worst performers over the last month. Some of the notable coal stocks losing ground in the last month include: The coal industry, and the broader energy sector, is facing a number of external threats.  Earlier this week, the U.S. EPA proposed regulations that would for the first time cut carbon pollution from existing power plants. The proposal will cut carbon emissions from the power sector by 30% when compared to 2005 levels. In a note to investors today, economists at Goldman Sachs said the firm's equity analysts covering the utilities sector, "expect more than 20% of coal-fired generation capacity to be retired due to environmental rules." Goldman notes that the EPA estimates 19% of coal generation capacity will be uneconomic under its proposal. Over the last few years, coal stocks have moved almost in lockstep with the Chinese economy, which has slowed from annualized growth north of 11% in late 2010 to current levels of about 7.5%. Barclays recently outlined a few steps that could shake up utility companies, focusing on the threat that solar energy poses to traditional utilities. And in recent weeks, each of these companies has had cautious commentary on their level of capital expenditures, or essentially how much money they are investing into the business. Cliffs Natural recently cut its 2014 capital spending expectations by 25%.  Peabody recently reported its lowest level of capital investments in 10 years. Arch Coal "modestly reduced" its 2014 capital spending levels. Alpha Natural cut its 2014 capital expenditures guidance to $225 million to $275 million from $250 million to $300 million.  Walter Energy said in its latest quarterly report that it expects 2014 capital expenses of $130 million, adding that "continued lower capital spending reflects the Company's focus on disciplined spending in light of ongoing weak market conditions." Following the EPA's proposal, Walter Energy issued a statement, saying it does not believe the regulation will have "any material impact" on the company. But it seems that whether its a slowing Chinese economy, new government regulation, or potential threats from new energy sources, the coal industry is in turmoil and investors are feeling the pain. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderInstitutional Investor's Alpha has released its annual hedge fund employee compensation report for 2013 and the numbers are looking great for folks on the buyside. Even though only a small handful of hedge funds managed to outperform the S&amp;P, which closed up about 30% in 2013, compensation for hedge fund portfolio managers skyrocketed.  From Institutional Investor's Alpha:  ...Fueled by fat bonuses, total compensation for senior portfolio managers rose 27.6 percent, to $1,465,468, according to the 2014 Hedge Fund Compensation Report by Institutional Investor's Alpha. Junior-level portfolio managers did even better, with their compensation surging 81.3 percent over 2012, to a mean of $887,717.  Based on those numbers, life looks better on the buyside. Then again, 2014 isn't looking so hot for most hedge funds. The average hedge fund is up a little over 1%, while the S&amp;P is up nearly 5%.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/AlexFirst off, if you're reading this, good luck. You're going to need it on Saturday. The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exams are this weekend. They are commonly known as the most hellish exams taken by Wall Street professionals. Fewer than 20 percent of candidates pass all three tests in the first attempt at each. What makes the CFA so difficult is the sheer volume of information you have to study and use. There are tons of formulas and ideas all over the exam — we couldn't possibly cover it all here. So we'll give you what you absolutely have to know —9 formulas candidates that will most assuredly show up on all three levels of the CFA exam. Don't blow it. NOTE: We don't claim to be an expert in offering exam advice. Ben Duronio also contributed to this post. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris KeaneThis morning we learned the U.S. trade deficit unexpectedly ballooned by 6.9% in April. The headline figures looked good — imports for consumer goods were all up.  But analysts found the unexpected surge in the gap was actually more the reflection of flagging exports, which shrank 0.2%.  As a result, many firms have begun to revising their GDP estimates downward. Here's the count so far: "Makes you wonder if GDP will rebound to 3% in the second quarter let alone the 4% whisper numbers," Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey mused in a note. "Trade data had its annual revision so the widening was not as bad as it looks but trade will be a drag on second quarter GDP." Not everyone believes the data will have a material impact on growth. JP Morgan held firm on its estimate for Q2 GDP of 3.0%, though they added the new trade data "adds some modest downside risk" to that forecast. Capital Economics also left its Q2 GDP estimate unchanged, arguing that the flagging trade data is surpassed by jumps in sales and inventories. They also mention Wednesday's solid ISM non-manufacturing survey reading. "A weighted average of the two ISM activity indices is now consistent with a rebound in annualized GDP growth to around +3.0% in the second quarter from -1.0% in the first," CE said. "We still think it could be closer to 3.5%." The next major piece of the GDP puzzle will come Friday when we get non-farm payrolls for May. Estimates are for a reading of 213,000, down from 288,000. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe internal correction had a more significant impact in depressing valuation multiples than did the EM crisis and the Crimean incident. That’s because the correction wasn’t triggered by any macro event, but was all about money moving out of high-P/E stocks into low-P/E stocks. As a result, the forward P/E for the S&amp;P 600 SmallCaps dropped from 19.3 on March 18 to 17.6 on May 15. It has edged back up to 17.9. The forward P/E correction for the S&amp;P 400 MidCaps occurred from March 4 through May 20 as it fell from 17.7 to 16.7. It is back up to 17.0. The forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 declined less than the other two and over a shorter time period (just 8 days!), from 15.5 to 14.8 from April 3 to April 11. It is back up to 15.3. While valuation multiples were undergoing this internal correction, forward earnings for all three S&amp;P market capitalization composites continued to rise to new record highs. Indeed, the pace of the ascent in the S&amp;P 500 and S&amp;P 400 has actually risen in recent weeks. Annual earnings estimates for 2014 and 2015, which had been falling last year and early this year, have picked up recently. I am heartened to see that analysts seem to be getting more upbeat about earnings. Apparently, so are investors, as the stock market continues to grind higher in the face of valuation multiples that remain relatively high. I would like to see stock prices continue to grind higher along with earnings. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Grinding Higher. (1) Complacency is worrying the Fed according to Hilsenrath. (2) Anatomy of corrections and bear markets. (3) Is the internal correction over already? (4) Forward earnings continue to grind higher. (5) Analysts’ upbeat earnings feeding investors’ complacency. (6) NIPA profits dropped during Q1, but should grind higher too. (7) Cash flow moving sideways in record territory. (8) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Auto industry. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonThe Institute for Supply Management said its survey of non-manufacturing data climbed to 56.3. Consensus was for a slight increase to 55.5, from 55.2.  Headline and employment indices were each up 1.1 pointS, to 56.3 and 52.4, respectively. New orders were up 2.3 points to 60.5. Here are ISM's one-sentence snapshots from various industries about how business has been faring: ISM We doubt there'll be a repeat from Monday's debacle involving ISM'S release of manufacturing data, which it had to revise twice.  But we'll be on the look out for any irregularities. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Aaron PareckiMost new things fail. Four of five new restaurants close within five years. Three quarters of venture capital-backed startups don’t return their money to investors. Most books don’t earn back the author’s advance. Failure is so common that Google executive Albert Savoia created a rule of thumb for it, called the “Law of Failure.” No one sets out to fail, and often, it’s no one’s fault. It’s the idea’s fault. Among Savoia’s many pithy sayings: “Make sure you are building the right ‘It,’ before you build ‘It’ right." Failures stink. But they are also expensive. They cost a lot of money, and more important, they cost a lot of time and emotional angst. All that time you spend giving CPR to an idea, a story, or a relationship that’s dying could be better spent on doing something else. It sounds funny, but if you want to get better at anything, before you think about success, you need to get better at failing. And failing big. If failure is in your future, you might as well be good at that. You want to flame out spectacularly at whatever it is. Most of all, you want to avoid failing slowly. Slow failure means throwing good money after bad. Slow failure means spending your entire 20s doing something that holds no future for you. Failing slowly means spending the very last bit of your savings (and probably your credit) on a business idea that’s doomed, rather than saving those precious last dollars for the next thing. The biggest mistake people who file bankruptcy make is spending every last dollar they have paying off noisy debt collectors, such as credit card firms. Some even take out second mortgages or raid retirement accounts to do this. Generally, home and retirement wealth can be protected in bankruptcies, and credit card debt can be discharged, meaning those final desperate payments were a waste of money, the loss of the last little bit of a cash a struggling family could have used to reboot their lives. Failing slowly is the only real failure. Being stuck in a slow, downward spiral is the worst kind of stuck there is. Our culture is afraid of failure, and that’s part of the problem. We do anything we can to avoid admitting failure, when what we should really do is embrace it. Embrace failure? How? Savoia offers one method: The prototype. You’ve heard of prototypes. They’re an important part of the development process, used to show investors or others how a product might work without having to manufacture on a large scale. Prototypes, however, are generally fully operational. That means they can still take years to build. Savoia prefers what he calls the “pretotype.” A pretotype could be as simple as a drawing of a website that you imagine is fully functional, which you allow others to “test.” Among the first pretotypes — the first Palm Pilot, the precursor to tablet computers, was initially a wooden board with buttons painted on it that people carried around and pretended to use so they could test what its core functions could be. The advantage is enormous: While a test website might takes weeks to build, a pretotype can be drawn in MS Paint within a few minutes. With pretotyping, you never have to say, “Sorry, it’s not worth experimenting with that idea,” because there are hardly any barriers to entry. Pretotypes are liberating. With a little creativity, you can create your own “startup” in a day or two, run it through some paces, and fail within a week! But do that for a year, and you have gone through 50 “rev” cycles. Even with a spectacularly high failure rate, you are bound to hit on a success along the way. But remember, pretotypes only work for those who are open to failure. The concept of failing fast, and the prototype, apply even if you aren’t a budding inventor. Here’s how these relate directly to the world of personal finance: Good money after bad An example of this classic situation is paying to put a new transmission or engine in that old car. It’s often hard to let go of old Betsy, but it’s rarely wise to spend more than $1,000 repairing a car that’s 10 years old. Let it fail and put the money into a reasonable auto payment for an inexpensive new car instead. On a related note, many folks pay for collision and comprehensive insurance on their old clunkers long after it makes sense. Remember, you only get the value of the car, minus the deductible, after an accident or theft. If your car is only worth $3,000, it doesn’t make much sense paying $400 a year for collision and comprehensive. One rule of thumb: When the annual premium exceeds 10% of the car’s value, drop it. Bankruptcy Covered above, but worth repeating. When I talk to bankruptcy attorneys, every one says the same thing: People always wait too late to see an attorney, and foolishly spend their last few dollars. When it’s time, it’s time. Just make sure you understand that bankruptcy will do major damage to your credit score, though it will recover over time. You can see where your credit currently stands, and what you could do to improve it, for free on Credit.com. Stocks We’ve all been there. “I bought this at 30, it dropped to 20, and I’m not selling it until it goes back up to 30!” Well, that’s dumb. The stock sits at 20 for a reason. It’s just as likely you will lose even more by holding on. Sell. Cut your losses. Fail as fast as you can! You can apply this line of thinking to any investment, of course. When you are losing money, holding out hope is a bad strategy. By the way, the investing version of the prototype is the model portfolio. Many investing sites let you set up a “fake” investment account so you can see how you would do without playing with real money. That’s a great way to dip your toe in the game without risking years or earning power. Homes A similar rule applies. Refusing to sell your home because you have established a mythical value in your head (We paid $600,000, we have to get $600,000!) is a doomed strategy. It’s sometimes called emotional pricing. In a similar vein, some people decide they have to hold out at least until the purchase price net covers their outstanding mortgage. While that’s nice, the market doesn’t care what your mortgage is. The price is the amount someone else is willing to pay. It has nothing to do with how much you owe. You might someday get a higher offer, but if you have to pay six more months of property tax while waiting, is that really a good idea? Cut your losses, fail, and move on. What's a Bad Credit Score?  3 Strategies for Consolidating Debt  5 Steps to Reduce Your Debt  This article originally appeared at Credit.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow Credit.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Don RyanU.S. Services PMI climbed to 58.1 in May, from 55 the previous month. This was the fastest pace of output expansion since March 2012.  This was pretty much in line with expectations for a reading of 58.2, but down from a flash reading of 58.4. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. Hiring in the services sector also climbed to 52.8, from 51.2 the previous month on the back of renewed confidence in the economic outlook. "The US economy is moving into the summer with renewed vigor," Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit said in a press release. "Alongside the sister manufacturing survey, the upturn in the services PMI indicates that GDP looks set to rise at an annualized rate of 3% or more in the second quarter after the 1.0% weather-related decline in the first three months of the year." Here's a look at the sub-indices of the services PMI report: Markit  Here's a look at the trajectory of services PMI: MarkitMeanwhile, the U.S. composite PMI was up to 58.4 in May, from 55.6 in April. But the final print was modestly below the flash reading of 58.6. The latest reading adds to signs that the U.S. economy was regaining momentum, and followed a stronger manufacturing report. Some better than expected economic data has brought back talk of an economic snapback. FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleWall Street's strategists get paid tons of money to quibble over what stocks might do over the next year. But most investors have longer-term time horizons to consider. Today, the analysts at Societe Generale update their 10-year outlook for the global stock markets. In brief, they don't think investors should be anticipating the double-digit annual returns of the recent past. "US equities face three headwinds: cyclically-adjusted valuations (CAPE, starting date 1881) have returned to very expensive territory, corporate margins stand at historically high levels, and after already five years of growth from the 2009 trough, we estimate that the probability of another recession kicking in is close to 100% within the forecast timeframe (the longest cycle ever was 120 months, or 10 years)," they write. "But US equities have supports as well, such as impressively strong balance sheets and the beginning of a new M&amp;A cycle, backed by a highly reactive central bank." For the U.S., their baseline scenario assumes the S&amp;P 500 gets to 2,500 by 2024, which represents a meager 3% growth per year. "Our central scenario projects moderated underlying economic growth of 5% per year over the next few years, i.e. below the long-term growth trend (8.6%)," they elaborated. "We have also adopted a scenario whereby inflation will gradually increase at 1a00m0odest rate, until it pushes down the normalised 10-year moving P/E rate slightly, to below its long-term average of 20x." The 40-page report goes into a decent amount of depth and considers various scenarios. Their best-case and worst-case scenarios offer some interesting alternative glimpses into the future. As you can see, even in their best-case scenario, they only see single-digit annual gains. FREE AppDownload
From coffee bean origin to brewing, there are numerous factors that determine that amount of caffeine in coffee.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Scott OlsonU.S. stock futures have pulled back a bit following the ADP jobs report missed expectations.  Dow futures are down about 29 points, while S&amp;P 500 futures are lower by 4.5 points and Nasdaq futures are down 10 points. The ADP report showed private companies added just 179,000 jobs in May, short of estimates for 210,000. Its a busy day for data, with U.S. trade balance, ISM non-manufacturing data, and the Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report all expected later today. FREE AppDownload
Port of Long BeachThe Census said the U.S. trade deficit widened 6.9% in April to -$47.2 billion.  It's the largest deficit in two years. "Americans bought record amounts of consumer goods, business equipment and automobiles from abroad," Bloomberg said. Consumer goods imports climbed $1.1 billion, automotive vehicles, parts, and engines jumped $0.9 billion; and capital goods imports surged $0.8 billion. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson had a different take, suggesting the deficit was more a reflection of a lack of exports. The April details are disappointing. All the headline damage is in the ex-petroleum deficit; net petroleum imports fell by $1.0B to a four-month low. But non-oil exports fell 0.2% while imports rose 1.2%. The ISM survey points to a much better export performance, so we hope for an improved performance in May. Exports should rebound and imports should correct to the downside; the 4.3% total increase in non-oil imports in Mar/Apr is unsustainable. Still, trade looks likely to be a small drag on Q2 GDP." Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth agreed: The 0.2% m/m decline in April's exports, coupled with the 1.2% m/m rise in imports, is not a great start to the second quarter either. We still anticipate that second-quarter GDP growth will be as high as 3.5%, however, with the drag from rising imports partly offset by a positive contribution from rising inventories and domestic sales. Consensus was for a much smaller gap, to -$40.8 billion. March's figure was revised down to -$44.2 billion. Here's the table: Census Full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonPump jacks are seen in the Midway Sunset oilfield, California.Between 2008 and 2013, U.S. oil production surged by 64 percent. U.S. natural gas production increased by 42 percent between 2005 and 2013. Both increases were driven by the boom in shale oil and gas production. The boom has led BP and Exxon executives to claim that the U.S. will be self-sufficient in energy within two decades. Energy economist Philip K. Verleger, Jr. argues that American energy independence will allow the country to become a net exporter of oil and gas and to enjoy a cost advantage in energy supplies over the rest of the world that will translate into serious economic benefits. However, there are three major red flags that should curb this unconstrained enthusiasm: shale depletion rates, decreased oil and gas prices due to the glut, and the extent to which upstream oil and gas companies in the shale space are over-leveraged. Shale oil and gas wells have rapid decline and depletion rates. According to Pete Stark, a geologist and analyst at IHS, Inc., production from the average shale oil well declines by 50 to 78 percent after its first year, and by 50 to 75 percent after the first year for shale gas wells. The Serenity 1-3H oil well in Oklahoma, owned by Chesapeake Energy, produced over 1,200 b/d in 2009; in 2013, it produced less than 100 b/d. Continental Resources’ Robert Heuer 1-17R well in the Bakken fields saw production plunge 69 percent in its first year. In order to maintain the same level of output in the face of such drastic decline rates, upstream companies must constantly drill new wells. For natural gas, increased supply has exerted downward pressure on prices. Lower prices have given the U.S. a cost advantage over other countries and allowed for decreased imports since 2007, but they also cut into the profit margins of upstream natural gas companies. This may push these companies to cut back on drilling, as in 2009. In the case of oil, the shale boom has helped stop prices from soaring in a hectic geopolitical environment. American supplies, in effect, have offset insufficient productionfrom Libya, Nigeria, Venezuela, and other major producers. However, moving forward in the medium-term, production is projected to outpace demand as major producers such as Iraq stabilize. This glut in oil will push prices down. In the long-term, it is becoming increasingly difficult and expensive to identify and exploit supply sites. Companies will face a conundrum of lower prices for oil but higher costs to find and obtain it, cutting into revenues and profits. The third red flag is how over-leveraged oil and gas companies in the shale space are. It is a capital-intensive business; extracting oil from shale wells using horizontal drilling costs between $3.5 and $9 million. For gas in the Haynesville Shale, a well costs about $8 million. Companies borrow heavily to finance their operations. A Bloomberg News analysis of over 60 companies found that these companies’ debts doubled between 2010 and 2014, while their revenues increased by only 5.6 percent. Interest expenses are also proving to be a large burden – the companies considered in the study racked up almost $2 billion in Q1 2014 alone. Shale depletion rates and falling oil and gas prices compound the over-leveraging problem. Shale companies have to constantly drill new wells to offset well-decline rates, which requires financing, often in the form of debt. Falling oil and gas prices can force companies to take on more debt to continue operating, if they choose to stay in business. Low oil and gas prices also hinder the ability of companies to pay back the debt they already accumulated. Further, shale drilling is made economical by high oil and gas prices – price decreases will undercut the economic rationale for such operations. Considered together, these three red flags suggest that a more measured and nuanced analysis of the American shale boom is required. The staying power of the American shale boom is limited by natural, macroeconomic, and microeconomic factors, none of which will disappear on the strength of unconstrained enthusiasm. By Dajahi Wiley, Oilprice.com Slashing the smoke-and-mirrors hype of the Monterey shale by 96% socked not only oil companies but also the state of California that was dreaming of $24.6 billion a year in revenues and 2.8 million jobs, now dissipated into thin air. Read..... The Big Losers in the California Shale-Oil Fiasco FREE AppDownload
ADPPrivate U.S. companies added just 179,000 jobs in May, reported ADP. This missed expectations for 210,000. Adding to the disappointment, ADP revised its April number down to 215,000 from an earlier estimate of 220,000. "Job growth moderated in May," said Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi. "The slowing in growth was concentrated in Professional/Business Services and companies with 50- 999 employees. The job market has yet to break out from the pace of growth that has prevailed over the last three years." Some economists consider the ADP report to be a reliable preview of the Bureau of Labor Statistics' official monthly nonfarm payrolls (NFP) report. But most are guarded. "While a bit below expectations, we would emphasize that the methodology and frequent revisions of the ADP employment report limit its usefulness for forecasting the BLS private employment series on a month-to-month basis," said Barclays Cooper Howes. "We continue to look for a rise of 225k in May nonfarm payrolls, a 225k rise in private payrolls, and an unchanged unemployment rate of 6.3% in the BLS employment report released on Friday." Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson recommends ignoring the report altogether. "[W]e can see no sustained relationship between this metric and the subsequent payroll numbers, though we accept that the sample is small and the past few months' official numbers have been hit by the weather," wrote Shepherdson. "Note too that the soft ADP is hard to square with the drop in claims. Still, we now await tomorrow's NFIB jobs report with great interest; for now, we stick to our 230K NFP estimate." Here's a look at the change in employment by industry: ADP Here's a look at the change in employment by company size: ADP FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonPolice officers ride motorised vehicles at Tiananmen SquareGood morning! Here's what you need to know: And Now We Get To The Fun Part Of The Week: It's jobs week in America, and things kick off at 8:15 a.m. ET with the ADP employment report, which serves as a preview of Friday's official report from the BLS. Economists estimate private payrolls increased by 210,000 in May. "ADP has been an accurate gauge of BLS private jobs over the last three months, with a mean absolute miss of just 10K," noted Credit Suisse economists. "Over the last twelve months (perhaps a truer measure of performance), the mean absolute miss is 40K." The State Of America's Services Industry: At 9:45 a.m., we'll get Markit's Services PMI report. Economists estimate this activity index increased to 58.2 in May from 55.0 in April. "With decisive shifts in output and new business indicated during May, the survey should help alleviate concerns that the first quarter slowdown reflected underlying sluggishness in the US economy," said Markit's Tim Moore in the preliminary report. ISM Non-Manufacturing: The ISM services report not only gives us a snapshot of the state of the U.S. services industry. It also serves as an important preview of Friday's jobs report. Economists estimate this services index climbed to 55.5 in May from 55.2 in April. "The ISM non-manufacturing index likely picked up further in May, reinforcing the notion that the slowdown witnessed from December to February was weather related," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio. Markets Aren't Doing Much: The global stock markets are just a bit lower ahead of the U.S. economic data dump. Dow futures are down 10 points and S&amp;P 500 futures are down 2 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.2%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.1%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.1%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei climbed 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng slipped 0.6%. Notes On The Fed: "Federal Reserve officials are starting to wonder whether a tranquility that has descended on financial markets is a sign that investors have become unafraid of the type of risk that could lead to bubbles and volatility," reports WSJ's Jon Hilsenrath. Notes From The Fed: The Fed will publish its Beige Book — a collection of economic anecdotes — at 2:00 p.m. ET. From Credit Suisse: "Markets will be looking ... for signs of a rebound in economic activity from the winter contraction (embodied in the -1.0% real Q1 GDP print). The tone of the previous Beige Book, released on April 16, was generally positive, providing anecdotal support for the contention that growth is picking up. But the re- acceleration in business activity through early April had been described as only 'modest or moderate.' It would be a positive sign if the word 'modest' were dropped from the opening summary in Wednesday’s report." Europe's Been Sluggish: According to the final official estimate, Eurozone GDP grew 0.2% in Q1, down from 0.3% in Q4 2013. "The final GDP data confirm that the eurozone had an overall sluggish start to the year," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The contribution of domestic demand components was weak and largely unchanged relative to the last three quarters, with only government consumption contributing slightly more." ...And Things Are Barely Picking Up: Markit's Eurozone Composite PMI slipped to 53.5 in May from 54.0 in April. While any reading above 50 signals growth, the decline signals deceleration. "Although the euro zone is enjoying its best performance for three years, this is an uneven, stuttering and lackluster recovery," said Markit's Chris Williamson. The UK's In Great Shape: Markit's UK Services PMI registered at 58.6 in May, just a slightly down from 58.6 in April. "The UK economy continued to boom in May, in what is the best spell of growth since 2007," said Markit's Williamson. "The buoyant services PMI follows similar upbeat manufacturing and construction reports, which collectively suggest that the economy is on course to grow by 0.8% again in the second quarter. That would push the economy above its pre-crisis peak." GM's Mary Barra Might Be In The Clear: From the NY Times' Bill Vlasic: "G.M. will surely face skeptics of its in-house inquiry into the recall crisis. But now G.M. officials increasingly believe that Ms. Barra will be cleared of wrongdoing in the recall crisis after a three-month investigation by Anton R. Valukas, the former United States attorney ... Company officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Ms. Barra, who has been briefed on the investigation’s progress, cleared a critical hurdle last month when the nation’s auto safety agency imposed a $35 million fine on G.M. for failing to report the defect in a timely manner." FREE AppDownload
Alpsdake/Wikimedia Commons Good morning! Markets are very quiet, though after starting flat they've drifted lower a bit. German stocks are off 0.4%. US futures are down around 0.2%. The big event today is European PMIs. Composite PMIs fell slightly from last month, but nothing too significant. The trend towards mediocre growth for the Eurozone is intact, for better or worse. This stacked week for data continues today, with the ADP jobs report, the ISM Services report, and the trade balance. FREE AppDownload
The Guardian Here's an indicator of the state of the London real estate market that might make you want to cry. This apartment — which the Guardian is calling a "shoebox studio flat" — is a hot commodity in London.  The whole thing, which barely can fit a bed, was rented within 16 hours of being posted to real estate website Rightmove.co.uk, according to The Guardian. Numerous emails and phone calls were placed from people eager to get the property. The price: 737 pounds per month, or a bit over $1,200. (Via Semisara) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral view of U.S. Federal Reserve building in WashingtonNEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve may scrap international measures aimed at assessing bank health in favor of imposing its own rules, frustrating bankers who have spent billions of dollars retooling their books to meet global standards. Fed officials are concerned that parts of a key tool that regulators have developed to measure banks' riskiness—known as "Basel III capital rules" -- are flawed and can be gamed by the companies. Under Basel, banks can determine how much debt they can take on by using their own models and computer systems to calculate how risky their assets are, among other methods. The higher the risk, the less money banks can borrow and lend, in turn cutting income banks can earn. In other words, the Basel rules give banks a chance to monkey with their risk models to boost profit. In a May speech, Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo condemned the latitude that Basel III gives banks to use their own models. While he was expressing his own views, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters that Tarullo's opinion is held by other governors. Instead of the Basel rules, Tarullo promoted the use of the Fed's own yardstick of bank health, a test of how bank assets would perform during market turmoil or an economic slump. That process, which the Fed has developed separately from the Basel regulations, is known as the "stress test." "As a practical matter, it is our binding capital standard," said John Dugan, former U.S. Comptroller of the Currency and now a partner at the law firm of Covington &amp; Burling in Washington. The Fed's decision to emphasize a different process for evaluating risk is maddening to banks, who complain that the Fed's tests are opaque. The regulator fears that banks would find ways to cheat the tests if they knew too much about the methodology, so it gives them little detail about it. Every year, the Fed can also change the stressful situations it tests for. Wall Street says it's getting mixed signals about Basel III from the Fed. Tarullo's remarks come less than three months after U.S. regulators gave the green light to eight big U.S. banks to use their own risk models. One senior bank executive who refused to be named complained that the regulator wants "a private playbook" which it can redesign every year. Another called the stress test process "arbitrary and scary." The world's biggest banks have probably spent billions of dollars in recent years building computer models, hiring staff and selling assets to comply with Basel III, analysts said. An executive at a major bank told Reuters last year that his firm had spent $500 million on models and systems alone. Without more detail about the Fed's rules, banks must hold more capital, possibly constraining their lending and global growth, bankers said. Wells Fargo &amp; Co, the fourth-largest U.S. bank, said at a recent conference that it is holding more capital in large part because of the Fed's stress test. Many regulators have little patience with these complaints. In the run-up to the financial crisis, banks succumbed to the temptation to boost earnings by borrowing more money to fund their assets. If a bank has too much debt, even slight declines in the value of its assets can put it out of business, a lesson that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc learned the hard way. The Fed and other regulators are charged with maintaining the health of the financial system, not maximizing bank profits. Regulators may have reason to be alarmed about the way banks are measuring asset risk. Last year, the Basel Committee, which is refining the current generation of Basel rules, said it found wide variance in how banks assessed the riskiness of hypothetical portfolios of loans and trading assets. A Barclays Capital survey in 2012 found that half of investors distrust banks' assessments of the riskiness of their assets. Banks rarely confess to changing their risk models to reduce their capital requirements, but evidence of its happening came to light last year, when a U.S. Senate subcommittee released e-mails in which JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co executives discussed how they were changing their models to reduce the apparent riskiness of their assets. Policing banks' models is labor intensive, and regulators are finding their staff and resources stretched. Even the head of the Basel Committee acknowledged in March that adjusting assets for risk poses difficulties for regulators. "The message I would like to leave you with today is that there is one (a problem), and we plan to do something about it," said Basel Committee Chairman Stefan Ingves in a speech in New York. The Federal Reserve is not inclined to wait to fix rules that global regulators have been discussing and refining for a decade. The central bank has added its own rules to a separate part of the Basel capital requirements, known as the leverage ratios, which do not consider the riskiness of assets. Tarullo's harsh criticism of the Basel risk measures came in a May 8 speech. Referring to bank models for calculating asset risk, called the "internal-ratings-based approach," he said, the "combined complexity and opacity of risk weights generated by each banking organization for purposes of its regulatory capital requirement create manifold risks of gaming, mistake, and monitoring difficulty." Later, he said, "in light of all that has happened in the last decade, I see little reason to maintain the requirements of the IRB approach for our largest banks." Fed staffers interviewed by Reuters said Tarullo's tone and timing were surprising, given the amount of energy that both U.S. regulators and the banks have put into adopting the third generation of Basel rules, which must be fully implemented by the beginning of 2019. "They've invested so much time and effort into that process, and it's an international agreed-upon standard, so to say to scrap it – it's a pretty bold statement," said an employee at a regional Federal Reserve bank who did not want to be identified. Federal Reserve spokeswoman Barbara Hagenbaugh declined to comment.   CRISIS AFTERMATH Regulators have been working on the third set of Basel rules for a decade, but the effort gained extra momentum after the financial crisis, when investors and depositors feared that banks had too much debt and too little equity, or capital, funding their assets. Capital represents a cushion that banks have against their assets losing value during times of stress—maintaining enough of a buffer is critical to preventing runs on banks during crises. When investors and depositors lost faith in banks, governments and central banks globally had to pump trillions of dollars into the financial system to bail out lenders. The Fed developed the stress tests in 2009 in part to restore trust in the financial system. Investors unsure about bank-asset values took comfort that regulators were checking that banks would be solvent during a crisis. These tests, combined with the Fed's decisions about whether banks can afford to buy back more shares and increase their dividends, have become increasingly important to the regulator, sources said. The European Central Bank, which will become the continent's bank supervisor before the end of the year, is also developing its own stress tests known as the asset quality review. Banks including Citigroup Inc and Bank of America Corp have been embarrassed to have had capital plans rejected by the Fed. Their failures have encouraged others to be more cautious managing their capital, analysts said. John McDonald of Bernstein Research in New York recently estimated that changes in the Fed's grading methods this year canceled out some $60 billion of excess capital at three big banks, Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. Changing complexities of the Fed's testing "could have negative implications for the way banks are run," according to McDonald. Three senior Wall Street executives complained to Reuters about the Fed's shifts towards its own tests, though none would be named for fear of insulting their regulator. A former Fed staffer who now works in the industry said Tarullo is wrong to be so confident in the Fed's own models, which have been changing year-to-year and haven't been tested in another crisis. In the most recent round of stress tests, the Fed discovered flaws in its models that it said were minor. It had to adjust its calculations and release revised numbers the next day. Even if one bank's model is not the best, the person said, models from the top 150 banks in aggregate are likely better than a single model from one regulator. A consequence of banks not knowing how the models will work, the person said, is that banks will be more reluctant to take chances lending and investing. "You are really tamping down potential growth in the economy," the person said.   (Reporting by David Henry in New York and Emily Stephenson, Michael Flaherty and Douwe Miedema in Washington. Additional reporting by Peter Rudegeair in New York. Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe first week of every month is always fun, because it's when we get all the economic data for the previous month. During the first week of every month we can PMI data, construction data, and of course jobs data, which culminates with the monthly Non-Farm Payrolls Report on the first Friday of every month. So the fun part of the week has begun. Today we get a preview for the Jobs Report in the form of the ADP jobs report, which is a private sector survey that's designed to anticipate Friday's big number. Per Calculated Risk, the consensus is for 210K new private sector jobs for the month, down slightly from the 220K that ADP registered for April. Of course you should bear in mind that ADP vastly underestimated the ultimate NFP number last month, and that in any survey there is going to be noise. The bigger picture is that the economic data for May so far has looked quite hot, especially total car sales, which hit a 7-year high yesterday, so there's a chance of big things from the labor data. Tomorrow we'll get initial claims, and then of course Friday we get the big one. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRails ready for shipping are seen at the Tata Steel rails factory in HayangeBy Jonathan Cable London, (Reuters) - Euro zone business growth eased in May and firms cut prices for the 26th straight month, a survey showed on Wednesday, likely underpinning expectations for the European Central Bank to loosen policy on Thursday. While output across the region remained solid, supported once again by Germany and pointing to euro zone GDP growth of 0.4-0.5 percent this quarter, French business activity slipped back into contraction after just two months of growth. Similarly, accelerating growth in the service industry was offset by an easing in manufacturing. "Although the euro zone is enjoying its best performance for three years, this is an uneven, stuttering and lackluster recovery," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at survey compiler Markit. Markit's Composite PMI, widely seen as a good gauge of growth, dipped to 53.5 in May, shy of a flash reading of 53.9 and below April's final 54.0. But it held above the 50 mark dividing growth from contraction for the 11th month running. The slowdown in growth came despite firms again cutting their prices. The output price index nudged up to 48.8 from 48.7 but has held below the break-even mark since April 2012. "The overall rate of growth is just not strong enough to allow firms to push through price hikes. This is perhaps the final nail in the coffin for hopes of a robust recovery without stimulus," Williamson said. ECB policymakers have flagged a policy move for their meeting on Thursday and sources told Reuters last month the bank was preparing a package of policy options, including cuts in all its interest rates and targeted measures aimed at boosting lending to small- and mid-sized firms (SMEs). Euro zone price inflation fell unexpectedly in May, coming in at just 0.5 percent, official data showed on Tuesday, increasing the risks of deflation in the currency area and all-but sealing the case for the ECB to act this week. The index for the euro zone's vast service industry rose to a near three-year high of 53.2 in May from 53.1 in April as new business came in at its fastest pace since mid-2011, with the related subindex rising to 52.8 from 52.3.   (Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Peter Macdiarmid Economic data out of the UK continues to look red hot. The latest services PMI data indicates the economy is booming. The reading of 58.6 is consistent with "sharply rising levels of activity" says Markit, which compiles the survey. The most impressive number is on jobs: Employment growth in the UK services industry just had its best month in 17 years. Markit FREE AppDownload
