REUTERS/Susana VeraTraders look at computer screens on the trading floor of Bankinter bank during a Spanish bond auction in Madrid September 20, 2012.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Investors Should Consider Short-Term Bonds (BlackRock Blog)  "In stock investing, a short-term trade can make you money," writes Jessie Szymanski. "In the bond world, shorter-term bonds can mean less risk. And these days, with interest rates likely to rise, reducing risk in your bond portfolio may be more important than ever." "Short term bonds can fare better in higher interest rate environments. Why? In general, when interest rates go up across the curve, bond prices go down. But here’s the key—short term bond prices go down less. …Regardless if you’re starting out with long-term bonds, or no bonds at all, toe dipping into short-term bonds can help you stay invested in the bond market—no matter where interest rates go." Longevity Poses A Risk To Retirement Systems (Bank of America) Retirement systems around the world are expected to face a significant burden in the next 50 years, according to Bank of America's Sarbjit Nahal and Beijia Ma. This is because the number of people over the age of 60 is expected to double from 841 million in 2013, to over 2 billion by 2050. The two main risks posed by longevity are 1. "Threats to fiscal sustainability as a result of large longevity exposures of governments, which, if realized, could push up debt-to-GDP ratios by more than 50 percentage points in some countries." 2. "Possible threats to the solvency of private financial and corporate institutions exposed to longevity risk." "Governments, corporates, insurers and individuals are exposed to longevity risk due to increasing life expectancy trends, resulting in higher-than-anticipated pay- out levels on retirement products." BAML Advisors Are Increasingly Concerned About Cyber Security (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors are paying more attention to cyber risk, reports Matthias Rieker at The Wall Street Journal. Bill French, a cybersecurity expert for Fidelity says that advisors should address this issue right away. Policies vary and not all cover the firms losses in their entirety, but they will cover the costs of hiring experts, damages the firm owes to clients, fines and the like. We're On The Verge Of The Greatest Transfer Of Wealth In The History Of The World (Business Insider) We are currently witnessing the 'Great Transfer' of wealth from the Greatest Generation to the baby boomers, according to Bank of America's Sarbjit Nahal and Beijia Ma. The great transfer will see a handover of about $12 trillion from those born in 1920s and 30s to the boomers. But the boomers are expected to transfer some $30 trillion in assets to their heirs over the next 30-40 years in just the U.S., they write. This presents a huge opportunity for advisors, since only 4 in 10 retirees in the U.S. currently use financial advisors.  Bank of AmericaMassachusetts' Galvin Asks Congress To Make Changes To 401(k) Contributions More Transparent (Bloomberg) William F. Galvin, Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, has asked Congress and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to make it mandatory for companies to disclose changes in 401(k) contributions to workers, reports Margaret Collins at Bloomberg. U.S. companies have been accused of trying to lower the amount of their contributions and delaying the timing. "Employees should be told the potential risks involved in a significant change, such as a shift to a year-end annual employer match," Galvin said in a statement cited by Collins. "They should be told before the change occurs." FREE AppDownload
AmazonHear from Jeff Bezos at IGNITION 2014Joining the biggest names in digital at IGNITION: Future of Digital just got more social. This week only, use code 1k to add a second ticket for just $1k. Invite your coworker, client, or someone you owe a favor to and they can come for 60% off the regular ticket price.  That's right: your colleague can join you in hearing Jeff Bezos and other digital luminaries speak for a fraction of the regular price. Here’s how to get two tickets to IGNITION: Future of Digital at a great deal: 1. Click on this link. 2. Place two IGNITION Duo tickets in your shopping cart and click "checkout." 3. Enter code: 1k into the “Discount Code” window and click "apply." 4. Marvel at your amazing savings on the price of two IGNITION: Future of Digital tickets. 5. Complete your payment details, click "continue," and get ready to enjoy presentations and conversations with the best of the best in digital. That's it! Five easy steps are all that stand between you and unbelievable savings on two tickets to the most exciting digital conference of the year. But don’t wait — this deal is good for this week only. Don’t miss out on this opportunity to save $1,495 and experience the amazing speakers and jam-packed agenda at Business Insider's IGNITION: Future of Digital conference in New York City Dec. 1-3.  P.S. If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by sponsoring, contact ignition@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter and join our LinkedIn Group for IGNITION updates. FREE AppDownload
The average CEO of a big American corporation made 20 times more than a typical employee in the same industry in 1965. Today, the average CEO is making almost 300 times more, according to a new report from the Economic Policy Institute. Researchers gathered data from the largest 350 firms in the US and compared them to the average annual compensation of workers in the same key industry. The following chart shows how the CEO-to-worker compensation ratio rose dramatically in the boom years of the late 90s and has generally remained quite high since. Today, CEOs earn about 300 times more than their employees:  CEO pay in the late 60s and 70s grew despite a bad market, continued growing and even exceeded the growth of the booming market in 2000. The fall of the market had CEO compensation pare back significantly, though by 2007 pay had worked its way back up to 2000 levels. Following the financial crisis in 2008, pay has become much more closely linked to performance:  Following the Great Recession, companies' boards have "learned to avoid investor pay irritants and red flags, such as compensation that is not linked to performance and pay perks to cover taxes executives owed," according to The Wall Street Journal. The Journal also reports that a large majority of shareholders now approve of their companies' executive pay packages. But while a healthy market has brought more money to CEOs at high performing companies, the lower and middle classes have struggled with low wages and high unemployment. Check out the full report over at the Economic Policy Institute. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan AlvaradoA performer is thrown into the air during the 2014 World Cup opening ceremony at the Corinthians arena in Sao Paulo June 12, 2014Stocks were higher following two straight days of losses, and saw gains despite some lackluster economic data and the situation in Iraq show no improvement. First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,775.74, 41.5, 0.25%S&amp;P 500: 1,936.16, 6, 0.3%Nasdaq: 4,310.65, 13, 0.3% And now, the top stories of the day Don't Miss: A Civil War Is Brewing In The Race To Replace Gasoline-Powered Cars »  FREE AppDownload
Theo Heimann / Getty ImagesIn late April, the Bureau of Economic Analysis released an advance estimate of first-quarter GDP that had one noticeably eye-popping statistic — spending on healthcare grew 9.9%, the biggest percent change in more than three decades. Those numbers were questioned by former OMB Director Peter Orszag and others, because the data didn't quite square. With healthcare spending surging but employment growing at a steady year-over-year pace, could there really be an absurd boom in healthcare productivity? A month and a half later, we have a more definitive answer. And it appears healthcare spending didn't explode as high as the BEA's advance estimate had suggested.  On Wednesday, the Commerce Department released its quarterly services survey (QSS), which provided a few important points of data. Healthcare and social assistance spending, overall, plunged 2%. Revenue for hospitals (-1.3%), medical labs (-6.4%), and outpatient care (-3.6%) all fell in the first quarter of 2014 when compared to the final three months of 2013. Even year-over-year, the increase in health spending was only 3%. If that holds throughout the year, it would continue the four-year trend of healthcare spending growing at a historically low pace. The numbers suggest healthcare spending growth will continue at a relatively slow pace. But it's likely that because healthcare spending didn't grow as much in the first quarter, GDP will be revised down even further than its already-anemic growth.  "That’s just surprisingly low," Charles Roerhig, director of the Altarum Institute’s Center for Sustainable Health Spending, told the Kaiser Family Foundation. "This confirms the skepticism that has been expressed about the acceleration" suggested in earlier data. Orszag was among the first to convey that skepticism. His argument: For spending to have exploded with healthcare employment growing at an average pace, it would mean an incredible boom in in healthcare productivity. "It would mean that somehow we're able to produce so much more health care with each worker, in a dramatic fashion, starting magically with the fourth quarter of last year," Orszag said in May. "OK, maybe? It's just not really plausible. If all of this were real, it would mean that suddenly, magically, health-care workers have become a lot more productive." On Wednesday, Orszag posted a chart on Twitter (below) showing the recent advance healthcare spending data doesn't square with the QSS data released Wednesday. He suggested it likely means healthcare spending will be revised downward. Kaiser president Larry Levitt predicted the same thing. But though health cost growth continues a relatively steady, slow pace, it likely means GDP will also be revised down from a -1% growth. Barclays and UBS both slashed their GDP projections to -2% growth, meaning the economy will have contracted. Twitter/@porszag   FREE AppDownload
That's an obvious conclusion from all the enterprise IPO activity over the past few weeks. On Thursday, MobileIron became the third enterprise tech company in a month to have a successful IPO. The company raised about $100 million, selling 11.1 million shares for $9. Investors liked the stock, which closed up 22% at $11.02. And it's still trading around $11 on Friday. MobileIron offers a product that helps enterprises manage their fleets of tablets and smartphones. MobileIron followed an even more spectacular IPO last week by computer network hardware maker Arista Networks. Arista priced shares at $43 and soared from there, popping over 40% on Day 1. This happened although the company's IPO was surrounded by controversy, including a lawsuit against it by one of its billionaire cofounders and a scandal involving offering stock to journalists. No matter. Arista was offering investors something rare these days: an already profitable company.  Then there was Zendesk, which debuted on May 15. It raised just under $100 million. Its $9 per share price popped over 40% on its first day, and now, weeks later, it's still trading up, at around the $16 mark. Zendesk offers a cloud-computing help desk/tech support service. Zendesk and MobileIron, both still in the red, priced their shares in the middle of their range, at $9 each, not the high end. Meanwhile, Arista was able to command $43, far above its original range of $36-$40. After finishing his roadshow, CEO Bob Tinker told Forbes' Alex Konrad that investors are getting pickier about enterprise stocks, these days. This is the chart that is concerning them, which shows a market down by 20% since a peak in February, according to the BVD Cloud Computing Index, which tracks 37 publicly traded companies that offer cloud-computing services to enterprises. BVD Cloud Computing Index   Tinker told Forbes,“Enterprise technology investors right now are discerning, and that’s the way it should be." Investors want to see that an enterprise company is not just growing revenues by adding customers, but is getting more revenue from each customer over time. That's because there's a massive change in how enterprises are buying technology. They're shifting away from signing huge up-front contracts. They are signing up for subscriptions instead. And that means that tech vendors will stay in the red longer, needing more time to recoup the costs of acquiring customers. If they can keep customers happy, so they don't cancel subscriptions, they are, however, supposed to make more money from each customer over time. The promise is, eventually, they'll hit the black with a boom. Investors want to grab their share as this new business model takes root. But, like Tinker said, they have learned to be more discerning. FREE AppDownload
The ultra high net worth (UHNW) population – made up of individuals with a net worth of US$30 million or more – grew to 199,235 individuals in 2013, with a combined wealth of US$27,770 billion. In other words, 0.003% of the world's population holds, in assets, the equivalent of almost 38% of the world's GDP in 2013. Wealth-X   The importance and influence of the world’s UHNW individuals is increasing across various industries – from wealth management to luxury as well as philanthropy, amongst others. While many firms, brands and non-profit organisations specifically target UHNW individuals, little research on this population had been undertaken until recently. Wealth-X – the leading provider of intelligence on the UHNW population – is filing this gap, in an effort to support organisations that engage directly with this segment of the world's population. This report highlights why this research is so relevant across industries. This is a misconception. 65% of the world’s UHNW individuals are self-made, with a further 16% having only partly inherited their wealth, before going off to make their own fortunes. In other words, only 19% of the world’s UHNW population has fully inherited its wealth.  In terms of fortunes, we also see that UHNW individuals with inherited wealth also have the lowest average net worth of US$130 million, as opposed to US$142 million for self-made UHNW individuals. Even for the world’s 2,170 billionaires, 60% have made their fortunes themselves, with a further 20% being classified as inheritance/self-made. While it is true that the finance, banking &amp; investment industry is the single largest category from which UHNW individuals have derived their wealth, it is not still far from accounting for over 50% of the UHNW population.  At the moment, 19% of the world’s UHNW population is primarily engaged in that industry – meaning the majority are not. This broad industry accounts for all categories of finance, from investment banking to hedge funds, private equity, venture capital, etc. Consequently, this is a misconception. While this certainly is the image prevalent with the technopreneur working at his/her start-up, the average age for an UHNW individual from the technology industry is 54, and many of these individuals are highly educated. In fact, the technology industry accounts for only 4.1% of the world’s wealthiest, a surprisingly small contribution given the large amount of media coverage this segment of the UHNW population receives. Although Harvard tops the ranking of the school with the most UHNW alumni, Harvard graduates only account for a small portion of the world’s UHNW population. It is also worth noting that although the universities with the largest UHNW alumni population are from the Ivy League – specifically six of the top ten global universities (by number of UHNW alumni) are Ivy Leagues – their combined UHNW alumni population is under 7,000 individuals, or 3.5% of the world’s total UHNW population.  Furthermore, over 27,000 UHNW individuals, or 13.6% of the world's total UHNW population, do not have a higher education at all. The ultra wealthy do react differently to economic cycles, with many seemingly impervious to the fluctuations in the global economy. They are “high beta,” thus their wealth tends to rise and fall more than most people’s wealth as it is tied to financial markets more than middle class individuals who have most of their wealth tied up in property.  However, it is not true that they are not affected by economic cycles. Indeed, the UHNW population declined by 20% between 2008 and 2009, and its wealth by 22% in the same period. During the crisis, the wealth of billionaires fell by more than the S&amp;P500, with a 47% fall in 2009. Nonetheless, even if their wealth falls, their consumption patterns continue to be far larger than the average individual’s. Last year, both China’s UHNW population and wealth declined, and it remains only the second biggest Asian UHNW economy, behind Japan. The United States still has three times the billionaires of China, and Wealth-X forecasts that it will take just over twenty years for Asia to overtake North America, let alone China. Last year, the fastest growing UHNW economies were: Wealth-X   There are many ways in which the UHNW give back, and traditional philanthropy is merely one of these ways. The average UHNW philanthropist donates US$25 million over his lifetime, rising up to $100m for billionaire philanthropists. However, only a third of the world’s UHNW individuals are estimated to have donated at least $1m, which is less 1% of their average net worth. Nonetheless, other types of giving back such as impact investing, microfinancing, or simply job creation are prevalent across the UHNW population. Only a small proportion of the world’s individuals have a high enough net worth to afford a 30-meter plus superyacht without overinvesting. Wealth-X estimates that only about 20% of the world’s UHNW population, or under 40,000 individuals, can afford superyachts and/or private planes. As a result, the chartering of both these luxury crafts have become more prominent, and many UHNW individuals and their families still travel on commercial airlines, albeit in first or business class. Although there are cases of extravagant living, the majority of the world's UHNW do not live ostentatious lives, but they can treat themselves to things and experiences they really want. This article originally appeared at Wealth-X.  Copyright 2014. Follow Wealth-X on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Cora DrimusIf a picture is worth a thousands words, then amateur photographer Cora Drimus' latest project speaks volumes about the history of New York City. Drimus created the video "Once Upon a Time in New York" after her visit to the city this past April. The video includes photographs taken by Drimus of present-day New York landmarks juxtaposed with historic photos of the same landmarks. Viewers are able to see how much the city has changed over the years. Drimus has created three similar videos in Romania, and currently lives in Zurich, Switzerland. FREE AppDownload
By all appearances, Apple recently tweaked its app store terms of service to provide a pathway to for Bitcoin apps to regain citizenship in its app store. The move comes about four months after Apple removed the last remaining, and one of the most successful, Bitcoin wallet app, by Blockchain, the UK-based firm that also publishes every Bitcoin transaction it has access to.  Apple never went on record to explain the move, but many assumed it came as a U.S. crackdown on actions against were heating up.  For the Bitcoin world, it was an unfortunate setback, but hardly fatal. That's because Bitcoin apps continue to thrive on Google's Android phone. There are now 48 of them, according to Google Play.  Blockchain says it plans to launch a brand new consumer wallet for Android in mid-July. Blockchain execs say it will be far more consumer friendly than previous versions.  It will also be more secure than other apps. Five years into Bitcoin's existence, many of even the most well-capitalized Bitcoin firms still lack adequate security protocols, Blockchain COO Peter Smith told BI. "They're giant pools of money," which makes them vulnerable to a MtGox-like meltdown, he said. Blockchain, on the other hand, simply installs a more user-friendly version of the core Bitcoin software onto your phone, putting users firmly in control of their funds. The company recently provided BI with some screenshots: BlockchainBlockchainBlockchain Bitcoin prices were little changed Friday, and now trade around $580. FREE AppDownload
Lululemon / Screengrab The Lululemon downgrades have begun. In a research note published this morning, JPMorgan analyst Brian Tunick downgraded shares of Lululemon to "Neutral" from "Overweight" and called the stock, "the ultimate show-me story.” Tunick wrote that he initiated coverage on the stock with an "Overweight" rating, "based on the assumption that core demand for Lulu product remained intact in spite of growing competition and execution/public relation missteps in 2013." With first quarter comparable store sales that fell 4% over last year, that demand may have dried up.  Canaccord and Baird also issued downgrades on the stock Friday. In addition to its disappointing performance, Lululemon also has another problem on its hands: founder Chip Wilson. Wilson owns 27% of the company and is the company’s largest shareholder. Following the press release he issued Wednesday in which he criticized the company’s board, Wilson has become a full-fledged activist investor. Activist investors, usually hedge fund managers or private equity firms, amass positions in companies and then agitate for change, ranging from changes on the company’s board to a sale of assets or the entire company. Wilson stepped down as the company chairman in December, but his public disparagement of the board was the kind of tactic you might expect from an investor like Carl Icahn or Bill Ackman, not the company’s founder. According to data from Bloomberg, Wilson’s net worth has declined by $1.1 billion as Lululemon stock has fallen about 38% year-to-date. Along with its first quarter results, Lululemon initiated a $450 million share repurchase plan. JPMorgan views this as a positive, saying the company’s commitment to the longer-term value in shares is a positive. But for a growth company (Lululemon's sales more than tripled from 2010 to 2014), buying back stock is uncommon decision, and could be viewed as a preemptive attempt to ward off activists. Tunick wrote that he needs, “to see greater signs of demand improvement or that the investment cycle is abating before once again getting constructive on [shares of Lululemon].” Some Wall Street analysts may have stepped away from Lululemon stock for now, but don’t be surprised if someone else picks up what at least one analyst has put down. FREE AppDownload
Warren Patterson PhotographyA Morgan Stanley managing director is selling his Massachusetts home for $18 million, making it the most expensive listing in the Boston area, according to The Wall Street Journal. The sellers, Doug Sharon and his wife Nanci, spent nearly $10 million building the home in Brookline, which sits on four acres.  In addition to four bedrooms, eight bathrooms, and a pool, amenities include six fireplaces, gym, sauna, heated floors and an integrated audio and video system. The property is listed with Deborah Gordon with Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage in New England.
Here's the bottom line people — no matter who you are, no matter what you've done, always go to work the day after a Wall Street holiday party. One caring reader was kind enough to share this teachable moment with Business Insider demonstrating the consequences of failing to do so. It was the mid-90s, and in those days Wall Street was throwing bull market parties the likes of which today's youngsters likely have not seen. This specific holiday party, thrown by New York City hedge fund, was Brazilian themed. And at this party, the hedge fund CEO's assistant was super drunk, making out with a young gentleman sales trader from a bulge bracket firm. They were really going at it, and the CEO — concerned that this relatively new assistant did not know the unwritten rule of show-up-the-next-day — took his assistant aside when she came up for air. He told her that she had to be at work the next day. Other than that, have at it. And she did. She went home with this young gentleman sales trader, but she did not go to work the next day. That's when a bunch of mischievous traders at this hedge fund decided to get creative. A trader at the fund decided to call this young gentleman trader's firm and talk to god — the head trader at this young gentleman's firm. He told god the entire story. Next thing this young gentleman knows, god is on the hoot and holler (for you kids, that's basically the global bank intercom) summoning this young gentleman to his desk. The word is that god whispered in this young gentleman's ear, and afterward, the young gentleman stood up on his chair and said something like the following: "I acted inappropriately with an employee of a very important client of this firm at a Christmas party last night. She is still at my apartment. I have to go wake her up and get her back to work." This young gentleman trader left his office and did just that. When he and the young lady appeared at her hedge fund, the entire hedge fund trading floor was waiting to greet them. The young gentleman went on to cover that hedge fund for some time. The young lady was eventually fired. Show up people, show up.  FREE AppDownload
William Koch, the billionaire brother of Tea Party darlings David and Charles, has listed his expansive Aspen ski mansion for $89.9 million, according to The Aspen Daily News (via Curbed). Koch bought the 55-acre property, formerly a hotel, in 2007 for $26.4 million. He transformed it into a stunning ski house with 15 bedrooms, a gym, and several guest houses. The home was renovated by architecture firm Rowland + Broughton, which has pictures of the interior. Compared to his politically minded brothers, William is relatively private, though he does have some interesting hobbies. A fan of the Old West, he's currently building a replica of an entire western town to house his large collection of memorabilia, and once paid more than $2 million at auction for a rare photo of Billy the Kid. Last year, Koch spent nearly $20 million on the Cape Cod estate formerly owned by the Mellon banking family. FREE AppDownload
Instagram, @purehoneymagazineLast night Business Insider got to taste three Scotch whiskys technically old enough to vote in these United States of America — the The Glenlivet 18, The Glenlivet 21, and The Glenlivet 25. It was a privilege, mostly because these whiskys are absolutely delicious, but also because they're super-expensive. It all depends on where you live, but a bottle of the 18 can cost you a bit less than $100, the 21 a little more than $150, and the 25 over $350. And it isn't just because they're old, though age makes the whiskys taste better. The wood from the barrels a Scotch (or any whisky) is aged in tends to break down the rougher flavors in the alcohol, leaving you with a smoother taste. The longer the alcohol is in there, the smoother it gets. And yes, that is lovely. But that's not the main reason older Scotch is more expensive. The Glenlivet brand ambassador Craig Bridger explained that by the time the 21-year has aged, 30% to 40% of what was in barrels is gone. This is because of "Angel's Share" — the natural evaporation of the liquid into the atmosphere over time. In other words, old Scotch whisky is expensive not because it's old, but because it's rare. A lot of what a distillery starts with doesn't make it into a bottle. Stupid, greedy angels. FREE AppDownload
Jess Cooper/flickr Elon Musk announced Thursday that Tesla would open up its patents for fair use.  Among other things, he said a company's relying on patents for revenue is a sign of weakness, and he slammed the state of patent controls in America. Hidden among the patents announcement was Musk's comments on automakers' use of fuel cells, which use the reaction from combining hydrogen with oxygen to generate electricity. "I don't think fuel cells are a viable path," he said. "Even the best theoretical fuel cell doesn't compete with batteries. It doesn't seem like the right move." This is a weighty statement to make. Confronted with rising costs and flagging sales, major automakers have been ramping up fuel cell production while winding down their battery-powered vehicles. Chrysler-Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne recently implored an audience not to buy any more of the firm's battery-powered 500e car because the company loses too much money on them. Hyundai is expanding its fuel-cell fleet. And Toyota just rolled up its contract for Tesla components.  "Personally, I don't care what Elon, [Renault-Nissan CEO] Carlos [Ghosn], or [Volkswagen CEO] Jonathan [Browning] say about fuel cells," Toyota SVP Bob Carter reportedly said at the Automotive News World Congress in January. "If they want to 'plug in and tune out' other technologies, that's fine."  On paper at least, Tesla is not the only EV holdout. Volkswagen plans to roll out an eGolf in the U.S. this fall. And Nissan is now testing its first commercial electric vehicle in Portland. Meanwhile, Musk said Tesla had met with BMW about collaborating on EVs. BMW confirmed the meeting but declined to talk about what was discussed. BMW's i3 is, in principle, a rival to Tesla's Model S. But the above examples are considered luxury vehicles. And Musk's goal is to make all EVs, not simply Tesla's, cost competitive with regular gas guzzlers. With the patents announcement, he has now acted on his frustration that the market for them has not grown fast enough. "He’d love to be the Microsoft Windows of a fast charging network," MLV &amp; Co.'s Carter Driscoll told BI.  As Reuters' Ed Taylor points out, many major automakers long ago agreed on making a standardized EV connector on their cars. But the rollout of charging station networks has stalled. Tesla's connector does not conform to the Big 3's standard (although it's possible to buy an adapter), but its station network is now more robust. Taylor speculates that Tesla likely talked with BMW about nudging, for starters, Germany's EV market closer to Tesla technology.     Tesla's first goal is to sell more vehicles. But in his patents announcement Musk also stressed the environmental urgency of choosing what he sees as the right technology before its too late. And he clearly does not see fuel cells as up to the task.  He's not alone. "Fuel-cells have a long road ahead to convince car buyers that the extended range is worth the distended price tag," the Chicago Tribune's Robert Duffer wrote recently. Duffer notes fuel-cell vehicles currently cost up to $100,000, and that Honda and GM have agreed to collaborate over the next seven years to try to bring down fuel cell costs.  Tesla, meanwhile, has been able to sit back and watch as the cost of lithium ion batteries has been continuously falling.  ILSR They could fall even faster if and when Tesla's gigafactory, which aims to double the total amount of lithium ion batteries in the world, finally launches. Right now markets for both are so small that it's difficult to find a reasonable gauge of sentiment. A report from Navigant research says that at current rates the two technologies combined will comprise less 2.5% of the market by 2035.  But for Musk, the contest has a foregone conclusion. FREE AppDownload
The Yuan climbed 0.64% against the dollar this week, the most since December 2011, writes Robert Savage at Track Research. The People's Bank of China lowered its USD/CNY fixing by 257 pips (price interest point, where one pip equals 0.0001) in the June 6-10 time period and then raised it 55 pips on June 11. This follows on better economic data out of Beijing and knowledge that "the US state department has confirmed that that the US- China Strategic and Economic Dialogue (SED) will be held in Beijing in early July," write Claudio Piron and Albert Leung at Bank of America. "This is also likely weighing on the setting of the CNY fixing in order to deflect the criticism of China being a currency manipulator." The PBoC has a daily fix against the U.S. dollar and can use that to guide the Chinese yuan (CNY) higher or lower. The currency can trade in a 2% band on either side of the daily reference rate. Back in March, headlines were focused on the band widening. Of course if China really wants to let go of its currency, it needs to relinquish control of its exchange rate. The yuan slid against the dollar at the start of 2014 as Chinese policymakers intervened to guide it lower. This was largely in a bid to curb speculation on yuan appreciation.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
60 MinutesThe quiet market has made for a rough year for investors. Particularly for some of Wall Street's hedge-fund titans, a Wall Street Journal article said today. Hedge funds specialized in macroeconomic trends have been losing money this year after investing in the wrong global markets. According to the article, these are some investors hurting:  Other firms posting losses include Woodbine Capital Advisors, Bruce Kovner's Caxton Associates, and Michael Novogratz's Fortress Investment Group. Worried investors are starting to pull funds from these macro hedge funds after seeing the damage. Some failed strategies include investing heavily in the Japanese stock market (while the Nikkei Stock Average is down 7.1% since January), and underestimating U.S. bonds.  Hopefully things will turn around when the market shifts ... whenever that is. FREE AppDownload
How the Birthday Paradox can be used to explain a remarkable concurrence of events or circumstances without apparent causal connection. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
FREE AppDownload
APEdward Koch, Malcolm Forbes and First Lady Nancy Reagan on Forbes' yacht in New York Harbor, 1981.Malcolm S. Forbes, the legendary publisher of Forbes magazine, lived large. His was a life filled with gold helicopters, Harley-Davidson motorcycles, a fleet of hot-air balloons, and glittering parties populated by hundreds of high-powered guests. But no plaything he owned was more beloved than his yacht The Highlander, the fifth and final edition of a series of identically named vessels. Here heads of state gathered alongside corporate titans and international boldface types, sipping French wines while bandleader Lester Lanin and his orchestra played snappy standards on the aft deck. The multimillion-dollar boat and its glamorous swirl of posh food and rare vintages was all about networking and cultivating influence, Forbes once said: “On a yacht like The Highlander you can establish the kind of rapport you don’t achieve talking across a desk.” Jon Bannenberg, a world­-renowned London-based boat designer, was responsible for the sleek vessel, which was topped with a helipad for Forbes’s gold­painted Bell Jet Ranger helicopter. New owners Joanne and Roberto de Guardiola have extensively renovated the boat, dropping the “the” from its name as well as lengthening Highlander to turn what was a largely business­-related craft designed to host as many as 140 guests into a family-­friendly vessel. Condè Nast Condè Nast Condè Nast Condè Nast Lisl Dennis Lisl Dennis Lisl Dennis Eventually Forbes would give her a purple-painted Harley-­Davidson Sportster (purple was one of her favorite colors and referenced her famous “violet” eyes) as well as several pieces of jewelry and an antique Fabergé picture frame. The two also traveled the world aboard The Highlander, sometimes heading up the Hudson River to see football games at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. On one trip to Thailand, the actress brought 37 pieces of Louis Vuitton luggage.   Tom Brady &amp; Gisele Bündchen's Custom Château Ralph Lauren Shows off His Many Homes Sandy Weill's Wine Country Estate The World's Most Radical Houses This article originally appeared at Architectural Digest.  Copyright 2014. Follow Architectural Digest on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Stringer / Getty Images The markets are higher despite a run of news that is less than encouraging. The Dow is up 50 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 6 points, and the Nasdaq is up 10 points.  The University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence reading for June disappointed, coming in at 81.2 below expectations for 83.0. Earlier this morning, producer prices in May unexpectedly contracted -0.2%. Expectations were for growth of 0.1% against previous growth of 0.6%. In corporate news, the biggest story of the day is online travel agency Priceline buying restaurant reservation service OpenTable for $2.6 billion, or $103 per share. Shares of OpenTable are up more than 45% following the announcement. Following the Priceline news, a number of stocks, including Yelp and Groupon, are trading higher. General Motors announced another recall, this time recalling more than 500,000 current generation Camaros due to a possible loss of power. Last night, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said the central bank could raise rates earlier than the market expected. European stocks fell following his announcement, and the British Pound rallied to about $1.69 against the dollar. Reaction to the news domestically has been muted. The situation in Iraq continues to destabilize, and crude oil prices remain elevated currently trading just below $107 a barrel. FREE AppDownload
BII The mobile in-store payments space is already crowded with a lot of different companies trying to get people to pay for goods in person via mobile.  But most consumers still aren't biting.  People just don't seem to see a compelling reason to use their mobile phone to make a payment over using a credit or debit card. But at BI Intelligence, we think that mobile peer-to-peer (P2P) payments could act as a Trojan horse and finally get consumers to replace their wallet with their smartphone.  That's because mobile P2P payment apps like Venmo and Square Cash offer consumers a compelling reason to use them. In particular, they provide a way for people to pay each other instantly, even if they don't have cash or a check on them. That removes the need to go to an ATM or take a trip to the bank to deposit a check.  BI Intelligence believes that once people adopt the behavior of paying their friends and family with their smartphone, the barrier to in-store mobile payments will be a lot less significant. In a new report, we look at examples of where mobile P2P payments have already enjoyed enormous success, and which of the handful of  P2P apps have the potential to catch on with consumers. We also look at why the limited revenue available to P2P apps is another good reason these companies may eventually offer mobile in-store payments. To access the full report and all our coverage of the payments industry, sign up. Here are some of the report's key findings:  In full, the report:  BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider. We cover the payments, mobile, digital media, and e-commerce industries. For full access to all our charts and analysis, sign up.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerBurning vehicles belonging to Iraqi security forces are seen during clashes between Iraqi security forces and al Qaeda-linked Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in the northern Iraq city of Mosul, June 10, 2014.The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) and Iran aren't the only players trying to bite off a piece of the Arab League's fourth most populous country this week. Yesterday, Kurdish fighters took over Kirkuk and looted Iraqi army bases in the city.  The sometimes-disputed northern city is a center of Iraq's oil industry and isn't far from one of the country's three functioning oil refineries. In a symbol of Iraq's flagging viability as a coherent national entity, Kurdish militants removed the Iraqi flag from public spaces and replaced it with Kurdish ones: #Peshmerga are seen removing the Iraqi flag in #Kirkuk and replacing them with the Kurdish. pic.twitter.com/LfI3xKrqzi The area under the control of Iraq's autonomous Kurdish Regional Government (KRG) has been one of the more stable and prosperous places in the Middle East in the decade after the U.S. invasion of the country. Oil revenues, surprisingly strong relations with Turkey, a battle-hardened and highly motivated Kurdish military, the relative absence of sectarianism, and a history of local self-governance and stability have made the KRG the one part of Iraq that seems to be working. So the Kurdish takeover of Kirkuk could be construed as a positive development, at least in the short-run. As this map demonstrates, the city is a major transit-point for oil from Iraq's north and is the origin of the region's one remaining pipeline that doesn't cross into ISIS-held territory: Platts map shows #Iraq's #oil and gas pipelines around Iraqi's oil hub of Kirkuk: http://t.co/RcTz49XL99 pic.twitter.com/AFefCwVUr7 But this is also the second time this week that sectarian or ethnic fighters have triumphed over Iraq's uniformed military. The country barely seems viable as a growing concern. Yesterday, journalist and former Iraq war reporter Michael Totten raised the possibility that "In the future we might see the events of the last few days as the beginning of the end of Iraq as a state."   FREE AppDownload
Getty Images The University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence reading for June came in at 81.2. Expectations were for 83.0.  May consumer confidence was reported at 81.9, down from April's 84.1 print.  Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "In one line: Trending sideways. Spending data are more important than sentiment." FREE AppDownload
The Wall Street summer analysts have arrived, and chances are some of them are going to screw up during their internship. It happens every year. We've been asking vets on the Street to share some of their first experiences (or screw-ups) working in finance.  One senior-level financier, who will remain anonymous, shared a story with us about his worst experience as a young trader — the time his colleagues took revenge on him for calling in with a "stomach bug" following a night of tequila shots. Let's just say his colleagues got him back.  Here's his story. Don't let this happen to you.  Early in my Wall Street career I had my blessing of fire with Tequila at a firm sponsored party.  I thought I was the life of the party, apparently most thought otherwise.  Sunup came rather quickly the next morning and I was in no shape to commute let alone perform to expected standards.  I opted out of work that morning with a stomach bug that fooled no one. The first realtors showed up at my house around 10 that morning walking around the outside of my house taking pictures and measurements.  When questioned they said they had been contacted by the owners wife that I was being transferred to Chicago and we were interested in in a quick sale.  They left rather annoyed after being told it must be some mistake. Different realtors showed up every half hour until 1 pm.  Same story and same annoyance when told to go away. Then the pizzas started coming—four different deliveries until about 3 pm.  I had the cash to cover the first two but stopped answering the door for fear it would never end. Calling the office begging for mercy was a big mistake; it only added fuel to the fire.  Hearing the laughter on the other side of the phone made me sicker than I already was. When the first florist arrived wishing me Happy Anniversary I had had about enough, but then the roses came with birthday wishes for my wife followed by a nice dining room centerpiece. Four o’clock couldn’t come quick enough, market closed, fun over, right?  One would think. The flatbed tow truck backing up my driveway to take my car was the toughest to talk my way out of.  This rather large burly man was in no mood to be part of a joke so I swore that it had to be some neighbor with some sort of grudge.  He was not a happy man. I was the first one in the office the next morning, and I never, ever took a hangover day again for the rest of my career.  **If you have a funny/memorable first experience on Wall Street you'd like to share, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We'll be discreet.  FREE AppDownload
Brent oil futures briefly began approaching $115 this morning, the highest level in nine months, as fears that Iraq is disintegrating spooked markets. Crude is now up about 4% on the week. When prices stay at this level for this long, U.S. gas prices start creeping up.  But what about all the oil the U.S. has been producing the last few years? Shouldn't we be insulated from whatever oil is doing? Unfortunately, the answer is no. Gasoline prices are set on the global market, and refiners everywhere ship product to wherever they can get the best quote. So for better or worse, raw gasoline prices mostly move in lockstep around the world. The primary contract for gasoline is called RBOB.  But that doesn't mean there's been no impact from the shale boom. The net amount of crude the U.S. has added to global markets has resulted in one of the longest periods of oil price stability in years, and has helped push the broader trend down. This, along with subdued demand, is why U.S. gas prices have enjoyed low volatility in the last few years, averaging just $3.54 a gallon since 2011, according to FRED. FRED Here's another view, from Reuters' John Kemp, showing the Herfindahl index, a measure of the concentration of a given unit, and thus its sensitivity to price shocks. The curve has been going up in recent years thanks to U.S. shale boom and outages in the Middle East in places like Libya. When you remove the U.S. from the equation, the concentration — or sensitivity — gets even more severe: John Kemp In other words, as bad as this price surge is now, if it weren't for the shale boom, it would be a lot worse.  FREE AppDownload
Alex Davies / Business InsiderGeneral Motors is recalling more cars. The company announced this morning that it is recalling all current generation Chevrolet Camaros because of a possible loss of power. The total recall population is more than 500,000 vehicles. The company also announced two additional safety recalls and one non-compliance recall involving more than 65,000 cars.  GM shares were down 0.5% Friday morning pre-market. Here's the company's full statement: DETROIT – General Motors will recall all current generation Chevrolet Camaros because a driver’s knee can bump the key FOB and cause the key to inadvertently move out of the “run” position, with a corresponding reduction or loss of power.  The issue, which may primarily affect drivers sitting close to the steering column, was discovered by GM during internal testing following the ignition switch recall earlier this year. “Discovering and acting on this issue quickly is an example of the new norm for product safety at GM,” said Jeff Boyer, vice president of GM Global Safety.  The Camaro ignition system meets all GM engineering specifications and is unrelated to the ignition system used in Chevrolet Cobalts and other small cars included in the ignition switch recall. GM is aware of three crashes that resulted in four minor injuries that it believes may be attributed to this condition. The company will change the Camaro key to a standard design from one in which the key is concealed in the FOB and is opened by pushing a button. The change will make the ignition key and FOB independent of each other, so that inadvertent contact with the FOB won’t move the key from the “run” position.  There are 464,712 Camaros from the 2010-2014 model years in the U.S. included in the recall. Including Canada, Mexico and exports, the total recall population is 511,528. Separately, GM also announced two safety recalls and one non-compliance recall involving a total of 65,121 cars in the U.S. all three of which were reported to the NHTSA on Wednesday, June 11, 2014. Including Canada, Mexico and exports, the total recall population is 69,839. In all cases, customers will receive letters from GM letting them know when they can bring their vehicles into a dealership, where the recall repairs will be performed free of charge and courtesy transportation would be provided as needed. The recalls: 28,789 Saab 9-3 convertibles from the 2004-2011 model years for an automatic tensioning system cable in the driver’s side front seat belt retractor that could break. If the cable were to break, seat belt webbing spooled out by the driver would not retract. The convertibles and sedans were investigated at the same time, but the convertible parts were not identical to the sedan parts. GM has since learned of customer complaints to the NHTSA for the convertibles. Dealers will replace the driver’s side retractor in the recalled vehicles. In addition, GM has issued a special coverage, so that if the same repair is required to the passenger side retractor it will be covered for the life of the vehicle. GM also extended the special coverage for passenger side belt retractors on the 2004 Saab 9-3 sedan from the original 10-year coverage to the life of the vehicle, like the convertibles. GM is unaware of any crashes, injuries or fatalities due to this condition.' 21,567 Chevrolet Sonic 2012 model year compacts equipped with a six-speed automatic transmission and a 1.8-liter four-cylinder engine for a condition in which the transmission turbine shaft may fracture as a result of a supplier quality issue. If this were to occur in first or second gear, the vehicle could not upshift into third through sixth gears. If the turbine shift fractured while in one of the higher gears, the vehicle would coast until it was moving slow enough to downshift into first or second gear. In both instances, a malfunction indicator lamp may illuminate. If driven in this condition for a long period of time, all forward gears may become inoperable. The engine would continue to run and all power accessories would function. Dealers will replace the transmission turbine shaft. GM is unaware of any crashes, injuries or fatalities related to this condition. 14,765 model year 2014 Buick LaCrosse sedans because a wiring splice in the driver’s door may corrode and break. That may communicate incorrect information to circuits that control the door chime and allow passenger windows, rear windows and the sunroof to function when the vehicle is turned off and the driver is not in the vehicle.  In addition, a chime will not sound when the driver’s door is opened if the key is in the ignition. Dealers will inspect the driver door window motor harness and, if necessary, replace an electrical splice. GM is unaware of any thefts, crashes, injuries or fatalities related to this condition. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim Wimborne CEO Michael SmithA decision to axe the equity derivative business at ANZ, one of Australia's biggest banks, was partially reversed after pressure from some of the bank’s private clients. Last month ANZ said it planned to axe its equity derivatives trading globally within six months, and that sales of equity derivatives to private clients would be wound down. However, the bank has now decided to keep its equity derivatives team in place. It is understood there were complaints from customers about the decision, and it was also taken just before one of the busiest times of the year — with the end of the financial year on June 30. “A decision was made to retain a small group of employees to assist private bank customers with equity products,” a spokesperson for the bank said in an emailed statement. “The decision was made following further consultation between our International &amp; Institutional Banking and Global Wealth business and feedback that this was an important offering for Private Wealth customers,” the spokesperson said. It is understood the issue went all the way to the office of chief executive Mike Smith. ANZ declined to comment on this. Equity derivatives were, and remain a niche business for ANZ, and it is understood only a handful of employees were affected by the original decision to shutter the Australia-based equity derivatives business. ANZ is going through a period of change as the bank tries to position itself for growth in services to Asia. It also recently let go of some economists, including Ivan Colhoun, the chief economist for Australia. ANZ is not the only large bank to move away from derivatives. Macquarie Group also closed some of its institutional derivative businesses in the United States, Britain, Asia and South Africa in 2013, and retail derivatives in Germany. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
We've been talking a lot about the potential for wage growth in the economy lately for a couple reasons. One is that there's mounting evidence that wage growth is coming. The labor market is getting tighter, and various leading indicators of wage growth are pointing higher. The reason it's important is that wage growth is the one thing that could get markets nervous about a rate hike. Anyway, the latest evidence of a tightening labor market comes from the temp industry. From AP (via Dan Baffoe): Though many temp workers would like full-time jobs with benefits, at least their pay is climbing. Robert Half International, a staffing firm, says higher pay for its temps forced it to raise the rates it charges employers by 2.6 percent in the first quarter, a point higher than its increase late last year. When a temp firm is forced to increase the rate it charges clients, it's hard to interpret this as anything other than a dwindling pool of surplus labor. On that note, chart sent out this morning by Torsten Slok tells the same story, but from a different manner. The chart shows the number of unemployed and people who aren't in the labor force but want a job relative to the number of jobs available. As you can see, we're getting very close to the precrisis average. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Matt Molina / FlickrIts a busy day for mergers and acquisitions. Last night, Sycamore partners disclosed a 9.9% stake in Express, and said it is performing due diligence for a bid to acquire all the remaining shares of Express it does not already own. In pre-market trade, shares of Express are up more than 25%.  In a press release, Express confirmed receipt of Sycamore's letter to the board, and adopted a "poison pill" provision which prevents any shareholder from acquiring more than 10% of the company.  Before Sycamore announced their intentions, shares of Express had been down more than 25% year-to-date.  On May 29, Express reported first quarter sales that fell 10% against the prior year, and said that its second quarter results would disappoint. This deal will be upstaged by the huge deal for Priceline to acquire OpenTable for $2.6 billion, but its been a busy day of M&amp;A activity to close the week.  FREE AppDownload
Jeff Kubina / FlickrGambling equipment maker Amaya Gaming Group Inc. (CVE:AYA) will pay $4.9 billion in cash to buy the world's largest poker business and owner of the PokerStars and Full Tilt Poker brands, to create the world's largest online gambling company. To help finance Amaya's deal to buy privately held Oldford Group Ltd., parent of Rational Group Ltd., said late Thursday it has arranged financing from a unit of the Blackstone Group LP (NYSE:BX). Amaya also will issue common shares and preferred shares to help pay for the acquisition. Rational Group is the world's largest poker business and the owner of the PokerStars and Full Tilt Poker brands, Amaya said. FREE AppDownload
Carmen ShieldsProducer prices contracted -0.2% in May. Expectations were for growth 0f 0.1%, against 0.6% prior. Ex- food and energy, prices contracted -0.1%. Producer prices climbed 2% year-over-year.  Capital Economics says the underlying trend remains upward. "Roughly half of the fall was due to a 0.2% m/m drop in food prices and a 0.2% m/m decline in energy prices," the firm said. "Prices of other items fell by 0.1% m/m. This was mainly because of a 0.5% m/m decline in the margins of wholesalers and retailers. These profit margins are very volatile from one month to the next and, after rising by 1.4% m/m in both March and April, a decline always seemed likely in May. The bigger point, though, is that the trend remains up. In the three months to May, these margins rose at an annualised rate of 9.3%." FREE AppDownload
Atif Mian and Amir Sufi at House of Debt post what is one of the more depressing carts we've seen in awhile: They posit that the one thing that really fuels spending in the US is subprime lending. When subprime mortgage lending was all the rage, spending on home-related times boomed. Now that subprime auto lending is a thing, car sales are going crazy, while spending on housing-related goods remains rather muted. The implication is that the marginal driver of spending is the mass of consumers for whom the only real source of buying power is credit, rather than, say, employment or wage growth. House Of Debt FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIran's national flags are seen on a square in TehranWASHINGTON (Reuters) - At first glance, Iran appears to have exported more oil than allowed under a nuclear agreement with major powers, but rather than complaining, U.S. officials argue Tehran is skating just inside the deal's ambiguous limits. Iran's higher exports reflect its exploitation of a loophole in U.S. law that allows its customers to buy condensates, a very light oil, without fear of U.S. sanctions. Rising gifts of crude oil to Syria are not covered by the deal. The major powers and Iran resume talks in Vienna on Monday aimed at reaching a comprehensive deal by July 20 for Iran to curtail its nuclear program in exchange for the easing of economic sanctions that have crippled its economy. With officials on all sides saying it will be hard to strike a final deal in the next five weeks, critics argue that whether Iran and its customers are respecting the terms of the current, interim deal is vital to deciding whether to extend the talks and whether a wider deal will ever stick. Estimates from the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) show that from the start of the interim agreement on Jan. 20 through though April 30, Iran shipped an average of about 1.33 million barrels per day of oil. The White House in November said the deal capped Iran's crude oil sales at an average of "approximately' one million barrels a day of crude over the six months of the deal, which expires July 20 but can be extended for up to six months. The U.S. case that Iran is respecting the agreement rests on three factors: the intricate language of the deal and of U.S. law; what counts as "sales"; and what counts as crude oil. The crux of the U.S. argument is that condensates, a premium-price form of very light oil found at natural gas fields and mostly used to make plastics, do not count as crude oil; that Iranian gifts of oil to Syria are not "sales" and so also do not count; and that Iran is allowed to sell between 1 million and 1.1 million bpd under the deal, a range slightly above the White House's public estimate. A Reuters review of the Nov. 24 nuclear agreement known as the Joint Plan of Action (JPOA), related documents and U.S. law supports the officials' position. It also found the drafters of the underlying law did not intend to exclude condensates. Some critics concede the administration's point on the letter of the law. Mark Dubowitz, executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, acknowledges the administration's reading of the rules allows Iran to give crude to Syria without affecting the sales total. But the interpretation is "the triumph of bureaucratic legalese over strategic common sense," he said. "This undermines their credibility with Congress and doesn't bode well for the strict enforcement of the terms of any final nuclear agreement," said Dubowitz, an advocate for tough sanctions on Iran, who believes Washington underestimated the amount of sanctions relief that Tehran obtained under the interim deal. Robert Einhorn, a former State Department non proliferation official who has been a member of U.S. delegations to talks with Iran, responded that gifts of oil to Syria were not covered by the deal and did not help Iran's economy. Such transfers began before the nuclear agreement, in any case. "The purpose of the crude oil sanctions was to reduce Iran’s oil revenues and if Syria is not paying for its acquisitions of Iranian crude, then obviously Iran is not increasing its oil revenues through these transfers," said Einhorn, now at the Brookings Institution think tank in Washington. How much crude oil Iran is allowed to sell in some ways is in the eye of the beholder. The agreement, worked out between Iran, Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States, was designed to give Iran and the other states time to try to negotiate a comprehensive deal. The interim agreement lays out steps each side will take over the six months to July 20 but does not impose a specific, numerical oil sales quota on Iran. Rather, it says the West would: "pause efforts to further reduce Iran's crude oil sales, enabling Iran's current customers to purchase their current average amounts of crude oil." In a fact sheet issued the same day, the White House said "Iran will be held to approximately 1 million bpd in sales." The U.S. officials said they settled on a 1 million to 1.1 million bpd range as the limit because Iranian exports rose slightly between Nov. 24, when the JPOA was agreed, and Jan. 20, when the deal went into effect. They also said oil sales are intrinsically variable, with events like the Chinese New Year causing swings from one month to the next. "That’s why we used current level" in the JPOA, said one U.S. official. "It was supposed to give us some flexibility." Iran's sales could drop toward the end of the six-month period, lowering the average, officials noted. Critics say the State Department should be more forthcoming about how much petroleum Iran is selling in order to measure how the sanctions are hitting the Islamic Republic’s economy. "We can't even be transparent about the elementary numbers of the most important sanction of the most important foreign policy crisis in the world today," said Bob McNally, a White House adviser on energy to former President George W. Bush. "The State Department is playing a game of hide the cookie here," he added. The IEA data show that from Jan. 20 through though April 30, Iran exported an average of about 1.19 million bpd, and an additional 137,200 bpd of condensates. Syria's share of this amounted to about 120,000 barrels per day, according to a "guesstimate" provided by U.S. officials, who said that Syria did not pay for this oil. That estimate, and whether Syria had paid for the crude oil, could not be independently verified. Stripping out the Syrian imports from the 1.19 million bpd IEA total, the U.S. officials said, means that Iran's actual, paid-for exports amount to roughly 1.075 million bpd, under the ceiling they believe is permitted under the deal. Iran has never publicly accepted any limitations on its oil exports. On the contrary, it has consistently called all restrictions on its trade illegal and unjustified.    Allowing condensate sales to be counted independently from crude is an unintended loophole, U.S. officials conceded. The U.S. law underlying the Nov. 24 agreement, Section 1245 of the fiscal 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, threatens foreign banks with being cut off from the U.S. financial system if they buy or sell Iranian "petroleum or petroleum products." However, the law provides an exception to countries that have "significantly reduced" imports of Iranian crude oil. Once granted an exception, they may buy those reduced amounts of Iranian crude and, in a quirk of the law, can buy as much other kinds of petroleum, including condensates, as they wish. People familiar with the law's drafting said they assumed it would treat condensates as oil. Then the U.S. Treasury Department issued an interpretation of the law which made clear condensates were not covered, surprising congressional aides. There have since been efforts to close what appears to have been an inadvertent loophole, though no law has yet done so. While administration officials and congressional aides said they were not happy that Iran has been able to increase its sales of condensates, they said it was not of a magnitude to provide Iran significant benefit. "Am I concerned about the growth in condensates? Yes. But, at the end of the day, the growth that we are seeing in the condensates, which is a valuable product, is not significant enough to make an economic difference," said a U.S. official. (Additional reporting by Louis Charbonneau, editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
An iPhone is a much larger expense in some countries other than the U.S. Here we break down how many hours it would take factory workers in 11 countries around the world to work in order to afford an iPhone 5S.   Produced by Sara Silverstein and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
GrouponHK on FacebookShares of Groupon  and Yelp are both higher in pre-market trade after Priceline struck a deal to acquire OpenTable for $2.6 billion, or $103 per share.  Groupon shares are up about 5% while shares of Yelp are up 9%. Online food ordering service GrubHub is also up 8.5% in pre-market trade. Shares of OpenTable are currently halted for trade, but trading in the shares is expected to resume at 8:30 am ET. Groupon, the marketplace for retailers to offer discounts and coupons, and Yelp, the online review service, are OpenTable peers in the online consumer services space.  eBay, which owns the online payment service PayPal, is also higher, up about 0.7%, following the deal. Its an interesting deal for Priceline, which is an online travel agency. Following the deal, CNBC's Julia Boorstin noted that TripAdvisor, Priceline's peer in the online travel agency space, last month bought a French restaurant booking service lafourchette. More to come ... FREE AppDownload
wwarby / Flickr Stock futures are a bit lower, taking their lead from Europe, after the Bank of England's Mark Carney last night warned the central bank could raise interest rates sooner than expected. Dow futures are down 14 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are down 2 points, and Nasdaq futures are unchanged.  In Europe, England's FTSE is down 1.2%, Germany's DAX is down 1%, and stocks in Paris are down 0.9%.  The British Pound is at about $1.695 against the dollar after surging last night following Carney's comments.  On the economic front, the producer price index report is expected for 8:30 am. At 9:55 am, we get the University of Michigan/Reuters consumer sentiment reading. In corporate news, Priceline is buying OpenTable for $2.6 billion, or $103 per share. FREE AppDownload
APPriceline CEO Darren HustonPriceline is acquiring OpenTable for $2.6 billion. Priceline offered $103 per share for OpenTable. OpenTable closed at $70.43 yesterday, making it a 46% premium.  Priceline does hotel and flight reservations. OpenTable does restaurant reservations. So, there are some similarities between the companies.  The CEO of Priceline, Darren Huston, tells the Wall Street Journal, "The kind of work that we do day-to-day is very similar. It's just a different marketplace." The snap reaction to the deal is that Priceline is buying growth with OpenTable.  Here's the official press release on the deal: NORWALK, Conn. and SAN FRANCISCO, June 13, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- The Priceline Group Inc. (PCLN) and OpenTable, Inc. (OPEN) today announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement whereby The Priceline Group will acquire OpenTable for $103 per share in an all cash transaction valued at $2.6 billion. "OpenTable is a great match for The Priceline Group.  They provide us with a natural extension into restaurant marketing services and a wonderful and highly-valued booking experience for our global customers," said Darren Huston, President &amp; CEO of The Priceline Group.  "We look forward to helping the OpenTable team accelerate their global expansion, increase the value offered to their restaurant partners, and enhance the end-to-end experience for our collective customers across desktop and mobile devices." With more than 15 million diners seated per month across more than 31,000 restaurants, OpenTable is the world's leading provider of online restaurant reservations.  OpenTable has seated more than 125 million diners worldwide through its mobile solutions, which were introduced in 2008.  OpenTable's brand is built on helping diners discover and book the perfect table and helping restaurants connect directly with their customers.  The Priceline Group is the world's leading accommodation booking platform.  Every night, an average of more than 1 million guests stay in accommodations booked through one of The Priceline Group brands in over 480,000 properties in over 200 countries and territories worldwide. "The Priceline Group is a leader in e-commerce innovation with global expertise in online marketing and digital customer conversion across devices, and they have an exceptional track record of customer service in dozens of languages around the world," said Matt Roberts, CEO of OpenTable. "We couldn't be more excited to join a group of brands leading in their space, and we look forward to the next chapter of our own journey as we continue to enhance the dining experience for our customers worldwide." The Boards of Directors of The Priceline Group and OpenTable have unanimously approved the transaction, which will be effected through a tender offer and is expected to close in the 3rdquarter of 2014, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory clearance. OpenTable will continue to be headquartered in San Francisco, CA and will operate as an independent business led by its current management team within The Priceline Group. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiPope Francis presides over the Holy Mass for the Assumption of Mary from the papal summer residence in Castelgandolfo south of Rome, August 15, 2013.Pope Francis launched a sweeping attack on the world's economic system in an interview released Friday, saying it discards the young, puts money ahead of people and survives on the profits of war. The 77-year-old leader of the world's 1.2 billion Roman Catholics said some countries had a youth unemployment rate of more than 50 percent, with many millions in Europe seeking work in vain. "It's madness," the pope said in an interview with the Barcelona-based Vanguardia daily's Vatican correspondent Henrique Cymerman. "We discard a whole generation to maintain an economic system that no longer endures, a system that to survive has to make war, as the big empires have always done," Francis said. "But since we cannot wage the Third World War, we make regional wars. And what does that mean? That we make and sell arms. And with that the balance sheets of the idolatrous economies -- the big world economies that sacrifice man at the feet of the idol of money -- are obviously cleaned up." The pope said there was enough food to feed all the world's hungry. "When you see photographs of malnourished children you put your head in your hands, you cannot understand it," Francis said. "I think we are in a global economic system that is not good," he said. People's needs should be at the heart of the economic system, the pope said. "But we have placed money in the centre, the god of money. We have fallen into the sin of idolatry, the idolatry of money. The economy moves by the desire to have more and paradoxically it feeds a disposable culture." screensnhot/"Dogma" The pontiff said the young were discarded when "the birth rate is limited" and the old were discarded when they no longer were considered productive. "By discarding children and the old, we discard the future of a people because the young will pull us strongly forward and the old will give us wisdom," he said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiFigures for the table soccer game "Tipp Kick" are pictured at the manufacturing site of Edwin Mieg Ohg in Villingen-Schwenningen, near Freiburg, June 12, 2014.  Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Iraq Is Splintering. Sunni insurgents continue to seize towns across Iraq, "splintering the country into hostile fiefs," the New York Times reports. In response, Western-friendly Kurds seized the key oil city of Kirkuk. There remain unconfirmed reports Iran has sent in Revolutionary Guard troops to defend Iraq's Shia government. Brent crude prices already surged 3% yesterday, and early this morning briefly hit close to $115, a nine-month high. They've since come down a bit.  BOE Rate Hike. Bank of England Chair Mark Carney said in a speech yesterday a rate increase "could happen sooner than markets currently expect." "Growth has been much stronger and unemployment has fallen much faster than either we or anyone else expected," he said. The pound climbed 0.2% against the dollar. Fed Follows Suit? In a note to clients, Citi's Steven Englander said there's a decent chance Carney's comments get picked up and recapitulated by the Fed. "[It is] possible that the shift in the BoE stance may also be affecting how investors are viewing the likely evolution of Fed monetary policy. The worry may be that just as UK forward guidance proved to be less guiding than investors had earlier thought, the Fed may turn around, and use the same language as Governor Carney in shifting the timing of policy moves." Treasuries. The treasury market yield curve approached its flattest level in five years as investors took this subtle shift toward hawkishness, Bloomberg said. The difference between five- and 30-year yields fell toward the narrowest since 2009 as the yield on the five-year note ticked up a basis point, while they fell on the 30-year note on continued signs of unevenness in the recovery.    China Stabilizing. May industrial production and retail sales both climbed, 10 and 60 basis points respectively. Intel Surges. Intel shares are up more than 5% this morning after the chip developer lifted its sales outlook on business PC demand.  Hedge Funds Miss Rally. The Wall Street Journal reports major hedge funds are down 5% this year, as bets on volatility soured in one of the most complacent market stretches in years.  Eurobond Sales...Where? As the European Central Bank takes unprecedented measures to ease monetary policy, the cost of borrowing in Euros has sunk, as has the price of swapping euro proceeds into other currencies. So places like Indonesia, South Korea and Brazil are now all starting to issue bonds in Euros, the FT says.  Data. At 8:30 we get produce prices. Expectations are for a gain of 0.1%. And just before 10 a.m. we get UMich/Reuters consumer sentiment. Consensus is for a reading of 83.  Markets. Iraq instability sent European stocks lower. Asian indices held on. U.S. futures were lower.  FREE AppDownload
Space Expedition CorpMore than 300 Chinese space enthusiasts have booked tickets costing nearly $100,000 for a five minute trip to outer space, official media reported Friday. The 305 buyers snapped up tickets for a trip with Dutch firm Space Expedition Corp (SXC) when they went on sale on Taobao, an online retail website, the state-run China Daily reported. The trips will take place in a two-man craft that remains in space for five to six minutes, giving the tourist a rarely seen view and the experience of weightlessness, the report said. The tickets were sold for 599,999 yuan ($96,000) it said, adding that four entrepreneurs from the southwestern city of Chengdu and two from the commercial hub of Shanghai were among those who signed up. The Taobao page selling the tickets was only available on June 12th, a spokesman for the website told AFP. A screenshot seen by AFP showed that transactions had been made. No date for the trip was given. Despite a flurry of interest in space tourism in recent years, no private firms have yet been able to launch regular trips. Participants -- who must weigh no more than 125 kilograms (275 pounds) -- are required to receive flight simulation and weightlessness training before their trip. China has its own military-run space programme, which in the last decades has sent astronauts into orbit and landed a rover on the moon, but so far has no commercial space firms. Ticket broker Zhang Yong told the China Daily: "It is exciting that Chinese can enjoy space travel with a click of a mouse. Hopefully it will usher in a new chapter for Chinese to explore outer space." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe holds a news conference at the end of the G7 summit at the European Council headquarters in BrusselsTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe unveiled a plan on Friday to cut the corporate tax rate below 30 percent in stages over a few years from the next fiscal year to help pull the economy out of two decades of sluggish growth and deflation. Investors have been scrutinising whether Japan can substantially lower the corporate tax rate - among the highest in the world - to spur growth in the world's third-largest economy. Abe also needs to strike a delicate balance between stimulating growth and reining in snowballing public debt, twice the size of its $5 trillion economy. The corporate tax cut is seen as a major issue to be included in the government's key fiscal and economic policy outline, which will be finalised around June 27 along with a detailed "growth strategy" of structural reforms. "Japan's corporate tax rate will change into one that promotes (economic) growth," Abe told reporters, adding that he hoped the lower burden on companies would lead to job creation and an improvement also for private citizens. He also said the government would make sure that alternative revenue sources are secured to offset a decline in corporate tax revenue, but did not elaborate. The government said later on Friday, in its draft economic and fiscal policy outline, it would decide on a concrete plan by the year's end to secure a "permanent revenue source" needed for corporate tax cuts, such as by broadening the tax base. An alternative revenue source must be secured permanently so that Japan can achieve its aim of bringing its primary budget balance - excluding new bond sales and debt servicing - into the black in the fiscal year to March 2021, it said in the draft. The government reiterated it would decide by the year-end whether to go ahead with its plan to raise the sales tax to 10 percent in October 2015. The national sales tax rose to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1 in a bid to fix the public debt.   ALTERNATIVE REVENUES Japan's corporate tax rate is nearly 36 percent for large companies operating in Tokyo, among the highest in the industrialised world. Private-sector members of the government's top economic and fiscal council have proposed cutting the rate to 25 percent eventually to put it in line with international standards. The finance ministry and ruling party tax panel counter that any revenue lost in the tax rate cut should be offset by bringing in alternative fixed revenues, rather than counting on any increase in tax revenue brought by higher economic growth. Each percentage point of tax cuts would reduce government revenue by about 470 billion yen ($4.61 billion) a year, according to the finance ministry. At the same time, only 30 percent of all Japanese firms pay corporate income tax, so fiscal hawks want many more brought onto the tax rolls to offset a cut in the tax rate. Most loss-making firms in Japan are exempted from paying corporate tax and companies can defer losses over several years, making it easier for them to avoid paying taxes.     (Additional reporting by Yuko Yoshikawa; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim and Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/DellIncNegotiation is the key to getting what you want, whether in the boardroom or anywhere else. Luckily there's a science to it, as established by countless psychological studies. BI Contributor Eric Barker, who blogs Barking Up The Wrong Tree, has compiled the best scientific insights. From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. An article in the latest edition of Current Directions in Psychological Science reviews studies on the best starting points to increase the final price in either negotiations or auctions. In general, start high in negotiations, start low in auctions. It turns out that negotiations, where several parties are invited to discuss a price, and auctions, where people can include themselves by jumping in when they want, are quite different psychologically. The article, by business psychologist Adam Gilinsky and colleagues, notes that starting prices are a form of 'anchor' - a piece of information which is known to affect subsequent decisions. As the authors note, anchoring has a powerful influence on our reasoning: An anchor is a numeric value that influences subsequent numeric estimates and outcomes. When people make judgments, their final estimates are often assimilated to&mdash;that is, become more similar to&mdash;the initial anchor value (Tversky &amp; Kahneman, 1974). For example, in one of the best-known anchoring studies (Tversky &amp; Kahneman, 1974), participants were exposed to an arbitrary number between 0 and 100 from the spin of a roulette wheel and then asked to estimate the percentage of African nations in the United Nations: Participants whose roulette wheel landed on a relatively high number gave higher absolute estimates than did participants whose wheel landed on a lower number. Even outside of trivia questions, few psychological phenomena are as robust as the anchoring effect; it influences public policy assessments, judicial verdicts, economic transactions, and a variety of psychological phenomena. The evidence suggests that in negotiations, a high starting price most often leads to a high final price, as the anchoring effect seems to work in a relatively undiluted way (with the caveat that completely ridiculous starting prices could prevent any deal being reached). There's an interesting aside in the article, mentioning that you can protect yourself from high anchor points from other people by focusing on your own ideal price or your opponents weaknesses, as found by a 2001 study, or by considering why the suggested price might be inaccurate, as found by another study published in the same year. It also turns out that, contrary to conventional wisdom, making the first offer is also a good strategy: Many negotiation books recommend waiting for the other side to offer first. However, existing empirical research contradicts this conventional wisdom: The final outcome in single and multi-issue negotiations, both in the United States and Thailand, often depends on whether the buyer or the seller makes the first offer. Indeed, the final price tends to be higher when a seller (who wants a higher price and thus sets a high first offer) makes the first offer than when the buyer (who offers a low first offer to achieve a low final price) goes first. In contrast, for auctions, starting with a low price is generally more likely to lead to a higher final price. The researchers note this is likely due to three factors: price rise in auctions seems to be driven by social competition and so starting with a low entry point encourages more people to join in; once someone has bid, they have made a commitment which is likely to encourage them to continue; and finally, more bids leads us to infer that the item has a higher value. It's not a huge article so is worth reading in full if you're interested in economic reasoning. Luckily, the full text is available as a pdf pre-print if you don't have access to the journal. From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Emotion displays do not only signal emotions but also have social signal value. A study was conducted to test the hypothesis that expressing anger when complaining may lead to positive outcomes for the complainant because anger signals goal obstruction and hence the presence of real harm. The results suggest that the social signal value of anger enhances the credibility of the complainant and hence leads to better compensation, but only when the complaint itself presents room for doubt. For highly justified complaints the additional expression of anger does not add information and is discounted. In contrast, showing an affiliative-smiling demeanor was found to enhance credibility for both types of complaints. Overall, the present research confirmed the important role of emotion expressions as social signals. Copyright &copy; 2008 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. Source: "When scowling may be a good thing: The influence of anger expressions on credibility" European Journal of Social Psychology Volume 39 Issue 4, Pages 631 - 638 &nbsp;Ever since studying negotiating in school I've been fascinated with it. I've posted about the subject a few times in the past: Here are the seven most powerful persuasion techniques, how to use the good cop/bad cop technique, a great method for getting a deal on a car, the optimal starting price for negotiations and auctions, and how to easily make more money on eBay. Getting to Yes&nbsp;is a book that can teach you to be a good negotiator while still being a nice person. If you're less Jedi and more Sith, check out Jim Camp. From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. When consumers talk to each other about products, they generally respond more favorably to abstract language than concrete descriptions, according to a new study in the Journal of Consumer Research. "In a series of experiments, we explored when and why consumers use abstract language in word-of-mouth messages, and how these differences in language use affect the receiver," write authors Gaby A. C. Schellekens, Peeter W. J. Verlegh, and Ale Smidts (Erasmus University, The Netherlands). In the course of their studies, the authors found that consumers who described a positive experience with a product (like a smooth shave with a new razor) used more abstract language when they had a positive opinion about the brand before they tried the product. "When consumers were told that the product was a brand they did not like, they used more concrete language to describe a positive experience. Thus, consumers use different ways of describing the exact same experience, depending on whether they use a liked or disliked brand," the authors write. For a disliked brand, favorable experiences are seen as exceptions, and concrete language helps consumers to frame the experience as a one-time event, the authors explain. On the receiver end, the studies showed that consumers responded differently to abstract and concrete language. "In our study of receivers, we gave consumers a description of a positive product experience, and asked them to estimate the sender's opinion about the products," the authors write. "We found that perceived opinion of the sender was more positive when the description was cast in more abstract terms." For descriptions of negative experiences, the perceived opinion of the sender was more negative when the description used abstract language. "Our finding that abstract messages have a stronger impact on buying intentions can be translated straightforwardly into the recommendation to use abstract language if you try to convince someone of the (positive or negative) consequences of buying a product, or of following your advice," the authors conclude. From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. &nbsp; &nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Source: "Effects of caffeine on persuasion and attitude change: The role of secondary tasks in manipulating systematic message processing" from European Journal of Social Psychology Volume 37, Issue 2, pages 320&ndash;338, March/April 2007 From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter.  "An empty store shelf tempts shoppers to buy the next best thing, according to a new study from the University of Alberta. "Sold-out products create a sense of immediacy for customers; they feel that if one product is gone, the next item could also sell out," said Paul Messinger, a professor at the U of A's School of Business who studied the sale of numerous items including ski passes and wine. "Our research shows there's also an information cascade, where people infer that if a product is sold out, it must have been good and therefore a similar available product will also be desirable," he said. The study, published this month in the Journal of Retailing, found 61 per cent of shoppers would buy a particular five-hour ski pass for $20, but that figure rose to 91 per cent when they thought a 10-hour ski pass for the same mountain slope for $40 had sold out. A similar study of Merlot wines found 49 per cent of consumers would buy a bottle if they had one choice, but when they thought a similar wine had sold out next to it on the shelf, nearly twice the number of shoppers would take home the available bottle." From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Excerpted from&nbsp;Priceless: The Myth of Fair Value (and How to Take Advantage of It): Puzzles, anchors, stars, and plowhorses; those are a few of the terms consultants now use when assembling a menu (which is as much an advertisement as anything else). &ldquo;A star is a popular, high-profit item&mdash;in other words, an item for which customers are willing to pay a good deal more than it costs to make,&rdquo; Poundstone explains. &ldquo;A puzzle is high-profit but unpopular; a plowhorse is the opposite, popular yet unprofitable. Consultants try to turn puzzles into stars, nudge customers away from plowhorses, and convince everyone that the prices on the menu are more reasonable than they look.&rdquo; Poundstone uses Balthazar&rsquo;s menu to illustrate these ideas. 1. The Upper Right-Hand Corner That&rsquo;s the prime spot where diners&rsquo; eyes automatically go first. Balthazar uses it to highlight a tasteful, expensive pile of seafood. Generally, pictures of food are powerful motivators but also menu taboos&mdash;mostly because they&rsquo;re used extensively in lowbrow chains like Chili&rsquo;s and Applebee&rsquo;s. This illustration &ldquo;is as far as a restaurant of this caliber can go, and it&rsquo;s used to draw attention to two of the most expensive orders,&rdquo; Poundstone says.  2. The Anchor The main role of that $115 platter&mdash;the only three-digit thing on the menu&mdash;is to make everything else near it look like a relative bargain, Poundstone says. 3. Right Next Door At a mere $70, the smaller seafood platter next to Le Balthazar seems like a deal, though there&rsquo;s no sense of how much food you&rsquo;re getting. It&rsquo;s an indefinite comparison that also feels like an indulgence&mdash;a win-win for the restaurant. 4. In The Vicinity The restaurant&rsquo;s high-profit dishes tend to cluster near the anchor. Here, it&rsquo;s more seafood at prices that seem comparatively modest. 5. Columns Are Killers According to Brandon O&rsquo;Dell, one of the consultants Poundstone quotes in Priceless, it&rsquo;s a big mistake to list prices in a straight column. &ldquo;Customers will go down and choose from the cheapest items,&rdquo; he says. At least the Balthazar menu doesn&rsquo;t use leader dots to connect the dish to the price; that draws the diner&rsquo;s gaze right to the numbers. Consultant Gregg Rapp tells clients to &ldquo;omit dollar signs, decimal points, and cents&thinsp;&hellip;&thinsp;It&rsquo;s not that customers can&rsquo;t check prices, but most will follow whatever subtle cues are provided.&rdquo; 6. The Benefit Of Boxes &ldquo;A box draws attention and, usually, orders,&rdquo; Poundstone says. &ldquo;A really fancy box is better yet. The fromages at the bottom of the menu are probably high-profit puzzles.&rdquo; 7. Menu Siberia That&rsquo;s where low-margin dishes that the regulars like end up. The examples here are the easy-to-miss (and relatively inexpensive) burgers. 8. Bracketing A regular trick, it&rsquo;s when the same dish comes in different sizes. Here, that&rsquo;s done with steak tartare and ravioli&mdash;but because &ldquo;you never know the portion size, you&rsquo;re encouraged to trade up,&rdquo; Poundstone says. &ldquo;Usually the smaller size is perfectly adequate.&rdquo; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. The fact is that good cop, bad cop is an effective tool for compliance because using it -- often in very subtle ways -- does apparently enhance the impact both the carrots and the sticks. In fact, this qualitative study is bolstered by experiments on negotiation teams by researchers Susan Brodt and Marla Tuchinsky&nbsp; showing that -- under most situations -- having both a good cop and a bad cop on a negotiation team is a winning strategy. BUT there was also a twist we did not address in our research, and in fact, would have been tough to do as we were studying people in "the wilds" of organizational life.&nbsp; Their research shows that starting with a good cop and then using a bad cop was not effective, that the method only was effective for negotiating teams when the bad cop went first and the good cop followed. So, this may mean it really should be called "The Bad Cop, Good Cop Technique." More here: http://bobsutton.typepad.com/my_weblog/2009/12/the-good-cop-bad-cop-technique... From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Research by Alexander Felfernig et al (Persuasive Recommendation: Serial Position Effects in Knowledge-Based Recommender Systems) tested web buying behavior of outdoor tents by presenting buyers with four choices arranged in a horizontal row. Each tent had unique characteristics. The researchers varied the order of presentation for each buyer so that they could evaluate the effect of the order of presentation. (A mention in Neuro Web Design led me to this research.) In a truly startling result, the first choice presented was chosen 2.5 times more often than any other. Despite the fact that the tents varied in their shape, their degree of waterproofing, and other presumably important characteristics, the order of presentation was by far the most critical variable in the selection process. How&rsquo;s that for logical decision-making? Naturally, the subjects were all able to rationalize their irrational decision &ndash; they chose the best value, the most waterproof, and so on. As is typical when our conscious brains try to explain why we do things, the reasons are seemingly convincing even if mostly bogus. What does this mean from a practical web site design standpoint? Well, for one, you could put the product you&rsquo;d most like to sell in front of the others. Perhaps it&rsquo;s your most profitable product, or the one in which you hold the most inventory. From a more customer-oriented standpoint, I&rsquo;d recommend putting your most attractive product up front &ndash; the one which offers the best combination of value and performance, for example. This should maximize the chance of an order actually being placed, and should also be the most likely to create a good customer experience (and repeat orders). Via&nbsp;neurosciencemarketing.com. &nbsp;From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Experts are more persuasive when they seem tentative about their conclusions, a study soon to be published in the Journal of Consumer Research suggests. But the opposite is true of novices, who grow more persuasive with increasing certainty.&nbsp; In one experiment, college students were randomly assigned one of four variations of a restaurant review, praising a local Italian spot. In some versions, the reviewer was described as a famous food critic; in others, he was a technology worker at a local college with a penchant for fast food. Each of the critics expressed positive certainty about the restaurant&rsquo;s virtues in one variation, and tentative praise in another. Asked to evaluate the restaurant, the students who read the expert&rsquo;s review liked it much better when he seemed tentative; the opposite was true of the novice. Zakary L. Tormala, a professor of marketing at Stanford&rsquo;s business school and one of the paper&rsquo;s authors, said these and other findings suggested that people do a cognitive double take when reviewers&rsquo; expertise is mismatched with their level of certainty. That double take leads to greater involvement in the text, which helps the reviewer&rsquo;s message get across. &nbsp;From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. New research suggests both have their advantages, and either is far preferable than being stuck in the middle. That's the conclusion of a study of the effects of position order on preference, just published in the journal Psychological Science. "We found that early items always have an advantage, and later items have an advantage in longer sequences, especially when the choosers are knowledgeable about the choice options," writes lead author Antonia Mantonakis, assistant professor of marketing at Brock University in Niagara, Canada. This study examined the relationship between interactive attributes and the consumer browsing behavior at e-commerce websites based on the two contending theoretical frameworks: uses and gratification theory and social cognitive theory. While the former assumes that consumers are rational and try to minimize their search and transaction costs through online shopping, the latter relaxes the assumption of rational consumers arguing that consumers can be impulsive from deficient self-regulation. From the empirical study of the top 65 e-commerce websites, this study found out that interactive attributes supporting each of the two contending theoretical perspectives coexist at e-commerce sites: some attributes promoting rational consumer&iexcl;&macr;s efficient shopping activity and the others enticing impulsive consumer&iexcl;&macr;s inefficient browsing behavior. Even among the competing interactive attributes with the opposite directional influences, the sensory stimulus (the picture size of the products) turned out to be the most influential attribute for making e-commerce websites sticky by attracting and holding consumers in the websites.&nbsp; &nbsp;From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. A new study carried out by the University of Haifa and the University of Michigan found that motivation and performance is weakened when competing against a large group of people The larger the number of examinees, the lower the average grade. This is one of the findings of a series of new studies carried out by scientists at the University of Haifa and the University of Michigan. "It is a well-established fact that subjective factors influence our motivation to compete. Our recent studies have shown that objective factors, such as the size of a competing group, also have an effect on motivation," explains Dr. Avishalom Tor from the University of Haifa's Faculty of Law. &nbsp;&nbsp;From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Research the car carefully on the internet and decide exactly what you want. Determine the colour, the extras, everything. Then, call every dealer within, say, a 20-mile radius. When they answer, tell them exactly the car that you want. Then inform them that you are calling all the dealers in the area and asking about the same car. You are going to buy the car at 5pm from the dealership offering you the best deal. You will ring back soon and seek a price &mdash; the full price, with nothing at all left to be added on later. The dealer may object that if he gives you a quote over the phone, the next dealer will just come in &pound;50 lower. You simply tell him that, yes, this might indeed happen. That is why, you explain, he has to give you the very lowest price he humanly can, so as to avoid anyone underbidding with a price the dealer would have been willing to accept. When the witching hour arrives, you go to the dealer with the best offer, cheque in hand, and pick up your car. If there is any change in the terms, you go to the second-best showroom, although this shouldn&rsquo;t be necessary. What has happened here? You have forced the salesman to provide you, in the form of his lowest price, all the information he has about the real cost of the car. The advantage has moved from the dealer to you. &nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Consumers remember the sounds of numbers in prices and associate certain sounds with value, according to a new study in the Journal of Consumer Research. Authors Keith S. Coulter (Clark University) and Robin A. Coulter (University of Connecticut) studied the ability of number-sounds to convey meaning and influence price perceptions. Previous research has demonstrated that people associate certain vowel and consonant sounds with perceptions of physical size. For example, front vowels (like a long a, e, i) and fricatives (like the English f, z, and s) have been shown to convey smallness, while back vowels (sounds like the /u/ in goose or the sound in foot) indicate largeness. "Phonetic symbolism affects price perceptions because consumers typically process, encode, and retain numbers (and hence prices) in memory in multiple formats," the authors write. Consumers encode what a price looks like and sounds like along with a relative numeric value that the price represents (such as, "It is inexpensive"). "Thus, sounds associated with the auditory representation can impact the numeric value associated with the analog representation&mdash;that is, small sounds can create the impression of big deals," the authors write. The authors found that number-sound effects were more likely to occur when a frame of reference (a regular price) was provided. And sometimes, the sounds of numbers created false impressions of value. For example, participants perceived a $10 item marked down to $7.66 to be a greater discount than a $10 item discounted to $7.22. "Number sounds impact price magnitude perceptions only when consumers mentally rehearse a sale price, as they might do when comparing items on a shopping trip," the authors write. "Further, mental rehearsal of the same sale prices characterized by small phonemes in one language and large phonemes in another language can yield differential effects." &nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. As someone who's written movies and worked in marketing, I can't say I'm shocked but it's nice to have this scientifically confirmed. Research has examined the ability of entertainment-education (E-E) programs to influence behavior across a variety of health and social issues. However, less is known about the underlying mechanisms that account for these effects. In keeping with the extended elaboration likelihood model (E-ELM) and the entertainment overcoming resistance model (EORM), we examined how story features, such as narrative transportation and involvement with characters, may reduce three forms of resistance to persuasion[mdash]reactance, counterarguing, and perceived invulnerability. In a between-subjects experiment, 367 undergraduates viewed either a dramatic narrative or a nonnarrative program about the difficult consequences of an unplanned teen pregnancy. Participants completed a questionnaire assessing their reactions to the program immediately after viewing and again 2 weeks later. Consistent with predictions derived from the EORM and E-ELM, the dramatic narrative reduced reactance by fostering parasocial interaction with characters and decreasing perceptions of persuasive intent. Also as expected, identification with characters in the narrative reduced counterarguing and increased perceived vulnerability to unplanned pregnancy[mdash]although the latter occurred only at the delayed posttest 2 weeks after exposure. Unexpectedly, transportation into the dramatic narrative was associated with greater counterarguing. Taken together, this research demonstrates that investigating narrative influence from the perspective of overcoming resistance is a useful approach. Findings also suggest important differences in how individuals process narrative and nonnarrative messages. Source: Explaining the Effects of Narrative in an Entertainment Television Program: Overcoming Resistance to Persuasion from Human Communication Research by Emily Moyer-Gus&eacute;, Robin L. Nabi If you want to learn more about writing film, I recommend two books which you can find here  and here. &nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Previous research has shown that activating a stereotype can influence subsequent behavior in a stereotype-consistent way. The present research investigates the role of self-efficacy beliefs in this effect. Specifically, we demonstrate that being primed with the stereotype of professors increases knowledge confidence compared to being primed with a less educated profession (Experiments 1 and 2), and that these higher self-efficacy beliefs result in higher performance at a general knowledge test (Experiment 2). These findings are corroborated in Experiment 3 that shows that participants primed with the stereotype of athletes show higher persistence in a physical exercise than participants primed with a stereotype less associated with persistence. Again, behavior was mediated by self-efficacy beliefs. The findings are in line with the active-self account (Wheeler &amp; Petty, 2001; Wheeler, DeMarree, &amp; Petty, 2007) that proposes that priming with a stereotype influences a person's behavior through altered self-representations. Source: "Think of Capable Others and You Can Make It! Self-Efficacy Mediates the Effect of Stereotype Activation on Behavior" from the journal "Social Cognition" &nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter. Source: "The effects of optimal time of day on persuasion processes in older adults" from "Psychology and Marketing" A seminal book on persuasion is here. I also recommend the author's more recent release Yes!: 50 Scientifically Proven Ways to Be Persuasive. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter Johar and Zemborain found that people with strong opinions, by contrast, are more likely to evaluate the reliability of a message&rsquo;s source before accepting it. Their attitudes can also be influenced, however, if they are unable to check for a message source&rsquo;s validity and are unaware that they are being persuaded. &ldquo;People know that they shouldn&rsquo;t be influenced by outside sources, but in today&rsquo;s world, there is so much clutter out there that we are sometimes influenced without realizing it,&rdquo; says Johar. Source: "Attitudinal Ambivalence and Openness to Persuasion: A Framework for Interpersonal Influence" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter We hypothesise that the effectiveness of threats and encouragements is contingent on the intended recipient's level of negative affect, as evidenced by his/her negative affective display. Therefore, bargainers can be more effective if, as they make offers, they condition any threats or encouragements on the recipient's affective display. We test this hypothesis using 5561 verbal exchanges that occurred during 192 telephone conversations between credit collectors and debtors. Collectors were most effective in motivating debtors to discuss terms to resolve their debt if they: (1) threatened recipients who were nonresponsive and did not show any negative affect; and (2) encouraged recipients who displayed negative affect. This result suggests that making threats and encouragements contingent on a recipient's displays of negative affect may be an important but frequently overlooked component of bargaining. Source: "When threats and encouragements are effective in bargaining: The case of credit collectors" from the journal "Cognition and Emotion" This sort of jives with what I believe since it presents threats almost as a last ditch effort to a nonresponsive negotiation partner. Generally, I'm not a big fan of threats. My friend John (who was part of the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School) had this to say about threats: A threat is "I will do something that hurts you even if it's bad for me." A warning is: "This serves my interests and is bad for you." It's better to try to convert your threats into warnings. Threats are no good, warnings are. So how do you present a warning?: "The smartest thing in this situation for me is to_____. I don't want to do that but you're putting me in a situation where...." John's book is here. Another seminal book on influence is here. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From Eric Barker's Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Follow him on Twitter FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMarijuana is pictured for sale during the annual 4/20 day, which promotes the use of marijuana,  in VancouverTORONTO (Reuters) - By unlocking the once-obscure medical marijuana market, Canada has created a fast-growing, profitable and federally regulated industry with a distinct appeal to the more daring global investor. About a dozen producers of the drug will find themselves in the spotlight this year as they consider going public or prepare to so through share sales or reverse takeovers to capitalize on recent regulatory changes, investment bankers said. The Canadian companies are in a race to raise money to build facilities, attract patients and grab shares in a market projected to grow to C$1.3 billion ($1.20 billion) in the next 10 years. Despite facing considerable risks, they have the advantage of being in one of the few countries where medical marijuana is legal nationwide and where licensed operators can mass-produce it. In the United States, the drug remains illegal at the federal level. Some 20 U.S. states have legalized medical marijuana, but investors worry about the prospect, however remote, that the federal government may strike down those laws. Although the U.S. market is home to companies including Medical Marijuana Inc &lt;MJNA.PK&gt; and Cannabis Science Inc &lt;CBIS.PK&gt;, their northern counterparts are likely to benefit from greater legitimacy and legal clarity. Sources said much of the private equity investment in the Canadian industry had come from the United States. “Canada is one of the few countries anywhere where its citizens have a constitutionally protected right to access medical marijuana with a physician's consent," said Paul Rosen, chief executive officer of PharmaCan, a holding company with large stakes in four producers. "And you've got the government trying to create an industry around it." Tweed Marijuana Inc &lt;TWD.V&gt;, which converted an old chocolate factory into a marijuana farm, led the pack by becoming the first publicly held Canadian company in the sector. Its April offering was oversubscribed within 15 minutes of being announced, sources said. Inspired by Tweed, PharmaCan plans a listing in the next month or so. Producers Organigram, Aphria and Bedrocan expect to go public in the next three months, while CannMedica and others are looking at doing so. Highlighting the industry's mainstream allure, Tweed's listing was led by two highly respected Bay Street firms, mid-sized investment bank GMP Securities and boutique adviser Jacob Securities. Other banking firms involved in the sector include Dundee Securities, Bloom Burton, PowerOne Capital Markets, Jordan Capital Markets and Delavaco Group. An April overhaul by regulator Health Canada has thrown the market open. More than 850 companies have applied for licenses to produce the drug, and 13 have obtained them so far. "This is Health Canada's realization that medical marijuana deserves to have a space in the treatment paradigm," said Bloom Burton President Brian Bloom. "What they're asking in return is that the standards of manufacturing, distribution and vigilance are similar to what is seen in the pharmaceutical industry." Analysts expect only a few major companies to remain standing a few years from now. "The winners will be the ones that are going to have a strong brand, a strong customer acquisition strategy, and have the ability to scale up quickly,” said Jacob Securities analyst Khurram Malik. Health Canada estimates the sector will grow tenfold in its first 10 years, reaching about 450,000 users and C$1.3 billion in sales. Malik says that is only half of the market's potential because the same number of people already use medical marijuana through the black market and Health Canada’s measures will bring greater access and lower prices. "It's an industry that has been born out of almost nothing, and it is moving very rapidly into something very large," he said. "The flip side is you're also going to have a lot of risk." Indeed, a list of risk factors takes up about half of the 22 pages in Tweed's latest quarterly filing. Potential industry pitfalls include legal changes, resistance from home growers suing for the right to keep producing their own pot and physicians who are not convinced about the drug's benefits. "We believe that there's not enough evidence out there that shows us that we could use this product safely," said Dr. Louis Hugo Francescutti, president of the Canadian Medical Association. "We're actually being asked to authorize use of a product blindfolded." Michael Krestell, president of investment bank M Partners, says investors betting on the sector at this stage are looking for “high-risk, high-reward” opportunities. [ID:nL1N0MN27A] He expects the planned offerings to be in the C$5 million to C$20 million range, with the companies valued at C$60 million to C$100 million. Tweed, which has a market capitalization of $108 million, raised C$15 million when it went public through a reverse takeover of a listed entity. Bankers expect most of the medical marijuana companies to take this approach since it is often faster and cheaper. For despite the potential of the industry, its biggest challenge is to establish credibility among patients, doctors and more-cautious investors. "I don't care if we're the biggest seller of medical marijuana in the first year or two," said Aphria CEO Vic Neufeld, who previously led vitamin maker Jamieson Laboratories, "but I want to make sure that we are the most trusted." ($1 = 1.0844 Canadian dollars) (Additional reporting by Euan Rocha; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nigel Roddis Yesterday the head of the Bank of England did something very funny: Right as the World Cup was kicking off, he issued the warning that people have been waiting for for years: He said rate hikes might come sooner than expected. Of course like any good central banker, Mark Carney talked about how no decisions have been made and how everything is "data-dependent," but the language he used definitely caught people by surprise. In a note to clients last night, Citi FX guru Steven Englander explained why investors might extrapolate Carney's comments to the U.S. as well. Basically, just a month ago, Carney was sticking to dovish language (like his counterparts in the U.S.). Then the U.K. got another month of strong economic data (like the U.S.). And in the past, the BoE has been ahead of the curve in terms of policy, with the U.S. close behind. So you can't blame investors who now might worry similar language could come from the Fed at a moment's notice. Here's Englander's take: [It is] possible that the shift in the BoE stance may also be affecting how investors are viewing the likely evolution of Fed monetary policy. The worry may be that just as UK forward guidance proved to be less guiding than investors had earlier thought, the Fed may turn around, and use the same language as Governor Carney in shifting the timing of policy moves. Keep in mind that Governor Carney had reiterated a dovish MPC stance in discussing the Inflation Report less than a month ago, much as core FOMC members recently reaffirmed their view that there was a large amount of slack in the US economy in May. Moreover, the BoE has led in the last few steps on the path from rate cuts to initial QE to aggressive QE to halting QE to forward guidance to revised forward guidance -- the BoE was been ahead of the Fed in the latter stages of easing and has been ahead in the first stages of normalizing. So investors may be concluding that US economic and policy conditions will follow the same path as in the UK or that the Carney shift shows that central bank commitment to following their own forward guidance is not as firm in practice as in theory. There's evidence the market has already had this interpretation. The U.S. dollar rose against the yen all night after the comments, which is action consistent with perceptions of upcoming tighter U.S. policy. Short-term U.S. interest rates also popped higher on the news. Of course, one half-day's trading action doesn't matter much. But if a shift has begun, the longer-term implications for markets could be significant. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/bookemspookyGood morning. Markets are heading lower again. If stocks close down today, that would mark the third straight day of declines. The declines aren't huge, but in a no-volatility, perpetually rising environment, they stick out. The big story is the comments from Bank of England chief Mark Carney yesterday night that rate hikes at the BoE could come sooner than markets expect. It seems very plausible that investors will extrapolate those comments, and apply them to the Fed as well, causing jitters everywhere. FREE AppDownload
