Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New York(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; executives have faced regulators' questions on whether private bank advisors guide clients to buy the firm's own financial products, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal. As a result of the questioning regarding potential conflicts of interest, the New York-based bank has sharpened its disclosures to clients, the newspaper said, citing sources. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, one of JP Morgan's regulators, has been in discussions with the bank regarding the potential conflicts of interest in recent months, according to the report. The matter may still be open, the report said. "Being transparent is part of our normal course of business and it's what drives our client communications," Darin Oduyoye, a spokesman for JP Morgan's asset-management unit, told Reuters on Sunday. If brokers push clients to buy the in-house brand of financial product, rather than provide impartial financial advice, the bank could stand to benefit at the expense of the client. JP Morgan's Private Bank advisors are paid salary and bonus, not commission, Oduyoye said. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency did not immediately respond to a request for comment.   (Reporting By Mike Stone; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsJack LewTreasury Secretary Jack Lew has written an op-ed page of the Washington Post to plead with Congress to enact legislation addressing tax inversions, which he says have been increasing at "breakneck speed." As we've been discussing all this month, the number of U.S. companies re-chartering overseas to avoid corporate taxes has been accelerating recently. Tax inversions were a major theme of President Obama's interview with CNBC's Steve Liesman Friday.  It's not entirely clear why the situation has only gotten worse recently, because the U.S. federal tax code hasn't been overhauled in almost 30 years. It's most likely the result of other countries liberalizing their tax regimes. But you can see what he's talking about here: Goldman Sachs Whatever the reason for the spike, Lew says Congress needs to act now. He addresses the contention that addressing inversions specifically wouldn't help because the underlying tax code would remain unchanged:  ...we would still need to enact anti-inversion provisions because companies always would find countries with near-zero rates to which they could relocate. Moreover, even the most optimistic know that the administration and Congress need more time to complete bipartisan comprehensive business tax reform. While the business-tax-reform process moves steadily forward, the pace of inversions is increasing at breakneck speed. We must confront this problem now, before our tax base is so eroded as to damage the prospects of comprehensive reform. Lew also explains why existing legislation that would address the issue is inadequate: It would not apply retroactively to firms that have fled U.S. shores: Current proposals in Congress would apply to any inversion deal after early May of this year. The alternative — legislation taking effect after the president signs it into law — could have the perverse effect of encouraging corporations to act more quickly, negotiate new deals and rush to close those transactions before the bill is enacted. It would be a mistake for Congress to pass anti-inversion legislation that creates a race against the clock and encourages more, not fewer, inversions. According to The Economist, loopholes in the corporate tax system cost the U.S. $150 billion each year, and that U.S. firms abroad have $2 trillion sitting on their foreign units' balance sheets.  Click here to read Lew's full op-ed at The Washington Post » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA monkey dressed as The Monkey King stands with a chain around its neck at a zoo in Shenyang, Liaoning province May 10, 2014.The weekend is over and stocks are falling. U.S. futures were down nearly 0.2%, as was Japan's Nikkei and New Zealand's 50 Gross index. This is a major week in U.S. economic data, as we'll get both the latest GDP reading and celebrate Jobs Day Friday. High Frequency Economics chief U.S. economist Jim O'Sullivan is feeling okay about what we'll learn this week: We have been writing about a “tale of two recoveries,” referring to significant labor market improvement even as GDP has disappointed. That theme was evident through the end of 2013, but the divergence widened dramatically—implausibly—with the -2.9% Q1 GDP reading. In contrast to GDP, labor market indicators have continued to strengthen so far in 2014. We expect at least some catch-up in GDP in this week’s report for Q2: We project a 3.5% growth rate.  A 3.5% pace for Q2 could be spun as strong or weak. On the plus  side, it would be more than a point higher than the recovery-to-date average. Growth averaged just 2.4% at an annual rate in the first 18  quarters of the recovery—through Q4 of 2013. The average drops to  2.1% if Q1 is included. Conversely, it implies barely positive growth in   the last two quarters combined. We do not believe the two-quarter average is a fair representation of the trend—although we also agree  that there should be at least some payback for weather effects—and the reading for Q2 alone will not necessarily be indicative of the underlying trend, either. Meanwhile, the ISM indexes have been moving up; they already look high enough for a 3%+ trend in growth. Click here to read Sam Ro's full preview » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe stock market is up 17% in the last year and up a whopping 197% since its March 2009 low. Unfortunately, far too many young people haven't participated in this rally, and, unfortunately, this may be detrimental to their futures. According to a new survey by Bankrate.com, millennials are uncomfortable with choosing the stock market as their preferred method of investing "money they don't need for at least 10 years." The survey reveals that today's young Americans have a rather conservative investment style. "Thirty-nine (39%) percent say cash is their preferred way to invest" money. Only one-third (or 13%) of those picked the stock market. Overall, 25% of Americans prefer cash, followed closely by real estate with 23% and stocks with 19%. Bankrate.com senior financial analyst Greg McBride spoke with Yahoo! Finance where he noted that the problem with millennials not investing is that they "don't have the pensions that their parents had ... [and have] a bigger burden of accumulating wealth on their own for their retirement needs particularly in an era where life expectancies are getting long, health care costs are going up." He adds that "hankering down in safe haven investments" runs the risk of millennials falling short in the long run. But perhaps this pervading cynicism of young Americans is a product of the millennial experience. For starters, they've lived through the financial crisis. Further, they're better educated than previous generations, but they are struggling to find jobs. And finally, they're worried about student loans and they might not retire until 73. Consequently, millennials may feel as though they need to hold their money exactly where they see it — with cash. FREE AppDownload
The Fine Young GentlemanMinus a few exceptions, men can't buy a good pair of dress shoes for under $350. The idea of the $150 dress shoe (most of which have cemented on soles and corrected grain leather, those noted in this article are of course not that) is a false economy. You will go through multiple pairs of said junk shoes before you would go through one pair of well made welted shoes. Think of it this way: “You are either in your bed or in your shoes. So it pays to invest in both.” Remarked John Wildsmith, who was an English shoemaker.  Luckily, the price of that investment has become more reasonable over the past few years with a plethora of upstart men’s dress shoe brands popping up across the globe. A man doesn’t have to just look to England, Italy and America to find well-made dress shoes. Singapore, Spain, Portugal, China and Mexico are all capable of producing quality shoes at a reasonable price. However, to find many of these brands you often had to head to the Internet. Whether or not you would buy a pair of dress shoes online without trying them on first is a matter of personal preference. But just know that if you are open to it, you often have the opportunity of getting a better value.  For those of you not comfortable with doing so, there are solid options to be had in person. But as is often the case, you get what you pay for, so you should expect to get a substantially better shoe for $350 than $135.  So without further delay, here’s a list of 12 brands you should check out for less than $350. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGeorge BooleThere are two main reasons mathematics has fascinated humanity for two thousand years. First, math gives us the tools we need to understand the universe and build things. Second, the study of mathematical objects themselves can be beautiful and intriguing, even if they have no apparent practical applications. What's truly amazing is that sometimes a branch of math will start out as something completely abstract, with no immediate scientific or engineering applications, and then much later a practical use can be found. Boolean algebra is the combination of logic and algebra, initially developed by George Boole, for whom the subject is named, in the 1840s and '50s, and later refined by other logicians through the rest of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Formal logic concerns itself with the truth or falseness of statements, or propositions. "Barack Obama is the President of the United States" is a proposition that is true. "Google manufactures the iPhone" is a proposition that is false. Things get more interesting when we start combining simple propositions together. "Barack Obama is the President of the United States, and Joe Biden is the Vice President" is true, since the two simple propositions joined by the "and" in the middle are both true. "Either Texas has a population of 300, or television was invented by Issac Newton" is false, since the two simple propositions joined by the "or" in the middle are both false. Boolean algebra, and other forms of abstract propositional logic, are based on dealing with compound propositions made up of simple propositions joined by logical connectors like "and", "or", and "not". All that matters for telling whether such a compound statement is true are the abstract truth values of the component propositions and formal rules based on which logical connectors we're using. For example, if proposition X is true, and proposition Y is true, then the compound proposition "X and Y" is also true. If either X or Y is false, or both are false, then "X and Y" is also false. Boole recognized that this kind of logic based on combining symbols for propositions using connectors like "and", "or", and "not" had a similar structure to normal algebra and arithmetic. In normal algebra, variables representing numbers get combined together into formulas and equations by using the arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. In Boole's logical algebra, variables representing logical propositions get combined into formulas and equations by using the logical operations of and, or, and not. The statement "X and Y is true" gets converted into the equation X × Y = 1. The statement "X or Y is false" becomes X + Y = 0. Boolean algebra makes it possible to use the same kinds of algebraic techniques we use to solve normal equations involving numbers to establish logical relationships. By solving Boolean equations, logicians can more easily see when one combination of propositions logically leads to another. If this seems extremely abstract, it is. Logic has always straddled the line between philosophy and mathematics, attempting to reason about the way we can reason, and getting at fundamental ideas about what truth is and how to be sure we know things. While fascinating, propositional logic and Boolean algebra initially belonged strictly to the realm of pure mathematics, with fewer applications than a branch of math like differential equations and calculus, which are at the foundation of our understanding of physics.  Remarkably, about a century after Boole's initial investigations, mathematicians and scientists discovered an extremely powerful set of applications for formal logic, and now this apparently abstract mathematical and logical tool is at the heart of the global economy. Wikimedia CommonsBoolean algebra — taking true and false values, manipulating them according to logical rules, and coming up with appropriate true and false results — is the fundamental basis of the modern digital computer. One of the first major applications of Boolean algebra came from the 1937 master's thesis of Claude Shannon, one of the most important mathematicians and engineers of the 20th century. Shannon realized that switches in relay networks, like in a telephone network, or an early proto-computer, could be easily described by viewing "on" switches has having a Boolean value of "true", "off" switches as having a Boolean value of "false", and with the different patterns in which switches are connected to each other corresponding to the Boolean operations of "and", "or", and "not". Shannon's innovation made the design of switch networks vastly easier: rather than needing to actually play around with network connections themselves, the techniques developed by Boole and his successors provided a mathematical framework allowing for more efficient network layouts. The connection between electrical switches and boolean algebra goes in the other direction as well. A computer's CPU is largely built out of logic gates: physical manifestations of Boolean operators. Logic gates take in one or more electrical Boolean values: a wire with a high voltage might represent "true", and a wire with a low voltage might represent "false". The output of the logic gate, calculated using the electronic properties of semiconductors, is the appropriate voltage from the desired Boolean operation. An "and" gate, for example, takes in two inputs. If both inputs are high voltage (representing "true"), the "and" gate has a high voltage output of "true" as well, while if either or both inputs are low voltage, or false, the gate will have a low voltage output of false. Putting these gates together in the right ways allows for the execution of computer programs. Being able to perform Boolean operations on various inputs essentially allows a CPU to decide how to handle those inputs. Further, this Boolean algebra embedded in computers comes back around to normal math. The Boolean dichotomy of true vs. false lends itself nicely to the representation of binary numbers: true corresponds to 1, and false maps to 0. Under this interpretation, it's possible to assemble Boolean circuits that, simply by correctly combining two binary input numbers using and, or, and not operations, can add, subtract, multiply, or divide numbers. Sometimes, developments in pure math can, decades or centuries later, turn out to have amazing applications. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/BeautiqueThe recently opened restaurant/lounge/celebrity hangout place Beautique has been getting a lot of buzz lately. A New York Post article by Dana Schuster dubbed the West 58th street spot "New York’s newest millionaire lair." The scene centers around a crowd of older men partying with their younger girlfriends, secret rooms for the uber-elite, and a doorman who lets you in if you look "A-list." Frank Roberts, the managing director, came from a stint managing the stylish Rose Bar at the Gramercy Park Hotel. In addition to bragging about celebrity clientele like Leonardo DiCaprio and Dylan McDermott, Roberts described to Schuster the lavish decor of the underground spot as “Coco Chanel, 1900s Paris-meets-New York, feminine charm and opulent glamour." According to the New York Times, the interior was designed by Marc Dizon and Valerie Pasquiou Interiors, with the bar stools covered in Jean Paul Gaultier fabric, and the servers wearing Elie Tahari clothing. The food by former Le Cirque chef Craig Hopson has also received high marks. Yelp reviews contain a litany of mouth-watering descriptions like "salty, smooth, and sinful" bone-marrow flan, and branzino with "perfectly crispy skin and delicately tender meat."Facebook/BeautiqueThe swanky interior of Beautique. They also verify the swanky vibe of Beauitque. "Super-sexy. Came here with friends and I think my coolness rating doubled just by walking in," wrote one user.  And the bouncer, Eric Evans, confirmed to the Post that he only lets the posh-looking inside. “If anyone looks the part — good-looking, upscale, classy, A-list — they’re more than welcome,” he said.  Of course, not everyone is impressed with the scene. Another Yelp reviewer wrote: "Biggest problem was the douchiest crowd you could drum up in midtown on a Wednesday. And why do old guys look better in the Hamptons?"   But as one partygoer, Cristina Rosetti, told the Post: "The upper crust is invited here ... obviously the crowd is going to be a little bit different than your average spot."  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderJim Chanos, president of Kynikos Associates, has long been one of the most outspoken and successful short sellers in the market.It's just not a great idea to short stocks. Last night, drug development company Puma Biotechnology reported better than expected breast cancer trial results, and shares of the company rallied nearly 300% afterward. Yesterday, activist investor Bill Ackman gave the "most important presentation of his career," regarding his short position on Herbalife. During Ackman's presentation, Herbalife shares rallied. If you were long shares of Puma Biotechnology before last night's close, your position is now worth almost 3 times as much. If you were short shares of Herbalife ahead of yesterday's open, your holdings are now worth almost 20% less. On Twitter, Dan Davies made this point even more succinctly. @TheStalwart that's what biotech investment is all about ... also NB this is three times as much as Pershing's best case scenario in HLF (This is all oversimplified, of course. Investors will have an "average cost basis," which depends on exactly what price they bought stock at in the past, not to mention broker fees, advisor fees, and so on. There are probably very few — if any — people who bought Puma for the first time at $60 yesterday and sold it at $230 today. If you did, take vacation. Now.) "Going long" a stock is owning shares, betting that the price will rise over time. "Going short" a stock is betting that the price of a stock will fall. But it's not just these specific stock moves that show why shorting stocks is a bad idea. If you're long a stock you enjoy unlimited upside with limited downside; if you're short, you have limited upside and unlimited downside. This is the case for one simple reason: A stock can only ever fall to $0, but there is no limit on how high it can go. Whether you short a stock that costs $1 or $1000, your short position can make you only 100%. If someone is long the same stock, the most they can lose is the capital they've put at risk, whether it's $1 million or $100. But if a stock doubles or triples in value, those who own the stock get to enjoy all those profits. If you're short, you can lose multiples of the capital you risked. (On paper, at least. You still have to sell the stocks, pay the taxes, pay commissions, etc., to realize that profit, but either way you probably make a bunch of money. You can also lose more money if you used margin but again, this is a simple example.) But there's another rub with shorting stocks: You have to borrow the shares to bet against them. And then to "cover" your position, you buy these shares back and pocket the difference. When you borrow shares, you take out a loan. This loan charges interest: you don't borrow money for free. And so the longer it takes for the stock you've bet against to fall, the more expensive it becomes. This chart shows basically how a short could play out. But keep in mind, no one ever shorts at the top and covers at the bottom, or conversely, buys at the bottom and sells at the top. This only happens in the movies; or on CNBC. Google Finance And the above example, of course, assumes the stock even falls. Or that your costs don't go up. In a paper called "Short Selling Risk," Joseph Engelberg of the University of California, San Diego, Adam Reed of the University of North Carolina, and Matthew Ringgenberg of Washington University in St. Louis, outline some of the risks that short sellers face. Among them are "variable future costs," or the risk that the interest charged on your loan increases unexpectedly. Basically, if lots of people are shorting a stock, the borrowing costs could balloon from say 1% to 20% or 30%, potentially pushing you out of your short position before enough time passes for your idea to even play out. Engelberg, Reed, and Ringgenberg write that, "we find that while loan fees do not follow a random walk, more than 97% of future loan fees remain unexplained." Shorting a stock could get expensive, but its not totally clear why. In an interview with Business Insider, Ringgenberg said: "Research shows that on average, stocks with large short interest tend to go down in price. But for a number of reasons, short sellers can get forced out of a position before they are proven right." Ringgenberg says this shows that short sellers clearly have an information arbitrage regarding the stocks they have positions in, but just because you might be right doesn't mean you necessarily make money. Short sellers play an important part in the market, often keeping companies and other investors honest about their positions, and many professional investors have made a good living shorting stocks. But the risks these short sellers face are enormous — and expensive. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithActor Bill Murray drops to his knees after making a putt."Somebody asked the other day what the world's best investment opportunity is, and when I told him, he was visibly disappointed," said Rich Bernstein of Bernstein Advisors. Bernstein was talking about high-yield municipal bonds. Investors in the bond market currently prefer investing in Iraq over U.S. municipalities. As of Wednesday, Republic of Iraq bonds due in January 2028 were yielding 7.08%; high-yield municipal bonds in the U.S. were yielding 1.9% more than Iraqi bonds. (Per data provided by Bernstein: "BarCap Municipal Custom HY Composite Yield to Worst. Current yield is 5.41%, tax-equivalent yield of 8.96% assuming 39.6% tax rate.") That spread implies that investors think Iraq is less likely to default than some U.S. municipalities. This fascinating stat, shared by Bernstein, highlights why high-yield municipal debt, or "munis," is what Bernstein calls the best investment opportunity anywhere in the world. "Everybody thinks every municipality is going bankrupt," Bernstein said at a recent breakfast attended by Business Insider. "It's just not true. We're going through a very normal cycle in municipal finance. An accentuated cycle, admittedly, but a normal cycle." Municipal defaults, which have been in the headlines in recent years following Detroit's bankruptcy and continued concerns over the health of Puerto Rico's finances, peaked two years ago, Bernstein said. Municipal defaults were partly triggered by pressure from declining tax revenues and underfunded pensions. Bernstein noted, however, that with U.S. 10-year Treasury bonds yielding 1.35%, which is where they were in summer 2012, "it would have been a miracle to see public pensions overfunded." But as the cycle turns, Bernstein said, and tax revenues increase, interest rates increase, and asset values in pensions funds increase, the financial health of municipalities will improve.  Municipal bonds can also offer investors another incentives, as interest earned from municipal bonds is often tax-exempt. Even leaving out this benefit, however, at least one adviser sees an obvious investment opportunity right here in America. FREE AppDownload
screenshot/'Revenge of the nerds'Chris Arnade received his PhD in physics from Johns Hopkins University in 1992. He spent the next 20 years working as a trader on Wall Street. He left trading in 2012 to focus on photography.  You remember that kid in elementary school, the one who would argue during a game of tag: “You said you have to tag the person. Well you only touched my clothes. That isn’t a person.” Remember that kid? That kid is Wall Street. So clever, so damned determined to win, they will argue and argue, finding whatever shortcomings a game has, and try to exploit it. To them, rules, and the words used to describe them, are there to manipulated. With enough cleverness, determination, and gumption, any game can be won – on a technicality if need be. For instance, there is a rule in the US that if you make a bet on stocks and win, and your bet lasts less than a year, then you have to pay a high tax rate of around 39% in capital gains taxes. If, however, your bet last more than a year, then you have to pay only 20% in long-term capital gains taxes. The tax law is structured to encourage long-term investments – which usually carry a higher risk that the money may be lost – with lower tax rates. Wall Street, who again, is that smart kid who can’t turn down a chance to win and show how dumb rules are, couldn’t resist a 19% savings. That is too much of an incentive not to game. But how do you turn a short-term bet into a long-term bet? Or more precisely, as a Senate panel is now investigating, if you are a hedge fund who makes a lot of short-term bets on stocks, some lasting less than a second, how do you turn all of those bets into one long-term bet? With complex financial products. More precisely, with complex financial products sold by, in this case, Deutsche Bank and Barclays. Even more precisely, complex financial products sold by Deutsche Bank and Barclays with arcane names like Maps and Colt. How these products work is far too confusing and confusing for the average investor, or more importantly, the average Wall Street regulator to easily figure out. I traded financial products on Wall Street for 20 years, and I had a hard time understanding the product. The result, and intention, though, is very clear. They are a financial service, sold by Wall Street banks, using lots of shell companies and lots of underlying financial products, to lower taxes for hedge funds by turning short term trades into long term trades. This was done a lot – like hundreds of billions of dollars a lot, according to the Senate Report, in some form or another, from 1998 until it was declared “abusive” by the IRS in 2010. The total amount of taxes not paid? The Senate Report estimate is “tax avoidance of more than $6bn”, but nobody really knows. It's complex. The $6bn is what the hedge funds saved on taxes. Those funds were the banks' customers. What did the Wall Street banks get, other than feeling really smart? For Deutsche Bank, according again to the Senate report, $570m in fees from the hedge funds, and for Barclays, $655m in fees. Lots of money, but that’s Wall Street. Here's the thing, though: most of Wall Street genuinely didn’t, and doesn’t, think there is anything wrong with this. Nor do many of the hedge funds. In fact, they've been fighting it out with the IRS for quite a few years now, refusing to say "uncle". There is a simple phrase I often heard on Wall Street trading floors about laws and regulations: “Shame on them for making such a stupid rule.” In that context, "them" is whoever you were trying to scam at the time, be it the IRS, be it a foreign government, be it silly regulators, or be it stubborn customers. Rules are made to be gamed, and games are played to be won. That is at the core of the culture of Wall Street. If you don’t understand that, you don’t understand Wall Street. In my twenty years on Wall Street I helped exploit (sorry, the word we used was "arbitrage") many bad rules, for the profit of my bank and our customers. It wasn’t considered shameful at all. Particularly clever schemes – and the Maps and Colt products are very clever – were rewarded with praise, career advancement, and most importantly, very big bonuses. None of them got a hearing from Senator Carl Levin's permanent subcommittee on investigations. Think about it. Masquerading a bunch of one-minute trades to look, for regulators, like one large three-year trade. To save 19% in taxes. That is a rule that is just too easy to abuse. That is a game that is too profitable not to play. The Senate can have all the hearings they want. Regulators can throw all the huge fines at banks they want. That isn’t going to change Wall Street’s behavior. That kid in elementary school who was never tagged, who never lost a bet. They always won. They didn’t care about being popular. Wall Street doesn’t care about being popular either. Wall Street is just playing a game. A game with huge payouts for winning. And Wall Street is winning. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThe sun rises to the east of the U.S. Federal Reserve building in Washington.The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets on Tuesday and Wednesday of this coming week, and it is almost certain that the FOMC will announce a reduction in monthly asset purchases by another $10 billion per month, from $35 billion to $25 billion. The FOMC statement will be released at 2:00 PM ET on Wednesday, and there will be no press conference after this meeting. Right now it appears that the FOMC will also reduce QE3 another $10 billion at the September meeting (Sept 17th), and announce the end of QE3 in October (Oct 29th). On the statement, the FOMC will probably only make small changes. From Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle: We expect that next week’s FOMC statement will show very little change. The FOMC might choose to upgrade the language on growth in economic activity somewhat, and it might also strengthen the language on labor market indicators a touch in recognition of the strong June employment report. For the most part, however, recent data have supported the characterization of current conditions in the June statement. In particular, the softer June CPI print likely reinforced the Committee’s decision to downplay the firmer inflation prints seen from March to May, and weak housing starts and new home sales reports have likely reinforced concern about the housing sector. For review, here are the June FOMC projections (Projections will be updated next at the September meeting).    The advance estimate of Q2 GDP will be released Wednesday morning, and the consensus is that real GDP increased 2.9% annualized in Q2. Depending on revisions, this would suggest no growth in the first half of 2014 (although other indicators would suggest some growth) - and this would mean another downgrade for GDP at the September meeting. 1 Projections of change in real GDP and inflation are from the fourth quarter of the previous year to the fourth quarter of the year indicated. The unemployment rate was at 6.1% in June, and it seems the unemployment rate projection will be lowered again in September.    It is possible the FOMC will also lower their long run unemployment projection too. 2 Projections for the unemployment rate are for the average civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of the year indicated. As of May, PCE inflation was up 1.8% from May 2013, and core inflation was up 1.5%.  The FOMC expects inflation to increase in 2014, but remain below their 2% target (Note: the FOMC target is supposedly symmetrical around 2%, although some analysts think the FOMC is acting as if 2.0% is a ceiling).  Here are the FOMC's recent core inflation projections: Overall tapering will probably continue at the same pace, and the FOMC will be a little more positive.  But I expect there will be no change on the timing for the end of QE3 (at the October meeting) or on the first rate hike (sometime in 2015). FREE AppDownload
THE ECONOMISTOur flame-grilled guide to currencies suggests the dollar is getting dearer COUNTRIES with McDonald's fast-food restaurants may only rarely become embroiled in military conflict (Russia and Ukraine are obvious exceptions at the moment), but currency wars are another matter. In recent years central banks in many rich economies fired up big bond-buying schemes to put some sizzle into economies that had only recently emerged from a deep freeze. Emerging-market governments complained that the capital that flowed their way as a result was hard to digest. Meanwhile Americans griped that China was serving up an undercooked yuan. Burgernomics provides one way to keep track of the food fight. Our Big Mac index is based on the theory of purchasing-power parity. It says that in the long run exchange rates ought to adjust so that a basket of goods and services costs the same across countries. Our basket contains just one item, a Big Mac (except in India, where we substitute the Maharaja Mac, a chicken sandwich). Since a Big Mac costs 48 kroner ($7.76) in Norway and only $4.80 in America, the kroner is overvalued by 62% according to this lighthearted, protein-rich analysis, making it the most puffed-up currency in the index. The same burger costs just $1.63 in Ukraine, by contrast, making the hryvnia the feeblest currency of the bunch. The latest dispatch from the world of burgernomics suggests that despite the Federal Reserve's best efforts, the dollar has been fattening up. The average valuation of the currencies in our index (weighted by GDP) has moved from roughly neutral in 2009 to about 15% undervalued against the dollar this year. Crises of various sorts are partly to blame. Political turmoil is depressing the hryvnia. And quite a lot of the dollar's relative appreciation can be linked to the woes of the euro area. Flailing French firms may fret about the "crazy euro" but there is little to justify their beef; the euro is near fair value now, down from overvaluation of as much as 50% in 2008. Nordic currencies that looked wildly overvalued by our greasy metric fell closer to fair value during the worst years of the euro crisis--to the relief of Swedish and Danish exporters. Despite its recent rise sterling also remains below its hearty level of six years ago, and is now close to fair value. Some central banks have helped their currencies slim down. The Swiss franc's decline is thanks in part to the Swiss National Bank. It put a styrofoam lid on the franc's value when capital began flowing in from panicked European investors, lest the rising cost of Swiss exports abroad drive Switzerland into recession. The Bank of Japan has also taken a bite out of the yen's value. Its generous portion of quantitative easing has helped push the currency down from close to fair value to 24% below it. The Chinese yuan, once the most undercooked currency in the index, is now only the 12th-most-undervalued, thanks to slow but steady appreciation in recent years. Yet because China's economy has grown so quickly, it has piled on weight in the index, helping to push the average undervaluation even lower. It is not on the whole surprising that currencies globally are looking a bit less supersized. A healthier American economy and reduced asset purchases by the Federal Reserve are a recipe for a stronger dollar. But American firms need to maintain their competitiveness. History suggests that even when Fed tightening is well done, it is rare that global credit conditions shift without a little scorching. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
THE ECONOMISTOur flame-grilled guide to currencies suggests the dollar is getting dearer COUNTRIES with McDonald's fast-food restaurants may only rarely become embroiled in military conflict (Russia and Ukraine are obvious exceptions at the moment), but currency wars are another matter. In recent years central banks in many rich economies fired up big bond-buying schemes to put some sizzle into economies that had only recently emerged from a deep freeze. Emerging-market governments complained that the capital that flowed their way as a result was hard to digest. Meanwhile Americans griped that China was serving up an undercooked yuan. Burgernomics provides one way to keep track of the food fight. Our Big Mac index is based on the theory of purchasing-power parity. It says that in the long run exchange rates ought to adjust so that a basket of goods and services costs the same across countries. Our basket contains just one item, a Big Mac (except in India, where we substitute the Maharaja Mac, a chicken sandwich). Since a Big Mac costs 48 kroner ($7.76) in Norway and only $4.80 in America, the kroner is overvalued by 62% according to this lighthearted, protein-rich analysis, making it the most puffed-up currency in the index. The same burger costs just $1.63 in Ukraine, by contrast, making the hryvnia the feeblest currency of the bunch. The latest dispatch from the world of burgernomics suggests that despite the Federal Reserve's best efforts, the dollar has been fattening up. The average valuation of the currencies in our index (weighted by GDP) has moved from roughly neutral in 2009 to about 15% undervalued against the dollar this year. Crises of various sorts are partly to blame. Political turmoil is depressing the hryvnia. And quite a lot of the dollar's relative appreciation can be linked to the woes of the euro area. Flailing French firms may fret about the "crazy euro" but there is little to justify their beef; the euro is near fair value now, down from overvaluation of as much as 50% in 2008. Nordic currencies that looked wildly overvalued by our greasy metric fell closer to fair value during the worst years of the euro crisis--to the relief of Swedish and Danish exporters. Despite its recent rise sterling also remains below its hearty level of six years ago, and is now close to fair value. Some central banks have helped their currencies slim down. The Swiss franc's decline is thanks in part to the Swiss National Bank. It put a styrofoam lid on the franc's value when capital began flowing in from panicked European investors, lest the rising cost of Swiss exports abroad drive Switzerland into recession. The Bank of Japan has also taken a bite out of the yen's value. Its generous portion of quantitative easing has helped push the currency down from close to fair value to 24% below it. The Chinese yuan, once the most undercooked currency in the index, is now only the 12th-most-undervalued, thanks to slow but steady appreciation in recent years. Yet because China's economy has grown so quickly, it has piled on weight in the index, helping to push the average undervaluation even lower. It is not on the whole surprising that currencies globally are looking a bit less supersized. A healthier American economy and reduced asset purchases by the Federal Reserve are a recipe for a stronger dollar. But American firms need to maintain their competitiveness. History suggests that even when Fed tightening is well done, it is rare that global credit conditions shift without a little scorching. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA member of the Kurdish security forces takes up position with his weapon as he guards a section of an oil refinery, which is being brought on a truck to Kalak refinery in the outskirts of Arbil. HOUSTON (Reuters) - A tanker carrying crude oil from Iraqi Kurdistan was anchored near the Port of Galveston, Texas, and must undergo a routine safety inspection by the U.S. Coast Guard on Sunday before it can unload its cargo, an official said. The Marshall Islands-flagged tanker United Kalavrvta sailed from the Turkish port of Ceyhan in June bound for the U.S. Gulf Coast despite Washington's concerns over independent oil sales from the autonomous region and threats from the Iraqi central government. Crude offloading could begin as early as Sunday, if the tanker passes the Coast Guard inspection "and there are no other issues," said Coast Guard Petty Officer Andy Kendrick. The Coast Guard was communicating with the U.S. National Security Council, State and Homeland Security departments about the vessel's arrival and status, Kendrick said. The United Kalavrvta received the oil at Ceyhan from a new Kurdish pipeline. The ship is too large to move through the Houston Ship Channel, which begins at Galveston, the Coast Guard has said. The United Kalavrvta will have to offload its cargo onto smaller ships offshore before the oil is delivered to the U.S. mainland. Trading sources in Texas, New York, London and Geneva have been unable to identify the buyer of the United Kalavrvta's cargo. The oil could go to any one of the many refineries located along the U.S. Gulf Coast. The ship carries approximately 1 million barrels of crude, which would fetch more than $100 million at international prices. Any sale of Kurdish crude oil to a U.S. refinery would infuriate Baghdad, which sees such deals as smuggling, raising questions about Washington's commitment to preventing oil sales from the autonomous region. The U.S. government has expressed fears that independent oil sales from Kurdistan could contribute to the breakup of Iraq as the government in Baghdad struggles to contain the ultra-hardline Islamic State, a group of Sunni Islamist insurgents who have captured vast areas of the country. But it also has grown frustrated with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's handling of the crisis. Washington has pressured companies and governments not to buy crude from the Kurdish Regional Government (KRG), but it has stopped short of banning U.S. firms from buying it outright. The KRG has renewed its push for an independent state amid the latest violence roiling Iraq. Its relationship with Baghdad has deteriorated over what it sees as Maliki's role in stoking the crisis and the long-running dispute over oil sales. Baghdad has threatened to sue anyone that buys Kurdish oil.   (Additional reporting by David Sheppard in London, editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris Wattie Red Bull Formula One driver Daniel Ricciardo of Australia celebrates after winning the Canadian F1 Grand Prix at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in Montreal June 8, 2014.  Try telling a Formula One driver that driving a car is for the fat and lazy. Despite the fact that they effectively earn a living by sitting in a car, the strength and endurance required of a F1 racer is pretty incredible. For starters, Formula One is physically strenuous because there are numerous "G-forces," or forces of acceleration, acting on the driver.  According to F1 Complete, there are lateral G-forces which can make the driver feel as though there is an extra 25 kg (or 55.12 lbs) on his neck. That's like having an average-sized Dalmatian attached to your neck while you're trying to drive a car. And if that weight wasn't enough, a racer's helmet feels like it weighs 7 kg, or 15 pounds. Furthermore, there are also longitudinal G-forces acting on the driver, plus additional forces from car acceleration and deceleration mid-drive. But that's not all. At the start of a race, the driver's heart rate can get between 170 - 190 bpm, and during the race the number "hovers around 160 beats per minute, and has peaks of over 200." In contrast, the heart rate of a "healthy, young man is typically in the region of 60 bpm." Keep in mind, that races are about two hours long, which is a long time for the heart to be beating three times the average rate. And finally, the "extreme heat" found in the F1 cockpit, "especially at the hotter rounds of the championships, also puts a vast straight on the body." In fact, according to the Formula 1 official page, "drivers can sweat off anything up to 3kg of their body weight during the course of a race." That's 6.6 pounds of water lost in two hours. Now that we've outlined the conditions of F1 drivers, let's get to how they adapt to them. Without a doubt, the most important body part a Formula One driver must train is the neck. According to BBC Sport,"McLaren drivers can train using a helmet attached to pulleys which pull the neck from different angles" and Renault drivers "use manual resistance techniques specifically designed for each circuit."  In terms of endurance, F1 is closer to marathon runners than soccer. During a sport like soccer, players can take short breaks from running or grab a water during halftime. But F1 drivers don't have any time to take a break — just like professional runners. To prepare for the extreme conditions of racing, racers participate in "intensive training" that focuses on "running, cross-training, and cycling" in order to maintain "specific heart rates" for longer time periods. For a racer, strong arms are a necessity. The arm "muscles must be incredibly strong but not so big that the driver is carrying extra weight or size".  According to Bleacher Report, Finnish driver Heikki Kovalainen will "train his arm muscles to be strong by sitting balanced on a gym ball and holding out a three kilograms weight in front of him like it is a steering wheel. He will then be directed by his personal trainer to turn the wheel left, right or return to centre." An exercise like this "improves muscle strength over long periods of time and reaction times while under the pressure of keeping the weight held out in front of" the driver. Just like with arms, legs need to be strong without being bulky. According to Bleacher Report, a driver "needs to generate 80 kilograms of downward pressure on the brake pedal" in order to slow down the car. That's slightly more than 176 pounds — the same as 21 gallons of water. Lastly, perhaps the most critical part of F1 racing is the mental aspect. Racers need to be able to stay completely focused for the entire race. Not only do they have to think about "racing lines, braking points, apexes and acceleration points on the track," but they're also thinking about strategy and speed, and communicate with their teams. Some drivers "learn breathing techniques to stay calm at crucial moments." Interestingly, Saul Miller, sports psychologist, once stated that Formula One is "like playing chess at 150 miles an hour." Sources: Formula 1, F1 Complete, BBC Sport, Bleacher Report, Times of India, New York Times FREE AppDownload
WUSTL.edu Silicon Valley enjoys something of a monopoly these days on making the most noise in the U.S. economy. But there's been surprisingly little fanfare surrounding the latest project that seemingly all the most successful Valleyites have been pouring into: an artificial intelligence company called Vicarious. Founded in 2010, Vicarious' list of investors is dazzling: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Ashton Kutcher, and Dustin Moskowitz count among the household names. PayPal cofounder Peter Thiel, along with folks from startup funders Y Combinator and cloud storage group Box, also number among those who've provided funding.  For Aydin Senkut, whose Felicis Ventures was one of Vicarious' earliest investors, there is agreement among top valley VCs that now is the time to get into artificial intelligence and machine learning, because it is going to change everyone's lives irrevocably. "AI and machine learning is a really big deal," he told us by phone recently. "For the longest time no one took it very seriously, but... more and more companies are now seeing how far they've fallen behind in this area, and how it's critically important to have this capability." What exactly is this capability? Despite its marquee backers, Vicarious has gained a reputation for secrecy. Co-founder Scott Phoenix, a computer scientist and designer, told us his team was not currently doing interviews. The other co-founder, a neuroscientist named Dileep George, did not respond to several requests for comment. But in previous interviews, George has discussed some of the potential practical applications for artificial intelligence. In an interview with NBC's PressHere in 2012, he described how an "improved Siri" could someday be smart enough to complex commands from any speaker, even with ones with thick accents, for things like booking air tickets without having to click through a bunch of screens. In the nearer term, which is still measured in years, AI capabilities will be sufficiently advanced that they can perform medical diagnoses, or recognize images that don't contain any preexisting text tags.  George and Phoenix call the underlying technology that powers these applications recursive cortical networking. RCN means teaching computers to model brain functions — specifically, those of the neocortex, the part responsible for sensory processing. As George, who left an AI venture created by Palm founder Jeff Hawkins to found Vicarious, told KurzweilAI in 2012, "My goals have always been to embody the computational principles of the brain in a mathematical model, but RCN is a ground-up rethinking of what kind of algorithmic approach is necessary to solve the problem.”  Vicarious' breakthroughs are still in their infancy, but they've posted a demonstration of something it can already do: break a CAPTCHA security device. We've GIF'ed how it works here:   The Valley seems to be hungry for AI in general. But if there's any kind of AI arms-race on, the field remains pretty narrow, if only because there are so few people qualified to lead the way. Facebook recently hired its own specialist in charge of AI, NYU's Yann LeCun, but he and his team remain focused on how to improve Facebook's own functions. A more direct rival, of sorts, to Vicarious, is a firm called DeepMind. Google bought DeepMind for $400 million earlier this year. Ironically Vicarious and DeepMind both share Thiel's Founders Fund as a backer, which confirms how narrow the space remains, but also how VCs are attempting to get a piece of as much AI action as they can. Recode reported in January that London-based DeepMind is working on similar projects as Vicarious, like advanced image recognition, though they too are quite cagey about what exactly they're up to.  "The reality is, there are a very limited number of AI and machine learning experts in the world, which is one reason why it's been getting so much attention," Senkut says. "It is such an important field, and [DeepMind] is one of few that are thinking very big and ambitious." In fact, the most publicly accessible AI projects are coming from the government.  Sometime between 2006 and 2007, the Director of National Intelligence began earmarking funds for IARPA, short for Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity. Its goal was to start developing technology for the country's 16 different spy agencies. IARPA is itself looking to accelerate its image-reading capabilities through a program called JANUS. It's also hoping to develop a technology that can "[understand] human interactions that involve trust and trustworthiness."   Bruno Olshausen, a Vicarious adviser and neuroscience professor at Berkeley told us that the most exciting research IARPA is conducting is in a field called Connectomics. The goal is nothing less than recreating the human brain. The output from the field will make the aforementioned projects look prehistoric. "Evolution discovered all these secrets — like building an eye — about how to build good, simple processing," he told us. "This is something computers cannot do now. But when you look at a brain under a microscope, you're basically looking at the solution, you're looking at a microchip." Last month, Elon Musk, who came on board as a backer in a $40 million funding round that also included Zuckerberg and Kutcher,  said one of the reasons he'd invested in Vicarious was to keep an eye on unexpected negative developments in AI — basically, a "SkyNet" scenario.  Olshausen says that scenario remains a remote possibility. Our knowledge of how the brain works is more or less where our knowledge of physics was before Newton: nearly useless.  "Absent a major paradigm shift - something unforeseeable at present - I would not say we are at the point where we should truly be worried about AI going out of control," he said in a follow-up email. " That is not to say that we shouldn’t worry about how *humans* will use machines or engage in warfare via machines - e.g., for domestic spying, foreign espionage, hacking attacks and the like.  But in the meantime we can rest easy knowing that computers themselves are not going to take over the world anytime soon, or in the foreseeable future."  The AI crew is playing a very long game — there have been reports that Vicarious makes anyone who comes on sign something that says they will not ask about short-term progress or profits. But Senkut believes that as novel as it sounds now, we will someday be taking AI for granted. "It's unstoppable," he said. "This thing is going to be here before we know it, like with HTTP distribution coming out in the '70s, I don't think people realized it was going to give birth to the Internet. It's not like, Oh my god, what's the next thing in a few months. I'm just really excited that it's going to be an enabling platform, that’s something I don't even have to speculate about." FREE AppDownload
MarathonU.S. oil production remains at its highest level since the mid-80s, and it's all thanks to incredible developments in hydraulic fracturing. Marathon Oil has a great animation on the basics of hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking."  We found it thanks to Mark Perry's blog. Intended for novices, it explains how horizontal drilling works and explains the roles of water and sand. Not surprisingly, the video doesn't spend much time on the controversies surrounding the environmental risks.  That discussion is for another time. For now, check out these key points from the animation that will help any novice speak more intelligently about fracking. Note: Ben Duronio, who no longer works at Business Insider, contributed to an earlier version of this. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSecurity guards stand inside the Husi Food factory in ShanghaiBEIJING (Reuters) - The parent company of a scandal-hit Chinese food supplier said it is withdrawing all products made by the subsidiary. Shanghai Husi Food Co Ltd, owned by Illinois-based OSI Group LLC, is at the center of a major food safety scandal, which has spread from China to Hong Kong and Japan, over allegations it mixed fresh and expired meat. In a statement posted on its website late Saturday, OSI Group said it would "withdraw from the marketplace" all products made by Shanghai Husi, and that it was conducting an internal investigation into current and former senior management. It vowed to take "swift and decisive action" including legal measures against those responsible for the scandal, and said a new management team would be brought to China. Regulators in Shanghai said on Saturday that Husi had forged production dates on smoked beef patties and then sold them after they expired. OSI Group said it would fully cooperate with Chinese regulators. Chinese police have detained five people as part of the investigation. The scandal, which has dragged in global food brands including McDonald's Corp, KFC-parent Yum Brands Inc. and Starbucks Corp.., was triggered by a local television report last week showing staff at Shanghai Husi using long-expired meat. The report also alleged the firm forged production dates. Food safety has been a big concern for Chinese consumers after dairy products tainted with the industrial chemical melamine sickened many thousands and led to the deaths of six infants in 2008. Dragon TVA video from inside the plant that alleged mixed old and new meat. (Reporting by Megha Rajagopalan; Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TV via YouTubeJim O'NeillOn one level, this seems like a rather odd time to be asking such a question, especially when the BRICS political leaders have just agreed to set up a joint development bank to be headquartered in Shanghai. So the BRICS name is certainly here to stay, and in terms of global governance, their influence is likely to rise as a group because of this development.   Previously, the BRICS political leaders meetings had failed to agree anything specific and even once the creation of such a bank was first mooted, for the past two years, they appeared to have difficulties in agreeing where it might be located and how it should be capitalised. At this Fontaleza meeting in Brazil, they have confounded sceptics by agreeing not only both these key things, but also to have the first head of the Bank to be an Indian. What the Bank will prioritise in terms of lending and projects, we will have to wait and see, but one can think of many good ideas including shared road and rail infrastructure challenges, especially those with some common borders, projects for energy efficiency, alternative energies, clean and safe water, and of great importance to themselves, to focus on the growing resistance to antibiotics, a challenge that if a solution cannot be found will be very harmful for their futures. But if the BRICS leaders hadn’t made this breakthrough, I am sure the siren rising about the end of the BRIC economic phenomena would be even louder and it is important to try and objectively deal with this, separately from this announcement, important as that is. So, let’s deal with the case as to why the BRIC story might be past its prime. Some observers believed that the whole notion of a grouping of Brazil, Russia, India and China never made any sound sense because beyond having a lot of people, they didn’t share anything else in common. In particular, two are democracies, and two are not, obviously, China and Russia.  Similarly, two are major commodity producers, Brazil and Russia, the other two, not. And their levels of wealth are quite different, with Brazil and Russia well above $10,000, China around $ 7-8 k, and India less than $ 2k per head.  And the sceptic would follow all of this by saying, the only reason why Brazil and Russia grew so well in the past decade was simply due to a persistent boom in commodity prices, and once that finished, as appears to be the case now, then their economies would lose their shine, as indeed appears to be the case.  Throw in that China would inevitably be caught by its own significant challenges at some point, which the doubters would say, is now, then all is left is India, and if it weren’t for the election of Modi recently, there has not been a lot to justify structural optimism about that country recently. It is factually the case that all four BRIC countries have seen their GDP growth rates slow sharply in this decade. From 2011-13, China has grown by 8.2pct compared to 10.5 pct the last decade, India has slowed to 4.6pct , down from 7.6, Brazil has grown by 2pct, down from 3.6, and Russia , some 3pct, compared to 4.6pct.  So all four have grown less, and in all cases, there are plenty of issues to worry about. But, let’s now start to get serious. Because of China’s huge importance, the weighted average performance of the BRIC growth rate since 2011 is 6.5pct. Now this is down from 7.9pct the last decade, but higher than the previous two decades. China today is one and a half times the size of the other three put together, so its influence on their combined growth rate is more important. Related to this, the BRIC countries combined GDP is nearly as large as the US, and by end 2015, it will be the same size in current US$. (In PPP terms, it is already substantially larger than the US). So even with slower growth, the BRIC country’s economic influence is on the rise. In US$ terms, they are contributing decade to date more than 3 times to the world economy that of the US, and obviously in PPP terms, even more. So, the idea that the importance of the BRICs is over is really not a credible objective economic issue. ( note I don’t make any inclusion of South Africa as that economy is so small, it is not justified to be regarded in the same economic sphere. It is actually not even the largest economy in sub-Sahara Africa anymore, Nigeria is today. And there at least 8 other so called emerging economies are much bigger than South Africa, some of them at least 3 times) What is undoubtedly true is that the RATE of BRIC growth has slowed, but while this might be a surprise to the casual observer, it certainly isn’t to most who follow them closely. In fact, the 6.5pct decade to date is just 0.1pt less than I had assumed in 2010 that they would grow by 6.6pct. China, crucially is actually growing by more than I assumed, so far by 8.2pct, actually more than the 7.5pct I assumed. This is compensating for the weaker growth in the other three, which indeed has disappointed my expectations, especially Brazil and Russia, and to some degree India. So it might be truer that the BRIC story decade to date has been purely supported by China, and without that, then the disappointment might be much more justified. And it would follow that if China is about to slow a lot further, which many sceptics think, then the BRIC economic story would become marginally less. The problem with this line of thinking is that while there are considerable challenges for China, in many cases, there is evidence that the policymakers are rising to those challenges and trying to deal with them, which I might point out is quite different from many other countries that often ignore them until they cause massive crises. For example, how many readers can recall any country deliberately trying to stop house prices rising as China has- possibly-successfully-done? A couple of years ago, people worried about housing bubbles in Beijing and Shanghai, they don’t talk about that anymore. Why? Because the problem has eased due to policy. Today the sceptics fear bubbles in so-called second and third tier cities, but I think there is a reasonable chance that the policymakers will deal with them especially with so many migrants still to migrate and, now, to receive proper full blown urban citizen rights including house ownership. And more importantly still, is the data itself. After months of clear slowing, much of it, including the recent PMI’s and June’s raft of economic data has all improved further, and from what I can see, 7.5pct looks to be in the bag for 2014, if not a bit stronger. I do believe each of Brazil and Russia have got some challenges to face, that they are not yet confronting, which at the core is to reduce their dependency to the commodity cycle, and while there are many differences between them, they do both need to become more competitive and entrepreneurial outside of commodities and to boost private sector investment. Which leaves India, about who I have to say, following the really powerful election victory of Modi, I think there are clear reasons to expect big policy improvements, and I now don’t entirely rule out that this country could still match my 7.5pct expectation for the decade. It will be really difficult, but what is quite likely is that they may grow more than 7.5pct in the second half of the decade, and possibly faster than China. So the BRIC economic story over? I think not, even without their historically important decision to create a shared development bank, the consequences of which we are set to learn about. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinA woman takes a photograph of wreckage at the crash site of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 near the village of Hrabove (Grabovo), Donetsk region July 26, 2014.IN 1991, when Soviet Communism collapsed, it seemed as if the Russian people might at last have the chance to become citizens of a normal Western democracy. Vladimir Putin's disastrous contribution to Russia's history has been to set his country on a different path. And yet many around the world, through self-interest or self-deception, have been unwilling to see Mr Putin as he really is. The shooting down of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17, the killing of 298 innocent people and the desecration of their bodies in the sunflower fields of eastern Ukraine, is above all a tragedy of lives cut short and of those left behind to mourn. But it is also a measure of the harm Mr Putin has done. Under him Russia has again become a place in which truth and falsehood are no longer distinct and facts are put into the service of the government. Mr Putin sets himself up as a patriot, but he is a threat--to international norms, to his neighbours and to the Russians themselves, who are intoxicated by his hysterical brand of anti-Western propaganda. The world needs to face the danger Mr Putin poses. If it does not stand up to him today, worse will follow. Mr Putin has blamed the tragedy of MH17 on Ukraine, yet he is the author of its destruction. A high-court's worth of circumstantial evidence points to the conclusion that pro-Russian separatists fired a surface-to-air missile out of their territory at what they probably thought was a Ukrainian military aircraft. Separatist leaders boasted about it on social media and lamented their error in messages intercepted by Ukrainian intelligence and authenticated by America (see "Collateral damage"). Russia's president is implicated in their crime twice over. First, it looks as if the missile was supplied by Russia, its crew was trained by Russia, and after the strike the launcher was spirited back to Russia. Second, Mr Putin is implicated in a broader sense because this is his war. The linchpins of the self-styled Donetsk People's Republic are not Ukrainian separatists but Russian citizens who are, or were, members of the intelligence services. Their former colleague, Mr Putin, has paid for the war and armed them with tanks, personnel carriers, artillery--and batteries of surface-to-air missiles. The separatists pulled the trigger, but Mr Putin pulled the strings. The enormity of the destruction of flight MH17 should have led Mr Putin to draw back from his policy of fomenting war in eastern Ukraine. Yet he has persevered, for two reasons. First, in the society he has done so much to mould, lying is a first response. The disaster immediately drew forth a torrent of contradictory and implausible theories from his officials and their mouthpieces in the Russian media: Mr Putin's own plane was the target; Ukrainian missile-launchers were in the vicinity. And the lies got more complex. The Russian fiction that a Ukrainian fighter jet had fired the missile ran into the problem that the jet could not fly at the altitude of MH17, so Russian hackers then changed a Wikipedia entry to say that the jets could briefly do so. That such clumsily Soviet efforts are easily laughed off does not defeat their purpose, for their aim is not to persuade but to cast enough doubt to make the truth a matter of opinion. In a world of liars, might not the West be lying, too? Second, Mr Putin has become entangled in a web of his own lies, which any homespun moralist could have told him was bound to happen. When his hirelings concocted propaganda about fascists running Kiev and their crucifixion of a three-year-old boy, his approval ratings among Russian voters soared by almost 30 percentage points, to over 80%. Having roused his people with falsehoods, the tsar cannot suddenly wriggle free by telling them that, on consideration, Ukraine's government is not too bad. Nor can he retreat from the idea that the West is a rival bent on Russia's destruction, ready to resort to lies, bribery and violence just as readily as he does. In that way, his lies at home feed his abuses abroad. In Russia such doublespeak recalls the days of the Soviet Union when Pravda claimed to tell the truth. This mendocracy will end in the same way as that one did: the lies will eventually unravel, especially as it becomes obvious how much money Mr Putin and his friends have stolen from the Russian people, and he will fall. The sad novelty is that the West takes a different attitude this time round. In the old days it was usually prepared to stand up to the Soviet Union, and call out its falsehoods. With Mr Putin it looks the other way. Take Ukraine. The West imposed fairly minor sanctions on Russia after it annexed Crimea, and threatened tougher ones if Mr Putin invaded eastern Ukraine. To all intents and purposes, he did just that: troops paid for by Russia, albeit not in Russian uniforms, control bits of the country. But the West found it convenient to go along with Mr Putin's lie, and the sanctions eventually imposed were too light and too late. Similarly, when he continued to supply the rebels, under cover of a ceasefire that he claimed to have organised, Western leaders vacillated. Since the murders of the passengers of MH17 the responses have been almost as limp. The European Union is threatening far-reaching sanctions--but only if Mr Putin fails to co-operate with the investigation or he fails to stop the flow of arms to the separatists. France has said that it will withhold the delivery of a warship to Mr Putin if necessary, but is proceeding with the first of the two vessels on order. The Germans and Italians claim to want to keep diplomatic avenues open, partly because sanctions would undermine their commercial interests. Britain calls for sanctions, but it is reluctant to harm the City of London's profitable Russian business. America is talking tough but has done nothing new. Enough. The West should face the uncomfortable truth that Mr Putin's Russia is fundamentally antagonistic. Bridge-building and resets will not persuade him to behave as a normal leader. The West should impose tough sanctions now, pursue his corrupt friends and throw him out of every international talking shop that relies on telling the truth. Anything else is appeasement—and an insult to the innocents on MH17. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGoldman Sachs Group, Inc. Chairman and CEO Blankfein moderates a panel discussion at North American Energy Summit in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - A deal to resolve a U.S. regulator's claims against Goldman Sachs Group Inc over mortgage-backed securities sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac leading up to the financial crisis could cost the bank between $800 million and $1.25 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter. The person said Goldman Sachs is discussing a settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which filed 18 lawsuits against Goldman and other banks in 2011 over about $200 billion in mortgage-backed securities that later went sour. Goldman Sachs and the FHFA declined to comment on Saturday. The upper end of the range matches the amount Morgan Stanley agreed to pay in February to resolve the FHFA's claims against it. The person familiar with the matter said the negotiations are still ongoing, and the final amount of any deal remains fluid. The person was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. The Wall Street Journal first reported the settlement talks. The FHFA has recovered $16.1 billion in agreements with other banks. Goldman is among four banks still facing FHFA mortgage-related lawsuits, along with HSBC Holdings PLC, Nomura Holdings Inc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC. On Wednesday, Goldman, HSBC and Noumra argued that U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York, who is overseeing the litigation, should reconsider her decision that the agency did not wait too long in suing the banks. The renewed bid to dismiss the lawsuits based on timeliness issues stemmed from a June ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court. The court ruled in an environmental case that a federal law did not preempt a state-law statute that placed time limits on bringing a lawsuit that applied even if a plaintiff did not know it had a claim. But Cote warned the banks on Wednesday they faced a "steep hill to climb." Goldman Sachs and HSBC are scheduled to face trial Sept. 29. A trial in the Nomura case is due for Jan. 26, 2015. The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. HSBC North America Holdings Inc, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 11-6189.   (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Additional reporting by Nate Raymond; Writing by Joseph Ax; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Denish C / FlickrWage growth is close to not being growth at all. On August 1, we'll get the latest jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Last month, the report showed that the economy added 288,000 jobs in June, with wages growing 2% year of year.  Unfortunately, when taking into account the rate of inflation, "real" wage growth was flat. In Business Insider's latest Most Important Charts In The World feature, Ellen Zentner, senior U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley, highlighted the following chart, which shows how real wage growth has slowed to, well, no growth at all. Wage growth cratered following the financial crisis, and as Zentner notes, it has remained at around a meager 1.5% to 2.25% rate since that time. Inflation, however, has also lagged, and as a result, real wage growth — however modestly — has still existed. Over the first half of this year, however, inflation in the U.S. has picked up, running at about a 2% annualized rate the last few months. If inflation begins to increase faster than wages, U.S. workers could again find their inflation-adjusted pay falling.  Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsOffsideOn July 15, Janet Yellen made news with her semiannual policy testimony to Congress, with her views on interest rates, bubbles and the debt market. After making clear her intentions to continue with quantitative easing (QE) and keep rates low, she also provided her thoughts on whether the Fed’s policies were creating a market bubble. While she said that valuations were not in bubble-territory for stocks overall, the Fed report that was released in conjunction with her testimony suggested that “valuation metrics in some sectors appear substantially stretched– particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries”. While the Fed (or any central bank) does sometimes make generic (and opaque) statements about overall market valuations, it is unusual for it to be this specific about individual sector valuations. In my view, it not only over stepped its bounds but strayed far from its expertise, which is not valuation. Is social media over valued? Those who have been readers of this blog know that I am fascinated with both the valuation and pricing of social media stocks. On Facebook, I thought the stock was priced too high at the initial offering, friended it after the market overreacted to early negative earnings reports and unfriended it after a price run up (and perhaps too early). On Twitter, I have been consistently skeptical about the reach of the company's business model, arguing that their advertising model restricted them to being a lesser player (even if successful) in the overall online advertising market.  My “conservative” valuations of Twitter and Facebook should make clear that I am not a social media company cheerleader, but I was perplexed by the Fed’s contention that the valuation metrics it was looking at suggested that social media and biotech stocks were over valued. What are the metrics that are being used to make the judgment? Clearly, they cannot be the conventional pricing ratios that investors use, such as PE ratios or an EBITDA multiples, since neither is particularly effective at assessing companies in a young sector. Perhaps, it is some version of a revenue multiple (EV to Sales or Price to Sales), but there again looking at what multiple of current revenues a company trades at, when those revenues can double or triple over the next two years is not indicative of valuation. As I see it, the only metric that consistently explains differences in market prices across social media companies is the number of users at each of these companies, and I used this relationship to explain why Facebook would pay $19 billion for Whatsapp. It is possible that the Fed has come up with a creative way of explaining what the “right” value per social media user should be, but creativity in valuation has never been (and will never be) the Fed’s strong suit. There is a case to be made that social media company are collectively being over valued and that case does not rest on valuation metrics or multiples. It stems from a common phenomenon in young sectors, where investors in individual companies price their companies on overall market potential but either misassess or ignore the fact that the overall market is not big enough to support all of them (and new entrants). This is the point I was trying to make in my post on micro and macro mistakes, where I used the pricing of social media and young tech companies that are in the online advertising space to back out implied future revenues and argued that if the market is right on each individual company, the collective market share of these companies would be well in excess of the total online advertising market a  decade from now. Note that even if you buy into this argument, you may still invest in an individual social media company (Facebook, Twitter or Linkedin), since the winners in this sector can yield superlative returns, even if the sector goes through a correction. The analogy would be to investing in Amazon during the dot-com boom and holding through the carnage of the dot-come bust; an investor who bought Amazon at is absolute peak in late 1999 and held through 2014 would have quadrupled her money and generated a compounded annual return of over 11% a year. With biotechnology companies, making judgments about overall valuation is even more fraught with danger because the pricing of these companies is a probabilistic exercise (dependent upon the drugs that are working their way through the FDA pipeline and their blockbuster potential) and comparing pricing across time is close to useless. In short, the Fed’s solicitude for investors in these high growth sectors is touching but investors in social media and biotechnology companies are grown ups, playing at a grown up game, i.e., trying to pick the winners in a sector that they may believe is over valued. They may be suffering from all of the behavioral quirks that get in the way of investment success, including over confidence and a herd mentality, but it is their choice to make. The Fed as Market Guru and Sector Prognosticator Some of the fundamental parameters (interest rates, the term structure, economy growth) that drive both asset allocation and security selection are affected by Fed policy, with changes creating winners and losers among investors. If you view investing as a sport, the Fed’s role is closer to that of an umpire or a referee than it is to being a player. Thus, statements about specific sectors, such as those made in the most recent Fed reports on social media and biotechnology, come dangerously close to game interference. In fact, if you buy into the Fed’s contentions that the overall market is not over valued, but that social media and biotechnology are, is there not an implicit message that there must be some other sectors that are under valued? If investors believe the Fed, should they be selling their social media and biotech holdings and buying stocks in other sectors?  Even if you accept that the Fed should be doling out investment advice, I think that it is on particularly shaky ground at this junction in history, where there are many who believe that it has kept interest rates at “abnormally” low levels for the last five years (with QE1, QE2, QE3..). I have disagreed with those who attribute monumental powers to the Fed in an earlier post where I compared the Fed Chair to the Wizard of Oz, and argued that rates have been low for the last five years more because of the fundamentals, i.e., anemic growth and low inflation, than because of Fed policy. The crux of this argument is captured in the graph below, where I compare the actual ten-year bond rate to a fundamental interest rate, computed as the sum of real growth in GDP and expected inflation: Musings on MarketsTen-year T.Bond rate versus Fundamental Interest rat (GDP Growth + Inflation)As you can see, the Fed’s role over the past five decades has been more as a tweaker of interest rates than as a setter of rates, but it is undeniable that the Fed can affect rates at the margin. In particular, the Fed’s quantitative tightening (in 1980 and 1981) and easing (in both the 2002-06 and 2010-13 timing periods) have had an effect on interest rates. In the figure below, I try to capture the Fed effect by looking at the difference between nominal 10-year T.Bond rates and the fundamental interest rate: Musings on MarketsThe Fed Effect = T.Bond rate - Fundamental (Negative = Fed Easing, Positive = Fed Tightening)Note that negative values are loosely indicative of a "easy money" and a positive values with a "tight money Fed" and you can make the argument that the Fed's actions have kept rates lower than they should be, at least for the last three years. If you accept the notion that the Fed controls interest rates (that many investors believe and Fed policy makers promote) or even my lesser argument that the Fed has used its powers to keep rates below where they should be for the last few years, the consequences for valuation are immediate. Those lower rates will push up the valuations of all assets, but the lower rates will have a higher value impact on cash flows way into the future than they do on near-term cash flows, making the over valuation larger at higher growth companies. Consequently, a reasonable argument can be made that the Fed has been an active participant in, and perhaps even the generator of, any bubbles, real or perceived, in the market. In my post on market bubbles, I did agree with Ms. Yellen on her overall market judgment (that traditional metrics are sending mixed messages on overall market valuation) and used the ERP for the market, as she did, to back my point. In particular, I noted that the implied equity risk premium for the market at about 5% was high by historical standards (rather than low, which would be a indicator of overvalued stocks). However, breaking the ERP down into an expected stock market return and a risk free rate does point to an overall disquieting trend: Musings on MarketsThe Fed's role in Equity Risk Premium ExpansionNote that all of the expansion in ERP in the last five years has come from the risk free rate coming down and not the return on stocks going up. In fact, the expected return on stocks of 8% at the end of 2013 is a little lower than it was pre-crash in 2007 and if the risk free rate reverts to pre-2008 levels (say 4%), the ERP would be in the danger zone. Put differently, if there is a market bubble, this one is not because stock market investors are behaving with abandon but because the Fed has kept rates too low and the over valuation will be greatest in those sectors with the highest growth.  Given this history, a Fed (Chair, Governor or Staff report) complaining about frothy valuations and exuberant investors is akin to a bar-owner, who has been serving free beer all day, complaining about all the drunks on the premises. If the Fed truly believes that it has the power to keep interest rates low and that there is a market bubble, the solution is within its reach. Stop the quantitative easing, let interest rates find their natural level and the bubbles (if they exist) will take care of themselves.  The Fed as Economic Custodian There have been a few commentators who have argued it is in fact the Fed's job to not only keep its eye on market and sector valuations and actively manage bubbles. I disagree for two reasons. IMDBThe Fed as Nanny The argument of whether the Federal Reserve should allow interest rates to rise in the face of a bubble is an age-old one that gets refought every generation. Benjamin Strong, the governor of the New York Federal Reserve from 1914 to 1928, is said to have argued against letting interest rates rise in his time, using the analogy of investors as children and saying that raising interest rates to puncture a  bubble would be like punishing all the kids because a few are misbehaving. That quote may be dated but I think it captures the mindset of many of today's Fed policy makers, with investors being viewed as children and the Fed acting as a super nanny, keeping its unruly and undisciplined charges from misbehaving.  It is time for the Fed to stop playing Mary Poppins and started treating investors as grown-ups, capable of making mistakes and living with the consequences, and for investors to stop looking to the Fed for guidance and counsel. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipLas Vegas casino magnate Steve Wynn.Casino magnate Steve Wynn already knew Atlantic City would become obsolete in the 1980s, when he sold his casino there less than a decade after opening. Wynn, who got into the Las Vegas casino business when he was 23, started the Golden Nugget Atlantic City in 1978. It opened a year or two later, but Wynn sold it in 1987. In a WSJ video interview with Peter Robinson from the Hoover Institution, Wynn said the local Atlantic City government was "corrupt and stupid" and that the state government wasn't stepping up to take advantage of Atlantic City's potential. According to Wynn, this is what led to the city's decline. From the interview: "And I kept saying to governors of New Jersey: 'You must take control of the central planning of this community if it’s to save itself. Right now you’re the monopoly on the East Coast; that will end someday. And the infrastructure of this city has to be so big, that it’s like Las Vegas. Las Vegas is surviving in spite of everything because the infrastructure here is so big. The menu for guests is so great. Atlantic City can’t just be a local crap game. It’s gotta be a destination city.' "But for that, the government had to take over – the New Jersey state government, not the local Atlantic City government, which was pathetic. Well they wouldn’t. And they didn’t. And I came at one point of the view that Atlantic City was never going to take advantage of its opportunity and would eventually face obsolescence, which I’m afraid is true today." Wynn said he was first drawn to business in Atlantic City after fellow casino owner Jack Davis told him he was making $150,000 a day. "We did $700,000 the first three days in slots," Davis told him, Wynn said in the interview. "We were having trouble counting the money from the tables, because it's all stacked up in box crates." In January 2014, The Center for Gaming Research reported that Atlantic City's revenue had been consistently declining since 2007, having fallen more than 45 percent since 2006. The most visible example of Atlantic City's decline is the $2.2 billion Revel casino, which filed for bankruptcy for the second time in June. Watch the full interview here »   FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg via Getty ImagesIt's hard to know when it happened. On Wall Street, dates and times tend to run together, especially when the market is as dead silent as it is now. Sometime, though, in between earnings announcements and investor conferences, CNBC appearances and M&amp;A deals, Bill Ackman of the hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management became what looks like the most oblivious man on Wall Street. This condition was on florid display on Tuesday, when the silver-haired billionaire held his third presentation on Herbalife, a multi-level marketing nutrition firm that he announced he would short to zero back in December 2012. What happened after that initial grandiose display is already the stuff of Wall Street legend. After Ackman announced his position at a well-attended public presentation in the auditorium of the AXA Equitable Building — a circus of journalists and investors that ran heavy on Ackman’s customary pomp and circumstance — Herbalife's stock fell. Whether the decline was due to Ackman’s allegations that the company was a pyramid scheme that exploited the dreams of its mostly Latino salespeople or to the market’s herd mentality was unclear. But for a minute there, Citizen Bill looked like the biggest hero on the street — a billion-dollar whiz kid who had figured out how to do well for himself while striking a blow for the little guy. In the post-Occupy era, when big-time financiers are all too conscious of the public perception that their work fattens the balance sheets of the 1% at the expense of everyone else, it was a pretty nifty trick. Even now his investors must be happy. Herbalife isn't his only position. His fund, Pershing Square, is killing it this year, up 25% in the first half. It is Ackman's public face that tends to make Wall Street want to turn away. Weeks after he announced his Herbalife short, a buyer stepped in. Carl Icahn, long one of Ackman's enemies, put his nemesis in a short squeeze. Moreover, Icahn answered Ackman's public short with a dramatic display of his own. He called into CNBC while Ackman was on the air, and the two got into it on live television. "I'm telling you he's like a crybaby in the schoolyard,” Icahn said. “I went to a tough school in Queens, you know, and they used to beat up the little Jewish boys. He was like one of the little Jewish boys crying ..." Ackman could only shake his head at Icahn’s antics and go on to explain the root of their quarrel. Icahn was colorful, yes, but in that instance, Ackman looked like the adult in the room. Even so, everyone who showed up for Ackman’s Tuesday presentation — or tuned into the internet livestream — remembered what Icahn said on TV over a year before. They remembered it as Ackman’s talk passed the hour mark, then the two-hour mark and the three-hour mark. They remembered it as Ackman compared Herbalife's top brass to everything from Nazis to Mafiosos and drug dealers. And they remembered it as they watched Herbalife's stock rocket up 24% for the day, making a mockery of Ackman's crusade. They remembered it when Ackman — describing his family’s connection to the American Dream as the presentation (almost) neared its climax — actually cried. Wall Street is a macho place. Traders are taught to keep their emotions in check. Irrational exuberance might be fun down at Chuck E. Cheese — in the canyons of finance it’s deadly. And breaking down in tears is even worse. No investor wants someone prone to hysterics running their money. The market punishes vulnerability, and on Tuesday evening, at dinners from the Upper East Side to Newport, California, people wondered: What the heck happened to Bill Ackman? CNBC Since the financial crisis, Ackman’s name has has been high up on the list of those who "saw it coming" with his short of insurer MBIA. For some time, that was a mystical phrase in the post-crisis era — it drew money to your hedge fund, created confidence in your investors. These days, however, Ackman seems like that overeager kid you knew in high school. The one who ran for class president over and over again, got beat every time, and never understood why. His Herbalife short is all that adolescent desperation crystallized into a single high-profile trade. To win, he must persuade regulators and politicians to look at the 34-year-old, $6.4 billion market cap company and see what he sees — an illegal pyramid scheme built on the backs of its army of distributors, mostly low-income Latino immigrants, trying to chase a small slice of the American dream. At Tuesday's presentation, Ackman mentioned the media's treatment of that D.C. crusade, specifically referencing a January New York Times article suggesting that Ackman had been directly involved in Senator Edward Markey's (D-Mass.) condemnation of the company. See, while regulators like the Securities Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission have been looking into the matter, not many politicians have been jumping into the ring. "Under financial pressure as the stock rose," the article said, "Mr. Ackman made the rounds among regulators, meeting with the S.E.C., the F.T.C., and the office of the New York attorney general, in a quest to discredit the company. He released reams of documents, whose points were echoed in Mr. Markey’s letters on Thursday." Ackman flayed the media in general for their coverage of Herbalife, but he took issue with the The Times specifically for even conceiving that he might have had something to do with Markey’s letter. It’s standard operating procedure in Congress for legislators call for action or even craft bills based on research or policy work provided by lobbyists or other constituents. But being called out on it is never a good thing. "Ironically, I think Ackman’s involvement has made it much harder for members of Congress to raise the heat on this," a Hill staffer told Business Insider. "Some will weigh in for one side or another, but most want to avoid appearing like they’re doing one billionaire’s bidding. What do they have to gain?" It's just one example of Ackman's apparent lack of self-awareness. Tuesday's presentation was meant to be a study of Herbalife, but it turned into a study of Ackman's character. That's what it felt like when Ackman took a detour in his presentation to accuse Chapman Capital's Bob Chapman of self-promotion for daring to appear on CNBC to discuss his firm's long position in Herbalife while Ackman was still pontificating. Think about it: Here’s a guy standing on stage giving a three-and-a-half-hour presentation on one trade accusing another investor of seeking the spotlight. Ackman, a tireless performer, has somehow convinced himself no one is paying close attention to the show. All anyone could think was: Really, dude? Perhaps Ackman would have liked Chapman to choose another day — any day other than his big day — to rip a few of the "Ackman For Junior Class President" fliers off the halls of The Street. But let's call that a simple gaffe, because eventually Ackman's hysterics ventured into more questionable territory. Sometime in the second, or maybe (who knows?) third, hour of the presentation, Ackman said that former D.A. Davidson food and beverage analyst Tim Ramey may have been fired for his bullish position on Herbalife. Ramey was furious. He had, in fact, left D.A. Davidson on good terms to take a job with Post Foods. He said as much to Ackman, and to CNBC's Scott Wapner, in an e-mail that turned into the story of the afternoon. "Exposing one lie is the same as exposing 1,000 lies," Ramey wrote. "[Ackman] can't discern the difference anymore between truth and his fictional view of events." Ackman was forced to retract his statement. Bloomberg via Getty Images Unfortunately, this is not the first time Ackman appears to have spoken carelessly in his effort to substantiate his position in a trade. On June 9, he appeared on CNBC to discuss his position in the pharmaceutical firm Allergan — it’s a purchase he made to push the company to accept a hostile takeover by its peer, Valeant. At this point it's well known that short seller Jim Chanos, of Kynikos Associates, thinks that Valeant is an accounting rollup, that it lacks real growth. Such claims, coming from Wall Street’s foremost short seller, are hard to ignore. So Ackman addressed them during his CNBC appearance, but some of the points he made were just plain wrong. "Here's what Jim's missing," Ackman told CNBC's Becky Quick. "Since I disclosed our stake in Valeant, I picked up the phone, I left him two messages, I asked him to come on the show this morning. Your producer did the same ... By the way, Jim has covered his Valeant short by buying Allergan. If he really believes that Valeant was a bad company going to zero — he's effectively a risk arb at this point. He's bought Allergan, he's short Valeant. He makes money. What he's saying is that if this deal goes through, Valeant is worth a lot more money." The problem is that Chanos says he never covered his Valeant short — he added to it. He has a very small long position in Allergan in his long-short hedge fund, but it is only a fraction of his Valeant short position. Chanos also maintains that he has no record of any phone messages, voicemails, or emails from Mr. Ackman between mid-March and mid-May, which was after his April 22 announcement that he had purchased Allergan shares. In that same appearance, Ackman said that Chanos was short Danaher, a manufacturing company. Chanos told Business Insider, however, that he has not shorted the company for over a decade. "I have no idea where he came up with that,” Mr. Chanos said.  The sad part about all of this — the shows, the exaggerations, the public emotion — is that Ackman could be right about Herbalife. He could be right, but no Washington politician wants to appear to be bullied by a billionaire. He could be right, but no one on Wall Street wants to listen to an investor who gives emotional three-hour sermons about trading positions. He could be right, but when he says misleading things on television, it’s hard not to question his integrity. Earlier this month at CNBC’s Delivering Alpha conference, Ackman took the stage during Carl Icahn’s closing interview. They shared an awkward hug and pretended to be friends. The man who once called Ackman “sanctimonious” and criticized his penchant for going public, asserted that they had called a truce. But for how long? A friendship based on a truce is one that can turn on a dime. As a major holder of Herbalife stock, Icahn has to file within 48 hours when he buys or sells. The whispers at dinner Tuesday night were that he had purchased the stock, driving up the price, but who really knows. But that said, oblivious people tend to have a lot of enemies — ones who aren’t always public but are always waiting for them to compulsively put themselves within firing range. Which they inevitably do; that’s what makes them so oblivious. And then, all their enemies have to do is shoot. FREE AppDownload
