ReutersThe Chinese yuan fell 0.9% to a 10-month low of 6.1808 per dollar in Shanghai, the most on record going back to 2007, report Fion Li and Kyoungwha Kim at Bloomberg News. This is the largest drop since the revaluation in 2005, reports Fiona Law at The Wall Street Journal. The People's Bank of China (PBoC) fixed the yuan at 6.1214 per dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. This reference rate was stronger than the fix on Thursday. But the yuan continued to weaken. After rising 3% against the U.S. dollar in 2013, the onshore yuan (CNY) weakened against the greenback last week. The offshore yuan (CNH) has also  weakened. This comes on the back of efforts by China's central bank, the People's Bank of China (PBoC), to curb yuan appreciation, forcing many investors out of bets that the currency will continue to rise. "FX sales data released this week point to continued strong capital inflows in January, and there are no signs of large capital outflows or sharp deterioration in fundamentals in recent weeks," Jian Chang at Barclays wrote in a note to clients on Friday. "This supports the view that the recent CNY devaluation was mostly guided by the PBoC to deter speculative capital inflows, rather than due to capital outflows on concerns of China risks" China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), which is responsible for governing the foreign exchange market and managing Forex reserves, said that two-way movements would become the norm as the CNY approached equilibrium. It also thinks the volatility we've seen so far is in the normal range compared to currency swings in other markets. For now the yuan can trade in a 1% band, but some expect that to be widened to 2% as Beijing moves to internationalize the renminbi. This five-day chart shows the stunning rise of the dollar against the yuan: Yahoo FInance FREE AppDownload
The newest debutante of the social media ball may also be the most difficult to understand. Twitter  (NYSE: TWTR  ) isn't easy to describe, nor is it simple to explain how to use it. The site defines itself as a "global platform for self-expression and conversation in real time," but that is more of the big-picture behind it. Unlike Facebook  (NASDAQ: FB  ) , which simply connects friends and acquaintances through photos and status updates, or Linkedin, which serves as online network for job seekers, Twitter's purpose isn't inherently obvious. But Twitter is unique among social media stocks in that it poses a serious threat to both and Facebook and Google (NASDAQ: GOOG  ) as it arms users with search and communication capabilities. Google dominates search with a 67% share of the domestic market and similar numbers in Europe, but Twitter's up-to-date news feed and ability to draw information from individual posters presents an alternative search method that could challenge Google. To test this theory of Twitter vs. Google, I chose a few recent search terms I'd used for a comparison.  1. $NFLXWinner: Google. While Twitter offers up-to-the-minute commentary on the financial news of the day -- Netflix'spurchase of faster web access from Comcast -- it's riddled with near-meaningless posts that are often difficult to read due to Twitter's format and reliance on brevity, bit.ly links, and hashtags. Google, meanwhile, provides greater and cleaner access to articles that give readers the information they need to know on the story. Conclusion: Twitter is noisy, and often hard on the eyes.  2. Federal Reserve Taper                            Winner: Twitter. The top story on Twitter's feed, posted 17 minutes ago, is just an hour old, and reports on Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher saying he supports a $10 billion taper of the Fed's bond-buying program at each further meeting. Google's top story, meanwhile, is 11 hours old, though further digging reveals a story similar to the top Twitter story from just two hours ago. Conclusion: Twitter is better for the most up-to-date news. It's chronological order of posts beats Google's algorithm for currency. It's clear that Twitter has value for news searches, but I wanted to expand the range of the search to non-news items to see if Twitter was still helpful. 3. "How to adjust bike brakes"Winner: Google by a nose. Here, Twitter is surprisingly useful despite the search not being a current topic.  The second post links to a YouTube video while the third links to a useful webpage. Still, the Google page is easier to use an contains several readily accessible videos and articles. Conclusion: Google is more user-friendly, and easier to navigate. Overall, Google is still better for search, but Twitter has advantages, here: foremost its currency and its breadth of posters. Also, because Twitter searches are based on chronology and not an algorithm, Twitter allow users to access potentially lesser-known information, which can be key in investing and other fields. Google's monetization of search also offers some lessons for Twitter. AdWords, the ads that show up on the side of Google searches, are the company's most profitable segment, and advertising makes up about 97% of the company's revenue. Twitter has nothing similar to Adwords and has barely ventured into advertising, just recently adding promoted tweets. If Google's success in this arena is any sign, there could be a bounty awaiting Twitter in paid search. Twitter vs. Facebook It's simple enough to draw a comparison between Twitter and Google's searchability, but there is no clear-cut way to score Twitter against Facebook. Against the social-networking leader, Twitter's service is more complementary rather than competitive. In Twitter, user relationships are asymmetrical, allowing users to follow everyone from their best friend to their favorite celebrity to an interesting author or brand. If you want to see the news of the day, catch the daily gossip, or look for links to interesting stories, Twitter's the way to go. If you want to keep in touch with your friends, post and share photos, you're better off with Facebook. Still, there are a few ideas Twitter could borrow from the market leader. Facebook chat, for example, is a relatively new addition for the company, and it serves not only to keep Facebook users better connected, but also to keep them in its portal, integrated in its ecosystem, for longer periods of time. The longer Facebook users stay on the site, the more news-feed views it gets, which leads to more advertising dollars. Timeline views on Twitter bring users to the site, but once they arrive, there is nothing else keeping them there. In fact, those tweets generally direct users to other websites. Allowing users to send invites and post events is another Facebook mainstay that Twitter could co-opt. Twitter isn't trying to be Facebook, and there is plenty of overlap between the two user bases, but ironically, Facebook seems to be the one borrowing from Twitter, having co-opted the "following" and "trending" concepts. At a time when user growth is slowing for Twitter, it may be wise for the site to borrow some ideas from Facebook, however. With its asymmetrical structure, Twitter is an advantageous position here. Twitter can more easily resemble Facebook then Facebook can Twitter. Foolish bottom lineTwitter is still a raw product. Compared to Facebook and Google, it is much less user-friendly, and its jargon like retweeting and hashtags is confusing and easily mocked. The product and the way it's being used are still maturing. Some critics have even dismissed hashtags as "so 2012."  But every one of Twitter's weaknesses is an opportunity. It could make plenty of potential improvements, like location-based advertising, using an Adwords-style model for search, or replacing the awkward bit.ly links with hyperlinks to make the site more readable. No one knows where Twitter is headed. This is a company that's not even eight years old and was much slower to grow at the start than Facebook. But what makes it such a potential juggernaut is that the site combines a usefulness that Facebook lacks with a currency that Google's missing, and those two companies have a combined market cap near $600 billion. Don't be surprised to see Twitter put more pressure on these heavyweights in the years to come.   Opportunities to get wealthy from a single investment don't come around often, but they do exist, and our chief technology officer believes he's found one. In this free report, Jeremy Phillips shares the single company that he believes could transform not only your portfolio, but your entire life. To learn the identity of this stock for free and see why Jeremy is putting more than $100,000 of his own money into it, all you have to do is click here now. Jeremy Bowman has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Netflix, and Twitter. The Motley Fool owns shares of Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, and Netflix. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
SAN FRANCISCO / VANCOUVER (Reuters) - Some savvy bitcoin investors have a solution to cyber-thieves and instability shaking online exchanges: they print out their virtual savings and hide them in the real world. The shuttering this week of bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox and fears that hundreds of millions of dollars worth of the virtual currency have been lost or stolen are pushing investors to tighten their security. Touted by advocates as a new, digital type of money that could one day replace real-world cash, bitcoins can also be stored like traditional currencies, locked up in a safe, or hidden in a shoe box. Enthusiasts around the world use online exchanges to conveniently buy and sell bitcoins but bitcoin savings can also be kept closer to home. Every virtual wallets used to hold bitcoins has a unique, private number. Recording that number on a piece of paper or a thumb drive, for instance, keeps a wallet's contents out of reach of anyone online, criminal or not. Canadian mortgage broker and bitcoin enthusiast Chung Cheong writes out his secret number by hand and puts it in a safety deposit box. "The only way to ever access that address and those bitcoins is that piece of paper," said Cheong. "I pray that there isn't a big fire and the bank burns down. Because if that happens, I'm out of luck." Jacob Dienelt helps run Lazzerbee, a company that lets people create novelty paper wallets containing small amounts of bitcoins as birthday gifts or for other special occasions. He said he keeps about three quarters of his own bitcoins locked away far from the Internet, with the rest on devices ready to trade. Locking away all bitcoins offline won't help the currency go mainstream, though, he said. "You have to be able to spend bitcoins," he said. Bitcoin relies on a network of computers that solve complex mathematical problems as part of a process that verifies and permanently records the details of every bitcoin transaction that is made. Mt. Gox was once the largest bitcoin exchange, making its collapse particularly notable, but online robbery has been a persistent problem for the virtual currency, which began circulating in 2009. Cyber criminals have infected hundreds of thousands of computers with a virus called "Pony" to steal bitcoins and other digital currencies, security firm Trustwave said this week. The apparent demise of Mt. Gox, along with a massive cyber attack against online exchanges earlier this month, is undoubtedly making people take a second look at where they store their virtual currencies, said Vinny Lingham, cofounder of Gyft, which sells retail gift cards and does much of its trade in bitcoins. While storing bitcoins offline keeps them safe from the clutches of cyber-criminals, it creates the very real risk of break-ins and potentially violent robbery. Some people tear the pages containing their wallet numbers in half and store each part in a separate location, Lingham said. Unsurprisingly, Lingham declined to say where Gyft keeps its bitcoins: "You can store them on paper, with your attorneys, on an SD card. But whatever your strategy is, it's irrelevant if you tell people what it is." (Editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jack PlunkettElon Musk is warning fossil fuel-dependent utilities to prepare for hard times. In comments made at a panel set up by the California Public Utilities Commission, Musk said addressing climate change depends on upending traditional power providers, and he called on regulators to help lower the cost for renewable providers to compete with them.  "There will be some amount of strife for existing utilities, particularly ones heavy into fossil rules," Musk said. "There will be bit of a hardship for them. But we have no choice. We have to decide if we're going to have clean, sustainable energy or not and if we decide want good future...and the only good future is one with [clean] energy." Musk argued for a carbon tax, expressing disbelief at the ongoing presence of hydrocarbons for fuel use. "It's amazing that we burn oil — it has much higher value in plastics," he said. "It's like burning the furniture in your house instead of firewood." SolarCity CEO Lyndon Rive warned of the danger that regulators would allow the current monopolistic and fossil fuel-heavy power company model to persist even as renewable energy grows. "What don't we don't want to have happen is the innovation, and then the old business model still continues," he said. "We don't want two energy infrastructures. At some point someone has to shut down, and if you fast forward 10 or 20 years, I don't think we'll be shutting down cleaner energy."  It is perhaps telling that the panel, called "Innovation and the Impact of Regulation," did not feature a single representative from one of California's utilities. The only other member of the panel was Michael R. Peevey, the commission's president who also serves as chairman of the California Clean Energy Fund. The commission regulates privately owned electric and natural gas companies among other duties. The panel comes one day after Tesla announced details for its Gigafactory, which by 2020 will produce 50 gigawatt hours-worth of battery packs. Panasonic, the principal partner in the Gigafactory, currently makes a total of only about 6-7 gigawatt hours-worth of batteries. Tesla's batteries will be used both in Tesla's fleet and will help  bring the cost of batteries for SolarCity power storage units down.  The batteries currently comprise at least 50% of the cost of other solar storage units.  Musk emphasized that regulators will have to prove flexible to work around what amounts to monopoly control of power by most utilities. Peevey seemed to be game, suggesting utilities would be devolve into "wires companies" providing basic infrastructure if they don't invest early enough in renewables. "The race goes to the swift and to the clever," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The One Thing Muni Investors Need To Get A Handle On (Morningstar) Muni bonds had a rough year in 2013 with the Detroit bankruptcy, and risks surrounding Puerto Rico debt. But they've recovered in 2014. Eric Jacobson, a senior fund analyst at Morningstar, says that even after the current rally, muni bond valuations "are still probably a little generous relative to what they otherwise would have been, thanks in part to the sell-off over the summer." The most important thing for muni investors to consider is the volatility this could bring to their portfolios. "I think one of the most important things for muni investors to try and get a handle on is what kind of volatility they can expect in their portfolios — if not being able to look through a crystal ball at the credit market necessarily — at least to try to understand what kind of interest rate risks they're carrying around," Jacobson said.  "Especially when they're buying longer bonds, that tends to be where a lot of the issuance concentrates. And even though, as I said, we've had outflows in January from the long-term muni portfolios, that in and of itself may trigger some people to want to get in. We also know, anecdotally, that people tend to look at muni funds more at the beginning of the year when tax season is upon us. So, you just really want to understand that if you're buying a long-term muni fund, in general, you're dealing with a bit more rate sensitivity than you would be with a core taxable fund because [the muni] market skews much longer." Cantor Fitzgerald's Wealth Management Unit Is In Aggressive Acquisition Mode (Investment News)  Cantor Fitzgerald's wealth management unit is buying First Commonwealth Financial Advisors' registered investment advisory (RIA) firm with $2 billion in assets, reports Tervor Hunnicutt in Investment News. Stan Gregor, president and CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald Wealth Partners told Hunnicutt that they are in "a very aggressive acquisition mode." The unit already added four teams since September. "We have a significant presence on a global basis, and in the institutional space we have tremendous infrastructure. Certainly from a standpoint of adding a business we felt that the wealth management arm would be something that would be a logical one because we trade every security in the world," Cantor Fitzgerald CEO Shawn P. Matthews said. JP Morgan Hires Advisors With $1.6 Billion In Client Assets (Reuters)  JP Morgan's wealth management unit has hired six advisors from UBS, Merill Lynch, and Bernstein Global Wealth Management, reports Reuters. Roland Pritchett and Matt Stucke join the team from UBS. Darren Graff and Natalya Muravchik are moving from Merrill Lynch. And Kevin Baker and Dan Sullivan are headed over from Bernstein Global Wealth Management. Collectively, the six advisors managed $1.2 billion in assets at their old firms. The Stock Market Isn't That Expensive When You Consider Inflation (Guggenheim Partners)  Some argue that the stock market is expensive and point out that the market's  price-earnings (P/E) ratio is high relative to its long-run average. But, "low inflation tends to support larger price-to-earnings ratios, as the lack of price pressure facilitates easy monetary policy which encourages multiples expansion," Scott Minerd of Guggenheim Partners wrote in his weekly commentary.  "Though the P/E ratio of the S&amp;P 500 has been on an upward trend in recent years, historical ranges suggest there is further room for expansion due to low inflation. With inflation expected to remain below the Fed’s target through 2015, the P/E ratio could rise as far as 24X and still remain within historical norms." Guggenheim PartnersHow Men And Women Invest Differently (BlackRock Blog) Nelli Oster, investment strategist in BlackRock's Multi-Asset Strategies Group, points out three key differences in the way men and women invest. 1. "Women tend to focus more on longer-term, non-monetary goals. …Men, on the other hand, who tend to be more competitive and thrill-seeking by nature, often focus on the short-term track records of their portfolios. 2. "Women tend to be thorough and take more time to make decisions than men." 3. "Women seek help more." FREE AppDownload
Financial concerns may be one factor fueling the growing trend of Baby Boomers pushing off retirement until their late 60's or early 70's, but a new infographic from financial planning and advice team Goal Investor shows that plenty of these Boomers are actually staying in the workforce because they want to. A full 25 million Americans between the ages of 44 and 70 are interested in launching a new business venture, while 31 million are interested in pursuing an encore career. Why do they want to work forever? Some say they hope to stay active and productive, and others cite a desire to have a positive impact on their community through their work. Check out the graphic below on why some Baby Boomers are planning to work as long as they can: Goal Investor FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWith spring tantalizingly close, our minds are starting to drift toward vacation. And if you're stuck in front of a computer all day, then yours probably is, too. We've updated our bucket list of travel destinations to include reader suggestions and 2014's travel hotspots. From eating pizza in Naples to skiing in Japan, these are the 100 trips everyone should take in their lifetime. Did we miss your dream destination? Let us know in the comments. And check our Wanderlust board on Pinterest for more beautiful travel photos.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonAccording to a report from the Mortgage Bankers Association, 11.8% of New Jersey's loans in foreclosure are seriously delinquent. That figure sees New Jersey oust Florida from the top spot, which has 11.7% of seriously delinquent loans. New York takes the third spot at 9.11%. Following this, Bloomberg News reported that "the epicenter of the U.S. foreclosure crisis is shifting to New Jersey and New York." So how bad has it gotten? Florida still holds the top spot in terms of overall percentage of loans in foreclosure. New Jersey and New York are a close second and third, though the percent of loans in foreclosure was down from the previous quarter. And there's more worrisome data on both those housing markets. Mortgage Bankers AssociationWe have to remember that New Jersey and New York are judicial states — ones that require court action on a foreclosed home — and this creates a backlog of foreclosures. In New Jersey, the judicial process takes about nine months, while in New York it takes about 15 months. Florida is a judicial state too, but the process takes about 4.5 months here. "Of those three states, only Florida was clobbered by the housing crisis." Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia told Business Insider. "Prices in New York and New Jersey fell by much less than prices in Florida did. But Florida, New Jersey, and New York are all judicial foreclosure states, where the foreclosure process can take years longer than in many other states." Back in November, we explored just why it would be some time before New York and New Jersey's housing markets recovered. "New York’s foreclosure backlog has been made worse by a requirement that lenders positively affirm that all elements of a foreclosure filing are correct, while mitigation programmes in New Jersey may be dragging out inevitable foreclosures," Paul Diggle, economist at Capital Economics wrote at the time. Diggle told Business Insider that the foreclosure overhang could have been exacerbated by Hurricane Sandy. Some borrowers who weren’t fully insured at the time may have chosen to walk away instead of rebuilding their homes. And there are other things weighing on New York and New Jersey's housing markets. December single-family home prices, including distressed homes, were up 5.1% in New Jersey, 9.6% in New York, and 9.9% in Florida, according to CoreLogic. Slower home price growth tends to keep more people underwater — when homeowners owe more on their homes than their mortgage is worth — and tends to raise delinquency rates, and the opposite is true when home prices appreciate. "Over the past year, home price appreciation and job growth have both been stronger in Florida than in New York and New Jersey, which could add to more defaults in those northeastern states," Kolko said. "But the main factor for the high foreclosure inventory in New York and New Jersey is the slower judicial foreclosure process." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter Bader Members of the opening committee perform during a rehearsal for the Opera Ball in Vienna February 23, 2014. The 18 to 24-year-olds spend weeks rehearsing for a performance that lasts just three or four minutes but has a huge audience at home and abroad. The traditional Opera Ball takes place on February 27, with tickets starting at 250 euros ($340) and a box as much as 18,500 euros ($25,000). Picture taken February 23, 2014. Stocks rose. The S&amp;P 500 hit a new all-time high, its 47th record over the past 12 months. Scoreboard: S&amp;P 500: 1,854.34, +9.18, +0.50%Dow: 16,272.26 +73.85, +0.46%Nasdaq: 4,318.93 +26.87, +0.63% And now the top stories: Initial jobless claims unexpectedly climbed. The figure hit 348,000 for the week, up from 336K. Analysts had expected just 335K. But capital goods orders also unexpectedly jumped. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft — an important measure of corporate spending — unexpectedly climbed 1.7%. Economists were looking for a 0.2% decline. Janet Yellen told a Senate committee that weather may not be driving all the recent weak economic data. She deviated from her prepared remarks to say that the Fed is "attending to signals" of whether economy is progressing "in line with our expectations." She said the economy was "beginning to recover." And she noted the Fed has no authority to regulate Bitcoin because the digital currency does not flow through Fed network banks.  JC Penney shares surged 25% on strong earnings. The department store chain delivered its first quarterly net profit since July 2011.    Sears said it lost $358 million during the holiday quarter, but shares spiked. The retailer also said it was cutting costs, and expected stronger sales this month, the AP said. $SHLD climbed 7%. Shares in Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored mortgage giant, have been ripping higher of late. Investors seem to be banking on a resolution to the firm's mortgage woes that unlocks the underlying value of the assets left on its books. Economic data keeps sliding in Australia. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics report, capital expenditures in the country fell 5.2% quarter-over-quarter in Q4. Manufacturing was in the worst shape followed by mining. DON'T MISS: Everyone Is Talking About The Recent Disconnect Between Stocks And Bonds » FREE AppDownload
PlatedLeft to Right, Josh Hix and Nick Taranto, Plated CEOs"When I was living on West 14th Street and taking the E train to Goldman Sachs it got so bad that a homeless man handing out papers in the train station would look at me and say, 'cheer up young man'," said Nick Taranto, co-CEO of Plated. Part of that was because he "absolutely hated" his experience at Goldman, and wanted to do something entrepreneurial and creative. The other part, though, was a more common Wall Street problem. Taranto was feeling depressed about gaining weight and being unhealthy. Like a lot of bankers he was working all the time and eating take-out all the time. Fitting exercise in with the demands of his position in Goldman Sachs' private wealth business was basically impossible. It's hard to imagine Taranto, a tall, smiley Marine, looking or feeling sluggish. But it happens on Wall Street all the time. So in 2012 he and Josh Hix, a former Bridgewater associate who Taranto met at Harvard Business School, launched Plated. It is a national subscription service that delivers fresh, healthy ingredients for meals you can make in 30 minutes to your door in as quickly as one day. Here's how it works: If you want, you can fill out a form about your likes, dislikes, dietary restrictions (what have you), and Plated will send you food automatically. The menu changes weekly. Taranto calls this experience "curated discovery." What he and his team discovered themselves, is that Plated solves an even bigger problem than just their clients' health. In the United States 40% of the food consumers buy goes to waste.  Plated has its waste down to less than 1%. Of course, creating the infrastructure for a national delivery service like this wasn't easy. Taranto and Hix's first delivery involved hustling down to an Associated grocery store and sending off items themselves. Then there was the time they tried to build their own fridge (which ended with $20,000 gone and a fridge that would not cool below 65 degrees). All that was before the $400,000 investment from Silicon Valley angel investors (which didn't stop Hurricane Sandy from almost flooding Plated's Brooklyn warehouse, but it definitely helped in other ways). Now the company operates out of a sunny shared work space in SoHo where twice a week the open kitchen becomes a testing lab for the new dishes that will appear on Plated's menu over the next two months. Taranto likes the deconstructed tuna wasabi bowl (pictured below). Plated has fulfillment centers in New York, San Francisco and Chicago and plans to open three more in Dallas, Miami and Los Angeles. The company employs about 100 people. At this point, they should probably all know how to cook. Plated   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark BlinchThe term “credit limit” can seem a bit deceiving. If a credit card issuer gives you $1,000 to spend, why is it so bad to actually bump up against that limit? It can be a bummer to see your credit scores drop because of high debt use, even if you can afford the bills, but it makes sense if you know a little about how credit scores work. Your credit utilization rate is one of the most important determining factors of your credit score, because it’s a strong indicator of your financial behavior and how risky it is for lenders to take you on as a borrower. Credit utilization is calculated by dividing your total outstanding credit card balances by your total available credit on those cards. Keeping your rate below 10% is the best thing you can do for your score in this category, but some experts also cite 30% as the threshold you should aim for. With that $1,000 credit limit, you’re looking at an ideal balance of $100 or $300, and to get the most out of that limit, you’ll want to pay your balance each month, otherwise it will creep up over time and hurt your utilization ratio. That may seem simple enough, but you may be wondering, “Why such a low percentage?” Think about it: Having the ability to spend $1,000 but spending only $100 shows self-control. Lenders are less exposed to losing money when you spend responsibly. When you filled out your credit card application, the issuer probably asked you to state your income, which is often factored into determining your credit limit upon approval. If you’re getting close to spending what the issuer has determined is the maximum you can afford, potential creditors understandably become concerned that you may be struggling to meet all your financial obligations, since credit allows you to spend now and pay later. You can see how your credit card spending impacts your credit utilization by checking your scores with the free Credit.com Credit Report Card — it will show you your utilization rate and how it compares to the national average. If you need to improve your utilization, it helps to try and reduce your spending and check your Report Card every month to track your progress. As far as budgets go, not everyone with high utilization needs to reduce their spending. You can always try requesting a credit limit increase, and if that doesn’t work, you can try paying your credit card off multiple times a month instead of just paying off the statement balance to give you more spending room without compromising your utilization rate. No matter what you can afford, it’s in your best interest to work toward high credit scores, because they will save you money on interest and other loan products. This article originally appeared at Credit.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow Credit.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Steven Perlberg / Business Insider data via BloombergIt looks like shares of a penny stock that would make even Jordan Belfort blush are on fire, rocketing 40% in the last five days and 1500% over the last year, nearing that big $5 mark. Only one problem: The stock is Fannie Mae, the government-controlled mortgage giant. And because Fannie was put under the government umbrella during the housing crash, the company has to pay its profits to the U.S. Treasury, not shareholders. If you're just in it for the trade, though, you actually could have made a nice buck. Plenty of investors have — from individuals to hedge funds — as CNBC reported last May. But what about Fannie's future? Shareholders don't particularly love its current form, where all of the dividends go to the government. They could hope for Congress to make a change, but good luck there. Or they could hope a court eventually rules that shareholders should get the profits. That's the most bullish case. One big-time investor betting on Fannie (and its government-run sibling Freddie Mac) is Persing Square's Bill Ackman, who bought nearly 10% of the common stock of both. Motley Fool's Alexander MacLennan explains: Ackman expects even more upside from the common stock, and noted in an investment conference that he expects the GSE shares to increase in value 10 times during the next several years. He also noted his expectation that the Supreme Court would side with the shareholders, and that shares could be worth 10 to 15 times current levels after the decision is issued. Of course, when major players like Bill Ackman start talking about megareturns, the stock gets a bump. As the backdrop to all of this, Fannie Mae's dividend payments to the Treasury keep looking more and more impressive, intensifying shareholders' fantasy that it could eventually take form in a non-government-sponsored way. FREE AppDownload
NetflixIn a series of posts on the BlackRock blog, Nelli Oster describes how gender impacts investment behavior. Oster finds three major differences between how men and women invest. From BlackRock: "Both men and women should make sure that their investment styles and horizons match their overall financial goals," she concludes. "For women, this may mean taking on more risk. For men, this may mean focusing more on longer-horizon goals, rather than on short-term trading track records." Read the full post at BlackRock » FREE AppDownload
Flickr/jazbeckEver had buyer's remorse for an expensive pair of shoes you bought? These personal finance mistakes go way beyond that. These are the worst money blunders that are present in plain view. Imagine being a slave to student loan debt for the next 20 or 30 years (or forever) because you didn't even try to find a less expensive college or choose an employable, useful college degree. If you think having a brand new sweet ride every two years, a huge house and a new iPhone is the way to spend your hard-earned money, what would happen if you lost your job? Picture yourself at the foreclosure court losing that house you've made payments on and getting nothing in return, handing over your car keys to the re-po man or ending up on the unemployment line with no cash, a baby on your hip and a long list of creditors calling your house every day. Worse yet, picture yourself 65 or 70 years old scrimping by because you never saved enough and then being told your beloved granddaughter defaulted on the loan you cosigned and now you have to pay it for the rest of your life. Scary, right? Mainstreet polled several personal finance experts, each with a different specialty such as debt, credit, family finance and wealth-building, and found these to be some of the worst, yet most common, personal finance decisions people make. In fact, in a recent National Foundation for Credit Counseling (NFCC) poll, 80% of respondents said they make the worst decisions involving their personal finances, over marriage, health and job mistakes. Dave Ramsay, debt-free expert and author of "The Total Money Makeover," says our culture teaches us to live for the now and it can lead to these types of life-long financial mistakes. "It's human nature to want it and want it now," he says. "And you can always get it, especially if you are willing to go into debt." He says willingness to delay pleasure is a sign of financial maturity. It's also a way to avoid making the biggest personal finance mistakes of your life, at any age. "Getting into to more than $30,000 in student loan debt in a profession that pays less than six-figures a year is a huge mistake," says Ellie Kay, family finance expert and author of "Lean Body, Fat Wallet." Ramsay says we have to break the mindset that college students need student loans. He says you don't have to choose pricey private college just because you were accepted there. "You can reduce your student debt by sticking to a state college, always keeping a part-time job, keeping your GPA as high as possible - during high school and college - and the higher your SAT/ACT scores, the more scholarship money they are worth," he said. Kay says carrying student loan debt after college limits your job and housing options for many years as most student loans are calculated on a ten-year repayment schedule. "My daughter worked hard and graduated debt-free so she had the freedom take a job in England with a non-profit that only paid for room and board and travel all over Europe - for free - for a year," she said. "If she had even $10,000 in student loans, she may not have had the freedom to do this." Although we have seen the adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) real estate debt bubble burst in 2006, "the biggest issue we are seeing from this age group is still over-leveraging real estate debt," says Chris Kichurchak, CRPC, vice president of Strategic Wealth Partners in Independence, OH. "It is easy talk yourself into that more expensive loan for a bigger house because interest rates are so low," he said. "But, statistically speaking, the average mortgage is maintained for only seven years which makes it hard to build any equity while the majority of the mortgage payment is going to interest." He stresses that with such low current interest rates, avoid ARMs completely and lock in a fixed low mortgage rate for the long term. Kay says you simply don't need your dream house in your 30s. "Many couples buy too much house and if either partner was out of work for even a month, they would be behind on their mortgage immediately," she said. Instead, get a smaller starter home, fix it up, sell it and move up gradually as you can afford it comfortably to avoid working, driving and living only for your house payment. Instead of being house poor every month, experts agree on building and maintaining a cash emergency fund to protect your family. After that, "concentrate on maximizing funding of a 401(k) and Roth IRA with any extra income at this time in your life," advises Kichurchak. "Debt should be eliminated as soon as possible, so you have control of your income, your most powerful wealth-building tool," says Ramsay. "Credit card debt is simply used to obtain the 'I want its' before you can afford them." He stresses that treating your dollars recklessly, living without a budget and continuing to take on debt at this time in your life is a huge personal finance mistake. "You can't wait until retirement age to start saving," Ramsay said. "Get rid of your debt right now so you can fund your Roth IRA or Roth 401k, take the maximum employee match on your 401k and invest in good mutual funds that have long track records." "Credit card debt is the ultimate wealth destroyer," says John Ulzheimer, credit expert for CreditSesame.com. "Now's the time to be thinking about building a nest egg for retirement, not adding to or carrying credit card debt at 24.9% APR." Experts agree that withdrawing your retirement funds for any reason is always a huge personal finance mistake. Many parents this age in post-recession America may find themselves taking on responsibilities that rightly belong to their adult children. Kay says whether it's paying off student loans, consumer debt or making house or car payments for adult kids (barring a tragedy or medical emergency), parents need to draw boundaries with their families and needed finances they've worked so hard to accumulate. "When parents leverage the equity in their homes with a Home-Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) or raid their retirement savings in a 401(k) withdrawal to pay for their kids' college or adult expenses, they are robbing themselves of future security and they are also robbing their kids of learning the value of working their way through college or making smarter financial choices and dealing with consequences," says Kay. "This doesn't mean that parents can't contribute cash to college expenses or help their families, but leveraging the parents future for the child's future only leads to a future where the kids have to take care of the parents in retirement," Kay added. While servicing debt of any kind at this age can be problematic, Ulzheimer thinks the worst possible thing you can do in your 60s is to cosign a student loan, car loan, mortgage loan or a credit card for anyone else. "That's because the likelihood of you having to step in and repay these loans when others default is high and you may not be in a financial position later in your life to do so," says Ulzheimer. The Federal Trade Commission warns against cosigning any types of loans or credit and further says when you agree to cosign a loan (at any age), you're taking a risk even a lender won't take. Think twice about what you really need to do right now, and then think of ways to just say no, whether it's to yourself, your spouse or someone else in your family. Your future you will thank you for it. FREE AppDownload
In his sweeping tax reform discussion draft unveiled Wednesday afternoon, Rep. Dave Camp, the Republican chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, proposed to bar makers of "violent video games" from receiving an R&amp;D tax credit.  The proposal would, in essence, force makers of "violent video games" to pay more in taxes without the research and experimentation tax credit, which is generally awarded to manufacturers incurring expenses in those areas.  The summary of Camp's discussion draft advocated an "improved, permanent R&amp;D tax credit," which he says will give American manufacturers "the certainty they need to compete against their foreign competition who have long had permanent R&amp;D incentives." However, later in the summary, one exception was noted. As a way to make the tax code simpler and fairer, Camp proposed "preventing makers of violent video games from qualifying for the R&amp;D tax credit." The R&amp;D tax credit was originally introduced as part of 1981's Economic Recovery Tax Act, and it has been extended 14 times since. Attention on violent video games has been bipartisan over the past year. Last January, in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary Shooting, President Barack Obama directed the CDC to study gun violence and the causes of gun violence, including violent video games. Here's a screenshot of the plan that outlines some of the provisions in the plan: Ways & Means Committee FREE AppDownload
TSA Harasses Traveler After 'Seeing Bitcoin' in His Bag The TSA attempted to "screen" airline passenger Davi Barker for the virtual currency Bitcoin. Barker is co-founder of BitcoinNotBombs, a Bitcoin advocacy group that gets donation-based organizations and social entrepreneurs set up to handle the currency. He's written a very detailed telling of what happened right here. After going through security (he opted out of the body scanner but was successfully cleared through the checkpoint), two people stopped him, and it got uncomfortable quickly. I was about to ask for my attorney, who happens to be my wife, when [the person wearing] the orange shirt said, “What about Bitcoin?” I was flabbergasted. This was above and beyond any scrutiny I had ever received from the TSA, and a little frightening that they were looking for Bitcoin. I said I didn’t understand the question. He continued, “We saw Bitcoin in your bag and need to check.” I was incredulous, and asked, “Do you have a superior officer because I don’t think you know what you’re talking about.” The blue shirt replied by repeating that they were “managers,” but if I didn’t answer his questions he could call law enforcement and have me taken into custody. I asked, “Aren’t you law enforcement?” and he replied, “No we’re with the TSA.” If this sounds weird to you, it's because it is. Bitcoin is digital and doesn't exist in the physical world, to "see Bitcoin" in a bag would be like seeing email in a bag. What the agent more likely saw, says Barker, is the orange Bitcoin logo sweatshirt Barker was wearing at the time, promo material for his organization's annual "Hoodie the Homeless" drive. It looked like this: BitcoinNotBombs It's illegal to leave the United States with more than $10,000 cash, so the TSA is likely interested in Bitcoin as a means of sneaking money around for nefarious purposes. But Barker was traveling domestically, from Manchester, N.H., to San Francisco, and discloses that he didn't have nearly that much, Bitcoin included. Whatever your involvement in the virtual currency, it may be wise not to mention anything about Bitcoin during your next airport security check.   FREE AppDownload
AP Yesterday, Max Baucus (D-MT) and Dave Camp (R-MI) introduced a tax reform bill that would force a new asset tax on big Wall Street banks, and naturally Wall Street isn't having it. The summary of the bill alone is about 200 pages, but for the Street, it all boils down to one simple, nasty debate that's been raging since the financial crisis. Either Wall Street banks are still too big to fail or they're not. And, as a result, either Wall Street banks are getting help from the government in order to survive, or not. The help is the form of a subsidy that lets Systemically Important Financial Institutions [SIFI] borrow at a lower rates than other financial institutions. Here's how the Camp-Baucus bill talks about the issue: “While tax reform cannot undo Dodd-Frank, it can and should ensure that Wall Street reimburses the American taxpayer for a portion of the subsidy it receives. The Tax Reform Act of 2014 requires that SIFIs reimburse American taxpayers for a portion of this subsidy by: • Imposing a new excise tax on certain SIFIs, as defined by Dodd-Frank. • Requiring these institutions to pay a quarterly 0.035-percent tax on their worldwide consolidated assets in excess of $500 billion.” The way Camp and Baucus see it, their policy is essentially returning a portion of the subsidy banks get from the government back to the American people. The way Wall Street's men on on The Hill see it, there is no subsidy. Period. And so the tax policy is arbitrary, and will hurt Wall Street's business. “Chairman Camp's proposal for a new tax on banks violates every principle of his stated goals for tax reform," says Tony Fratto, Managing Partner at Hamilton Place Strategies. "Instead, it will restrict growth, add complexity, and create new distortions. And rather than being broad-based, it’s a bill of attainder for a handful of private businesses. It is bad policy towards financial institutions and would be equally bad policy for oil companies, pharmaceutical companies, or whichever firm happens to be the populist target du jour in this way." Those in the 'there is no subsidy and there is no too big to fail' camp cite S&amp;P reports that have said the "Likelihood Of A Bailout Is Increasingly Less Likely" — of course, in the same breath the S&amp;P has said that Wall Street banks are still too big to fail.' Go figure. This subsidy debate is not new. Two researchers — Kenichi Ueda of the International Monetary Fundand Beatrice Weder di Mauro of the University of Mainz — wrote that the subsidy lowers bank borrowing costs by 0.8%, ultimately giving banks an additional $83 billion a year. The Government Accountability Office is on the case as well. And as Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) pointed out in a Senate Banking Committee meeting in January, the GAO came to the conclusion that the banks get a subsidy as well. "“[I]t should come as no surprise that the Congressional Oversight Panel for TARP found that the six biggest Wall Street banks received a total of $1.27 trillion in government support," said Brown, "including accounting for 63 percent of the Fed’s average daily lending. There are important lessons in this first [GAO] report … First, megabanks borrowed at a discounted rate against assets that the market was not accepting. And the result is a subsidy for the megabanks." The GAO is continuing its study of this matter, so that is something that both sides on this debate will be watching closely. At this time last year, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) was grilling former Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke about the subsidy during a Senate hearing. And while he said that the subsidy was created by market forces — specifically the market's expectation that banks will be bailed out (so yes, too big to fail) — he came to the conclusion that it had to go. "I think we should get rid of it," he told Warren. There is something of a compromise, though, according to Professor Cornelius Hurley, the Director of Boston University Center for Finance, Law &amp; Policy. It's a bill introduced by Congressman Mike Capuano (D-MA) called the 'Subsidy Reserve Act.' The Subsidy Reserve Act is an addition to Dodd-Frank that would require banks to hold even more capital to account for the subsidy they receive — a 'Subsidy Reserve.' "Although it is highly unlikely that this new tax will be enacted, one can easily see H.R. 2266, the Subsidy Reserve Plan being a compromise result," Hurley said in an e-mail, "especially if the GAO subsidy study produces subsidy estimates in the ballpark of Chairman Camp’s." But banks already have to hold more capital then ever due to national and international post-crisis regulation. In that sense, both these policies are distasteful to Wall Street. So it's best for Wall Street if the idea of subsidies goes away all together. But that is just as unlikely as the passage of this tax reform bill. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim WimborneAs the resource supplier to the booming emerging markets, Australia enjoyed many years of economic prosperity. But as China's economy slowed, concerns about Australia's health mounted. Dylan Grice summed up the concerns when he wrote that Australia is "a credit bubble built on a commodity market built on an even bigger Chinese credit bubble." Policymakers have been trying to balance the economy away from one led by resource exports to one led more by consumption. While industries supporting those resource exports continue to contract as expected, the industries supporting consumption are not improving as hoped for. According to the latest Australian Bureau of Statistics report, capital expenditures in the country fell 5.2% quarter-over-quarter in Q4. Manufacturing was in the worst shape followed by mining. What's more, fiscal year 2014-2015 (i.e. mid 2014-mid 2015) capital expenditure plans also look "awfully weak," writes Societe Generale's Klaus Baader. Fiscal year 2014-15 plans came in "17.4% below the first estimate for 2013/14, which was itself down by 8.8% from the peak in the prior year." Not only are we seeing a slowdown in mining, we're seeing a slowdown in non-mining investment as well. While Baader urges caution in interpreting this data because of "the length of the forecasting horizon" and because "the previous year’s spending is only half-way done, so the basis is still moving." He does point out that this isn't great for Australia's GDP prospects in the second half of 2014 and going into 2015. SocGen's Kit Juckes writes that this is just evidence that "Australia's painful rebalancing isn't over." What's more? Qantas, Australia's largest airline announced 5,000 layoffs and posted a huge loss. Overall, it was just a bad day for the Aussies. FREE AppDownload
AEI screenshotThis should be fun. Dan Loeb has nominated himself and two others — Harry J. Wilson, and Olivier Reza — to Sothebys' board, to be voted on at the body's 2014 annual, according to a filing. Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point Partners has a 9.2% stake in the company, and has agitated that the company sell assets and return the proceeds to shareholders. "The Company’s focus on returning capital to shareholders was long delayed, but welcome," said the filing. "Additionally, Sotheby’s effort to value its London and New York City headquarters for possible sale shows an overdue recognition of the importance of optimizing the Company’s balance sheet." But the filing goes on to say that those moves aren't enough. For Third Point, it must be out with the old and in with the new as "the entrenched Board also lacks an expert in the type of fundamental corporate restructuring that Sotheby’s must undertake." So its time for some new blood. We'll see how this works out. Sotheby's has a Q4 conference call Thursday at 4:45 pm EST. More from the filing: We believe these prompt and long overdue developments make the case that the Company and all shareholders will benefit from having an owner’s perspective in the boardroom. While the Reporting Persons currently own almost 10% of the Company’s common stock, the Company’s Directors’ collective holdings are less than 1%, with only two members of the Board holding above 0.1% of shares outstanding. The Board’s refusal to fully embrace its shareholders’ desire for change was revealed by its adoption of a “poison pill” in October. We believe the pill has been put into place solely to entrench the current Board and is wrongful. As a response to shareholder demands for increased transparency and accountability, the pill demonstrated that this Board’s paramount interest is in ensuring its members are protected rather than maximizing value by considering shareholders’ (evidently valid) suggestions for improvement. No action could have revealed more clearly the need for new blood and fresh views in the boardroom at this critical inflection point for Sotheby’s. The Reporting Persons also believe the entrenched Directors lack the fresh perspective necessary to overhaul the Company’s challenged operational structure and cure its cultural malaise. Institutional Shareholder Services recently released “QuickScore 2.0” guidelines for optimal board structure, stating that “tenure of more than nine years (can)…potentially compromise a director’s independence.” Using this metric, Sotheby’s current Board fares poorly, with five of its twelve current Directors in service for over nine years and 75% of current directors seated for at least seven years. The Reporting Persons contend that the entrenched Board also lacks an expert in the type of fundamental corporate restructuring that Sotheby’s must undertake. The tasks ahead for this Board remain formidable – including critical cost-cutting treated only superficially to date and further leveraging the company’s brand and market knowledge to capture a greater share of the global art profit pool by refocusing online initiatives, increasing private sales, and taking a larger slice of the contemporary art market. It is a matter of concern to all shareholders that no Board member today possesses a demonstrated track record in this type of restructuring. Finally, the Reporting Persons believe that despite the recent appointment of Domenico De Sole, all shareholders will benefit from further depth of experience in Sotheby’s key business building block: luxury customer relationship development. Based on these views, the Reporting Persons today provided formal notice to the Issuer that they will nominate Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson, and Olivier Reza (the “Third Point Nominees”) for election to the Board at the 2014 Annual Meeting. FREE AppDownload
It remains the central mystery of the $19 billion valuation placed on WhatsApp when Facebook bought the company last week: What are the revenue and profit numbers that went into that calculation? It's no secret that WhatsApp's revenue currently is negligible compared to Facebook's. The app is free but users pay a $1 annual subscription after that. WhatsApp has 450 million users, or thereabouts. Wall Street analysts and other observers have been conspicuously absent when it comes to suggesting financial models that would justify a $19 billion price tag. (The "math" here is that for the deal to add value to Facebook, WhatsApp must create a business with cumulative margins greater than $19 billion. Hmm.) Privately, most people are just assuming the $19 billion number is just that — a number they agreed upon to move WhatsApp into the Facebook family. So Sterne Agee analysts Arvind Bhatia and Brett Strauser have crunched the numbers and come up with some realistic revenue and margin numbers for the messaging service. In a recent note to investors, they wrote: Long-term we think WhatsApp could reach 2B users and generate ARPU [average revenue per user] of $2.50 at 80% margins. Their estimate is based on some assumptions, including that WhatsApp will reach up to 982 million users by end of 2014 with zero effort to monetize them. They see total revenue of more than $1 billion by 2017. Here's their chart (below). The pair have a by rating and an $80 price target on the stock. Click to enlarge: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen testifies during a Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing on her nomination to be the next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, on Capitol Hill in Washington November 14, 2013.Fed Chair Janet Yellen was just asked by West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin about Bitcoin. Yesterday, Manchin sent a letter to the heads of the government's financial regulatory bodies warning of Bitcoin's potential for criminal abuse and the possibility for disrupting the economy. Here is how Yellen responded: "Bitcoin is a payment innovation that's taking place outside the banking industry. To the best of my knowledge there's no intersection at all, in any way, between Bitcoin and banks that the Federal Reserve has the ability to supervise and regulate. So the fed doesn't have authority to supervise or regulate Bitcoin in anyway." She continued: "One concern with Bitcoin is the potential for money laundering. [FinCen] has indicated their money laundering statutes are adequate to meet enforcement needs."  Manchin asked whether U.S. was "behind the curve" among countries issuing warnings on or regulating Bitcoin: "The Fed doesn't have authority with respect to Bitcoin," she responded. "But certainly it would be appropriate for Congress to ask questions about what the right legal structure would be for digital currencies...My understanding is Bitcoin doesn't touch [U.S.] banks." "It's not so easy to regulate Bitcoin because there's no central issuer or network operator. This is a decentralized, global [entity]." "We're looking at this," she concluded. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sean GardnerIn the sweeping tax reform discussion draft unveiled Wednesday afternoon, Rep. Dave Camp, the chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, proposed to end the tax-exempt status of professional sports leagues. Under current tax law, a professional football league is granted tax-exempt status as a 501(c)(6) organization, a designation that typically applies to trade or professional organizations. The IRS has interpreted the exemption for "professional football leagues" to mean all professional sports leagues.  Camp's discussion draft proposes a provision that would strip professional sports leagues of tax-exempt status. That status, however, would still apply to amateur sports leagues. According to the U.S. Congress Joint Committee on Taxation, which analyzed the plan, the provision would increase federal government revenues by about $100 million over 10 years.  Camp's proposal is not exactly a new idea on Capitol Hill, and it's something that has bipartisan support. Last September, the recently retired Oklahoma Sen. Tom Coburn introduced the PRO Sports Act, which would accomplish the same purpose. The NFL, in particular, has been criticized for its tax-exempt status recently after it revealed Commissioner Roger Goodell made $44 million last year. While the football league has argued it does pay taxes on many of the billions of revenue it earns, the league office's revenue is tax-exempt. "Claims that the NFL is using a tax exemption to avoid paying the tax due on these revenues are simply misinformed," NFL attorney Jeremy Spector said in a statement earlier this month.  "The confusion arises from the fact that there is one small part of the NFL unrelated to all this business activity, that is tax-exempt: the NFL league office." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1: Stocks and bond yields have diverged.One of the hottest topics in the investor community is the recent disconnect between the stock market and the bond market. The S&amp;P 500 index and yields on U.S. Treasuries have largely moved in tandem over the past few months — up until early February, at which point they took turns in opposite directions as the stock market raced back to new all-time highs, and Treasury yields floundered at depressed levels (chart 1). In a nutshell, the disconnect basically has equity investors worried about a pullback in the stock market, while it has bond investors concerned about the same in Treasuries, which would send yields higher and close the gap that has emerged this month. There are a few explanations for why the correlation between these two asset classes has suddenly flipped. The consensus view seems to be that bond market shorts have been squeezed out of positions due to weak economic indicators that are likely being weighed down by transitory weather effects. "Market participants continue to fade this up trade [in the bond market] as they look for the eventual bounce back in economic conditions from a return to more normal weather patterns," says Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets. David Woo, global head of rates and currencies research at BofA Merrill Lynch, is in this camp as well. "The vigorous rally of the S&amp;P 500 in the face of steadily worsening U.S. data over the past three weeks can only mean one thing, in our view — the weather hypothesis has now taken hold in the market," he says. "At the same time, many investors think that if it turns out that there is more to the soft data than the weather, the Fed can always be counted on to slow down the pace of tapering. This latter line of thinking is probably why the S&amp;P 500 and 10-year Treasury yields have recently parted ways." The risk to the stock market now is that the recent slowdown in economic activity is not being driven mostly by weather, but by other, more fundamental factors. David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital, calls this the "grand pain trade idea," given that many are positioned for higher stocks and higher Treasury yields over the medium term. "When talking with clients the question always comes down to when the position shift takes place," says Ader. "People recognize that risk assets are rich relative to where they were when Treasuries were cheaper, and so that's clear. What we hear is that when those risk assets start to underperform is when people will take notice and start to unwind. Ukraine doesn’t seem like the event to trigger that for dollar assets, but we put it out there that a lot of people are looking at the potential for risk generally to underperform after several years of stellar performance." FREE AppDownload
This week, activist investor Carl Icahn wrote two open letters to eBay's shareholders shredding eBay's board of directors and, in particular, Marc Andreessen. In the first, he questioned Andreessen's loyalty to the company, bringing up two situations where Andreessen "purchased large stakes" in former eBay companies, "reaping significant personal riches." There is an obvious appearance of a conflict of interest here: As a board member, Andreessen is supposed to act only in the interests of eBay and its investors. Yet as a venture capitalist, his company has made money selling eBay's assets privately. Icahn highlights in particular a deal involving Skype. EBay owned Skype for several years before selling off the majority of its shares to an investor group led by an equity firm called Silver Lake Partners. Less than two years later, Microsoft bought Skype. Andreessen was in on the deal, as part of the Silver Lake group. In his second scathing letter, Icahn wrote that Andreessen was "netting a $4 billion gain for himself and Silver Lake" in that transaction — money that should have gone to eBay stockholders. He insinuates that Andreessen knew the selling potential of Skype, and should have encouraged eBay CEO John Donahoe to spin off Skype in an IPO or find a better offer than Silver Lake's. How did the whole deal go down? Here are the facts: In 2005, eBay bought Skype for approximately $2.5 billion. At the time, people mocked eBay, because Skype seemed like nothing more than a money-burner. Several years later, eBay decided that the messaging and communication company didn't jibe with its commerce and payment goals (though it did generate $551 million in revenue in 2008), so it decided to try to sell off the company. EBay announced in 2009 that Skype would stage an IPO in the next year. Analysts at the time said that Skype could fetch $2 billion, though Donahoe said that that valuation was low. As it prepared for the IPO, the company also said that it would consider other bids for Skype if they came along. And they did. Today, eBay describes the response as a "competitive process with multiple bidders including several financial and strategic buyers." (In his most recent letter to eBay shareholders, Icahn writes that he sent a letter to eBay demanding to inspect all books and records regarding the selling process, because he doesn't believe that it did explore all possible options.) In September 2009, eBay sold about 65% of Skype to a group of investors led by Silver Lake in a deal worth $2.75 billion. At the time, Donahoe said that he was excited to sell Skype at this "great valuation," while retaining an equity stake. EBay recieved about $1.9 billion in cash, plus a note promising a payment of $125 million in the future. Marc Andreessen's venture capital firm – Andreessen Horowitz – was part of that group, buying about a 3% stake in the company (Andreessen had co-founded the firm earlier that year). At the time, The Wall Street Journal reported that Silver Lake asked Andreessen Horowitz to join the fund after it had already approached eBay. Less than two years later, in May 2011, Microsoft bought Skype for $8.5 billion in cash. That price is way beyond the $2.75 valuation that eBay saw when it was selling its stake in the company, but Skype had also grown in those 18 months (it was generating revenue of $860 million in 2010, up from $551 million when eBay sold its stock, and in 2011 it was just developing new ways to make money). Facebook, Google and Cisco all also reportedly showed interest in buying the company. Andreessen was not allowed to be part of any of the decision-making process (he was "recused," according to eBay's Board Governance Guidelines, after Andreessen Horowitz bought in, in 2009). But he said in an interview with the Daily Beast after the sale that his firm knew that for "Microsoft and a number of other companies, Skype would be an obvious thing to buy." Was Microsoft one of the "strategic buyers" that originally approached eBay when it was looking for buyers in 2009 ? If not, should Andreessen, as an eBay board member, have pushed CEO Donahoe to consider Microsoft? The Silver Lake-led investor group earned about $4 billion on the deal, and Andreessen Horowitz recieved 3% of that. However, this was the first big exit for Andreessen's new VC firm and it helped him cement his status as one of the most powerful dealmakers in Silicon Valley. EBay itself made money off the deal, too. Because of its remaining stake in the company, it earned $1.4 billion on the acquisition. If you add that money to the $1.9 billion that eBay originally recieved in 2009 from selling off part of Skype, the company made $3.3 billion total, or about $1.8 billion more than it bought Skype for. Shareholders didn't literally lose money, in other words. So, is Icahn right about Andreessen — did eBay shareholders miss out on larger gains that, in hindsight, seemed obviously available? Well, Andreessen certainly didn't "purchase a large stake" in Skype. Did he "reap significant personal wealth" from the deal? Yes, three percent of $4 billion is significant, though that money isn't exactly his personal wealth. Andreessen definitely benefited from the way the deal played out — in reputation as well as cash-wise — but to insinuate that he should have convinced Donahoe not to sell its stake to Silver Lake — when the offered valuation was greater than what analysts were predicting for an IPO — or that he could have predicted what Skype would sell for almost two years later in a different ecosystem after significant growth, is a stretch. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider.  Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
The stock market's price-earnings (P/E) ratio is high relative to its long-run average leading some strategists to argue that either prices will soon fall or returns will be low over the next several years. But if you consider the price-earnings ratio in the context of the currently low inflation rate, prices could arguably go higher. "Low inflation tends to support larger price-to-earnings ratios, as the lack of price pressure facilitates easy monetary policy which encourages multiples expansion," said Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd in his weekly commentary. "Though the P/E ratio of the S&amp;P500 has been on an upward trend in recent years, historical ranges suggest there is further room for expansion due to low inflation. With inflation expected to remain below the Fed’s target through 2015, the P/E ratio could rise as far as 24X and still remain within historical norms." Of course, this assumes inflation stays low. Some indicators, like medical care prices, have been turning up recently. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFor the first time ever, married same-sex couples will be required to file federal income taxes as married, either jointly or separately, and will have the opportunity to amend their last three returns using a married filing status. For some unions, this could mean a nice refund. After the Supreme Court struck down the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act last June, the IRS announced that it would recognize all legally married same-sex couples for federal tax purposes, regardless of whether the state they reside in recognizes their marriage. It's a big victory for advocates of same-sex marriage, writes Tara Siegel Bernard at the New York Times, but it also raises new questions, like: When does it make sense to amend your returns? Bernard spoke with Janis Cowhey McDonagh, a partner at New York accounting firm Marcum. McDonagh says that, as with straight couples, amending returns makes sense if you and your partner qualify for a marriage bonus, earned when one partner stays home or makes significantly less than the other. On the other hand, "higher-income couples with two working spouses making similar incomes are likely to face a marriage penalty" if the dual incomes push the couple into a higher tax bracket, she says. To help answer questions about the new system, the Boston Globe reports that financial planners are offering so-called DOMA reviews to guide couples through their first married tax filing. TurboTax also rolled out a new online tool that helps couples determine whether they're entitled to a bigger tax refund for previously filed returns. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJC Penney is up 21% to $7.21 per share. After the closing bell on Wednesday, the department store chain delivered its first quarterly net profit since July 2011. Net income came in at $35 million or $0.11 per share. But it reported a Q4 adjusted loss of $0.68 per share. "The most challenging parts of the turnaround are behind us," CEO Mike Ullman said in the press release. Here's a look at the five-day chart that shows the stock ripping higher. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Jorg Hackemann / Shutterstock.comHope. The foundation of venture capital. And in some regions, private equity is more like venture capital: raise money from other people, put it into a bunch of companies that have no proven track record of financial results, and then… hope one of them takes over the world. In other places, it’s less about finding the next Facebook / Instagram / WhatsApp, and more about financial  engineering and using clever deal structures and debt to achieve high returns. India is somewhere in between those two: private equity is quite new, and funds are relatively small… but achieving high returns is still more skill than luck. At the same time, though, the industry is still “random” enough that you can break in by visiting PE firms’ offices in-person and then doing some networking on Facebook – as our interviewee today did. Here’s his story, what to expect when you recruit for private equity in India, and what the industry there is like: From Chartered Accountancy to Private Equity Q: Let’s start by going through your background and the short version of what you accomplished. You know how this works. A: Sure. I am a Chartered Accountant (“CA”), and moved from that background into a middle market private equity fund here in India. (NOTE: My fund is “middle market” by AUM, but we really operate more like a boutique.) About halfway through my CA studies, I became very interested in private equity because it gave me exposure to numerical analysis (Excel), strategic analysis (deal structuring), and operational work (understanding the company and industry). I came from a family of engineers and so I knew almost nothing about business at first – I must have read every single article on your site (even the ones on fashion, which weren’t too relevant here since we don’t wear suits) multiple times to get up to speed on the industry. After the CA, I started looking for a job and studying all the financial modelingand case study materials I could find, for about 8 hours per day. Following the advice of your other interviewees, I used aggressive cold-calling and cold-emailing, but none of it worked since the finance industry was tiny in my city (even though it was one of the top 4 biggest urban centers in India). And when I could find firms, the gatekeepers stopped me consistently. So I took a different approach: I walked into local PE firms’ offices with my resume in-hand, and I asked to speak with professionals there – the industry is so small that I visited nearly all the private equity boutique firms in my city in a single day. A VP at one of the funds agreed to meet me, but they weren’t hiring and they turned down the prospect of even an internship. I didn’t land any other interviews, so at the end of the day I was back to square one. Q: Yeah, the “go to the office in-person” approach can work for some people, but it’s usually not your best shot. What then? A: I had almost given up, but then I decided to contact a guy who runs a daily business updates group with nearly 800 members on Facebook. I had never met him before, but he was also a young CA and I thought he might agree to help me – I asked if he could refer me to anyone he knew in finance, and he put me in touch with his single professional contact in the industry: a friend at a middle market private equity firm here. Two months, 8 rounds of interviews, and an 8-hour modeling and case study test later, and I won a full-time job offer there. Q: Awesome. I think that’s the first example of “Facebook networking” we’ve featured. Before we jump into the recruiting process in more detail, what does the private equity industry in India look like? A: It’s very, very new, and most of the firms are boutiques with AUM of under $50 million USD. There are only around 10-15 funds with over $1 billion USD. Many of the global mega-funds are interested in India, and some, like Blackstone and Sequoia, actually have dedicated Indian operations on the ground. Deals are much smaller, overall – anything over $100 million USD is considered a “large deal,” and actual big deals (i.e. over $1 billion USD) are rare and only happen 1-2x per year. The industries of focus have been banks and financial institutions,information technology, and real estate, although that is starting to change – more funds are investing in consumer sectors like healthcare and retail. You could say, “The money is in the banks, but the value is in the consumer sectors.” A lot of impact investing funds have been starting up as well – they tend to focus on the agriculture and micro-finance sectors, and they aren’t necessarily as concerned with earning high returns. Deals almost always come in the form of structured equity, while a small number are plain vanilla equity; traditional leveraged buyouts (i.e. where debt is used for the majority of deal funding) are non-existent. PE Recruiting in India… via Facebook? Q: OK, great, thanks for that overview. Even if you networked your way in via Facebook, I’m assuming that the rest of the recruiting process took place “offline”… A: Yes, you could say that! While headhunters are very active for private equity recruiting in North America, that’s not the case at all here: openings are hardly ever advertised, and even when they are, the initial screening is insanely selective. So pretty much all hiring happens via referrals – you need to know someone at the fund who can vouch for you. Networking really is the only way to break in here. Private equity interviews are almost exactly the same as what you see anywhere else, even though the average deal size and industry focus are different. You really need to know your stuff with the technical questions in India – many funds here place additional weight on technical questions since they’d rather work with a smart, but somewhat socially awkward guy, as opposed to someone with great people skills who doesn’t know how to run a DCF. Q: So I’m assuming that modeling tests and case studies are even more intense? A: I would say: “Be prepared for in-depth tests and case studies, even though traditional LBOs are rare to non-existent here.” Also note that even though traditional LBOs are uncommon, there are a huge number of regulatory restrictions on foreign investments in India – so deals can be complex, even if they don’t use leverage. The modeling tests can range from simple 2-hour exercises (e.g., “Build a 3-statement model for this company and estimate the 5-year IRR”) to more detailed ones where you need flexible, granular, and justifiable assumptions for revenue and expenses. The case studies can take the form of extended scenarios in interviews (e.g., “Let’s walk through how to project revenue, in detail, in a particular industry”) or industry research exercises. In my case, they gave me an 8-hour test to: You’ve covered case studies, stock pitches, and modeling tests on this site before so I don’t have too much to add – the main point is that you need to bevery quick with all of this work because you’ll be under extreme time pressure. Q: Great, anything else to mention? A: As always, you need to get your story straight. I did “OK” on the case studies above, but they hired me mainly because the interviewer (the fund manager) was impressed with the passion I showed for the work itself and the efforts I had made to break in and learn about the industry on my own. Q: Speaking of your story, how important is your previous background for getting into private equity in India? A: Since investment banking is relatively underdeveloped in India, many blue-chip PE funds here actually hire based on your academic record instead. It’s very, very different from the US and Europe, where investment banking feeds directly into private equity. Sometimes, firms will even list a degree from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) along with an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) or other tier-I b-schools like ISB as a “requirement,” which makes no sense since IIT is for engineering. And if you have an MBA in finance from top IIM’s or other tier-I b-schools, some funds may overlook a complete lack of relevant experience altogether. My story – an inexperienced CA getting into PE – is an extreme exception (and extremely good luck) and is pretty much unheard of. Normally, you would need that MBA in finance from the top schools to have a shot at this. The mega-funds – the likes of Sequoia here – are extremely selective, and if you don’t have a degree from the top 5 b-schools in India or an Ivy League education, you don’t have much of a chance. But boutique PE firms are more open to people with unusual backgrounds, so you’ll see professionals without those degrees at the smaller firms. Of course, all PE firms here prefer people who have worked in IB before or who have prior modeling / deal experience, but in practice most PE professionals tend to have more varied backgrounds. If you’re from a marginally relevant background, like consulting or equity/credit/industry research, it’s an uphill battle since you’ll need to prove that you can build a DCF model blindfolded, even to boutiques. But at least boutiques will consider you, whereas bigger funds will not. On the Job: Investing in India Q: Thanks for that detailed description of the recruiting process – since the deal and industry focus seem so different, can you walk us through an average day in your life? A: Sure. I get into the office between 8 and 9 AM, and then read up on the sectors we’re tracking and general news for about 30 minutes unless there’s something urgent. For the rest of the day, it depends on what’s going on at the moment: there are usually 2-4 deals we’re evaluating at the same time, so I could be doing anything from initial due diligence to financial analysis, to writing memos or making models or presentations, to team meeting or investor calls, to industry research. Overall, I spend more time on research than you would in other regions – since it’s required to understand industries and structure deals here. Deals fall apart not just because of their investment merits (or lack thereof), but also because a cost-efficient structure might not be possible. Very, very few deals ever proceed to the final stages, so I spend the majority of time analyzing/structuring potential deals to check their feasibility, and monitoring our existing portfolio companies. If a deal happens to be in its final stages, then that takes up most of my time – but otherwise, most of my time is spent saying “yes” or “no” to potential deals based on an initial analysis or later stage due diligence, and seeing how our investments are doing. Travel is rare unless a deal has advanced to its final stages and we need to go to the company for in-person due diligence meetings. Q: Sounds quite busy. A: Yes, the hours are bad by Indian standards, and even by usual private equity standards. If I get in at around 8 – 9 AM, I might leave at 8 PM on a good day. But the norm is more like 9 – 10 PM, and 11 PM – 1 AM is quite common. It’s generally a 6-day workweek, which definitely turns into a grind. I usually get Sunday off, so there is a bit of relief built in. I’ve spoken to people at other funds here and hours seem to be similar everywhere – which is not a great deal when you think about the compensation as well. Q: That was my next question. Let’s hear it. A: You get paid peanuts compared to US standards – at the entry-level, it is the equivalent of $20,000 to $40,000 USD (assuming approximately 60 INR per USD). That may sound horrible, but keep in mind that the cost of living in India is also much lower and the median household income is about 30-40x lower than in the US and Europe. So it’s actually a sweet deal for your first or second job here. Pay also varies a lot based on your background and the size of the fund (bigger fund = higher average pay). One other interesting point is that compensation climbs sharply once you have full-time experience – so even though it starts out at low levels, you’ll also see quicker gains than you would in developed markets. The “ceiling” at the Partner level is still substantially lower than in the US or Europe, but on a PPP basis it’s higher. The hierarchy itself is very similar to what you see anywhere else, but as I mentioned, advancement, pay increases, and skipping levels can happen more quickly and more often here. Q: OK, so let’s say you get tired of the grind – what are your exit opportunities? A: If you leave PE here, you leave to get your MBA or to move to a bigger fund. There’s literally no other reason to leave, assuming you want to stay in the country – there just aren’t many other higher-paying or more attractive opportunities. So unless you absolutely hate the work, you’ll rarely leave (but how could you have gotten in if you hated the work?). “Hopping around” to different funds is very common; sometimes funds that want to hire aggressively will let you skip one rung of the ladder in the PE hierarchy. As an example, I spoke with a guy who moved from 1 year in corporate banking, to an Analyst at one of the largest funds in the world, to a Vice President at a much smaller, impact investing fund after only 2 years (!) because the smaller fund really wanted him. Then, after ~3 years there, he jumped to a bigger impact fund and became “Regional Director – South Asia” in the process… all before the age of 30. The industry is so unstructured that funds are willing to make exceptions and go to great lengths to hire you if they really want you. So that’s one advantage of working here, despite the lower pay and long(er) hours. In developed markets, you have to bend over backward to get into the mega-funds – but in India, if you already have PE experience the power is in your hands. Q: So are you going to follow that plan as well? A: Hah, well, I’m definitely staying in private equity, though I might go back to business school first. I enjoy what I do too much to consider anything else, despite the long hours, and, as I mentioned before, there aren’t a ton of other attractive options here once you’ve already worked in private equity – so there’s little incentive to quit. Q: Great – any final thoughts? A: I was really surprised when you mentioned that you get over 20,000 visitors per month from India, so I wanted to share as much as I could. I had started a blog of my own (Bateman Begins) last year, which I have since discontinued due to lack of time (yeah, I can hear you chuckling). But the whole purpose of the site was to explain finance in India – you wouldn’t believe how many people here think “BB back office operations = investment banking.” Q: Awesome, I like the name. Anyone interested in finance in India should check it out as well! Thanks for your time! A: My pleasure. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mel Evans Atlantic City has seen its luck turn since the high times of 2007, when guests ordered $1,000 brownies topped with gold flakes and gaming revenues flooded city coffers. Today, the city's tax base is shrinking, as resort properties lose their value and gamblers seek new options in neighboring states. Total gaming revenue fell below $3 billion last year for the first time in 22 years. One bright spot in this gloom is the 11-year-old Borgata Hotel Casino &amp; Spa, co-owned by Boyd Gaming and MGM Resorts. While city gaming revenue fell 6.2% last year, the Borgata saw a 0.7% increase. It also had the most gaming revenue at $617 million, claiming one of every five dollar gambled in the city. "I don't know what it is about this place," Fernando Commandari, 52, said while sitting at a Borgata blackjack table in early February. "It always feels current, which is nice. The staff are amazing and the service is great. But why do I come here over the Revel? I honestly can't say."  Andrew Zarnett, managing director of Deutsche Bank, offered a few reasons in an interview with the AP: "Borgata was successful thanks to a great location, well-executed design and talented management. Helping its success was a large investment in market research from the outset of development, which helped management understand the customer and implement a well-formulated plan." The well-formulated plan included innovations like the popular "Borgata Babes" servers, more sophisticated slot machines, celebrity chef restaurants by Bobby Flay and Wolfgang Puck, a popular non-gambling sister hotel called The Water Club, constant renovations, and an early foray into online gambling (it now claims 41% of the local market). Robert Johnson for Business InsiderAtlantic City Mayor, Don GuardianNone of this is news to Atlantic City's new mayor, Don Guardian, who shared his vision of Atlantic City with us in his office. When we mention the Borgata's success, the mayor smiled and said, "Yes, if only I had five more like it." The mayor has a refined energy that's impossible to miss. In our brief visit, he outlined plans for a new Atlantic City facing the prospect of fading casino revenue. This includes expanding services in the health care field and the education sector with an eye to creating as many new, non-hospitality jobs as possible. "I'm optimistic," he said. "I see great things for Atlantic City, I really do."  But it's easy to see how things could get worse before they get better. Many casinos are on shaky ground or worse, with the Atlantic Club Casino Hotel closing in January and the Revel Casino only recently out of bankruptcy and reported to be looking for a buyout. With more than half the mortgages in the area underwater, 30% of residents below the poverty line, and double-digit unemployment, there are fears that Atlantic City could become the next Detroit. At least there's the Borgata. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesWhile the dream of home ownership may have taken a beating during the recent recession, a majority of Americans still say that buying a house is in their life plan. And with good reason: home ownership is a key part of many individuals' long-term financial strategies, plays an important role in improving the health of the economy, and can provide much-needed space for growing families. But if the recent collapse of the housing market made one thing clear, it's that home ownership is not for everyone. It's a significant, long-term commitment that requires strong financial standing and the right timing. We spoke with Merrill Edge Financial Solutions Advisor Wesley Gunter and Trulia real estate expert Michael Corbett to get a sense of what first-time home buyers should consider before taking on a mortgage. They recommend that prospective buyers ask themselves the following questions: Both Gunter and Corbett say that figuring out why you want a home is absolutely critical before you begin looking at options. "What's the purpose of the home?" asks Gunter. "What do you want to do with it? Are you going to live in it? Are you going to rent it? Know where you are in that life cycle." Answering those questions will determine what kind of loan structure you'll need and what size house makes the most sense given your short- and long-term family plans.  Before you even think about whether you want a two- or three-bedroom, you need to figure out what you can actually afford. That means taking an inventory of your income, expenses, assets, savings, and debts. Once you know where you stand, Gunter suggests sitting down with a financial advisor and saying: "Here's an example of our cash flow on a monthly and quarterly basis. Is it reasonable for us to buy a $500,000 home or a $200,000 home?"  The last thing you want is get your sights set on one kind of home only to discover later that it's way outside your price range. The mortgage and down payment aren't the only numbers you need to consider. "You hear people say all the time: 'Well, my rent right now is $2,500 and the mortgage would be $2,300. I should buy a house,'" Corbett says. "Well, the problem is, you're not taking into consideration all the ongoing costs of home ownership."  Costs like property taxes, home owner's insurance, realtor fees, closing fees, utilities, and maintenance can really add up. If you're buying in areas like California, Corbett continues, you'll also have to pay hazard insurance against natural disasters like earthquakes. "So that $2,300 is not $2,300," he says. "It may end up being $3,500 or $3,700 when all is said and done." Just like applying for a credit card, whether you qualify for a particular home loan depends on your financial history. Lenders will look at your pay stubs, employment forms, and tax returns going back two years, as well as your credit score to determine eligibility. First-time homebuyers can apply for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans, which require just a 3.5% down payment. But if you can't put down 20%, says Corbett, you should seriously think through whether you can afford a house. In the latest housing crisis, he says, "the majority of the collapsed mortgages and a majority of the defaults were homes that were purchased with very little money down." Gunter agrees, saying: "Every mortgage is set up differently, but the more you can afford to put down the better, because it will reduce your payments as you get going." While you might be financially ready to buy a home, it might not make sense given your current career path or relationship. Is there any chance you'll be transferred to another office? Are you or your partner, if you're looking with someone else, considering grad school in the near future?  "Just because interest rates are low, and it might be a great investment right now," says Gunter, "is it something that you want to go in on? One of your most expensive assets that you're ever going to invest in in your entire life, besides your retirement, is your home. It's a major decision, and it can't be jumped into foolhardily." If there's a good possibility you might move within five years, says Corbett, now is probably not a good time to buy. "Right now we're seeing some nice stable appreciation in home prices," he says. "However, coupled with all the costs of closing [the house] and then selling again, it ends up being cheaper for you to stay renting for this same time period if you're going to be moving any time under five years." While appreciation rates vary by region, Corbett says staying put for three to five years is a good rule of thumb. If you're young, being in a major metropolitan area might be the most important factor in your decision right now. But if you're thinking about starting a family in a few years, you might also consider the quality of your local schools, access to public parks, and the safety of your neighborhood. Locate a few areas you're interested in and start checking out homes in your price range. Corbett and Gunter recommend starting to look at least a full year in advance so you have time to check out as many options as possible. Your relationship with your realtor is just like any other financial relationship; it's important that you mesh well and that they'll go to bat for you when you find the house you want. Gunter suggests doing mini interviews with a few realtors to compare their commission structures and availability. "Doing that due diligence right off the bat is going to save you a lot of time," says Gunter. One mistake many people make, says Corbett, is using a realtor because they're a friend or a relative, not because they're familiar with the right area. "You really need someone who has the knowledge and the expertise and reputation," he says.  The last thing first-time homebuyers need to consider is whether they'll be able to stay on top of all the other financial commitments in their life without going under. "When it comes down to it," says Gunter, "you don't want to sacrifice your retirement just because you really want to get this home right now." By the same token, you shouldn't put yourself in a situation where you're struggling to pay off your car loan or credit cards. "So make sure you can manage all of your finances when you step into a major decision like this." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoAnyone who has lived through the last three years of war and revolution could easily forget how rare such uprisings are. George Soros reminds us in a recent column for Project Syndicate. For masses of people to forget their differences and work against the the force that is supposed to give their national identity its structure — their government — requires a catalyst. And for the most part, such catalysts are uncertain and unknown. Soros compares tha uncertainty to Werner Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle: According to Heisenberg, subatomic phenomena can manifest themselves as particles or waves; similarly, human beings may alternate between behaving as individual particles or as components of a larger wave. In other words, the unpredictability of historical events like those in Ukraine has to do with an element of uncertainty in human identity. People’s identity is made up of individual elements and elements of larger units to which they belong, and peoples’ impact on reality depends on which elements dominate their behavior. When civilians launched a suicidal attack on an armed force in Kyiv on February 20, their sense of representing “the nation” far outweighed their concern with their individual mortality. The result was to swing a deeply divided society from the verge of civil war to an unprecedented sense of unity. Basically, the shift from looking at groups of people around you as 'you and me' to looking at them as 'us' is what is so amazing about revolutions. And to Soros, it is part of the failure of the European Union project. Yes, European countries can offer Ukraine expertise in terms of organization and business strategies but until Germany accepts its position as a leader of a new group of united countries — rather than looking inward and seeing fellow EU countries as entities to which it is not beholden — amazing opportunities like Ukraine will pass the world by. This is deep stuff, people. Read the rest of the column on Project Syndicate&gt; FREE AppDownload
       The labor market improved further during the second half of 2013 and into early 2014 as the economic recovery strengthened: Employment has increased at an average monthly pace of about 175,000 since June, and the unemployment rate fell from 7.5&#160;percent in June to 6.6&#160;percent in January. With these gains, payrolls have risen a cumulative 3-1/4 million and the unemployment rate has declined 1-1/2&#160;percentage points since August 2012, the month before the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) began its current asset purchase program. Nevertheless, even with these improvements, the unemployment rate remains well above levels that FOMC participants judge to be sustainable in the longer run.               Consumer price inflation remained low. The price index for personal consumption expenditures rose at an annual rate of only 1&#160;percent in the second half of last year, noticeably below the FOMC's longer-run objective of 2&#160;percent. However, some of the recent softness reflects factors that seem likely to prove transitory, and survey- and market-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained in the ranges seen over the past several years.    
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Russian servicemen take part in a military parade rehearsal in Red Square in Moscow, November 5, 2013. The parade will be held on November 7 to mark the anniversary of a historical parade in 1941 when Soviet soldiers marched through Red Square towards the front lines at World War Two.  With ousted Ukraine president Viktor Yanukovych having fled to Moscow for protection, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry warning Russia to stand down, and pro-Russian gunmen taking over Ukraine government buildings in its southern peninsula, we wondered whether the escalating Ukraine crisis might lead to a U.S. military conflict with Russia. We asked geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group what is likely to happen. Fortunately, Bremmer says there is a "near-zero" chance of a direct U.S. military conflict with Russia. Instead, Bremmer says, a portion of Ukraine might secede and align with Russia, while the rest of the country will remain intact (and aligned with Europe). There might be local violence and verbal skirmishes along the way, but no military action between the U.S. and Russia. If Russia decides to invade Ukraine, Bremmer says, the U.S. will likely condemn the behavior but do nothing. From Bremmer: "If Ukraine pursues a Europe all-in strategy and Russians in Crimea secede, Putin could easily recognize them and provide 'support' to Russia's besieged compatriots. At which point the West protests loudly...and does very little...  NATO is setting redlines on Ukrainian sovereignty/territorial integrity that we aren't prepared to defend — and it's not useful to give the new Ukrainian government those expectations. Crimea seceding is [not] Ukraine splitting in half. It's a Russian peninsula with a restive minority (Tatars) and a military base. Most of southeast Ukraine would stick with Kiev (though we could see violence in some of those cities). [The] likelihood of a US direct military conflict with Russia is near zero. Like Georgia, if Russians decide they want to go all in, in their backyard, the US isn't about to fight for it." The Kremlin is positioning itself to defend its interests in Crimea, which is the only Ukrainian region with an ethnic Russian majority and home to Russia's Black Sea naval fleet. About 150,000 troops are performing war games near Russia's border with Ukraine and its fighter jets are on alert. Russian troops are on the streets of Crimea's regional capital of Simferopol as the Russian flag flies above its parliament building. Crimean politicians are talking separatism and denouncing the interim government in Kiev as illegitimate. Meanwhile, the new leaders in the capital are trying to figure out how to keep the country unified and solvent. This map, which shows the common native languages in urban and rural councils as of 2001, illustrates Crimea's closeness to Russia. Blue is Ukrainian and red is Russian.  Wikimedia Commons   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachPresident of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso (R) laughs next to European Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi, before giving his "First Europe Speech" in Frankfurt, November 5, 2013. Stocks are falling and bonds are rallying this morning as geopolitical and fundamental economic concerns weigh on global sentiment. In the U.S., the S&amp;P 500 futures is marginally negative, while 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.1%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.65%, one basis point below yesterday's close. European indices are in the red across the board — with the German DAX leading the way lower, currently down 1.0% — while French, Portuguese, and Italian government bonds are leading the rally in euro zone debt, all with yields 6 basis points below yesterday's close. The U.S. dollar is weakening against the yen, and the euro is weakening against the dollar. The ongoing political situation in Ukraine and Russia continues to capture attention. The Ukrainian hryvnia plummeted to new all-time lows today, and conflict appears to be on the rise in Ukraine's Crimea region, where ethnic Russians comprise the majority of the population and the threat of Russian military intervention looms large. Citi strategist Valentin Marinov notes that over the past few sessions, the euro has weakened against the dollar in tandem with the Russian ruble. "Recent FX price action seems to point at growing euro sensitivity to the intensifying tensions between Ukraine and Russia," says Marinov. "Among the likely explanations is the dependence of the euro zone on oil and gas imports from Russia and the fact that all but one of the pipelines pass through Ukraine. Potential escalation in the tensions between the two countries could fuel concerns about supply disruptions, which could add to the headwinds for the fragile recovery in the euro zone. Such headwinds may be exacerbated by the existing trade and financial sector links between the E.U., Russia and Ukraine." The euro is also likely weakening ahead of next week's monthly meeting of the ECB governing council on monetary policy. Many believe tomorrow's flash euro zone inflation release could point to further disinflation in February, spurring the ECB to take action, possibly by lowering the benchmark euro area refinancing rate. "With all the talk about Russia and Ukraine, I think participants are losing sight of what is happening in the longer end," says Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets.  "Europe has a full blown deflation trade working and the U.S. has a large pension/insurance bid chasing long-end yields. There is a complete undersupply in the longer end of the market." In recent sessions, there has been a growing disconnect between the S&amp;P 500 (which has been moving higher) and U.S. Treasury yields (which have been moving lower). This continues to be a hot topic in the marketplace. Most believe that this disconnect is related to inclement winter weather in the U.S., which has likely been a significant driver of recent weakness in economic indicators. The slowdown has caused market participants to close out short fixed income positions for now, sending yields lower even as stocks continue to push higher. The release of better-than-expected January U.S. durable goods orders data alongside worse-than-expected weekly jobless claims data this morning did little to move the market. At 10 AM ET, Federal Reserve chairman Janet Yellen resumes her semi-annual testimony on monetary policy, this time appearing before the Senate Banking Committee. "This follows on from the original testimony on the 11th, and so she will have seen a few extra data releases, an escalation in the Ukrainian threat, and a small improvement in U.S. equity markets," says David Keeble, head of fixed income strategy at Crédit Agricole. "But, overall there is very unlikely to be much different today relative to the first installment. The message in the first testimony was that the taper would continue, and that came through in the recent minutes; it should also be the message today." FREE AppDownload
Tim Boyle/Getty ImagesBest Buy is up 8% in pre-market trading after reporting earnings this morning. The electronics retailer said that the consumer environment remained weak, but the stock spiked when the company reported net earnings of $310 million ($0.88 a share) compared to a loss of $461 million ($1.36 a share) a year earlier. The company cut costs by $765 million. Adjusted for one-time items, the $1.24 a share earnings figure beat analyst estimates. From the press release: "From a revenue perspective, in light of overall economic concerns, we are assuming that the industry declines in the consumer electronics category that we saw in the fourth quarter will continue. As a result, it is reasonable to expect that total company revenue and comparable store sales will remain slightly negative similar to Q4 FY14 in the first half of the year." FREE AppDownload
In case you're still wondering how Obamacare is going to affect you, you now have another answer. You might start seeing Obamacare surcharges on your restaurant checks. The Executive Editor of CNN Money, Chris Peacock, tweeted a snapshot of one such bill this morning. You can see the surcharge there right at the bottom: $0.20 for "ACA" — a.k.a., the Affordable Care Act, a.k.a., Obamacare.   Now on your restaurant bill: Obamacare fee http://t.co/T2j0hZByWE pic.twitter.com/19ziKjsu2B FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderStudents cheer at the Harvard Business School graduation ceremonyGoing to business school is a bit of a paradox. You’re working toward your future, but in many ways you’re also reentering your past. MBAs can be in danger of reverting back to a sophomoric lifestyle common to 20-year-old college students. From time to time, they’ll skip class, get drunk on a random Tuesday and copy the notes of friends. But even more often, they’ll cram for a brutally difficult finance exam, memorize case studies and practice conversational art as if it were science. Most every business school graduate we interviewed said the experience was different than they expected. I asked four of them why, and what honest advice they’d give those soon to enter the same halls. Here’s what they said. (Note: Three of the four went to a top 20 full-time U.S. business school – the other a top 50. Two are on Wall Street, one’s a consultant and the other now owns his own business. Each graduated within the last four years). It’s not a magic pill: Some business school graduates admittedly get their MBA because they want to get out of the industry in which they’re currently toiling. It’s not that easy, both in terms of getting the initial job out of school but more so succeeding at it, said one grad that’s recently done it. “Expect you will have to work twice as hard as someone with industry experience to get up to speed in your first post-MBA role,” he said. “I was at least a year behind my class peers when I started and didn’t realize this until six months into the job at which point I was probably 18 months behind them in knowledge.” Recruiting starts immediately: If you want to get into finance or consulting, recruiting firms will be on campus soon after you arrive. At NYU, for example, some consultants began recruiting for summer internships during the third week of September, said one graduate. This means three main things: Schedule your core courses – accounting, statistics, strategy etc. – during your first semester. You’ll then have a more solid base during the first round of internship interviews.If some concepts are fairly new to you, take an online course during the summer so you aren’t cramming while networking/interviewing. This also helps getting acclimated toward being back in school.If for some reason Wall Street or consulting isn’t your end-goal, don’t schedule your core business school course for the first semester. “The competition is way too intense and you won’t be meeting the right people,” said the business owner, who himself made the mistake. Get ready to drink, a lot: Business school is one part learning and one part networking. The latter activity often involves booze. In the first few weeks of school, especially if you attend early, networking means getting drunk with new classmates, reminiscent of college. Later on, it’s meet-and-greets with banks and sit-downs with alumni. “Don’t confuse the first kind of drinking with the second kind,” recommends one business school grad. No need to dress up: There is no need to dress like a banker in class unless you are presenting or meeting with a potential employer at school. “A guy who’s now working at McKinsey wore mesh lacrosse shorts to class every day,” said the consultant. “Another kid wore a tie every day and is a nobody.” Networking tools are mostly junk: Top-ranked business schools offer students a ridiculous amount of material and workshops aimed at helping students interview and network. Just check out this absurd networking worksheet. If you know how to talk to people, and you’ve already done it in a business setting, don’t waste your time, said one current Wall Streeter. If anything, training to network can teach you the wrong skills. “Networking is the biggest BS term in business school,” he said. “They give you tips, packets, books, advice on how to network – you see these people who have no social skills get 45 cards at an event and think they have ‘networked,’” he said. “I’ve always found that funny.” If you’re outgoing, use it to your advantage: This tip comes from the same source, unsurprisingly. Business school consists of a lot of group projects that culminate in presentations. If you are comfortable being the point man or woman, you can get away with doing less of the grunt research work, he said. “So many people are scared of presenting that oftentimes I could trade doing all the heavy lifting analysis if I said I would present the project – a little trick I found that would save me lots of time with my group,” he said. Popularity matters: Making actual friends is important, said another MBA grad. Real relationships with classmates matter and you’ll need favors. You’ll also want access to the best and brightest for group projects. “Find out who’s smart – be aggressive and ask to be in their group,” said one of the Wall Streeters. “If you aren’t smart enough, become the organizer.” It’s full-ish time: “Even in the first semester, you have so much more free time on your hands than you ever do working a full time job – even if you do all the readings and all the work,” said another recent grad. Be prepared. Like in college, free time can be detrimental if you don’t know how to use it properly. “I watched a lot of SportsCenter and dipped a lot,” he said. Don’t get pressured: Top business schools offer dozens of clubs, daily networking opportunities, near-nightly lectures and every extracurricular activity under the sun. Don’t be pressured into taking part in everything and spreading yourself too thin, said the NYU grad. Other students will give you the ““you’re not going to the…?” Assess the value of every opportunity selfishly, he said. For more advice, head to eFinancial Careers&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyCarl Icahn is out with a new open letter to the shareholders of eBay. There has been quite a back and forth between the activist investor and eBay's board, and the scrap continues today with Icahn laying out six "facts." In this letter, Icahn goes after board member Scott Cook — who runs a company that Ichan argues is a competitor —  writing that "having Mr. Cook on the board while planning PayPal’s future is akin to having Pete Carroll, coach of the Seattle Seahawks, sitting in when the Denver Broncos were constructing their game plan for the Super Bowl (then again, maybe he did)." Check out the letter: New York, New York, February 27, 2014 – Today Carl C. Icahn released the following open letter to stockholders of eBay Inc.  We have read the responses of eBay’s public relations machine. We find it interesting that Mr. Donahoe, Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Cook have decided to hide behind them, rather than state the facts themselves.  FACT ONE eBay has challenged us to focus on honest, accurate debate. We do not believe eBay is serious about this. However, yesterday CNBC offered a public forum for that debate. We immediately told CNBC we would be happy to do it, but we doubt eBay will accept its own challenge. We will soon find out. At this moment, not surprising to us, eBay has not responded. We eagerly await their reply.  FACT TWO eBay was planning to IPO Skype. Mr. Andreessen and his investor group preempted the IPO, purchasing 70% of Skype for less than what eBay paid for it. Had eBay sold Skype to Microsoft at the price paid to Mr. Andreessen’s group, eBay shareholders would have been at least $4 billion richer upon the sale. Mr. Andreessen’s group profited by about $4 billion in only a year and a half. This is an indisputable fact. FACT THREE eBay states it explored all available options for Skype before selling to Andreessen’s group. Since we are highly skeptical of this, yesterday we sent a letter to eBay demanding to inspect all books and records regarding the process surrounding this transaction – pursuant to our legal right under Delaware law. Will Mr. Donahoe provide those records immediately or waste time to fight our request and hide behind his legal army? FACT FOUR eBay states the conflicts regarding Mr. Andreessen’s investments are acceptable. Mr. Andreessen has funded, sits on boards of, and advises no less than five competitors, four of which directly compete with PayPal – all the while potentially having access to nonpublic information regarding PayPal’s operating performance. Based on our research, Mr. Andreessen’s actions are by far an outlier on public markets – even for technology company boards. We do not consider them even close to satisfying the “world-class”standards that eBay claims to have established for its board.  FACT FIVE It is interesting that eBay did not even mention Mr. Cook’s alleged transgressions in its reply yesterday. But eBay has previously stated that Mr. Cook’s company, Intuit (of which he is the founder, a board member, the chairman of the executive committee and an employee), and PayPal are not competitors. However, to state they are not competitors is absurd. Both PayPal and Intuit have publicly declared the increasing importance and thedesire to greatly expand within payment processing over the long-term. Both companies have identical product offerings such as “PayPal Here” and “GoPayment”, among many others. In our opinion, having Mr. Cook on the board while planning PayPal’s future is akin to having Pete Carroll, coach of the Seattle Seahawks, sitting in when the Denver Broncos were constructing their game plan for the Super Bowl (then again, maybe he did). FACT SIX Amazingly, eBay states the hiring embargo Mr. Cook allegedly demanded of the company is “old” news. However, the Department of Justice complaint concerning Mr. Cook’s actions is still currently pending and the company has not announced that it has taken any action regarding Mr. Cook’s alleged attempts to intervene in its hiring practices.  We look forward to an honest, accurate debate on the issues we have raised. Sincerely,  Carl C. Icahn FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
A bit of a miss. Initial jobless claims rose to 348K for the week, up from 336K. Analysts had expected just 335K. This all seems fairly within the realm of "noise" though it corroborates the continuing weakish trend of data. Hope it's the weather! FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWhite-hot steel pours like water from a 35-ton electric furnace, Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., Brackenridge, Pa.The January durable goods orders report is out, and the numbers are better than expected. Orders fell just 1.0%, which was more modest than the 1.7% decline expected.. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft — an important measure of corporate spending — unexpectedly jumped 1.7%. Economists were looking for a 0.2% decline. "[T]he three-month-on-three-month annualised growth rate improved to 6.6%, suggesting that equipment investment is now expanding at a solid pace," noted Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "Admittedly, actual shipments in the same category fell by 0.8% m/m, but the three-month-on-three-month growth rate nevertheless accelerated to 8.8%." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyA man dressed like an ancient Chinese emperor sits in a pool in between waitresses dressed like imperial palace maids at a bathhouse during its opening ceremony in Shangtang township, Henan province, February 2, 2013. According to local media, the man paid 100 thousand yuan (about $16,054) to be the first person to soak in the pool while being served as an ancient emperor.China's leadership has been aggressive with its reforms as it tries to get its hot economy on the path to sustainable growth. One of President Xi Jinping's major efforts has been his crackdown on corruption, which saw policymakers enjoying the generosities of corporations in exchange for favorable deals. "Extravagances, such as lavish banquets, first-class flights and constructing luxurious office buildings, have been essentially curbed," said Jefferies Christie Ju in a note to clients earlier this month. Ju noted that the market for luxury goods climbed by just 2% in 2013 relative to the 13% jump in overall retail sales. While this has been bad news for luxury goods products and services providers, the rest of corporate China is finding themselves better off. "Thanks to strong implementation of anti-corruption efforts, almost all of the listed companies in our coverage universe have achieved cost savings in their business operations," said Ju. "We expect Chinese companies to report higher-than-expected 2013 and 2014 core earnings. Lower SG&amp;A should lead to improved margin and profitability, and stronger cash flow and balance sheet, as well as more dividends to shareholders." Ju expects Chinese stocks to outperform the markets. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty/AFP/FileUS Coast Guard prepares to board a fishing vessel while on patrol in the Pacific Ocean off of the coast of San Francisco on March 7, 2013Fishing the high seas is a losing investment, an economist told political leaders, corporate kings and environmental warriors Wednesday, backing calls for protecting the open seas. McKinsey &amp; Company director Martin Stuchtey subtracted politics from the equation and laid out numbers showing that a ban on high seas fishing would cost $2 per person on the planet, while returning $4 per person. "You would need to spend the two dollars to get the four dollars; that is much better than anything the bank offers you right now," Stuchtey told AFP after an on-stage chat at a World Ocean Summit organized by The Economist weekly newspaper. A handful of nations spend lots of money subsidizing fleets that must range farther and farther at sea for fish as stocks are depleted. The bulk of their catch goes to developed nations. Ending subsidies and the practice would result in huge financial savings, as well as let sea life rebound and regenerate areas designated by the United Nations as exclusive economic zones in which countries have rights to resources, according to Stuchtey. Stuchtey's figures, which he promised to publish soon, backed calls declaring all the world's open ocean protected marine areas complete with enforcement to stop illegal fishing. Hard numbers reveal that today's fishing industry is not profitable and as fleets work harder chasing fewer fish, the losses grow and stocks are further depleted in "a race to the bottom," the economist explained. "The case of the ocean stands upon good old-fashioned economics," Stuchtey said. "It is often hidden behind complex relationships, short-term interests and entrenched behaviors." Summit participants pointed to the need to translate the destruction of seas and marine life into economic values that everyone, from world leaders to fishermen, can take to heart. Factoring the value of "natural capital" off coasts into the wealth of countries promises to change the way nations manage such assets and to turn some countries from aid cases into investment opportunities, said World Bank vice president and special envoy for climate change Rachel Kyte. "We will have to use economic modeling that counts in natural resources and the cost of policy measures," she added. "We are just starting to do that." US Secretary of State John Kerry and Prince Albert II of Monaco were among summit speakers calling for meaningful action to save the ocean on which life depends. They pointed to the need for sustainability when it comes to fisheries and other sea resources, and for nations to work together on the issues. Among the threats to these resources are illegal fishing practices smashing food chains and wiping out species, pollution, including fertilizer run-off from inland farms, and climate change. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Ukrainians ousted President Viktor Yanukovych, but he remains defiant while being protected in Russia. An interim government is just being formed, meanwhile the currency is getting obliterated and the economy is at risk of default. The feared riot police have been disbanded and some police in the West have begged for forgiveness, but armed Pro-Russia gunman have seized parliament in the regional capital of the southern peninsula of Crimea and Russia's military is on high alert along the border. Basically, Ukraine is having an existential crisis. The new international TIME cover illustrates that: TIME It will be a while until Independence square returns to its old self. Flickr/Alexei Shershnyov Here it is  on February 19, the morning before Yanukovych fled Kiev. REUTERS/Petro Zadorozhny Smoke rises above Independence Square during anti-government protests in central Kiev in the early hours of February 19, 2014. Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich accused pro-European opposition leaders on Wednesday of trying to seize power by force after at least 26 people died in the worst violence since the former Soviet republic gained independence.   
Nokia The Nokia X Android-based smartphone has been official for less than a week and already the talk of the industry is that Microsoft will kill the phone as soon as the acquisition of Nokia is final.  “Let me put it this way,” one Microsoft employee said to me at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona this week. “Microsoft is a company built historically on Windows.” Historically, that is true. But the “new” Microsoft may be a bit of a different kind of company. It truly wants to be a devices and services company. For Microsoft, the Nokia Xis all about services and emerging markets. If Nokia can get millions of people using Outlook, Skype and OneDrive with the Nokia X, Microsoft will be more or less content to leave it be. For now. The Nokia X has been in production for about 18 months. Microsoft has known about it for long enough to firmly suggest to Nokia to not ship the smartphone if Microsoft wanted to. But Microsoft did not kill the Nokia X and let it hit the market. Part of this is because of legal reasons (after all, these are still two separate companies), part of it is because Microsoft realizes that the Nokia X could be good for the Microsoft services brand if the phone sells as well as Nokia’s executives seem to think it will. When asked if Microsoft would consider killing the Nokia X after launch, several Nokia employees basically scoffed at the notion. The general consensus is that killing the Nokia X would seem callow and vindictive of Microsoft and that it would not serve Redmond’s purposes.  That doesn’t mean that there is a long road map for the Nokia X. The next iterations of the devices are in planning stages. Nokia won’t build top-end devices using Android, but it will likely expand the mid-tier aggressively in short term. If one were to bet, the Nokia X series may go through two or three iterations before Microsoft quietly lets it die.  Microsoft as a company has more or less completely rebuilt itself over the last couple of years. It made some hard decisions (twice killing its existing mobile platform in Windows Mobile CE and Windows 7) and brought the entire Windows ecosystem under one common core. The next goal for Microsoft is to spread Windows 8 through the world, lowering the barrier of entry for manufacturers and developers to build on the platform and deploy hardware and applications. In the mobile arena, Microsoft wants to start pushing Windows Phone down market. The forthcoming update to both Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 that was announced at the beginning of Mobile World Congress (literally, the first event scheduled in Barcelona) was a statement from Microsoft that it will aggressively push Windows Phone to “growth” markets around the world. From a technical perspective, what that amounts to is the idea that Windows Phone can now be built on commodity hardware. Part of the reason that Android has eaten the world is that it is built on cheap commodity hardware. It should be noted that Google has already made this move with Android. Older versions of Android (up to 2.3 Gingerbread) could run on inexpensive hardware and the most recent version (Android 4.4 KitKat) was designed to ensure that the most newest features and design of Android can run on lower-end specifications. For Microsoft, it is taken a lot longer to get to the same point as Google has with Android, but it has finally created a system for Windows Phone that will allow it to spread through the world. When it comes to the Nokia X, the fact that it is built on Android doesn’t mesh into this, “Windows eats the world” strategy. But that doesn’t mean that Microsoft doesn’t want or need the Nokia X. What should be remembered is that Microsoft didn’t just buy the ability to make Lumia devices from Nokia, it bought the entire catalogue. That includes the S series feature phones, the Asha phones and the Lumia Windows Phones. These phones are pushing users to Microsoft experiences like Bing search and Skype.  From Nokia’s perspective, the Nokia X should be viewed in the same way as the S series and Asha and not as an existential threat to Windows Phone. The Nokia X may not jive with Microsoft's Windows strategy, but that doesn't mean it doesn't fit well within Microsoft's goal to push its services across the world. With that in mind, Microsoft has no intention to kill the Nokia X. FREE AppDownload
Data validation in Excel allows you to create drop-down menus right inside individual cells. You can also restrict the types of values entered into different cells. This makes spreadsheets safer to share because you can avoid errors caused by invalid data entries. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images"Investors often ask us about the sentiment on Apple (AAPL)," said Morgan Stanley's Katy Huberty in a recent note to clients. "The qualitative answer is that sentiment is negative as most funds question Apple's ability to grow revenue long-term. The quantitative answer is that AAPL is an anomaly among large cap mobile technology stocks with institutional funds owning a record low percentage of shares." Institutional funds include pension funds, mutual funds, and endowments. People often refer to them as the smart money. Not all tech stocks are out of favor among this investor class. "Institutional ownership is above average for large cap mobile technology stocks we analyzed, except Apple," noted Huberty. "We looked at ownership data since 2009 and found that the top 30 shareholders tend to own 30-50% of shares outstanding. A few stocks, i.e. AMZN, GOOG, MSFT and HPQ, currently have near record high if not the highest top 30 ownership of shares outstanding in the last five years. In contrast, Apple's current top 30 ownership share is at a record low 30% compared to 36% five year average and a peak of 40% in 2009." Huberty has a $630 price target on the stock, which is nearly $100 higher than the recent price. She has an overweight rating. "We view low institutional ownership relative to other large cap mobile technology stocks as underestimating Apple's ability to participate in new categories like wearables and services. In wearables, we see iWatch contributing 32 to 58 million units in the first 12 months post launch based on the historical installed base penetration ramp experienced by iPhone and iPad. In services, the combination of fingerprint sensor, security features in the A7 64-bit processor, recent sensor and mapping-based acquisitions, with nearly 600M App Store accounts and 380M Bluetooth low energy devices in the wild present opportunities in mobile payments and advertising services." Here's a chart reflecting the weightings of Apple and some of its peers. The fact that the the red square for Apple is to the left of the blue square suggests that the smart money believes the stock will do worse than the S&amp;P 500. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match feature LEGO/COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Denmark's Lego increased sales and operating profit by 10 percent in a sluggish global toy market in 2013 and said it expected to continue to outperform the market by launching new products and expand in emerging markets aided by a successful movie. Strong performance by its Chima, Friends and City brands helped Lego, mostly known for its colorful bricks, to increase sales to 25.38 billion Danish crowns ($4.65 billion) in 2013. This puts the unlisted Danish toymaker ahead of United States' Hasbro &lt;HAS.O&gt; which sold for $4.08 billion in 2013, but still far behind the $7.1 billion revenue of Mattel &lt;MAT.O&gt;, the U.S. maker of Barbie dolls and Fisher-Price. Lego said that in the coming years it expected to grow "moderately ahead" of the global toy market, which is expected to grow by a low single-digit percentage annually. "We are getting very strong feedback from the market and from our customers and from the children," chief executive Jorgen Vig Knudstorp said at a presentation. He said that in order to fulfill the ambition "to take the bricks all over the world", Lego has established major sites in Singapore, Shanghai and London, besides its existing hubs in Connecticut, U.S. and in Billund in western Denmark. Knudstorp said Lego aims to increase its sales outside the developed countries, and that the global success of its "The Lego Movie" could help to strengthen its brand there. "We are, of course, noticing a very considerable amount of excitement surrounding 'The Lego Movie', even in places where Lego is not so well known," Knudstorp said. The animated film that depicts a world based on the colorful toy blocks has led the United States box office charts for three consecutive weekends. ($1 = 5.4600 Danish crowns) (Reporting by Teis Jensen; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Navesh ChitrakarA Hindu holy man, or sadhu, is pictured with his dreadlocks as he performs yoga at the premises of Pashupatinath Temple in Kathmandu February 26, 2014. Hindu holy men from Nepal and India come to this temple to take part in the Shivaratri festival, which falls on February 27 this year.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Yanukovych may be in Moscow. A Russian news organization reports that the ousted Ukrainian president — now a fugitive in his home country — was seen in a Moscow hotel and is now staying at the Kremlin-run "Barvikha sanatorium" outside the city, the AP reports. Meanwhile, the Ukrainian currency continues to get obliterated. The hryvnia dropped fell another 7.7% today (to 11 per dollar), and the currency has fallen 19% over the last four days. The Royal Bank of Scotland reports big loss. RBS said it would have to cut costs after posting a $13.64 billion loss, Reuters reports. "Let's be quite clear. We are too expensive, we are too bureaucratic and we need to change," new CEO Ross McEwan said. The mostly state-owned bank plans to cut costs by 40%, but still raised eyebrows by doling out $960 million in bonuses for 2013. German unemployment dropped to its lowest level since September 2012. "Berlin expects private consumption, which boosted growth in 2013, to increase by 1.4 percent as workers benefit from an increase in employment to an expected record of 42.1 million this year and a nominal 2.7 percent jump in earnings," Reuters reports. Meanwhile, euro area business is enjoying a nice four-month winning streak right now. A fresh read on business spending. It's a busy day of economic data. This morning at 8:30 a.m., January durable goods orders will be released. Economists predict that nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft (core capital goods) slipped by 0.2%. "What matter in this report are core capital goods data, since they feed into our GDP tracking model — core capital goods are nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and are a good proxy for capex," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists. "We expect core capital goods shipments to pull back 1.0% mom as freezing weather slowed down business activity over the month and core orders declined in December. Core orders were likely weak for a second consecutive month in January, down 1.5%." Also at 8:30, we'll get weekly initial jobless claims. Economists expect initial claims dropped to 335,000 from 336,000 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims probably edged lower during the Presidents’ Day holiday week," Citi's Peter D'Antonio wrote clients. "The weather was much fairer during the reference period, but holidays can result in aberrant swings in the data." Then at 11:00 a.m., the Kansas City Fed Manufacturing index will be released. Economists believe this regional activity index dropped to 2 in February from 5 the month prior. Asian markets were mixed in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei fell 0.32% and Korea's KOSPI climbed 0.39%. European markets were down, and U.S. futures pointed to a lower open. JC Penney surges after earnings. The company reported a Q4 adjusted loss of $0.68 per share, but the retailer's posted its first same-store sales gain since April 2011. The stock went ripping after the bell yesterday and is trading up 18% after hours. Yellen speaks to Congress. New Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen will be testifying before the Senate Banking Committee again, delivering the second half of her semiannual Monetary Policy Report to Congress. Brazil slows its interest rate hike. The country's central bank voted to hike interest rates by 25 basis points instead of the 50 basis point bump that it had been doing six straight meetings. "While the bank did not close the door to raising rates again at its next meeting in April, many economists saw the decision as a signal that it may soon end one of the world's most aggressive monetary tightening cycles," Reuters reports. FREE AppDownload
The retailer reported a net loss of $358 million, or $3.37 a share, in the quarter ended February 1, compared to a loss of $489 million, or $4.61 share, a year earlier. Sales fell 13.6 percent to $10.59 billion. On an adjusted basis, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, were $12 million during the quarter, down from $429 million a year earlier. (Reporting by Phil Wahba in New York; Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
Keep in mind that analysts tend to be too optimistic, so their estimates tend to be revised downwards. Nevertheless, NERIs tend to be positive when an economy is growing fast, especially during economic recoveries. They can be negative when economic growth is steady and middling. They always go negative during recessions since industry analysts aren’t any better than economists at foreseeing economic downturns. Let’s review: (1) World NERI was -5.9 during February, the lowest since December 2012. It has been negative for the past 32 months.  (2) S&amp;P 500 NERI also turned more negative in February, to -6.6, the lowest since January 2013. Guidance provided during the Q4-2013 earnings season caused analysts to reduce their estimates for the first quarter and all of 2014.  (3) Europe NERI fell to -11.0 this month, the lowest since December 2011. It’s rather odd that this index is so weak given the solid improvements in the region's M-PMIs and NM-PMIs.  (4) Emerging Markets NERI declined from -3.0 last month to -5.3 this month. It has been negative since March 2011. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Future Is Coming. (1) Forecast often, or far into the future. (2) Another dismal economist. (3) Professor Gordon responds to his critics. (4) Friedman is charged up about “Start-Up America.” (5) Change coming fast and furious. (6) Opportunities for investors. (7) If Abenomics fails, Japan’s future will be bleak. (8) Lots of negative NERIs around the world. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar Kujundzic BEIJING (Reuters) - China's factory activity likely expanded only slightly in February, a Reuters poll showed, dropping to an eight-month low that would indicate a modest slowdown is continuing. China's official manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) may slip to 50.1, down from January's 50.5, according to the median forecast of 12 economists in the poll. A reading above 50 indicates expanding activity while one below that level points to a contraction. If February's reading is below 50.5, it will be the third straight month of decline since November's 51.4. The last time the index was below 50 was in September 2012, when it was 49.8. A preliminary survey released last week by HSBC and Markit Economics showed that the factory sector activity hit a seven-month low of 48.3, from 49.5 in January. The index for new orders dropped below 50, and employment reached its lowest point since the global financial crisis. "Usually we observe if the HSBC PMI has seen such a big decline, then the official one will also see a similar downward trend, but not as bad," said Wei Yao, China economist at Societe Generale in Hong Kong. The official PMI is weighted more towards bigger and state-owned enterprises and tends to paint a rosier picture than the HSBC/Markit private survey, which focuses more on smaller firms and those in the private sector. "When the economy slows down, usually the private sector feels the squeeze first," Yao said. Analysts cautioned against reading too much into this month's preliminary Markit/HSBC numbers, given the smaller-than-usual number of work days. The Lunar New Year festival, which began on January 31 and covered early February, likely affected factory output as manufacturers shut for China's biggest annual holiday. China's economic indicators have been mixed of late - weak investment and declining PMI readings have been countered by surprisingly buoyant exports and bank lending. This makes it hard to draw firm conclusions about the economy's direction. The government has been trying to reduce the economy's dependence on exports and enhance the role of domestic consumption, but it is unclear how much growth it might be willing to sacrifice for its goal. In 2013, China grew 7.7 percent, steady from the previous year and fractionally above market expectations of 7.6 percent, which would have been the slowest since 1999. Economic growth targets for 2014 have yet to be made public. Government economists have said the official target could again be 7.5 percent, the same as the 2013 target. The official PMI figures will be released on Saturday, March 1 at 9:00 am (0100 GMT). The final HSBC/Markit PMI is due on March 3 at 9:45 am (0145 GMT). FORECASTS 4CAST 50.1 Barclays 50.3 BBVA 50.3 BOC International 50.0 CA-CIB 49.5 Citi 50.1 Haitong Securities 50.1 Industrial Bank 50.2 ING Financial Markets 50.0 Societe Generale 50.0 Standard Chartered 50.6 Zheshang Securities 50.3 Median 50.1 Highest 50.6 Lowest 49.5 Mean 50.1 Prior 50.5 No. of Forecasts 12 (Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoThese photos show, on the left, a first class interior section of a United Airlines 747 plane at San Francisco International Airport in San Francisco in 2011, and on the right, the coach interior section of a JetBlue E190 plane at Seatac International Airport in Seattle, in 2008.NEW YORK (AP) — On flights from San Francisco to Hong Kong, first-class passengers can enjoy a Mesclun salad with king crab or a grilled USDA prime beef tenderloin, stretch out in a 3-foot-wide seat that converts to a bed and wash it all down with a pre-slumber Krug "Grande Cuvee" Brut Champagne. Yet some of the most cherished new international first-class perks have nothing to do with meals, drinks or seats. Global airlines are increasingly rewarding wealthy fliers with something more intangible: physical distance between them and everyone else. The idea is to provide an exclusive experience — inaccessible, even invisible, to the masses in coach. It's one way that a gap between the world's wealthiest 1 percent and everyone else has widened. Many top-paying international passengers, having put down roughly $15,000 for a ticket, now check-in at secluded facilities and are driven in luxury cars directly to planes. Others can savor the same premier privileges by redeeming 125,000 or more frequent flier miles for a trip of a lifetime. When Emirates Airline opened a new concourse at its home airport in Dubai last year, it made sure to keep coach passengers separate from those in business and first class. The top floor of the building is a lounge for premium passengers with direct boarding to the upstairs of Emirates' fleet of double-decker Airbus A380s. Those in coach wait one story below and board to the lower level or the plane. London's Heathrow Airport took a private suite area designed for the royal family and heads of state and in July opened it to any passenger flying business or first class who's willing to pay an extra $2,500. "First class has become a way for a traveler to have an almost private jet-like experience," says Henry Harteveldt, an airline analyst with Hudson Crossing. Airlines "will do everything but sing a lullaby." The front of the plane has always been plusher than the back. But in recent years airlines have put a greater focus on catering to the most affluent fliers' desire for new levels of privacy. There's a lot of money on the line. At big carriers like American Airlines, about 70 percent of revenue comes from the top 20 percent of its customers. The special treatment now starts at check-in. American and United Airlines have both developed private rooms, located in discrete corners of their terminals in New York, Chicago and elsewhere, that allow for a speedy check-in. Boarding passes in hand, travelers exit through hidden doors leading to the front of security lines. Some foreign airlines have gone further. Lufthansa offers first-class passengers a separate terminal in Frankfurt. There's a restaurant, cigar lounge and dedicated immigration officers. For those who choose to shower or take a bath, the private restrooms come with their own rubber ducky — an exclusive plastic souvenir for the international jet set. When it's time to board, passengers are driven across the tarmac to their plane in a Mercedes-Benz S-Class or Porsche Cayenne. "That sort of exclusivity plays to the ego of people who are in a position to spend that much money on airline flight," says Tim Winship, publisher of travel advice site FrequentFlier.com. At Heathrow's private suites, designed for up to six people, fliers pass swiftly and privately through their own immigration and security screening. While they're waiting, hors d'oeuvres and Champagne are provided. Steak, sushi or other meals can be delivered from airport restaurants. When it comes time to actually fly, passengers are driven to their plane in a BMW 7 Series sedan and escorted to their seat. U.S. airlines have copied a bit of that touch. United started in July and Delta Air Lines in 2011 driving their top customers who have tight connections at major airports from one gate to another in luxury cars. No need to enter the terminal, let alone fight the crowd on the moving walkway. Want to board first? No problem. Want to be the last one seated, moments before the door closes? Sure. Airlines will even save room for your bags in the overhead bin. International first class has long been distinguished by gourmet meals, wide seats and giant TVs preloaded with hundreds of movies and TV shows. But in recent years, airlines also upgraded their international business class sections, ripping apart cabins to install chairs that convert into lay-flat beds. That left very little to differentiate first class from business class. So some airlines scrapped the ultra-premium cabin. Others have cut the number of first-class seats in half, thereby creating a more intimate experience that commands the higher price. For instance, a roundtrip flight in July between New York and Hong Kong on Cathay Pacific costs $1,600 in coach, $7,600 in business class and $19,000 in first class. Other airlines charge similar price differences among their passenger classes. Besides privacy, that extra cash provides an outsize seat, attentive service and superior wines and liquors. Austrian Airlines, Etihad Airways and Gulf Air are among the carriers to staff planes with their own first-class chefs. Instead of having flight attendants reheating meals cooked on the ground, these chefs prepare the meals at 35,000 feet. Sometimes, that smell wafts back to the rest of the plane. "You know they've got something good up in front of the curtain, and you know you don't have anything close to it," Harteveldt says. "When you fly coach, you are reminded of the fact that you are unimportant as a traveler." In the ultimate show of indulgence, Emirates has offered an onboard shower for first class passengers on its A380s since the plane joined the fleet in 2008. Once back on the ground, that luxury treatment continues. At airports in Paris, London, Istanbul, Bangkok, Sydney and elsewhere, airlines offer their top passengers fast-track cards allowing them to speed past immigration lines. And then, while other passengers wait in lines for buses, taxis or shuttles, chauffeurs in suits meet these fliers ready to — once again — whisk them out of the chaos. __ Scott Mayerowitz can be reached at http://twitter.com/GlobeTrotScott . Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDear, Chief Investment Officer of CalPERS speaks at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills(Reuters) - The chief investment officer of Calpers, the largest pension fund in the United States, has died after a battle with cancer, his office said on Wednesday. He was 62. Joe Dear, diagnosed with prostate cancer last year, had been on leave from the California Public Employees' Retirement System since last month for treatment. "It is with tremendous sadness that Calpers announces the passing of Joseph A. Dear, our Chief Investment Officer," his office said in a statement. Dear joined Calpers, California's $282 billion pension fund for public employees, as CIO in March 2009 after the value of its assets had dropped to about $165 billion. He had previously served as executive director of the Washington State Investment Board. Calpers said in June that Dear had been diagnosed with cancer and had begun treatment. He returned to work full-time in December before going on leave in January to resume treatment. Ted Eliopoulos, senior investment officer for real assets at Calpers, had served as acting CIO during Dear's absence. (Reporting by Barani Krishnan; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
CPSL via VimeoJeremy GranthamGMO's Jeremy Grantham is a legend in the investing world thanks to his extensive work on bubbles and his ability to see financial crises. More recently, however, his bearish slant has made him the target of criticism as the stock market has surged to record highs. But don't expect Grantham to budge just yet. He's a long-term thinker who's undeterred by the short-term whims of the markets. That brings us to this brilliant quote, which was recently telegraphed by his colleague James Montier (via Kate Welling, FT Alphaville and Barry Ritholtz): When he was asked what people would learn from the whole financial crisis, Jeremy [Grantham] said, “In the short term a lot, in the medium term a little, in the long term, nothing at all. That would be historical precedent.” There are actually two ways to interpret this. First, people have short-term memories. They forget all of the important things they learn in the midst of crises. A second way of interpreting the quote has to do with long-term trends. In the short-term, it may appear that the rules and trends (of the stock market for example) have changed. But in the long-term, we'll eventually see things revert to the mean like they always do. One of GMO's big market calls is that we'll see next to no returns in the stock market over the next seven years. This is based on the idea that long-term stock market valuations tend to revert to the mean. And currently, valuations are well above the mean. So, if we do see the markets tumble and end up returning little or nothing, then we really will have effectively learned nothing. Below is a chart from Montier. It's of the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio, which was popularized by Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.  If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16x, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently CAPE is at around 24. Riddled with annotations, Montier's chart basically argues that no matter what upside and downside surprises we get in the world, market valuations always seem to revert to their long-term means. This might mean earnings climb. But it also might mean we see a big sell-off in stocks. The latter is what happened when the dotcom bubble and then credit/housing bubble burst. GMO via The Big Picture FREE AppDownload
Ukraine's hryvnia dropped another 7.7% today to 11 per dollar today. According to Bloomberg, the currency has now dropped 19% in the past four days. The country continues to be in chaos. Earlier today, armed men took control of a parliament building in Ukraine's Crimea region. Meanwhile, fugitive president Viktor Yanukovych remains on the run.  According to the AP, he was last seen in a hotel in Moscow. Ukraine's leaders are currently seeking a bailout of as much as $35 billion. Worries in the Ukraine has been spilling into Russia. According to Bloomberg, the ruble is down 0.5% today. Here's a four-year chart from Reuters' Jamie McGeever showing the weekly percentage decline: Reuters Jamie FREE AppDownload
EUTERS/Alessandro BianchiModels present a creation from Versace Autumn/Winter 2014 collection during Milan Fashion Week February 21, 2014. MILAN (Reuters) - U.S. private equity firm Blackstone has signed an agreement to take a 20 percent stake in Italian fashion house Versace, in a deal worth 210 million euros ($287 million), a person close to the matter said on Thursday. The deal involves a 160 million euro capital increase, while the holding company owned by the family of founder Gianni Versace will cash in 60 million euros. Versace, which has been wholly owned by the founder's siblings and niece since his murder in 1997, wants to raise funds to open new shops internationally, and expand its clothing and accessories ranges. ($1 = 0.7317 euros) (Reporting by Isla Binnie, editing by Stephen Jewkes and Luca Trogni) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA flyer advertises for "new chances for a job" in a job centre in the western German town of Essen.BERLIN (Reuters) - German unemployment dropped in February to its lowest level in nearly 1-1/2 years, boding well for domestic demand, which the government hopes will help drive growth this year. The number of people out of work in Europe's largest economy decreased by 14,000 to 2.914 million, data from the Labour Office showed. That meant there were fewer unemployed people in Germany than at any time since September 2012. The mid-range forecast in a Reuters poll had been for a drop of 10,000. It was the third consecutive monthly drop in joblessness. "For 2014, a tightening German labour market raises our expectations that wages are also going to increase, which should feed through to higher consumption," said Christian Schulz at Berenberg Bank. "(That) should allow Germany to rely on domestic demand for growth in 2014 as exports may face some pressure due to the emerging market crisis," he added. Separate data from the Federal Statistics Office on Thursday showed employment climbing to a record high of almost 42 million. That, along with moderate inflation, an expected rise in wages and low interest rates, should encourage traditionally thrifty Germans to spend rather than save. Berlin expects private consumption, which boosted growth in 2013, to increase by 1.4 percent as workers benefit from an increase in employment to an expected record of 42.1 million this year and a nominal 2.7 percent jump in earnings. Consumer morale has risen to its highest level in seven years as shoppers in Europe's biggest economy have become more upbeat about their future income, a GfK survey showed this week. The jobless rate held steady at 6.8 percent, its lowest level since German reunification more than two decades ago. It was bang in line with the consensus forecast in a Reuters poll. That makes Germany's labour market the envy of struggling euro zone peers like Greece, where more than one in four people are out of work. Nonetheless, some businesses are cutting jobs. Barmer GEK, Germany's largest statutory health insurance provider, said this week it was slashing 3,500 jobs, or 20 percent of total staff, in response to deteriorating market conditions and changes in client behavior. Preliminary inflation data, due out at 1300 GMT, is expected to show consumer prices rose by 1.3 percent on the year in February. Recent sentiment indicators have been upbeat but the latest hard data has shown exports, industrial output and orders falling in December while gross domestic product grew by just 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter. Some economists have therefore suggested the economy may not be faring as well as surveys suggest. (Editing by Madeline Chambers) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Vice Finance Minister Jiro Aichi said on Thursday that the government will consider a response to the closure of the Mt. Gox bitcoin exchange if necessary, after ascertaining the facts of the case. He also said any regulation of bitcoin requires cooperation among nations to avoid loopholes. The site of Mt. Gox, once the world's biggest exchange for the bitcoin virtual currency, went blank on Tuesday after weeks of turmoil as it suspended withdrawals. (Reporting by Takaya Yamaughi; Writing by Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Dominic Lau) FREE AppDownload
USDA.govWeather Exhaustion The pace of economic growth is one of the primary drivers of bond yields, and a number of weaker-than-expected economic data points have helped support high-quality bond prices in 2014. The softer economic data have translated into downward revisions to first quarter economic growth forecasts after an acceleration over the second half of 2013. The harsh weather experienced in much of the country this winter is frequently cited as negatively impacting economic reports. Winter weather’s impact has been evident across a variety of economic data releases over January and February [Figure 1]. Figure 1: Poor Weather Was Cited as a Negative Factor Across Multiple Economic Reports LPL Financial Source: BLS, Commerce Department, Federal Reserve, NAR, Bloomberg, LPL Financial Research 2/24/14 The adverse impact of weather has been cited as one factor by many Federal Reserve (Fed) officials and most recently by Chair Yellen in comments to Congress. Additionally, a number of corporations including Ford, General Motors, Walmart, Ingersoll Rand, and CSX Corp. cited weather impacts in recent earnings reports. To be sure, a few economic reports were mixed independent of the impact of weather, including the January employment report (released in early February 2014), not shown in Figure 1. Conversely, details of other reports point to underlying strength. In any case, the uncertainty has helped keep high-quality bond yields relatively stable so far in 2014. Yielding to WeatherThe impact of weather and subsequent weaker-than-expected economic data is reflected in the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index. A rising line indicates more economic reports are surprising to the upside, reflecting greater strength, while a declining line represents softer data and possibly weaker underlying growth. Since the economy is a primary driver of bond yields, the close correlation between the pace of the economy and Treasury yields is, pun intended, no surprise [Figure 2]. Figure 2: Treasury Yields Have Begun to Ignore Weather-Impacted Data Releases  LPL Finanicial Source: Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, Bloomberg, LPL Financial Research 2/24/14 However, note the recent divergence between the Economic Surprise Index and the 10-year Treasury yield. Bond markets are forward looking and the recent rise in yields signals weather exhaustion: the bond market is looking forward to spring, when a clearer read of the economic data is available free of weather distortions. Last week, bond yields closed unchanged despite a sharp drop in housing starts and other disappointing data. This signals bond investors are unwilling to push yields much lower given that some economic indicators, most recently the Markit Purchasing Managers’ Index, continue to show underlying strength. Homebuilder company stocks have also exhibited strength, suggesting recent softness in housing data is expected to pass. Yielding to Emerging MarketsWorries over emerging markets (EM) also helped support bond prices. Over the past three months, EM concerns, as measured by credit default swaps (CDS) pricing, have been closely correlated with the path of Treasury yields. A rising CDS price index reflects fewer investors buying insurance to protect against losses, and vice versa. Last week, rising unrest in the Ukraine failed to push Treasury yields lower, even as EM CDS touched prior lows before rebounding late in the week [Figure 3] and through Monday, February 24, 2014. The bond market mat be signaling that EM weakness is unlikely to impact the domestic economy or postpone a reduction in Fed bond purchases. Figure 3: Treasuries May Be Decoupling From EM Risks LPL Finanicial  Source: Bloomberg, LPL Financial Research 4/24/14 Yielding to the FedThe Fed, along with the economy, is another key driver of bond yields and may best explain why Treasury yields have been unable to fall meaningfully lower. The release of the January 28–29, 2014 Fed meeting minutes revealed that Fed officials viewed weakness in recent economic data as weather-related and also did not expect EM weakness to impact the domestic economy or financial markets. Bond investors were left facing a Fed that remains intent on reducing bond purchases and ultimately raising interest rates in 2015. The Fed’s message appears to slightly contradict bond market expectations that the Fed will wait longer to raise interest rates [Figure 4]. Although still a long way off, bond market pricing is expensive and very far away from valuations that are typically prevalent at the start of rate hikes. Figure 4: The Bond Market Is Not Correctly Priced for a Less-Friendly Fed   LPL Finanicial Source: CBOT, Federal Reserve, LPL Financial Research 2/24/14 ConclusionWinter storm Pax in February is also likely to have had a negative impact on the economy that will potentially be reflected in the release of February economic reports from now through mid-March. The clouds surrounding economic data are unlikely to lift until clearer, less weather-distorted data become available in early April, as March economic reports are released. In the meantime, yields may remain range bound as defined by a 2.5% to 3.0% 10-year Treasury yield. However, we continue to see signs of underlying strength that we believe will ultimately work to push yields gradually upward once again. In addition, the Fed remains focused on its slow journey to an eventual interest rate hike and bond yields should rise to “price in” that eventuality. Should economic data prove softness is more than just weather-related, bond prices and yields may remain in the current range for longer. If the Fed signals a more gradual approach to reducing bond purchases and a delay in the timing of an eventual rate hike, a similar outcome would be likely. Absent that however, we still advocate a defensive posture in bond portfolios, with an emphasis on more credit sensitive sectors such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, and use year-to-date strength as a selling opportunity in high-quality bonds. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 1.At 39.8%, the labor force participation rate for those 55 years of age and over is the lowest it's been since April 2009 (chart 1). Millions of "baby boomers" — a generation typically defined as those born during the post-war baby boom that took place between 1946 and 1964 — have retired from the workforce over the past six years. This is putting massive downward pressure on the total labor force participation rate, which currently stands at 63.0% (chart 2). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 2.Of course, the labor force participation rate for those 55 years of age and over has only been falling for the last year, whereas the total labor force participation rate has been falling for over five years. This has led to some confusion. How can retiring baby boomers be the primary driver of the drop in labor force participation if the participation rate for those 55 years of age and over has been mostly increasing in recent years as the total labor force participation rate has fallen? Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 3.It's important to remember that, at 39.8%, the participation rate for those 55 years of age and over is still a massive 41.1 percentage points lower than the prime working age (25-54) participation rate, which currently stands at 80.9% (chart 3). Millions of Americans have been transitioning from the first bucket (25-54) to the second one (55+) over the past several years as the baby boom generation comes of retirement age. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 4.Since 2007, the prime working age population has fallen by 1.556 million, or 1.2%, whereas the 55-and-over population has risen by 14.063 million, a 20.2% increase (chart 4). Some quick arithmetic shows the effect this has had on overall labor force participation: Don't take it from us, though — take it from the retiring boomers themselves. The monthly Current Population Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (from which labor force participation data are derived) actually asks those leaving the labor force why they are doing so. In a recent article, Ellyn Terry, an economic policy analysis specialist in the research department of the Atlanta Fed, broke down the numbers. "In total, the number of people not in the labor force rose by 12.6 million (16 percent) from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2013," wrote Terry. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Atlanta Fed, courtesy of Ellyn Terry)Why people have left the labor force."About 5.5 million more people (a 16% increase) are retired, 2.9 million (a 23% increase) are disabled or ill, and 2.5 million (a 19% increase) are in school. An additional 161,000 are taking care of their family or house, and an additional 99,000 are not in the labor force for other reasons. The fraction who say they want a job has risen the most (32%) but has contributed only 11% to the total change." Dividing 5.5 million by 12.6 million suggests around 44% of the drop in labor force participation since 2007 is retiring workers. Add the 2.3 million workers over the age of 50 who have left the workforce because of disability in that time period and the numbers suggest closer to 62% of the drop in labor force participation over the last six years can be attributed to an aging population. The 2.5 million people who have left the workforce in the past six years to go back to school, meanwhile, account for another 20% of the drop in participation, and discouraged workers — those who have left the labor force because they couldn't find a job — only account for 11% of the decline, as Terry notes. It is true that, while the trends toward increased disability and school enrollment are being driven by important structural forces, they also probably have a significant cyclical component to them as well. In other words, a good number of people have probably left the labor force to go on disability or go back to school because they couldn't find a job. However, nearly 80% of those who have gone on disability since 2007 are over the age of 50. The struggles of older workers in finding employment in this job market are well documented, and to the extent that the causes were cyclical, the effects may largely be structural. Chart 6 zooms out a bit to make the simple point that America is getting older, a trend that will undoubtedly continue to have a profound impact on the labor market going forward. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 6. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Wiesen Viaduct between Wiesen and Filisur, Switzerland. There isn't much action in the European markets right now. Britain's FTSE is flat. France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%. Germany's DAX is down 0.1%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.2%. Italy's FTSE MIB is flat. This follows a day of very modest moves in the U.S. Later today, the U.S. will release it's latest monthly report on durable goods orders. Economists estimate orders fell 1.7% in January. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft — an important measure of business investment — is estimate to have slipped by 0.2%. Also, Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen will be testifying before the Senate Banking Committee for the second half of her Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to Congress. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettA Royal Bank of Scotland building in central LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt; said it would cut more costs and refocus on its business in Britain on Thursday after posting an 8.2 billion pound ($13.64 billion) loss for 2013, as expected, due to restructuring and misconduct charges. RBS - whose global ambitions precipitated its near collapse - aims to have 80 percent of its assets based in Britain, up from 60 percent, new chief executive Ross McEwan said. The bank, which is 81-percent state-owned, said it would shrink costs by 5.3 billion euros or 40 percent, over the medium-term as part of McEwan's plan to turn around the bank. "Let's be quite clear. We are too expensive, we are too bureaucratic and we need to change," McEwan said. But the bank risked a political backlash by saying it would hand out 576 million pounds in staff bonuses for 2013, down 15 percent on the year before, but still a major sticking point for politicians and taxpayers who have had to swallow six straight years of losses at RBS since its bailout in 2008. It is selling operations, including its U.S. retail business, Citizens, and cutting the number of business units at the bank from seven to three. Philip Hampton, RBS's chairman, said in a letter to shareholders that the bank was monitoring the debate about Scottish independence. "Clearly there are issues we are looking at - currency, the application of financial regulation, lender of last resort, credit ratings - which could affect us," Hampton said. "But there is real uncertainty about how any of these matters would be settled in the event of a 'Yes' vote and the outcome would depend on negotiations between the two governments." ($1 = 0.6011 British pounds) (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; Editing by Steve Slater and Louise Ireland) FREE AppDownload
The International Monetary Fund came out Wednesday in support of the fight against income inequality, with Fund economists saying income redistribution efforts can strengthen economic growth. Plunging into a debate over the gap between rich and poor that is fueling political battles from the United States to Brazil to Thailand, economists from the Fund said there is already general agreement that inequality can fuel economic and political instability. But do policies to redistribute income help or hurt growth? asked economists Jonathan Ostry, Andrew Berg and Charalambos Tsangarides. The answer, they said, is a net gain, even if there is an initial cost to an economy from taxes and transfers which aim to close an income gap. "While considerable controversy surrounds these issues, we should not jump to the conclusion that the treatment for inequality may be worse for growth than the disease itself," they said in a research paper, "Redistribution, Inequality, and Growth", and an accompanying blog comment. "Equality-enhancing interventions could actually help growth." The trio cited the benefits of taxes on activities of the wealthy that could hurt an economy, like excessive financial speculation, and payments to the poor to support their children going to school. Much of the thinking has been that, even if a large wealth gap is bad, that the cures of taxes and wealth transfers to correct the problem usually hamper growth. "Many argue that redistribution undermines growth, and even that efforts to redistribute to address high inequality are the source of the correlation between inequality and low growth," they said. "If this is right, then taxes and transfers may be precisely the wrong remedy: a cure that may be worse than the disease itself." But the authors said that experience across a number of countries has provided "remarkably little evidence" for that conclusion. Indeed, they said, "faster and more durable growth seems to have followed the associated reduction in inequality." "The average redistribution, and the associated reduction in inequality, seem to be robustly associated with higher and more durable growth." The authors are cautious to avoid saying the effects of redistribution are positive in every case or situation, and note that extreme efforts can have a bad outcome. But overall, they argue that redistribution programs should not be excluded from policy out of fear they would hold back an economy. "It would still be a mistake to focus on growth and let inequality take care of itself, if only because the resulting growth may be low and unsustainable. "Inequality and unsustainable growth may be two sides of the same coin." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
