Cary Elwes starred as Westley in the 1987 film "The Princess Bride." While at a White House function in 1998, President Clinton pulled Elwes aside to tell him what a big fan of the film he was.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
If you've been following the market, you're probably aware that the price of oil has been crashing.  We've been covering oil's movement every day and have covered the story from every angle. After trading north of $105 a barrel this summer, West Texas Intermediate crude oil finished the week at $57.45. And there is just now way around it: the charts of oil's collapse are just stunning. Business Insider, data via BloombergWTI Crude oil is down more than 40% from its highs.  Business Insider, data via BloombergThe sharpest sell off for oil since the financial crisis. FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian / Getty ImagesSheryl Sandberg and Dave Goldberg.It's one thing to have a successful career, but maintaining a successful marriage on top of that can be even harder. Here are 11 power couples where both partners have done extremely well in business, finance, entertainment, media, fashion, and tech. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Timothy Sykes / InstagramSykes with his girlfriend in Positano, Italy. But the multimillionaire stock trader explains that while he's happier being rich than not, he's less interested in his money than what that cash represents.  When asked by Business Insider how wealth has affected his happiness, Sykes said that he's "definitely happier, but it's not just because of the money." "For me, [the money] shows that business is doing well, that I have a good model," he explains. "Because I teach how to trade penny stocks, the more millions I make, the more people I'm teaching." "The money is a sign that I'm doing something right," Sykes continued. "The money is a consequence, a byproduct. If I was running a nonprofit and my foundation was doing well, I'd be just as happy because I'm achieving my goals." "A lot of people think that getting rich is all about buying possessions, and that's going to make you happier," he concludes. "Possessions don't — it's about the journey and the path to making millions."      FREE AppDownload
APThe Dow lost 3.7% this week. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Oil was the big story again on Friday. West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures fell below $58 a barrel for the first time since May 2009 as crude oil continues to tumble. After starting the week at around $65 a barrel, WTI fell more than $7 over the course of the week. Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, also made new lows, falling below $62 a barrel. 2. As oil sold off and stocks fell, US Treasury bonds, seen as one of the safest investments an investor can make, continued to rally, with long-date bonds the big winners. The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond fell below 2.1% on Friday and settled at a new low of 2.08% for the year. The 30-year bond also rallied, falling to 2.74%, the lowest yield in over two years.  3. Bond yields around the world are falling, with German bond yields going negative for durations out to four years and the 10-year bond making a new record low of 0.623% on Friday.  4. On Friday, the University of Michigan's preliminary reading on consumer confidence for the month of December came in at a nearly eight-year high of 93.8, blowing away expectations for an 89.5 reading. Following the report, Paul Dales at Capital Economics said that coupled with Thursday's better-than-expected retail sales report, the holiday shopping season looks like it could be the strongest in nine years. Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok also circulated a chart showing that those in the lowest third of household incomes had the biggest rise in confidence this month, bolstering prospects for a strong holiday season.  5. Producer prices in November fell more than expected, declining 0.2% against expectations for a 0.1% decline. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 60% of the decline in prices for final demand goods can be attributed to the index for gasoline, which dropped 6.3%.  6. In Federal Reserve news, noted dove Narayana Kocherlakota announced that he will stepping down from his post as president of the Minneapolis Federal Reserve in 2016. Kocherlakota has recently been a dissenter at Federal Open Market Committee meetings, urging the FOMC to favor a more accommodative policy than it has currently pursued. The Fed will hold its last meeting of the year next week, making its final monetary policy announcement of 2014 on Wednesday. Don't Miss: The Best Way To Buy Stocks Is To Go All In And Wait »      FREE AppDownload
A few months ago, something interesting happened: The US economy really found its legs as Europe stumbled. This divergence story really gained momentum globally as the US economy continued to pick up and China slowed, Japan faltered, and Europe continued its slide. "In contrast to the accelerating growth we saw in the United States, internationally, Japan’s consumption-tax hike caused its economy to fall into a recession; while a combination of restrictive fiscal and monetary policy accompanying weak export growth caused the European economy to stall," noted Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders, Brad Sorenson, and Jeff Kleintop. One economic measure that captures this story well is the purchasing managers index (PMI). Derived from surveys, this index signals growth when it's above 50 and contraction when it's below 50. "After starting the year with a wide range, the widely-watched measure of economic activity known as the Purchasing Managers Indexes (PMIs) for the world’s biggest economies generally converged to just above 50 as the year matured; with the United States a notable exception, rising steadily throughout the year," the Schwab analysts wrote.Charles SchwabThe US is the blue line, and it's been taking off. Everyone from BlackRock's Russ Koesterich to Allianz's Mohamed El-Erian is predicting 2015 will continue to be characterized by this divergence. Schwab's team expects Japan and Europe to improve as the US and the UK stabilize. Still, they doubt anyone will be able to catch up with the US.      FREE AppDownload
Since Argentina defaulted on its debt to a group of bondholders this summer, a doomsday scenario has remained in play — the fact that holders of defaulted bonds could call for an acceleration of their payments. In other words, they call in all their money at once. It's been months since then though, and that hasn't happened. No one's called anything in. And now Argentina is crowing about it a little. Back in October some government officials thought that "Argentina should pay the holdouts according to a U.S. judgement and settle at whatever price, because they feared the acceleration of payments, but that hasn't happened," said Argentine Cabinet Head Jorge Capitanich in a speech Friday. This swipe didn't come out of the blue. At Thursday's Dealbook Conference in New York City, hedge fund manager Paul Singer — the CEO of the hedge fund suing Argentina for $1.7 billion in debt — reiterated his belief that Argentina was being irrational in its refusal to negotiate a settlement with his fund, and a number of other Argentine debt holders. "They've elevated that commercial dispute into a dispute... about national dignity," Singer said. "Given that, it's impossible to predict what they'll do on January 1st. It makes every degree of sense in the world for them to sit down with us... and make a deal." January 1st is when a legal clause the Argentine's have said makes it impossible to negotiate with the holdouts until the end of December expires. That's not news. Nor is it news that Singer feels this way. However, this non-news sent Argentine politicians into hysterics, thus Capitanich's more colorful statements during his Friday speech. "We are not willing to be extorted by creditors privileged with a shameful court ruling that has been generally condemned by the rest of the world," he said. The thing is, it's getting down to the wire. And what was missing from Capitanich's speech was any mention of the upcoming deadline. Or any plan of action for the coming year. What we do know is that Argentina is going to try to raise money to pay its $12 billion debt is in 2015 on the local market — meaning that it doesn't need the international financial community's blessing (or a resolution to this case) to get more dollars. Analysts think that only strengthens Argentina's negotiating position. It "would enable the CFK administration to continue to play a hard hand and renege on the holdouts proposed claims," says Oxford Economics Senior Economist Aryam Vasquez. So it doesn't sound like January 1st is going to be the day everyone sits down and comes to an agreement, legal clause or no. One Argentine investment bank head said that negotiations needn't happen because Argentina had already won the dispute, and that the next administration would have to deal with this issue when President Fernandez was out at the end of 2015. Meanwhile the country's inflation rate is hovering around 40%, the black market peso (the blue dollar) is swinging wild — down 8 cents on Thursday, up 15 cents on Friday to 12.85 official pesos to the blue dollar. The Argentine stock market, the Merval, is getting pounded — down 16.6% in the last month. Yahoo Finance Hedge fund Fir Tree Partners shut down their Argentina fund earlier this month after gains of 20%. It's a signal that they believe things are only going downhill from here. That runs counter to what some hedge fund managers, like Fortress Investment's Mike Novogratz have said all year — that  Argentina is so bad it's good, and that soon its credit problems would be resolved, opening the flood gates for investment. If the RUFO clause is missed, that puts Novogratz's vision farther away. The situation gets messier, and it gets harder to see exactly when this would turn around.  FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. That Crazy Spike In Chinese A-Shares Might Not Last For Long (Charles Schwab)  Chinese A-shares have surged over the past few weeks. Charles Schwab analysts are attributing this to the fact that local Chinese investors have returned, and that foreign investors have been buying A-Share ETFs in the US market. "We remain positive on Chinese equities but are cautious about A-shares in the near term due to the rapid gains in prices recently. Chinese equities could benefit from further stimulus and still have relatively low valuations. We believe investments tied to mainland Chinese shares that trade in Hong Kong, such as those tied to the MSCI China Index, could outperform in the near term, as investors arbitrage away the premium A-shares currently at relative to H-shares," writes Michelle Gibley. Ex-CEO Is Getting Sued For Using Corporate Card To Buy A Yacht And Other Luxury Items (Thinks Advisor) "Sterne Agee, a Birmingham, Alabama-based broker-dealer is suing ex-CEO James Holbrook for using company assets for personal use," reports Janet Levaux. According to the lawsuit, James Holbrook used a corporate credit card to buy himself fishing boats, a yacht, a vacation condo, and ownership in a luxury ski chalet. Allegedly, he also used company assets to join a marina and golf club in Florida. Sallie Krawcheck Downplayed The Threat Of RIAs At An Independent Adviser Summit (Investment News)  Sallie Krawcheck, the former head of the brokerage units at Citigroup, spoke at a summit for independent advisers, and downplayed the migration from wirehouses to RIAs. Although there are reports that everyone's fleeing the big firms in favor of RIAs, Krawcheck said the actual numbers are way lower. "Only 37 advisers left to go independent in the year after Ms. Krawcheck took control of Bank of America Merrill Lynch's broker unit in 2009. Meanwhile, the firm brought in 26 advisers from the independent space, she said," reports Mason Braswell. "The truth is that" — Krawcheck told the independent advisers at the summit — "just as so many of your clients love you, the clients of wirehouse advisers love them." A Fraud, A Cover-Up, And A Failed $300 Million Plan Could Jeopardize The Social Security Chief's Nomination (Financial Advisor Magazine)  "Fraud and cover-up allegations about a failed $300 million effort to develop a disability case management system for the Social Security Administration has put the nomination of Acting SSA Commissioner Carolyn Colvin to become its permanent chief in jeopardy," reports Ted Knutson. The incoming Senate Finance Committee chairman isn't supporting Colvin any longer, and it's unlikely that the Senate would vote for her without him. Colvin has denied responsibility in the $300 million mismanagement. Former Financial Adviser To Young NFL Players Ordered By SEC To Pay $1.7 Million (The Wall Street Journal) Billy Crafton, a former financial adviser who specializes in working with professional athletes, was ordered by the SEC to pay $1.7 million to settle fraud and misrepresentation charges. He worked with young football players who were just starting out. "From 2006 through 2011, Mr. Crafton received at least $1.5 million in commissions and alleged kickbacks for steering client money into certain investments, according to an SEC complaint filed with the settlement," reports Matthias Rieker. FREE AppDownload
 Here's a pro tip: Buying unsecured notes advertised in your church's weekly leaflet is probably not a good idea. Another tip: If some guy encourages you to invest in his one-man distressed-real-estate fund returning 8-10% while warning you that the stock market is too risky ... Run. Far away. If you're nostalgic for the financial crisis, boy does the Securities and Exchange Commission have the fraud complaint for you. The SEC alleges that David Fleet's company, Cornerstone, fraudulently sold $16.75 million worth of unsecured notes, mostly to elderly retirees (some of which were "advertised ... in one or more church-affiliated publications in the late 1990s"), for his distressed-real-estate business between 1997 and 2010. The vast majority were sold between 2006 and 2010. As you may have guessed, 2006 through 2010 wasn't a great time to be in the real-estate business, and things went south. Instead of letting his investors know, the SEC says Fleet borrowed more and more, while continuing to maintain that the business wasn't reliant on bank financing, but was still profitable. Meanwhile, Fleet also dipped his hand into the cookie jar, borrowing money from the company to buy real estate for himself, and transferring properties from the company to his own name for free. Then, there's this move: In 2002, Fleet caused Cornerstone to transfer to him a parcel of real property for no consideration. Fleet used the premises for Cornerstone’s office after he placed a trailer on the land, and, upon information and belief, Fleet charged Cornerstone $1,500 per month in rent for the premises between 2002 through April 2010, and $2,500 per month between May 2010 until the Chapter 11 Trustee was appointed in January 2014. Being your own company's landlord seems like a great deal if you can get it. According to the complaint, "beginning in July 2009, when Cornerstone’s business was deteriorating, Fleet sought to raise money to pay investor interest by investing approximately $6 million of Cornerstone’s funds in the stock market and engaging in frequent options trading that resulted in losses of at least $3 million." Oops. After that, Cornerstone reduced interest payments to 1% (from 8-10%), and prohibited investors from withdrawing their principal. Eventually the company filed for bankruptcy, which led to a bankruptcy trustee being appointed, which presumably led to having the SEC come knocking. (H/t Josh Brown)      FREE AppDownload
 In just five years, Burger King is almost unrecognizable as a company.  The company is posting impressive sales during an industry-wide slowdown.  Burger King's young management team, led by 33-year-old Daniel Schwartz, is impressing analysts at RBC Capital Markets.  "Whopper aside, we see few similarities between the Burger King of 2010 and the Burger King of today," the analysts write. Shares are up 78% in the past year.  Here's how Burger King managed a turnaround.  "These days ... Burger King is behaving more like a startup than a typical burger chain," writes Devin Leonard at Bloomberg Businessweek. By outsourcing the operations part of its business, Burger King has been able to retain more cash for investments.  Executives made franchising easier for overseas restaurants, leading to rapid growth. Schwartz helped reduce Burger King's corporate headcount to 2,425 from 38,884 by refranchising restaurants, meaning those workers now report to franchise owners. He also axed many executive perks, including lavish offices and a $1 million annual party at a chateau in Italy, Leonard writes. The company pared down the US menu and got new equipment to speed up operations.  Burger King also doubled down on its marketing strategy to appeal to young and cash-strapped customers.  Burger King recently acquired the Canadian coffee chain Tim Hortons. Morgan Stanley analysts believe that Tim Hortons will have more than 600 international locations in the next three years. The chain is also expected to add locations in the US.    FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, Bloomberg caught up with Apple cofounder Ron Wayne, who sold his 10% stake in Apple for $800 in 1976 (via @TheStalwart). Wayne told Bloomberg that over the past 40 years, he had kept most of his savings in gold.  Since Apple went public in 1980, shares of the company have risen more than 20,000%; over the same period, gold is up 107%.  Said another way, 10% of Apple is worth about $65 billion, while $800 of gold purchased in 1980 would be worth about $1,750.  Here's the brutal chart.  Business Insider, data via Bloomberg Read the whole story at Bloomberg here »   FREE AppDownload
Usually on the underside of a belt or inside a leather good, the leather quality will be stamped one of three things: genuine leather, top-grain leather, or full-grain leather. But what exactly do these mean? When you're buying your fancy leather briefcase, jacket, or shoes, you should know exactly what to look for in your leather. Genuine leather doesn't just mean that the product is made of real leather (which it is), but it also means it is the lowest quality of all products made out of real leather.  Genuine leather generally doesn't last as long or look as nice as higher-quality leather. You'll typically find it in belts from mall stores, shoes from lower-priced department stores, and bags or other goods in the lower-leather price range. Goods marked as genuine leather will be several layers of low quality leather bonded together with glue and then painted to look like a better-quality leather. It's what is left over when the other, higher grades are stripped away. This grade of leather is acceptable if you're just buying something cheaply and don't care too much about its quality. It won't last very long, so it probably shouldn't be something you use every day. Top-grain leather is the grade of leather you'll find in "fine" leather goods and is the middle-of-the-road quality of leather. It's used in the vast majority of purses for women as well as small leather goods for men like wallets that are sold by well-known designer brands. It's made by splitting a piece of full-grain leather and sanding away any imperfections in the hide and stamping a fake grain on it. Usually, it's then treated and colored to provide a completely uniform look.  The finished product ends up being a bit plastic-y, and not nearly as durable as the best quality leather — full grain. It will not age well with use, and will end up looking old and worn after a time. This finish of leather is great, however, if you don't care as much about durability and more about the color of your leather item, or its resistance to stain. Flickr/Simon CarrA bag by Saddleback Leather Company made of full grain leather.Full-grain leather takes the entire grain of hide, with all the imperfections and inherent toughness of the material.  It's often used for heavy-duty leather items, like weapon holsters and utility belts. But it can also be used (with great success) for dress belts, briefcases, dress shoes, work boots, and numerous other leather goods. This type of leather is naturally marked with imperfections from the animal, like a brand or a scar, but products from pricier companies won't use these flawed hides. Full-grain is hard-as-nails leather that will develop a rich patina as it ages, looking more and more beautiful as you use it. It's widely recognized as the best and highest-quality leather money can buy. Often much more expensive, full-grain pays dividends with its durability. If you invest in an item made with full-grain leather, you will probably have that item for the rest of your life if you take care of it properly. If you can you should avoid leathers like bonded leather (scraps of leather glued together to form one piece), patent leather (leather treated with a glossy plastic finish), and corrected grain leather (lower quality leather printed with a fake grain).  FREE AppDownload
Misty Copeland, the American Ballet Theatre soloist and author of "Life in Motion: An Unlikely Ballerina," is performing in three major productions, "The Nutcracker," "Romeo &amp; Juliet" and "Swan Lake" this year and in 2015.  Like any professional athlete or musician, her body needs to be fine-tuned constantly. She uses two simple techniques to stay focused and keep her in the moment. 
Consumer confidence is at an almost 8-year high.  On Friday, the University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence reading for December came in at 93.8, the best reading since January 2007 and a complete blowout of expectations.  According to Paul Dales at Capital Economics, this data coupled with Thursday's strong retail sales report indicates that we are looking at the best holiday shopping season in nine years.  And there's a big reason why: confidence among the lowest wage earners is roaring higher. In an email on Friday, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok circulated the following chart showing that confidence among those in the bottom tercile of household incomes — the lowest third of households — surged to the highest since 2005. This is a far larger increase in confidence that the headline reading, and Slok attributed this surge among the lowest earners to the drop in gas prices. According to AAA, gas prices hit an average of $2.60 a gallon on Friday, the lowest since 2009.  Crude oil was falling again on Friday, likely adding further downward pressure to gas prices, and potentially boosting what already looks to be a strong holiday shopping season.  Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
A year ago I started writing what I hoped would be a book called 500 Things you Need to know About Investing. I wanted to outline my favorite quotes, stats, and lessons about investing.  I failed. I quickly realized the idea was long on ambition, short on planning.  But I made it to 122, and figured it would be better in article form. Here it is.  1. Saying "I'll be greedy when others are fearful" is easier than actually doing it. 2. When most people say they want to be a millionaire, what they really mean is "I want to spend $1 million," which is literally the opposite of being a millionaire. 3. "Some stuff happened" should replace 99% of references to "it's a perfect storm." 4. Daniel Kahneman's book Thinking Fast and Slow begins, "The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than your own." This should be every market commentator's motto.  5. Blogger Jesse Livermore writes, "My main life lesson from investing: self-interest is the most powerful force on earth, and can get people to embrace and defend almost anything." 6. As Erik Falkenstein says: "In expert tennis, 80% of the points are won, while in amateur tennis, 80% are lost. The same is true for wrestling, chess, and investing: Beginners should focus on avoiding mistakes, experts on making great moves." 7. There is a difference between, "He predicted the crash of 2008," and "He predicted crashes, one of which happened to occur in 2008." It's important to know the difference when praising investors.  8. Investor Dean Williams once wrote, "Confidence in a forecast rises with the amount of information that goes into it. But the accuracy of the forecast stays the same."  9. Wealth is relative. As comedian Chris Rock said, "If Bill Gates woke up with Oprah's money he'd jump out the window."  10. Only 7% of Americans know stocks rose 32% last year, according to Gallup. One-third believe the market either fell or stayed the same. Everyone is aware when markets fall; bull markets can go unnoticed.  11. Dean Williams once noted that "Expertise is great, but it has a bad side effect: It tends to create the inability to accept new ideas." Some of the world's best investors have no formal backgrounds in finance -- which helps them tremendously. 12. The Financial Times wrote, "In 2008 the three most admired personalities in sport were probably Tiger Woods, Lance Armstrong and Oscar Pistorius." The same falls from grace happen in investing. Chose your role models carefully.  13. Investor Ralph Wagoner once explained how markets work, recalled by Bill Bernstein: "He likens the market to an excitable dog on a very long leash in New York City, darting randomly in every direction. The dog's owner is walking from Columbus Circle, through Central Park, to the Metropolitan Museum. At any one moment, there is no predicting which way the pooch will lurch. But in the long run, you know he's heading northeast at an average speed of three miles per hour. What is astonishing is that almost all of the market players, big and small, seem to have their eye on the dog, and not the owner." 14. Investor Nick Murray once said, "Timing the market is a fool's game, whereas time in the market is your greatest natural advantage." Remember this the next time you're compelled to cash out. 15. Bill Seidman once said, "You never know what the American public is going to do, but you know that they will do it all at once." Change is as rapid as it is unpredictable. 16. Napoleon's definition of a military genius was, "the man who can do the average thing when all those around him are going crazy." Same goes in investing.  17. Blogger Jesse Livermore writes,"Most people, whether bull or bear, when they are right, are right for the wrong reason, in my opinion."  18. Investors anchor to the idea that a fair price for a stock must be more than they paid for it. It's one of the most common, and dangerous, biases that exists. "People do not get what they want or what they expect from the markets; they get what they deserve," writes Bill Bonner. 19. Jason Zweig writes, "The advice that sounds the best in the short run is always the most dangerous in the long run." 20. Billionaire investor Ray Dalio once said, "The more you think you know, the more closed-minded you'll be." Repeat this line to yourself the next time you're certain of something. 21. During recessions, elections, and Federal Reserve policy meetings, people become unshakably certain about things they know very little about.  22. "Buy and hold only works if you do both when markets crash. It's much easier to both buy and hold when markets are rising," says Ben Carlson.  23. Several studies have shown that people prefer a pundit who is confident to one who is accurate. Pundits are happy to oblige.  24. According to J.P. Morgan, 40% of stocks have suffered "catastrophic losses" since 1980, meaning they fell at least 70% and never recovered. 25. John Reed once wrote, "When you first start to study a field, it seems like you have to memorize a zillion things. You don't. What you need is to identify the core principles -- generally three to twelve of them -- that govern the field. The million things you thought you had to memorize are simply various combinations of the core principles." Keep that in mind when getting frustrated over complicated financial formulas.  26. James Grant says, "Successful investing is about having people agree with you ... later."  27. Scott Adams writes, "A person with a flexible schedule and average resources will be happier than a rich person who has everything except a flexible schedule. Step one in your search for happiness is to continually work toward having control of your schedule."  28. According to Vanguard, 72% of mutual funds benchmarked to the S&amp;P 500 underperformed the index over a 20-year period ending in 2010. The phrase "professional investor" is a loose one. 29. "If your investment horizon is long enough and your position sizing is appropriate, you simply don't argue with idiocy, you bet against it," writes Bruce Chadwick.  30. The phrase "double-dip recession" was mentioned 10.8 million times in 2010 and 2011, according to Google. It never came. There were virtually no mentions of "financial collapse" in 2006 and 2007. It did come. A similar story can be told virtually every year. 31. According to Bloomberg, the 50 stocks in the S&amp;P 500 that Wall Street rated the lowest at the end of 2011 outperformed the overall index by 7 percentage points over the following year. 32. "The big money is not in the buying or the selling, but in the sitting," said Jesse Livermore.  33. Investors want to believe in someone. Forecasters want to earn a living. One of those groups is going to be disappointed. I think you know which. 34. In a poll of 1,000 American adults, asked, "How many millions are in a trillion?" 79% gave an incorrect answer or didn't know. Keep this in mind when debating large financial problems. 35. As last year's Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting, Warren Buffett said he has owned 400 to 500 stocks during his career, and made most of his money on 10 of them. This is common: a large portion of investing success often comes from a tiny proportion of investments.  36. Wall Street consistently expects earnings to beat expectations. It also loves oxymorons.  37. The S&amp;P 500 gained 27% in 2009 -- a phenomenal year. Yet 66% of investors thought it fell that year, according to a survey by Franklin Templeton. Perception and reality can be miles apart.  38. As Nate Silver writes, "When a possibility is unfamiliar to us, we do not even think about it." The biggest risk is always something that no one is talking about, thinking about, or preparing for. That's what makes it risky. 39. The next recession is never like the last one. 40. Since 1871, the market has spent 40% of all years either rising or falling more than 20%. Roaring booms and crushing busts are perfectly normal. 41. As the saying goes, "Save a little bit of money each month, and at the end of the year you'll be surprised at how little you still have." 42. John Maynard Keynes once wrote, "It is safer to be a speculator than an investor in the sense that a speculator is one who runs risks of which he is aware and an investor is one who runs risks of which he is unaware." 43. "History doesn't crawl; it leaps," writes Nassim Taleb. Events that change the world -- presidential assassinations, terrorist attacks, medical breakthroughs, bankruptcies -- can happen overnight. 44. Our memories of financial history seem to extend about a decade back. "Time heals all wounds," the saying goes. It also erases many important lessons. 45. You are under no obligation to read or watch financial news. If you do, you are under no obligation to take any of it seriously. 46. The most boring companies -- toothpaste, food, bolts -- can make some of the best long-term investments. The most innovative, some of the worst. 47. In a 2011 Gallup poll, 34% of Americans said gold was the best long-term investment, while 17% said stocks. Since then, stocks are up 87%, gold is down 35%.   48. According to economist Burton Malkiel, 57 equity mutual funds underperformed the S&amp;P 500 from 1970 to 2012. The shocking part of that statistic is that 57 funds could stay in business for four decades while posting poor returns. Hope often triumphs over reality. 49. Most economic news that we think is important doesn't matter in the long run. Derek Thompson of The Atlantic once wrote, "I've written hundreds of articles about the economy in the last two years. But I think I can reduce those thousands of words to one sentence. Things got better, slowly." 50. A broad index of U.S. stocks increased 2,000-fold between 1928 and 2013, but lost at least 20% of its value 20 times during that period. People would be less scared of volatility if they knew how common it was. 51. The "evidence is unequivocal," Daniel Kahneman writes, "there's a great deal more luck than skill in people getting very rich." 52. There is a strong correlation between knowledge and humility. The best investors realize how little they know.  53. Not a single person in the world knows what the market will do in the short run.  54. Most people would be better off if they stopped obsessing about Congress, the Federal Reserve, and the president, and focused on their own financial mismanagement. 55. In hindsight, everyone saw the financial crisis coming. In reality, it was a fringe view before mid-2007. The next crisis will be the same (they all work like that). 56. There were 272 automobile companies in 1909. Through consolidation and failure, three emerged on top, two of which went bankrupt. Spotting a promising trend and a winning investment are two different things. 57. The more someone is on TV, the less likely his or her predictions are to come true. (University of California, Berkeley psychologist Phil Tetlock has data on this). 58. Maggie Mahar once wrote that "men resist randomness, markets resist prophecy." Those six words explain most people's bad experiences in the stock market. 59. "We're all just guessing, but some of us have fancier math," writes Josh Brown.  60. When you think you have a great idea, go out of your way to talk with someone who disagrees with it. At worst, you continue to disagree with them. More often, you'll gain valuable perspective. Fight confirmation bias like the plague. 61. In 1923, nine of the most successful U.S. businessmen met in Chicago. Josh Brown writes: Within 25 years, all of these great men had met a horrific end to their careers or their lives: The president of the largest steel company, Charles Schwab, died a bankrupt man; the president of the largest utility company, Samuel Insull, died penniless; the president of the largest gas company, Howard Hobson, suffered a mental breakdown, ending up in an insane asylum; the president of the New York Stock Exchange, Richard Whitney, had just been released from prison; the bank president, Leon Fraser, had taken his own life; the wheat speculator, Arthur Cutten, died penniless; the head of the world's greatest monopoly, Ivar Krueger the 'match king' also had taken his life; and the member of President Harding's cabinet, Albert Fall, had just been given a pardon from prison so that he could die at home. 62. Try to learn as many investing mistakes as possible vicariously through others. Other people have made every mistake in the book. You can learn more from studying the investing failures than the investing greats. 63. Bill Bonner says there are two ways to think about what money buys. There's the standard of living, which can be measured in dollars, and there's the quality of your life, which can't be measured at all. 64. If you're going to try to predict the future -- whether it's where the market is heading, or what the economy is going to do, or whether you'll be promoted -- think in terms of probabilities, not certainties. Death and taxes, as they say, are the only exceptions to this rule. 65. Focus on not getting beat by the market before you think about trying to beat it. 66. Polls show Americans for the last 25 years have said the economy is in a state of decline. Pessimism in the face of advancement is the norm.  67. Finance would be better if it was taught by the psychology and history departments at universities. 68. According to economist Tim Duy, "As long as people have babies, capital depreciates, technology evolves, and tastes and preferences change, there is a powerful underlying impetus for growth that is almost certain to reveal itself in any reasonably well-managed economy." 69. Study successful investors, and you'll notice a common denominator: they are masters of psychology. They can't control the market, but they have complete control over the gray matter between their ears. 70. In finance textbooks, "risk" is defined as short-term volatility. In the real world, risk is earning low returns, which is often caused by trying to avoid short-term volatility. 71. Remember what Nassim Taleb says about randomness in markets: "If you roll dice, you know that the odds are one in six that the dice will come up on a particular side. So you can calculate the risk. But, in the stock market, such computations are bull -- you don't even know how many sides the dice have!" 72. The S&amp;P 500 gained 27% in 1998. But just five stocks -- Dell, Lucent, Microsoft, Pfizer, and Wal-Mart -- accounted for more than half the gain. There can be huge concentration even in a diverse portfolio.  73. The odds that at least one well-known company is insolvent and hiding behind fraudulent accounting are pretty high. 74. The book Where Are the Customers' Yachts? was written in 1940, and most people still haven't figured out that brokers don't have their best interest at heart. 75. Cognitive psychologists have a theory called "backfiring." When presented with information that goes against your viewpoints, you not only reject challengers, but double down on your view. Voters often view the candidate they support more favorably after the candidate is attacked by the other party. In investing, shareholders of companies facing heavy criticism often become die-hard supporters for reasons totally unrelated to the company's performance. 76. "In the financial world, good ideas become bad ideas through a competitive process of 'can you top this?'" Jim Grant once said. A smart investment leveraged up with debt becomes a bad investment very quickly. 77. Remember what Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel says: "You have never lost money in stocks over any 20-year period, but you have wiped out half your portfolio in bonds [after inflation]. So which is the riskier asset?" 78. Warren Buffett's best returns were achieved when markets were much less competitive. It's doubtful anyone will ever match his 50-year record. 79. Twenty-five hedge fund managers took home $21.2 billion in 2013 for delivering an average performance of 9.1%, versus the 32.4% you could have made in an index fund. It's a great business to work in -- not so much to invest in.  80. The United States is the only major economy in which the working-age population is growing at a reasonable rate. This might be the most important economic variable of the next half-century. 81. Most investors have no idea how they actually perform. Markus Glaser and Martin Weber of the University of Mannheim asked investors how they thought they did in the market, and then looked at their brokerage statements. "The correlation between self ratings and actual performance is not distinguishable from zero," they concluded. 82. Harvard professor and former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers says that "virtually everything I taught" in economics was called into question by the financial crisis.  83. Asked about the economy's performance after the financial crisis, Charlie Munger said, "If you're not confused, I don't think you understand."  84. There is virtually no correlation between what the economy is doing and stock market returns. According to Vanguard, rainfall is actually a better predictor of future stock returns than GDP growth. (Both explain slightly more than nothing.) 85. You can control your portfolio allocation, your own education, who you listen to, what you read, what evidence you pay attention to, and how you respond to certain events. You cannot control what the Fed does, laws Congress sets, the next jobs report, or whether a company will beat earnings estimates. Focus on the former; try to ignore the latter. 86. Companies that focus on their stock price will eventually lose their customers. Companies that focus on their customers will eventually boost their stock price. This is simple, but forgotten by countless managers. 87. Investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort looked at analysts' predictions of interest rates, and compared that with what interest rates actually did in hindsight. It found an almost perfect lag. "Analysts are terribly good at telling us what has just happened but of little use in telling us what is going to happen in the future," the bank wrote. It's common to confuse the rearview mirror for the windshield. 88. Success is a lousy teacher," Bill Gates once said. "It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose." 89. Investor Seth Klarman says, "Macro worries are like sports talk radio. Everyone has a good opinion which probably means that none of them are good." 90. Several academic studies have shown that those who trade the most earn the lowest returns. Remember Pascal's wisdom: "All man's miseries derive from not being able to sit in a quiet room alone." 91. The best company in the world run by the smartest management can be a terrible investment if purchased at the wrong price. 92. There will be seven to 10 recessions over the next 50 years. Don't act surprised when they come. 93. No investment points are awarded for difficulty or complexity. Simple strategies can lead to outstanding returns. 94. The president has much less influence over the economy than people think. 95. However much money you think you'll need for retirement, double it. Now you're closer to reality. 96. For many, a house is a large liability masquerading as a safe asset. 97. The single best three-year period to own stocks was during the Great Depression. Not far behind was the three-year period starting in 2009, when the economy struggled in utter ruin. The biggest returns begin when most people think the biggest losses are inevitable. 98. Remember what Buffett says about progress: "First come the innovators, then come the imitators, then come the idiots." 99. And what Mark Twain says about truth: "A lie can travel halfway around the world while truth is putting on its shoes." 100. And what Marty Whitman says about information: "Rarely do more than three or four variables really count. Everything else is noise." 101. Among Americans aged 18 to 64, the average number of doctor visits decreased from 4.8 in 2001 to 3.9 in 2010. This is partly because of the weak economy, and partly because of the growing cost of medicine, but it has an important takeaway: You can never extrapolate behavior -- even for something as vital as seeing a doctor -- indefinitely. Behaviors change. 102. Since last July, elderly Chinese can sue their children who don't visit often enough, according to Bloomberg. Dealing with an aging population calls for drastic measures. 103. Someone once asked Warren Buffett how to become a better investor. He pointed to a stack of annual reports. "Read 500 pages like this every day," he said. "That's how knowledge works. It builds up, like compound interest. All of you can do it, but I guarantee not many of you will do it." 104. If Americans had as many babies from 2007 to 2014 as they did from 2000 to 2007, there would be 2.3 million more kids today. That will affect the economy for decades to come.  105. The Congressional Budget Office's 2003 prediction of federal debt in the year 2013 was off by $10 trillion. Forecasting is hard. But we still line up for it. 106. According to The Wall Street Journal, in 2010, "for every 1% decrease in shareholder return, the average CEO was paid 0.02% more." 107. Since 1994, stock market returns are flat if the three days before the Federal Reserve announces interest rate policy are removed, according to a study by the Federal Reserve. 108. In 1989, the CEOs of the seven largest U.S. banks earned an average of 100 times what a typical household made. By 2007, more than 500 times. By 2008, several of those banks no longer existed. 109. Two things make an economy grow: population growth and productivity growth. Everything else is a function of one of those two drivers. 110. The single most important investment question you need to ask yourself is, "How long am I investing for?" How you answer it can change your perspective on everything. 111. "Do nothing" are the two most powerful -- and underused -- words in investing. The urge to act has transferred an inconceivable amount of wealth from investors to brokers. 112. Apple increased more than 6,000% from 2002 to 2012, but declined on 48% of all trading days. It is never a straight path up. 113. It's easy to mistake luck for success. J. Paul Getty said, the key to success is: 1) rise early, 2) work hard, 3) strike oil. 114. Dan Gardner writes, "No one can foresee the consequences of trivia and accident, and for that reason alone, the future will forever be filled with surprises." 115. I once asked Daniel Kahneman about a key to making better decisions. "You should talk to people who disagree with you and you should talk to people who are not in the same emotional situation you are," he said. Try this before making your next investment decision. 116. No one on the Forbes 400 list of richest Americans can be described as a "perma-bear." A natural sense of optimism not only healthy, but vital. 117. Economist Alfred Cowles dug through forecasts a popular analyst who "had gained a reputation for successful forecasting" made in The Wall Street Journal in the early 1900s. Among 90 predictions made over a 30-year period, exactly 45 were right and 45 were wrong. This is more common than you think. 118. Since 1900, the S&amp;P 500 has returned about 6.5% per year, but the average difference between any year's highest close and lowest close is 23%. Remember this the next time someone tries to explain why the market is up or down by a few percentage points. They are basically trying to explain why summer came after spring. 119. How long you stay invested for will likely be the single most important factor determining how well you do at investing. 120. A money manager's amount of experience doesn't tell you much. You can underperform the market for an entire career. Many have. 121. A hedge fund once described its edge by stating, "We don't own one Apple share. Every hedge fund owns Apple." This type of simple, contrarian thinking is worth its weight in gold in investing. 122. Take two investors. One is an MIT rocket scientist who aced his SATs and can recite pi out to 50 decimal places. He trades several times a week, tapping his intellect in an attempt to outsmart the market by jumping in and out when he's determined it's right. The other is a country bumpkin who didn't attend college. He saves and invests every month in a low-cost index fund come hell or high water. He doesn't care about beating the market. He just wants it to be his faithful companion. Who's going to do better in the long run? I'd bet on the latter all day long. "Investing is not a game where the guy with the 160 IQ beats the guy with a 130 IQ," Warren Buffett says. Successful investors know their limitations, keep cool, and act with discipline. You can't measure that. FREE AppDownload
The relentless plunge in oil prices shows no sign of stopping. As of about 1:00 pm ET on Friday, West Texas Intermediate crude was trading at around $58 per barrel, a loss of about 3% in the last 24 hours. On Friday morning, WTI futures briefly cracked $58 for the first time since May 2009. Investing.com The price initially dipped below $60 Thursday. The International Energy Agency just cut its forecast for oil demand for the fourth time in five months, a pretty strong signal that there will be no upswing in prices anytime soon.  The price of WTI is down by nearly 45% since mid-June, plunging from above $107 per barrel to below $60.  Investing.com, Business Insider Brent crude, the international benchmark, is falling too, down 2.5% on Friday to as low as $62.07. The slide is just going on and on after OPEC, the cartel of oil-trading nations, refused to agree on a cut in production. Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil producer, still seems pretty relaxed with just letting the price slide.  Get ready for the knock-on effects, too. Europe's inflation, which was already pretty close to non-existent, has yet to reflect the absolute plunge in oil prices seen over the past month: Pantheon Macroeconomics It's not just inflation figures getting squeezed. Different countries and oil fields need to earn different amounts from the oil they produce to break even. In the middle east, that's an extremely low amount, just $10-$20 per barrel in some countries. In Venezuela, it's closer to $40, and some US shale oil and gas fields are already approaching their break-even point.  But it's not all bad news. Other than in the major oil-producing countries, most nations around the world should get a modest GDP boost from the drop in prices, which makes a lot of things like fuel and industrial production cheaper, leaving people with more money to spend on other things. FREE AppDownload
European stocks suffered their biggest weekly loss since mid-2011 as oil prices continue to crumble. Here's a chart from the London Stock Exchange: Business Insider According to Reuters, the 5.8% loss for the STOXX Europe 600 index was the largest weekly loss in more than three years. This drop represented a wipeout in market capitalisation of roughly $524 billion or more than twice the size of Greece's GDP, Reuters reported.  Stocks in Britain also fell this week, with the benchmark FTSE 100 falling 1.5%, its biggest weekly loss in more than two years.  "Traders are assessing the impact of the fall in oil prices and selling positions in major oil producers. This is adding to the FTSE's demise along with weaker data from China," Tom Robertson, a senior trader at Accendo Markets, told Reuters. Here's the scorecard of the major energy stocks at Friday's close: BG Group: -25.60 (-3.03%) BP: -12.97 (-3.25%) Glencore: -6.97 (-2.37%) Rio Tinto: -67.50 (-2.46%) Royal Dutch Shell: -68.00 (-3.24%) To find a similar drop, one must go back to debt crisis of 2011. FREE AppDownload
AmazonHere's a Nokia 6350 like Schwarzman's. As I was leaving the Dealbook Conference at One World Trade Center on Thursday, I ended up in an elevator with the CEO of the private equity behemoth Blackstone Group. Schwarzman, who has an estimated net worth of $10.7 billion, pulled out a gray flip phone from his coat pocket. I was shocked. Business Insider has learned that the model of Schwarzman's phone is a Nokia 6350.  He actually prefers just a regular cell phone, according to a representative.  "Steve uses his flip phone to make and get phone calls. It does that better and more easily than any other device. He has an iPad for everything else," Schwarzman's representative told Business Insider.  Ironically, as we were leaving the building, I overheard Schwarzman mention the poor cell service in the building. Getty Images/ Rob KimSteve Schwarzman prefers flip phones. He uses an iPad for everything else. He was right — the reception was terrible. I could barely make a call with my iPhone 5s (Only one went through). Luckily, though, the Wi-Fi in the building was working great. It's refreshing to see a billionaire who doesn't feel the need to carry a flashy smartphone. On the flip side, it's also nice knowing that it doesn't take a smartphone to make a billionaire.   FREE AppDownload
Charles W. Cushman Photography Collection / Indiana University ArchivesAmateur photographer Charles W. Cushman traveled extensively in the US and abroad, capturing daily life from 1938 to 1969. His works have been donated to and maintained by Cushman's alma mater Indiana University, which has kindly given us permission to publish his gallery of New York City photos taken in 1941 and 1942. They give a great impression of what Chinatown, the Financial District, and Midtown looked like 70 years ago. FREE AppDownload
ODA ArchitectureThis place is unreal.This ultra-luxurious penthouse in Manhattan is the home of an extremely private billionaire. So private, in fact, we can't even tell you his name. But we can show you inside the 18,000-square-foot apartment, located a whopping 90 stories in the air with 360 degree views of New York City. It was recently redesigned by ODA Architecture, and the pictures are incredible. The luxurious penthouse contains nearly every amenity you can think of, including a sculpture garden with a 30-foot water wall and reflection pool, a game room, a day spa, and a recording studio, according to ODA. The penthouse's extensive renovations reportedly took ODA four years to complete. Jill Comoletti contributed to an earlier version of this post.
 Back in 1951, a 20-year-old Warren Buffett was well on his way to fulfilling his goal of becoming a millionaire by age 35. He had made $53,000 by age 16. He had gone to elite schools. He already had a knack for making money on stocks.  But a monster would need to be defeated in Buffett's quest for extreme wealth. If he were going to fulfill his destiny of becoming the Oracle of Omaha, he would need to give a speech or two.  "I was so terrified that I just couldn't" speak in public, he told his biographer Alice Schroeder in "The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life." "I would throw up," he said. "In fact, I arranged my life so that I never had to get up in front of anybody."  Then, after moving back to Omaha after grad school, he saw an ad in the paper for a Dale Carnegie speaking course. Buffett trusted Carnegie, whose book "How To Win Friends and Influence People" changed his life. "I knew I was going to have to speak in public sometimes," Buffett recalled. "The agony was such that just to get rid of the pain I signed up for the course again."  The class met at a hotel in Omaha. There were about 30 students.  "We were all just terrified," Buffett said. "We couldn't say our own names. We all stood there and wouldn't talk to each other."  They got a book of speeches that was full of examples of talks you might give to keynote an event or if you were trying to win an election. And — gasp — the students had to deliver one of those speeches every week.  "The way it works is that you learn to get out of yourself," Buffett said. "I mean, why should you be able to talk alone with somebody five minutes before and then froze in front of a group?"  He picked up a few "psychological tricks" to sidestep his fear, and he got lots of experience speaking to a group of people in a low-stakes situation. The students supported one another, and slowly, slowly, slowly, Buffett got comfortable in front of a crowd. "Some of it is just practice — just doing it and practicing," Buffett said. "And it worked. That's the most important degree I have." Taking a public speaking course worked for us, too.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Neil Hall Stocks fell Friday morning. On Friday, with oil still falling and US Treasury bonds rallying, stocks were selling off, with the blue-chip Dow Jones seeing the heaviest losses.  Near noon, the Dow was down 230 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 21 points, and the Nasdaq was off 27 points.  Oil was making new lows on Friday, with West Texas Intermediate crude futures falling below $58 a barrel after piercing $60 for the first time on Thursday. Friday's drop in oil prices comes after the International Energy Agency cut its oil-demand forecast for the fourth time in five months.  Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, was also dropping sharply on Friday, falling below $62 a barrel.  And while oil prices have dropped more than 40% in just about six months, BlackRock CEO Larry Fink said at the Dealbook conference on Thursday that after returning to New York from a trip in the Middle East, he is more bearish than ever on oil prices.  Amid the decline in oil prices, long-date US Treasury bonds were staging a huge rally on Friday, with the yield on 10-year bonds falling below 2.1% and 30-year bond yields falling to as low as 2.76%, the lowest in about two years.  We also got two pieces of economic data on Friday. The producer price index showed that prices fell 0.2% in November, more than the 0.1% decline that was expected by economists.  Consumer confidence, however, is booming, with the latest University of Michigan consumer confidence reading coming in at 93.8, the highest since January 2007.       FREE AppDownload
This amazing visualization provides a guided tour of a day in UK airspace. Each year NATS - a UK air traffic control service -  manages around 2.2 million movements, peaking at over 8,000 a day (although there are around 7,000 on this particular day), with only 5.5 seconds delay per flight attributable to NATS. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of NATS. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Jim YoungAirline shares are not enjoying the shutdown.A massive computer failure shut down London airspace this Friday, and airline share prices got smacked. It's not likely to be an issue for a lot of them: Airline stocks have been soaring in recent weeks. Falling oil prices mean cheaper fuel, one of the main costs of running an airline, so the recent collapse of oil prices is a positive thing for them. Here's how the stocks moved at the close, since about 3.15 p.m GMT, when the news broke. EASYJET: -2% INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES GROUP: -2% RYANAIR: -0.8% LUFTHANSA: -1.1% AIR FRANCE: -2.1% Initial reports suggested that the traffic wouldn't be flowing again until 7 p.m. GMT but plans began taking off from Heathrow once again by 5 p.m. Delays can cost airlines a huge amount of money if they last for a lengthy period, but todays' chaos is likely to be a little less dramatic than the Icelandic volcano that lost them a huge amount of money in 2010.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian Snyder Narayana Kocherlakota, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, speaks at the ninth annual Carroll School of Management Finance Conference at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts June 5, 2014. Minneapolis Fed president Narayana Kocherlakota will step down from his post in 2016, when his term expires. Kocherlakota took over the bank in 2009. In a statement on the bank's website he said, "I have been honored to play a role in shaping the response to that dire situation. While challenges lie ahead for the Federal Reserve System, the state of crisis has passed, and I have decided not to continue my service into a new term." Kocherlakota is the most dovish of all the Fed chiefs, and has frequently been the sole dissenter at FOMC meetings, favoring more accommodative policy than the Fed has pursued. This morning, a BNP note summed up Fed uncertainty going into the next few years, as multiple Fed presidents plan to retire:  Kocherlakota is currently a voting member of the FOMC but is not scheduled to rotate back as a voter until 2017. The same goes for Dallas Fed president Fisher and Philadelphia Fed president Plosser, both of whom are scheduled to retire in March 2015. We rate Kocherlakota as the most extreme dove on the FOMC, and Fisher and Plosser as two of the most extreme hawks.  FREE AppDownload
The world's largest container ship, the "CSCL Globe," has embarked on its maiden voyage from Shanghai to Europe. The ship measures 1,312 feet long and 192 feet wide and is roughly the size of four soccer fields, according to Gizmag. Getty ImagesThe maiden-voyage ceremony of the world's largest container ship "CSCL Globe" is held at the Port of Qingdao on Dec. 4, 2014 in Qingdao, Shandong Province, China. It is the first of five ships to be constructed by Hyundai Heavy Industries at the request of Shanghai-based marine-shipping company China Shipping Container Lines.  It can carry around 200 million tablet computers at a time and is 20% more energy-efficient than other container ships. Here is a graphic detailing of the "CSCL Globe": Reuters      FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockEveryone loves a good holiday party — the champagne, the eggnog, the sugar cookies. But if you're going to one of these shindigs, you're going to want to look sharp. This season the classic holiday trends are back: sparkles, deep reds, and bauble-like jewelry.  If the event's a little on the fancy side, you'll definitely want to go for a cocktail dress and heels combo. But if it's more low-key, a few great holiday-styled accessories are the way to go. Happy holidays. Saks Fifth Avenue Lace is still having a moment, so you can't go wrong with that. The dress on the far left is a great option for a early evening party since the white lace gives off a certain sweetness. The dress in the middle is your classic red holiday dress — this works great for a fancy work party, or a holiday party later in the evening. And if you're out with a group of friends — the dress on the right is the way to go. Tadashi Shoji Belted Guipure Lace Dress — Price: $328.00 $131.20 Halston Heritage One-Shoulder Ruched Dress — Price: $375.00 $225.00 Nordstrom For the holidays, you're best off going with a sparkly clutch. Stick with neutrals that will complement your look and that can be reused for going out, or even dressing up your basic jeans. Nina Glitter Clutch — Price: $48.00 Berry 'Swirl' Beaded Clutch — Price: $58.00  Nordstrom The strappy sandal trend is still going strong this year. If your calves are really slim, you should go with the black shoes on the left — the thicker strap balances out your legs better. Otherwise, the nude shoes in the middle are a great option because they'll give the illusion of longer, slimmer legs. Additionally, flats are really having a moment right now, so if you're a fan go for the shoes on the right. (Bonus points, your podiatry bill won't be as high.) Pelle Moda "Kacey" Sandal — Price: $159.95 Ivanka Trump "Loire" d'Orsay Flat — Price: $99.95 Steve Madden "Stecy" Sandal — Price: $79.95 Nordstrom Add some sparkle around your face with a statement necklace. We recommend picking one up that has a neutral sparkly front with a bow that ties in the back (it's like the gift-wrapped present of necklaces.) Pro-tip: After the holiday season ends, you can dress up your basic white t-shirt with one of these. Tasha Crystal Collar Necklace — Price: $72.00 Tasha "Pretty Pearl" Ribbon Collar Necklace — Price: $68.00 Tasha Ribbon Collar Necklace — Price: $68.00 Nordstrom If your style is on the conservative end, the basic sparkly studs are a great option. However, if you're on the bolder end, try some drop earrings in a deep red, or sparkly chandelier earrings.  Additionally, if you're planning on wearing your hair in an up-do or ponytail, the chandelier and drop earrings are a great way to frame your face. Boxed Round Cubic Zirconia Earrings — Price: $46.00 Kendra Scott "Elle" Drop Earrings — Price: $52.00 Cubic Zirconia Chandelier Earrings — Price: $165.00   Nordstrom When it comes to cocktail rings, go big or go home. If you want to dive into the holiday vibe, a jewel tone color — like a deep indigo or red — is the way to go. But you want to try something a bit more fashion forward, check out this black cocktail ring. Judith Jack "Bold Bijoux" Cocktail Ring — Price: $148.00 Ariella Collection Boxed Oval Cocktail Ring — Price: $58.00 Natasha Couture "Ottoman" Statement Ring — Price: $36.00  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
German bonds yields have been collapsing all year, and now investors are paying the government to take their money for up to four years. On Friday, German bond yields hit new lows, with the 10-year German bond yield, referred to as the "bund," hitting a new record low of 0.623%, while the four-year yield turned negative, falling to -0.008%. All German bonds with durations shorter than four years are also in negative territory. This means that out to four years, investors are effectively paying the German government to take their money. The 10-year bund yield compares to a roughly 2.1% for the US 10-year yield, which was also pushing to new lows on Friday.  The big story in markets has been the declining price of oil, but the decline in government bond yields around the world cannot be ignored. Across Europe, government bond yields are low as inflation keeps declining and growth appears anemic in the eurozone. In an interview with CNBC last month, DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach said in reference to the low yields across Europe, "It's a sad state."  Crazy markets. Business Insider, data via BloombergRecord lows for 10-year German bunds. Business Insider, data via BloombergGerman four-year bond yields are negative.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Europe is about to fall into deflation. With oil prices now below $60, negative price growth is pretty much certain in the eurozone early next year.  The good news is that economists are projecting that Europe's deflation will be brief and mild. After a few months below zero, inflation will begin to rise again later in 2015, to 0.1% for 2015, according to Capital Economics. Most analysts think it will then pick up a little bit further over the following couple of years. Of course, most also predicted that Europe would not fall into deflation at all. So what if Europe, like Japan, fell into a long period of mild deflation?  In that sort of scenario, Italy is Europe's biggest worry. Its economy is around eight times the size of Greece's, so it's a systemic risk for the whole of the continent that can't be easily isolated. If Italy sneezes, the rest of Europe can expect to catch a cold.  The main problem for Italy is government debt. Here's what Italy's public debt forecast looks like with no growth and no inflation:  Oxford Economics, Haver Analytics This isn't a completely unbelievable scenario. In US dollars, Italy's trend growth between 1995 and 2011 was just 1%. Combine that with 1% deflation, and you would get the same scenario. That's what's really important here: nominal growth. (You want a bit of inflation combined with GDP growth because that makes you debts easier to pay — you're using today's money, which is now less valuable, to pay yesterday's debts whose prices are fixed.) If you don't have it, dealing with your debts is much more difficult. So there are two possibilities for Italy. The first is a debt crisis: bondholders become convinced that Italy's debt is unsustainable, and stop believing that European institutions are willing to come to its aid. In this circumstance, Italy would be forced into an incredibly damaging default. That's the worst-case scenario. But even the best case scenario is awful. With debt accelerating as a proportion of the economy, and debt interest payments rising, attempts to bring borrowing down by cutting spending and raising taxes leave the country with permanent austerity, even if there isn't a sovereign debt crisis.  And austerity tends to hurt economic growth — which makes Italy's ability to pay its debts even worse. According to the consultancy Oxford Economics: "Although the emergency phase of fiscal tightening may be over in the Eurozone, a decade of discipline seems necessary if defaults are to be avoided with certainty." After five years of only moderately successful belt-tightening and a lot of pain, another 10 years sounds pretty bleak.  And the deflationary pressure is coming on at maybe the worst possible time for Europe's public finances. Taking Italy as the worst example again, here's the country's dependency ratio: Pantheon Macroeconomics It might look a little complicated, but that's simply the number of 35-54 year olds for every person aged over 60. In about 15 years time, it'll be a 1:1 ratio. Every worker's wages will be supporting one person who doesn't work. In Japan, the fact that the population is ageing has made deflation more difficult to deal with: The number of people in employment is shrinking, so demand is likely to fall with it. If there's the same supply of say, new cars, but fewer people wanting them, the price is likely to drop. Thrifty old people aren't as big on consumption as people with working incomes. This effect also raises government spending, because old people are expensive. Pensions frequently aren't well-funded and healthcare costs a lot of money, which exacerbates the government debt chart above.  But the Japanese economy is still a lot more healthy than Italy's. In Japan, unemployment peaked below 6% in the aftermath of the financial crisis. In comparison, Italian unemployment was at 6% just before the crash. That's a really good level for Italy, where unemployment is currently above 13%.   That's one of the reasons that markets consider Japanese debt to be a much less risky bet than Italian debt, so its 10-year bond yields (a common measure of how much it costs a country to service its debt) are much lower and have been for a very long time. Japan also has its own central bank, so in an emergency, it can buy its own bonds to stave off a debt crisis. As a member of the euro, it no longer has that ability. This isn't just a problem for Italy, but one that Europe is facing in general. Europe's working age population peaked about four years ago. Assuming there's no dramatic extra influx of working-age immigrants, it's all downhill from here for that figure.  FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis  You don't have to be a Krugman-style Keynesian to see how damaging this is. Noted definite non-Keynesian economist Tyler Cowen has proposed a new sort of inflation target for the eurozone, in which it must aim for a minimum of 3% inflation in each of the four largest economies (Spain, Italy, France and Germany). Some monetarists like Scott Sumner favour a nominal growth domestic product target for the bloc. That's a complicated way of saying the European Central Bank should be trying to encourage a combination of economic growth and inflation, both of which have tumbled to practically nothing in Europe.  Hopefully most economists will be right, and Europe's dip into inflation will be brief. And hopefully if the European Central Bank goes for a round of quantitative easing, it will help to bring inflation back upwards. And hopefully successful economic reforms make Europe's growth a lot stronger.  But if they don't, Europe's outlook is very, very bleak.  FREE AppDownload
 Four former undersecretaries for domestic finance at the US Treasury wrote a letter yesterday detailing why they think Wall Streeter Antonio Weiss is the right man for that job. The Obama administration has nominated Weiss, the head of investment banking at Lazard, as undersecretary for domestic finance, the number-three position at the Treasury. Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) is trying to block Weiss' confirmation, suggesting that he is from Wall Street and therefore won't look out for America's middle-class families. She and others have also argued that Weiss' experience has not prepared him for the role. The former undersecretaries, who held the same job, dispute that. "No candidate's background can be expected to align precisely with every duty of the position," wrote Mary John Miller, Jeffrey Goldstein, Robert Steel, and Randal Quarles. Here's what Warren's press secretary told Business Insider in response: Senator Warren has been pointedly questioning the Wall Street-centric culture that has existed at Treasury and understands that various insiders find that threatening. She’s encouraged that Antonio Weiss supporters are now acknowledging that Dodd-Frank implementation is central to the role, and she continues to believe his experience is not the right fit. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law is important to the Massachussetts Democrat, who is a member of the Senate Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection. Warren tried to prevent Congress from passing a spending bill that would loosen certain provisions in Dodd-Frank, allowing banks to once again trade potentially risky derivatives. In a speech on the Senate floor, Warren said the new provisions “would let derivatives traders on Wall Street gamble with taxpayer money and get bailed out by the government when their risky bets threaten to blow up our financial system." Warren has repeatedly said that Weiss, who has a background in international mergers and acquisitions and spent much of his career overseas, does not have the qualifications to make decisions on national debt, consumer policy, and Treasury stability. "His supporters say, 'Come on – he's a smart investment banker, so of course he is qualified to oversee all the complicated financial work done day in and day out at the Treasury.' But his defenders haven't shown that his actual experience prepares him for this job," Warren said in a speech at the Economic Policy Institute Tuesday. Meanwhile, the White House is standing by its nominee, stating on Tuesday, "This is somebody who has very good knowledge of the way that the financial markets work, and that is critically important." Neither that statement nor the former undersecretaries' letter addresses Warren's concern with Lazard's history of overseeing unpopular mergers widely seen as tax-inversion deals.    FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs is probably the most prestigious company on Earth.  Take it from the rabble-rousing financial writer Michael Lewis.  "'I'm going to Goldman,' is still about as close as it gets in the real world to 'I'm going to Harvard,'" the "Flash Boys" author recently said. In fact, Goldman is even harder to get into than Harvard — or Yale or Princeton, for that matter. The investment bank received 43,000 applications for analyst gigs in 2013. It only "accepted about 4% of them," according to a shareholder letter, a lower acceptance rate than those Ivy League schools. As new organizational psychology research suggests, the Goldman name provides a ridiculously powerful stamp of approval on a résumé, the kind that fast tracks an already high-potential career. In an effort to gain some insight on who gets into Goldman, we used LinkedIn's clever new education utility — which sorts through users' history to find trends — to find where you should go to school to land a gig at the bank. Here are the rankings of undergraduate schools with the most alums at Goldman: 1. New York University (428 alumni)  2. London School of Economics (419 alumni) 3. Cornell University (359 alumni) 4. Harvard University (339 alumni) 5. Columbia University (311 alumni) 6. University of Oxford (303 alumni) 7. University of Cambridge (300 alumni) 8. University of Pennsylvania (284 alumni) 9. Brigham Young University (273 alumni) 10. Imperial College London (248 alumni) 11. Rutgers University — New Brunswick (227 alumni) 12. Princeton University (214 alumni) 13. Baruch College, City University of New York (180 alumni) 14. University of Mumbai (171 alumni) 15. Yale University (169 alumni) The takeaway: If you're dying to go to Goldman, head to NYU. FREE AppDownload
 The global financial crisis forced many unemployed millennials (those currently aged 18 to 34) to live at home with their parents. This trend has been one of the forces holding back the US housing market. But in the past few months, that trend has been reversing and America's young people are finally moving out.  According to data from Goldman Sachs, the percentage of 18-to-34-year-olds living with parents is now at its lowest level since 2011. "The improvement in the labor market is likely to push up the headship rates of younger people," writes Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. "Econometrically, we have found some evidence that headship rates respond to labor market changes in the under-35 population."  The "headship rate" is the ratio of one household to the number of people living in that house. So if you have five roommates, that's a low headship rate (one in six).  And if you have 1 roommate, that's a high headship rate (one in two). Over the last few years, millennials saw higher rates of unemployment than their older counterparts, had less spending power, and had to deal with soaring student debt. As a result, many younger Americans simply couldn't afford to own — or even rent — their own homes. They had no choice but to live with their parents. From 2008 to 2013, the percentage of 18-to-35-year-olds living with their parents kept rising — from nearly 26% up to nearly 32%, according to data from Goldman Sachs. Ultimately, all that Goldman Sachs is saying is this: As the labor market improves, there are fewer millennials living under one roof. So since the labor market is continuing to improve, it looks like millennials (and parents) can finally breathe a sigh of relief.      FREE AppDownload
Jamie McCarthy/Getty ImagesBoth Donald and Ivanka Trump are UPenn alumni.Founded by Benjamin Franklin, the University of Pennsylvania remains among the top colleges in the world.  The Philadelphia Ivy has produced 25 billionaires — more than any other school in the world — as well as numerous CEOs, politicians, and actors.  From billionaire Warren Buffett to "Hunger Games" actress Elizabeth Banks, these are UPenn's most successful alumni.  FREE AppDownload
Want to have an adventure? From Abu Dhabi to Ecuador, here are the most exotic lodging spots in the world.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
CorcoranThe apartment's price has been slashed by over $30 million.Billionaire hedge-fund manager Steven A. Cohen still can't find a buyer for his NYC penthouse. The duplex penthouse at One Beacon Court just had its price reduced to $82 million, Curbed reports. The apartment has been on the market since 2013. It was originally listed for $115 million and then dropped to $98 million. Cohen, who now runs Point72 Asset Management (formerly SAC Capital), purchased the apartment in 2005 for $24 million. He hired the late architect Charles Gwathmey to transform the space. We've included the details of the 9,000-square-foot, four-bedroom, 5.5-bathroom apartment at One Beacon Court in the slides that follow. It's definitely impressive. Look and see for yourself. FREE AppDownload
The most talked-about story in the market is oil, but there is a more important move happening in markets: US Treasury bonds are on fire. The yield on long-dated US Treasury bonds — meaning the 10- and 30-year bonds — has been falling sharply over the past week.  When long-dated bonds rally, it is taken as a sign that investors are "fleeing to safety" or "seeking protection," as US Treasury bonds are considered the safest investment you can make.  On Friday, the 30-year bond was pushing to new lows, with the yield hitting 2.76%, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2012, or about two full years ago. Business Insider, data via Bloomberg The yield on the 10-year bond was also grinding lower, falling to as low as 2.09% on Friday. Business Insider, data via Bloomberg On Oct. 15, the crazy day in the market that saw the 10-year yield "flash crash" to as low as 1.86%, the 10-year settled at 2.14%, so a close below that level would mark a new low in what has been a huge year for Treasuries.  Unlike stocks, which "rally" or "gain" when prices rise, bonds are "rallying" or "gaining" when yields fall. And so while the stock market usually garners the most headlines, investors are increasingly watching the bond market, as strength in longer-dated Treasuries indicates increasing concern about the short-term prospects for the economy and other assets. But there are some other dynamics to keep in mind. DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach has posited that with European bond yields considerably lower than US bonds, there is no reason for US yields to rise. "It seems almost unthinkable to me that rates would go up against a backdrop of Spanish 10-year yields that are less than 2%," Gundlach told CNBC in November. Additionally, if Treasuries are priced based on expectations of growth, interest rates, and inflation, then it makes some sense that Treasury yields would fall as the declining price of oil is expected to tamp down inflation next year. And as the old market saying goes: "Treasuries are always right."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Laszlo Balogh Get ready for 2015.Of the Wall Street strategists followed by Business Insider, no one is as bullish on 2015 as RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub. "We are initiating our 2015 S&amp;P 500 price target of 2,325, consistent with 12% potential upside," Golub wrote in a note to clients on Friday. "This is based on a 16.7x multiple applied to our 2016 EPS estimate of $139." Golub believes 2015, as in 2014, will be highlighted by healthy US GDP growth, lackluster global growth with China and Japan getting worse, elevated profit margins, low volatility, and most multiple expansion, that is higher price/earnings (P/E) multiples. Golub believes corporate revenues will track GDP higher. But earnings growth will pick up as companies clamp down on selling, general, and administrative (SG&amp;A expenses). "Going forward, we believe that SG&amp;A will be the most important driver of margins as compensation grows at a slower pace than revenues. In our view, this should provide 1- 2% of upside per year," Golub wrote. RBC Capital Markets While P/E multiples remain at about 16.2x, Golub is confident they can go higher. "[W]e believe that the disruption to the relationship between corporate bond yields and earnings yields, which occurred during the financial crisis, should continue to re- normalize over the next several years," he wrote. Golub favors financials, healthcare, and technology. He recommends being underweight telecom and utilities. Here's what other top Wall Street strategists are expecting for next year: FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockNorway will attract "Frozen" fans next year.It's time to start thinking about planning your dream trip next year. So where should you go? We looked at major developments, cultural trends, and global festivals to find the hottest places to travel around the world in 2015. From the Philippines to Peru, here are the best places to travel next year.    Tourism in Japan has taken a hit since the 2011 tsunami hit the country's coast and ricocheted into a nuclear disaster at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. Since then, the Japanese government has cleaned up the countryside and launched a massive public-relations campaign encouraging tourists to come visit. Pair that with a sharp decline in the value of the Japanese currency, and you get a country that's ripe for tourism. Traditionally one of the most expensive countries in the world, Japan is quickly becoming a bargain destination that's luring in travelers looking for a deal.  More than 11 million visitors have traveled to Japan so far this year, with more expected. Most tourists are heading to Tokyo, which is also busy preparing for the 2020 summer Olympics.  Lima, Peru has been slowly building its reputation as a city for foodies, cementing its status most recently when the Latin America's 50 Best Restaurants Awards gave the coveted top spot to the city's Central restaurant. In total, eight of 50 restaurants on the prestigious list were in Lima. The Peruvian city is home to everything from Michelin-starred restaurants to hole-in-the-wall cevicherias that will continue to draw in foodies from around the world. "Frozen" has made over $1.2 billion for Disney, and with its increased merchandising and rumors of a sequel, the "Frozen" craze will only continue to grow. Set in Arendelle, a fictional kingdom in Norway, "Frozen" shows a gorgeous landscape of lakes, waterfalls, mountains, and fjords. Fans of the animated film are now seeking out real-life Arendelle in Norway. The country has seen a huge growth in tourism since the release of the film, with tour operators reporting a 40% increase in sales. Bergen, a city on the west coast, was the inspiration for the film. Voss is also popular with fans for its nearby fjords, glaciers, rivers, and lakes. With its small fishing villages and breathtaking cliffs, the Lofoten Islands will also attract Frozen fans.  Iran is becoming a tourist hotspot, with tour operators reporting significant increases in tourists booking trips to the Middle Eastern country. Perhaps that's because of a slight thaw in its relationships with the West, or simply because of the allure of exploring a little-known destination with few other tourists around.  Note that Americans are allowed to visit Iran, but they must travel with an official tour guide or get their itinerary approved by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). Travel within Iran is considered safe if you tour responsibly, even though the U.S. Department of State has issued a travel warning to the country. The country is home to ancient cities with breathtaking mosques and gorgeous natural landscapes. Popular cities with tourists are Isfahan and Tehran, but people also travel to see the ruins at Persepolis, the tombs at Shiraz, and the beaches on the Caspian Sea.  Forget the massive, personality-devoid cruise ships. The river cruise industry is booming these days. These cruises offer a more refined, intimate, and cultured experience than the behemoth ocean liners. They also allow guests to embark right in the center of the cities, and enjoy riverbank scenery the entire ride. Luxury cruise-ship operator Viking River Cruises has carved a niche for itself as the top river-cruise ship company. It offers cruises all over the world, filled with unique cultural activities like lectures, language lessons, and demonstrations like cuckoo-clock-making, that are meant to shed light on the destinations visited. Even the food aboard the ship reflects the local culture, showcasing regional specialties from each destination. With its diverse wildlife, colonial architecture, and stunning landscape filled with mountains, deserts, and beaches, Namibia is hands-down one of the most picturesque countries in the world.  It's also one of the safest countries in Africa and was named the hottest travel destination of the future by LoveHomeSwap. Travelers can go on safari, compete in the grueling Namib Desert Challenge, or explore the country's vast sand dunes. Canberra, Australia's capital city, was named the best place to live in the world by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, according to the New York Times. Located in southeastern Australia, Canberra doesn't have the glitzy buildings and beautiful beaches of Sydney, but it does feel quainter and more peaceful — even though it's the country's capital. The city is set on an artificial lake and is home to Australia's Parliament House and High Court, as well as several great cultural institutions like the National Gallery and National Museum. It's no secret that Berlin is one of the coolest cities in Europe, but it's only recently that it's really blown up as the quintessential hipster destination. The center of all that? Kreuzberg, a central neighborhood that straddles both east and west Berlin. Visitors to Berlin can check out some hipster hotspots, like White Trash fast food, an ironic restaurant, club, and tattoo parlor; Meschugge Berlin, a nightclub that feels like an Israeli dance party; and Stattbad Wedding/Stattbar, a nightclub inside an old swimming pool. Widely regarded for its beauty, Palawan was named the best island in the world by Conde Nast Traveler this year.  The small island is home to the Puerto Princesa Subterranean River, one of the new seven natural wonders of the world. It also has gorgeous beaches and clear waters that are perfect for snorkeling, diving, and swimming. With more direct flights to Europe, America, and Australia planned on Philippine Airlines, Palawan is sure to see more international visitors next year. Lithuania will join the eurozone in 2015, which means that travelers will be able to use a convenient, continentwide currency. Explore the capital city of Vilnius, whose historic center is designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site, or relax on a beach at the Curonian Spit National Park. There are also historic castles and museums filled with treasures all over the country. Since Colorado legalized marijuana use and began allowing the sale of recreational marijuana to anyone age 21 and over earlier this year, Denver has become a tourist destination for people who enjoy the drug. These "weed tourists" come to frequent medicinal and recreational marijuana shops, much like oenophiles travel around the world to go wine tasting. Some tour companies, like My 420 Tours, cater to this crowd. While there, tourists can also check out cultural institutions like the Denver Art Museum and Denver Performing Arts Center. There are also several local craft breweries. Traditionally, South Africa has been an expensive destination to visit, but recent currency fluctuations mean that it's becoming a cheaper destination for tourists.  An upgraded public-transportation system, new hotels, and new urban infrastructure projects like the Fan Walk will make Cape Town much more tourist-friendly. Even safaris to Kruger National Park seem to be more affordable now. For even better discounts, visit in the spring or fall (March to May, September and October), when it's not peak tourist season.  Florence is a perennial favorite, but 2015 is sure to bring even more visitors to the Italian city, since it was recently named the world's best city for travelers by Conde Nast Traveler. It's a historic jewelbox that's full of incredible art, museums, shops, and restaurants. The Duomo, the city's main cathedral, is the most iconic tourist attraction here, but there are tons of other world-famous spots, like the Uffizi museum, the Accademia (home to Michelangelo's David), and the Ponte Vecchio. Curacao is a gorgeous Caribbean island that's tucked between Aruba and Bonaire. But until recently, it was pretty inaccessible, as there were few direct flights from major international destinations. Now that's all about to change.  Jetblue just launched nonstop flights to the island from New York twice a week, and early next year, Air Canada will launch direct flights from Montreal to Curaçao every Thursday. To accommodate these new visitors, new hotels are being built, like a Courtyard by Marriott, while others are expanding and undergoing renovations. Located in the South China Sea at the southernmost tip of China, Hainan Island is one of the fastest-growing tourism destinations in the country. It has seen a huge increase in hotel-room capacity in the last few years, and it plans to keep building new hotels and increase international flights. The majority of tourists come from China and Russia, but Hainan has been embarking on a campaign to attract more international tourists.  The beaches are the main attraction here, but there are also several historic temples, tombs, and forts. It's also a big surfing destination that's hosted the Hainan Wanning International Surfing Festival for three years in a row. A region straddling northern Spain and France, the Basque Country has its own language, cuisine, and culture. The region hasn't registered on the mainstream tourist radar for years, but all of a sudden it seems like people are talking about it.   It's a rich region that's home to exciting museums, bustling cities, gorgeous beaches, and wine country. Bilbao is famous for its Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim museum, San Sebastian is known for its sprawling beaches, and Pamplona is known for its annual fiesta of San Fermin, also called the Running of the Bulls. But there are also lesser-known cities that are almost untouched by tourism, like Vitoria and Bayonne. Lonely Planet named Tasmania one of the best regions to explore in 2015. Located south of the main continent of Australia, the island-state is famous for its gorgeous landscape, wild animals, heritage estates, premium wines, and some of the best mountain biking in the world.  Adventure travelers will love exploring Tasmania's rugged coastline and wilderness. In 2015, the second stretch of the Three Capes Track will open, allowing people to trek through the bush on foot and explore places like the sea cliffs of Tasman National Park. But Tasmania isn't just for adventurers. Foodies and oenophiles will enjoy tasting the excellent cool-climate wines, while couples will find plenty of opportunities for romance. Queens, New York has gotten some attention recently. As prices in Manhattan and Brooklyn have gotten so high, people are rediscovering this sometimes overlooked New York City borough. Queens is one of the most diverse urban areas in the world. It's home to immigrants from over 100 countries who speak more than 138 languages. All that diversity means one thing: great food.  Head to Flushing for Chinese, Astoria for Greek, or Little India in Jackson Heights for Indian food. There's also amazing Czech food at the Bohemian Hall in Astoria, incredible Dominican food in Elmhurst, and succulent Jamaican cuisine in Queens Village, to name just a few neighborhoods. Chef and TV personality Andrew Zimmern told us that Queens is the best food city in the world.    The World Cup may be over, but Rio de Janeiro, Brazil is still in prep mode as it gears up to host the 2016 Summer Olympic Games.  The city will use all of the new arenas, hotels, shops, and restaurants that were built to accommodate the international crowds who came for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. But 2015 will be a relative bargain, since visitors won't have to contend with the crowds who will descend on the city for the Olympics in 2016. Croatia saw a huge boom in tourism after the hit series "Game of Thrones" filmed several seasons there, so it's only natural that Northern Ireland, another filming location for the show, will see similar results after Season 5, which is filming there, airs. Northern Ireland doubles as Westeros, the kingdom featured in GoT. The Stangford Castle Ward Estate in County Down doubled as Winterfell and the Dark Hedges in County Antrim doubled as Kings Road. The UK country is full of incredible natural wonders, like the Giant's Causeway and the Slieve League Cliffs, as well as ruined medieval castles like Dunluce Castle.  For years, Pittsburgh was thought of as a working-class, Rust Belt town, but that image is now actually working to its advantage as the city undergoes a hipster transformation. The city has a huge and growing youth population, which in turn seems to be driving a growth in tourism.  The neighborhood of Lawrenceville is the city's hipster center, with cool shops, restaurants, bars, and breweries, like the Roundabout Brewery, the Industry Public House, and Espresso a Mano. A few years ago, Myanmar opened its doors to the public for the first time in years. Since then, the Southeast Asian country has slowly been developing its infrastructure, building new hotels and restaurants, and improving roads and buildings. The country still has a long way to go, but that hasn't stopped millions of travelers from around the world from visiting. Yangon (formerly Rangoon) is the major city, but tourists also tend to visit Bagan, where they can go hot-air ballooning over incredible ancient temples. The country has more than 1,250 miles of coastline, and some of the best beaches in Asia. Sandwiched between Italy, Croatia, Hungary, and Austria, Slovenia is a small country that hasn't really been discovered by tourists — yet. It's a beautiful country with great food, historic cities, and stunning landscapes, and it's also one of the cheapest countries to visit in Europe. Ljubljana, the capital, is one of the most underrated destinations in Europe, with a quaint Old Town, beautiful bridges spanning the Ljubljanica River, and a historic castle that towers above the city. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Weber/USA TODAY SportsConsumer confidence is up higher than expected. The preliminary reading on December consumer confidence from the University of Michigan came in at 93.8.  This is the highest reading for the index since January 2007.  Expectations were for the reading to come in at 89.5, up from the 88.8 reading in November that marked a seven-year high for the index.  The surge in consumer confidence comes as the price of gas has fallen sharply over the last several months, which many economists argue serves as a tax cut for consumers, putting more money in pockets ahead of the holiday shopping season.  In a note to clients on Thursday after the November retail sales report came in better than expected, economists at Capital Economics said: The strong rise in retail sales in November shows that we were right to dismiss all the reports that holiday sales have been weak. The truth is that the rapid rises in employment mean that this holiday shopping season will be the best in nine years. The strength of Friday's consumer-confidence numbers certainly supports the contention that we are on track for a strong holiday-shopping season. The current conditions component of the reading came in at 105.7, up from 102.7 in November and better than the 101.4 expected. The 12-month economic outlook came in at 117, up from 104 in November, also marking the highest for the expectations measure since January 2007.  Inflation expectations also ticked higher, with the one-year inflation expectation rising to 2.9% from 2.8% last month, while the five-year outlook rose to 2.9% from 2.6% last month.       FREE AppDownload
RBC Capital Markets The above map comes from RBC Capital Markets. It is a GDP heat map, showing the estimated growth rate of every country in the world for next year based on International Monetary Fund numbers. There are a few things to note here: Europe is looking pale. Argentina and Venezuela are in for a rough year. Brazil isn't looking so hot, either. Both Libya and South Sudan are set to have great year-over-year growth — although that's likely because war has had such drastic effects on them this past year. This is what the heat map for 2014 looks like:  RBC Capital Markets     
BlackRock CEO Larry Fink said he was just in the Middle East and left it feeling more bearish on oil prices.  "I was in Saudi Arabia yesterday and Kuwait yesterday, and I'm back here today. So I've been in the Middle East the last four days," Fink said at the Dealbook Conference on Thursday afternoon in New York. "I probably came away from the Middle East more bearish on energy— more bearish that prices can go down lower — more bullish on the world because this is good for the world."  Fink later said he didn't know where oil prices would go. He also said that after spending time with four governments on his recent trip it was clear that they didn't know where prices were going either.  Overall, though, lower oil is a good thing, he said.  "But the most important thing ... this is a massive tax cut for the world. This is really good stuff for the world."  Oil prices fell below $60 on Thursday. Oil is trading at $59.08 per barrel.  Watch the full interview below:    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettBritish airways pilotHow does your salary compare to the national average? The UK's Office for National Statistics (ONS) recently published the preliminary results of their Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings for 2014.  For the year ending in April 2014, the annual average wage for full-time employees was £27,200, an increase of 0.7% from the previous year.  The report also contained good news for working women. In 2014, the UK gender pay gap hit its lowest since records began in 1997, narrowing to 9.4%, down from 10% in 2013. To check out this year's top earners, see the list below: 1. Aircraft pilots and flight engineers: £90,420 2. Chief executives and senior officials: £81,521 3. Air traffic controllers: £79,874 4. Medical practitioners: £71,141 5. Marketing and sales directors: £70,742 6. Information technology and telecommunications directors: £64,511 7. Financial managers and directors: £61,108 8. Senior police officers: £57,896 9. Financial institution managers and directors: £53,621 10. Senior professionals of educational establishments: £50,367 FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Unfortunately, playing the stock market is just not that easy. Investors have several strategies they can employ when buying stocks. But if you have a decent chunk of money just sitting around, you might be better off going all in and throwing everything into the stock market at once. An AllianceBernstein blog post from July explained this argument, and the group reiterated its point in a year-end review Wednesday. It compared historical returns from three investment strategies: putting a sum of money into the market all at once, dollar-cost averaging and splitting that money into equal monthly investments, and just holding cash. While dollar-cost averaging fared better on average than waiting on the sidelines, the clear winner is the front-loaded, lump-sum investment. AllianceBernstein's Seth Masters points out that immediate investing works better than dollar-cost averaging "because stock markets tend to rise over time, so investing immediately wins on average." Dollar-cost averaging means that you still have some of your money on the sidelines, so you can miss out on some big gains. The AllianceBernstein Blog We have discussed the advantages of the dollar-cost averaging strategy before. This involves investing a fixed amount of money each month, no matter what the stock market is doing. The basic idea is that even if the market takes a downturn, you'll be buying more assets at a lower price, so when things recover, as they generally do, you'll come out ahead. This strategy works especially well if the capital you're investing is coming in at regular intervals, as with contributions to a 401(k) automatically deducted from your paycheck. It is important to note that, whatever your particular saving strategy, you should not sell and pull out of the market at every swing and downturn. In an October note, Gluskin Sheff chief strategist David Rosenberg pointed out that staying the course was important: So, if you happen to come into a bit of extra money and you're thinking about where you want to put it, taking the plunge and jumping into the stock market might not be a bad idea.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFalling energy prices are holding back inflation. Producer prices fell 0.2% in November, which was a bigger drop than the 0.1% decline expected by economists. "Sixty percent of the November decline in prices for final demand goods can be attributed to the index for gasoline, which dropped 6.3 percent," the Bureau of Labor Statistics noted. "Lower oil prices will drag down headline PPI inflation in the coming months, but we still think that the stronger labor market will mean that core PPI inflation will have risen above 2% in the second half of next year," Capital Economics' Paul Dales said. Below is a breakdown of price changes by grouping. BLS FREE AppDownload
XE.comThe Mexican peso is tanking and the Banco de Mexico is stepping in to try to contain the damage. The peso has been moderately sliding against the dollar throughout the year, but has really fallen dramatically since the end of October. Last Friday, it fell more than 2%. At 14.79 pesos to the dollar today, it's currently at its weakest since early 2009. Earlier this week, the Mexican central bank announced that it would restart a dollar auction program — which it had previously used between 2011 and 2013 — in which the bank will auction off $200 million US dollars on any day the dollar appreciates 1.5% or more against the peso. On Thursday it intervened, according to headlines from Bloomberg. Until recently, Mexico had been one of the rare emerging market economies doing really well. But a confluence of events is changing that. There's political unrest. The country, particularly Mexico City, has been engulfed in protests following the disappearance of 43 college students.President Enrique Peña Nieto's approval ratings are down in the low 40s.  GDP forecasts for next year keep shrinking as economic data comes in soft.  And then there's the falling price of oil — although there's some evidence that this won't have a huge effect on the country's economy. That said, this may just be a temporary blip. Auto exports were way up last month, and a recent IMF report praised structural reforms in the economy, and forecasted steady growth going forward. FREE AppDownload
It turns out that most things you've heard or learned about what to do when you have a cold or fever are completely wrong. Watch this video to get it right. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Special thanks to Kevin Loria. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
*Budget plans for the world’s major economies in 2015 show that for the first time since 2009, fiscal policy won’t be a drag on economic growth. *Without a drag from fiscal policy, monetary policy stimulus will likely be more effective—providing a boost to global economic growth in the year ahead. *The combination of favorable monetary and fiscal policy is likely to continue to push asset prices higher around the world in 2015. One of the forces holding back global economic growth in recent years has been fiscal drag–or the restraining effect of government budget austerity (spending cuts and tax increases). The intention of this austerity has been to establish a long-term, sustainable basis for growth. However, so far the fiscal drag has helped deepen Europe’s longest recession since the euro began trading in 1999, pushed Japan back into recession in 2014, and acted as a counter-weight to unprecedented monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve in the United States. Now the age of austerity in economic policy may be ending. After years of belt-tightening, governments around the world are easing up in an effort to bolster flagging economies. Budget plans for the world’s major economies in 2015 show that for the first time since 2009, fiscal policy won’t be a drag. Both monetary policy (actions by central banks such as the U.S. Federal Reserve) and fiscal policy have been powerful forces pulling in opposite directions. In 2014: Chalres SchwabWhile monetary policy garners a lot of attention, it is likely to remain broadly stimulative. In fact, on a global basis, monetary policy in 2015 may not change much from 2014. The Fed and Bank of England may raise interest rates in 2015, but central banks in Europe and Japan are ramping up stimulus for the year ahead. They are not alone. In the past month or so, central banks in South Korea, Sweden, Vietnam, Iceland, and Romania all have cut interest rates to spur growth.  Even as global growth continues to be boosted by monetary policy stimulus, the change in global fiscal policy next year may have more impact on growth and be more important to investors. Some examples: When monetary and fiscal policies are pulling in the same direction, the effect on an economy—and by extension stock markets—is clear. But when fiscal policy and monetary policy are pulling in opposite directions, growth is likely to suffer. In the tug of war between monetary and fiscal policy in Europe and Japan, government officials have let go of the rope on fiscal policy. They have made it clear that budget deficits are likely to be little changed in 2015 while aggressive monetary policy stimulus is to be applied. In the United States, slack fiscal policy combined with still-stimulative monetary policy (although less stimulative as rates may begin to rise from zero sometime next year) is likely to continue to support solid growth. However, the United Kingdom is set to pull back on monetary stimulus while also adding fiscal drag by cutting its budget by 0.5 percentage points of GDP. This may have the effect of pulling growth down after a year of above-trend 3% growth in 2014. Globally, economic policy is shifting as we see an end to fiscal drag in what is still going to be a very stimulative monetary-policy environment. The result should be slightly better global economic growth. In general, the combination of these policies is likely to continue to push asset prices higher around the world in 2015. I hope this enhanced your understanding of global fiscal and monetary policy.  This article originally appeared at Charles Schwab.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joachim HerrmannNervous traders on the Frankfurt stock exchange try to make last minute deals July 29, 1993.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning, and Happy Friday!   US Futures are under pressure, with the Russell dropping 75bp (but off the lows) as same concerns intensify (Oil, Greece, China).  House reaches a Budget Deal late last night, and an interim spending bill is passed, so that risk is mitigated.  Overseas markets are mostly weaker, with the FTSE leading to the downside, losing 1.5% in average volume - dragged down by exposure to Oil and Miners.  The DAX is down 1.2% in lighter trade, while Athens is having a “dead cat” bounce of less than 1%.   Russia is up 1%, despite the Rouble smashing thru lows again – Shanghai popped 50bp as retail sales came in stronger - the Nikkei rallied ahead of elections in Japan this weekend (Polls showing Abe picking up seats), while Aussie lost 20bp with Mining shares weaker as China factory production dropped.  The 10YY is under pressure as German yields take out lows – Oil’s drop has German Breakevens reading deflationary – that and “Flattener” trades have the US 10YY at 2.12% (Yield curve flattening sharply again, the longest weekly run since 1992).    The Euro has a bid, as a crowded short covers ahead of Greek elections and the Fed next week.   Commodity FX all getting hit sharply – Norway, Aussie, Mexico and Russia, despite the latter 2 intervening overnight - The DXY is under pressure, and threatening the 88 level, a tailwind for commodities.   That said, Oil is under pressure again - WTI broke $59 this AM as the IEA cuts demand forecasts for the 4th time in 5months and Chinese data disappoints, but losses have been cut in half as more US traders arrive.   Lumber is popping again, while Copper is adding 40bp.  Natty Gas is up 1% after yesterday’s hit, while most Agricultural commodities are higher (DE expected to report their sales figures today)   Scheduled Catalysts include PPI at 8:30, Univ. of Michigan Confidence at 9:55, Energy markets will watch the Baker Hughes Rig Count closely at 1, and at 3:30 we get the “Commitment of Traders” data.   After the EU close, we will get a few ratings updates: U.K. Debt Rating Published by S&amp;P, Fitch / France Debt Rating Published by Fitch FREE AppDownload
Ahmed Saad/ReutersMilitary vehicles of Iraqi security forces make their way on the outskirts of Baiji, north of Baghdad December 8, 2014. Iraq is seeking to postpone a final $4.6 billion installment of reparations for its 1990-91 occupation of Kuwait, Finance Minister Hoshiyar Zebari told Reuters, as it faces a cash crisis caused by falling oil prices and war with Islamic State. Since Iraq was first allowed to resume oil sales nearly two decades ago it has paid funds into a United Nations body overseeing compensation for looting and damage inflicted during Saddam Hussein's seven-month occupation of Kuwait. More than a million claimants have been paid and nearly all the $52.4 billion reparations bill has been met through Iraq's annual allocation of 5 percent of crude oil exports to the U.N. Compensation Commission (UNCC). But with its economy now set to shrink for the first time since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion toppled Saddam and ended more than a decade of sanctions, Iraq can ill afford to divert a large chunk of the 2015 budget to make that last payment due next year. "We have been really committed to paying this on time up until now," Zebari said in a telephone interview conducted on Thursday. "We are in discussions with the Kuwaitis, trying to defer the payment for two years or at least a year, to allow some space... to present a realistic budget." A senior UNCC official in Geneva said no decision had yet been made, and any change would require the agreement of the UNCC's Governing Council, which has same 15 member states as the U.N. Security Council. "We are hearing the Governing Council will be considering the issue at a special session next week," the official told Reuters, adding that a meeting had been tentatively set for Dec. 18 in Geneva. There was no immediate comment from Kuwaiti officials.  OPEC producer Iraq is suffering from the sharp fall in oil prices and the Islamic State takeover in the north and west, which has caused mass displacement of people, destruction of infrastructure and a sharp increase in military expenditure. Two weeks ago, after the latest oil price fall, it scrapped a draft 2015 budget and said it would cut back spending plans. Iraq needs Kuwait's agreement to delay payment because the last, and largest, outstanding claim for compensation comes from the emirate itself for damage to its oil facilities. More than 700 Kuwaiti oil wells were set on fire by Iraqi troops retreating from the U.S.-led operation Desert Storm to recapture it in January 1991. Some of them burned for 10 months. Iraq would also need to win broad international support for a deferral because its obligation to pay the money is enshrined in U.N. Security Council resolutions. "There is an understanding," Zebari said. "Next week there will be some hectic diplomatic activity between Baghdad, Kuwait, Geneva and New York in order to present a joint request to postpone the payment." A delay of one or two years would give Iraq "some breathing space", he added. Iraq's repayments were first set at 30 percent and then 25 percent of oil sales when it resumed limited exports under the U.N. oil-for-food deal in 1996. The portion was cut to 5 percent after Saddam was overthrown in 2003 and sanctions were lifted. The International Monetary Fund said Iraq's economy is set to shrink in 2014 by 0.5 percent, its first contraction in at least a decade, and that its international reserves have fallen $10 billion so far this year. The 2014 budget deficit is likely to reach 5 percent of GDP, the Fund said. Zebari said he hoped the government could agree a revised 2015 budget at a meeting on Sunday. Despite oil's fall below $70 a barrel, the finance minister said Baghdad will still base next year's spending plans around that price, since the IMF was forecasting crude will average that level over the course of the year. Since the original draft budget was thrown out by Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, the finance ministry has trimmed around $10 billion of spending, Zebari said, still leaving a projected deficit of around $30 billion. "It was (originally) over 47 trillion dinars ($40 billion) with all the extra spending. So we cut down on unnecessary contracts or payments, or we are delaying projects," he said. (additional reporting by Stephanie Nebehay in Geneva; editing by David Stamp)   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mariana BazoLake Laguna 513, at more than 13,000 feet above sea level in front of the Hualcan glacier in Huascaran natural reserve in Ancash.Good morning! Here are the 10 most important things in markets on Friday. The US House Passed A Major Funding Bill To Keep The Government Running. The US House of Representatives passed a $1.1 trillion spending bill late Thursday to fund most federal agencies through Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year. The Department of Homeland Security will be funded only through February to give Republicans a chance early next year to try to stop President Barack Obama's immigration reforms. Oil Prices Keep On Tumbling. WTI Crude, one of the two major international benchmarks for oil prices, fell to as low as $59.05 per barrel, the lowest level since July 2009. IEA Says Oil Demand Is Tanking. The International Energy Agency cut its outlook for oil demand and warned that excess supply would continue to put pressure on prices. "The agency, which coordinates energy policies of industrialized countries, cut its outlook for global oil demand growth for 2015 by 230,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 0.9 million bpd on expectations for lower fuel consumption in Russia and other oil-exporting countries," Reuters' Dmitry Zhdannikov and Christopher Johnson reported. "The IEA said it was too early to expect low oil prices to start seriously curtailing North American supply boom." Halliburton Slashed 1,000 Jobs. Halliburton, the world's second-biggest oil services company, said Thursday it was slashing 1,000 jobs in its eastern hemisphere offices amid tumbling global oil prices. The layoffs, which are effective immediately, represent 1.25% of Halliburton's 80,000-person workforce. Mexico Is Opening Its Oil Sector To Foreign Investors For The First Time. Mexico unveiled rules Thursday for the first phase of its historic opening of the oil sector to foreign investors, pledging transparent auctions in July for 14 shallow-water fields. China's Industrial Output Fell Below Expectations. China's industrial output rose by a less-than-expected 7.2% in November from a year earlier, though retail sales expanded 11.7%, beating forecasts, the National Bureau of Statistics said Friday. European Industrial Production Is Coming. Eurozone industrial production figures were not pretty. Output rose by only 0.1% from September to October, and 0.7% year-on-year. Analysts were expecting a 0.2% increase on the month, and a 0.6% increase from October last year. "Production came in lower than consensus expected, but it was not as bad as we feared following the disappointing numbers from France," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. "The most important point in today’s report is really the big drag from the energy sector." Markets Are Down. Europe is sharply lower, with Britain's FTSE 100 down 1.4%, France's CAC 40 down 1.5%, and Germany's DAX down 1.1%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.66% in the last session before Sunday's general election in Japan. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.2%. US futures are down, with Dow futures down 87 points and S&amp;P futures down 8.4 points. Inflation Check. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the November producer price index report. Economists estimate producer prices in November fell 0.1% month-over-month, or increased by just 1.4% year-over-year. Excluding food and energy, core prices are estimated to have climbed by 0.1% and 1.8%, respectively. "The PPI survey for petroleum products is in the first half of the month, so this month’s report probably won’t pick up a steep further drop in gasoline prices after mid-November," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman said. "So we see energy prices falling a relatively modest 0.7%. Farm price figures showed upside in fruits and vegetables but pointed to a pullback in meat after a surge last month and showed weak dairy prices, so we forecast a 0.4% drop in food after a 1.0% gain in October. A partial reversal in the volatile trade services component after a 1.5% jump in October should also weigh on the headline PPI." Commerzbank Is Nearing A $1 Billion US Settlement. Germany's Commerzbank has nearly reached a $1 billion settlement agreement with US authorities over allegations that it broke anti-money-laundering rules and defied international sanctions, according to the Financial Times.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk past a Suning store, one of the largest home appliance retailers in China, in Hong Kong SHANGHAI (Reuters) - It took China's biggest retail chain Suning all last year to generate sales of about $17 billion. Last month, e-commerce giant Alibaba saw sales worth more than half that amount pass through its Tmall website in just one day. Big retailers like Suning Commerce Group Co Ltd and foreign rivals Wal-Mart Stores Inc and Best Buy Co Inc are struggling to attract customers to their traditional stores in China, where online shopping is booming. "The trend is definitely towards e-commerce because that's where the consumers are," said Frank Lavin, CEO of Export Now, which helps global firms launch their business in China. "The 'big box' model here is already crowded. You need to invest a lot and be here on a large scale to make it work." This month, Best Buy sold its Chinese business, which had struggled to fend off local rivals. Other firms have also complained that operating in China has become more challenging. This week, Wal-Mart said it had found pricing discrepancies on its China books, which reportedly were made to make its retail business look better at a time when transactions were slowing and unsold inventory was piling up. French hypermarket operator Carrefour SA has also reported weak China sales. IceNineJon on flickrA Best Buy store in China.One of the main challenges facing retail chains is the shopping habits of Chinese consumers. Most prefer the convenience, and often lower prices, offered by online shopping and when it comes to food, many people would rather go to local grocers than big supermarkets. Showrooming, or visiting a physical store to check out an item and then buying it online, is also common. "I usually go to offline stores to check the real products, then I will go online to compare the price and services of different online stores," said Lena Chen, 31, a university professor in Shanghai. "That means I rarely buy in stores such as Suning or Best Buy, though they do help me decide what to buy," she said. Traditional retailers have taken note. Sun Art Retail Group Ltd, China's largest hypermarket operator, launched an online store this year and said its e-commerce business would help drive future sales. Suning and rival Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd are also trying to boost online sales to help revive profit growth. The competition between traditional retailers, as well as their e-commerce rivals, means firms spend more on marketing and discounts, giving those with the deepest pockets an advantage. Alibaba, which recently raised a record $25 billion in an initial public offering, saw more than $9 billion of trade on its online Tmall platform on its annual "Singles Day" shopping event last month, while JD.com Inc, China's second largest e-commerce firm, said revenues rose 61 percent to $4.73 billion in the third quarter of the year. "E-commerce just amplifies competition and some players in the consumer space will get squeezed out," said Torsten Stocker, Hong Kong-based partner at consultancy firm A.T. Kearney. (Additional reporting by SHANGHAI newsroom; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersECB President Draghi addresses ECB news conference in FrankfurtBy John O'Donnell FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The head of the European Central Bank is set to tell European leaders in stark terms at a summit next week that they need to reform straggling economies or risk blunting an ambitious monetary offensive to help revive the stagnant euro zone. As the central bank inches closer to printing money to buy government bonds, Mario Draghi has become increasingly worried about slack reform in countries such as France and Italy, which he fears will undermine the long-term boost from so-called quantitative easing (QE). On Dec. 18, Draghi will urge leaders including French President Francois Hollande and Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi to step up reforms and hold down spending, people familiar with ECB thinking say. He wants German Chancellor Angela Merkel, by contrast, to invest more in infrastructure and boost domestic demand. Yet French caution, Italian fragility and electoral uncertainty in Greece mean Draghi is likely to come away without a political "game changer", forcing him to press ahead with QE regardless to avert a deflationary economic spiral. ECB bond buying may give a temporary boost to confidence, but Draghi is convinced his efforts will be in vain in the longer run unless countries make a more binding commitment to shake up rules such as those for employees or taxation. "The agendas of the French and Italian governments are the right ones but the implementation is not complete," one person familiar with ECB thinking told Reuters. "Europe can help through peer pressure."  COHESION AT RISK In public, Draghi's appeals have become increasingly strident. He warned last month that failure to change could damage the "essential cohesion" of the euro zone, signaling that the euro's survival depended on it. But European leaders, grappling with Eurosceptics who want to scrap the euro currency and with vested interests clinging to acquired rights, have little room to respond for now. ECB officials have discussed with the European Commission, the EU's executive, the idea of "structural reform pact", a commitment signed by all 18 euro zone countries with benchmarks and peer pressure to encourage laggards. "To the extent that this increase in governance can lead to more ownership at the national level and more commitment to the reforms, everybody will be better off," that person said. An informal EU summit in February is due to discuss these ideas, but such a pact, if it ever comes, is a long way off. Proposals by former European Council President Herman Van Rompuy for "reform contracts" offering financial incentives in return for binding reform commitments went nowhere. Northern states saw no need to pay partners to do what they should be doing anyway, and southern states refused to see reforms imposed from outside. While unveiling timid steps to loosen a highly regulated economy, France has been defiant in overshooting EU budget deficit rules that limit the shortfall to 3 percent of output. It faces the threat of a possible fine in March unless it takes some corrective measures by then. Parliament in Italy, which has a public debt that outstrips the size of its economy, has given Renzi a green light to reform labor market rules, but his much-trumpeted Jobs Act has yet to be implemented. Renzi could face obstacles when he puts detail on his plans. Trade unions held a national strike against his plan on Friday. Draghi also has Germany in his sights. The ECB would like the euro zone's largest economy to invest more to modernise its transport, energy and digital networks. Privately, people familiar with ECB thinking deride the idea that the German economy is invincible as a misconception, noting that the last round of serious reforms was a decade ago. Draghi, who will lend support on Thursday to the European Commission's plan to bolster investment, cannot wait for Europe's leaders before launching QE because the economic slowdown is so acute. But he will tread carefully in giving advice and avoid any appearance of a trade-off for bond-buying. "There cannot be an offer of QE in return for reforms," said Clemens Fuest, head of the influential Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW). "This would mean that Europe would be governed by Mario Draghi and that cannot be allowed to happen."  (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt and Paul Taylor) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben SprichEuropean markets are not having a good day.European markets are selling off this morning, following some more dreary industrial production figures.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: -1.41% Germany's DAX: -1.28% UK's FTSE 100: -1.58% Spain's IBEX: -1.37% Italy's FTSE MIB: -1.51% Asian markets closed mixed. Japan's Nikkei finished 0.66% higher, Hong Kong's Hang Seng was down 0.27%, and China's Shanghai Composite was up 0.43% at the end of the day. US futures are also sinking. The Dow is now off 127 points from Thursday's close, and the S&amp;P is down 13 points. US producer prices for November are out at 1.30 p.m. GMT. Analysts expect a 0.1% drop from October, and a 1.4% increase year-on-year.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorBT could buy O2 before Christmas. The battle to become the mobile partner of BT intensified on Thursday as the chairman of O2's Spanish owner, Telefonica, flew to London and rival suitor EE's owners indicated they were willing to offer more attractive terms to seal a deal. BT has been in talks with Telefonica and EE's owners, Orange and Deutsche Telekom for nearly a month about a deal to buy one of the mobile operators, putting the British telecom firm in an unusually strong position to negotiate a deal. People familiar with the situation have said Telefonica is willing to agree a deal which includes taking some shares in BT and other sources familiar with the situation said on Thursday Orange and Deutsche are also now open to accepting BT stock. Three sources with direct knowledge of the matter said BT was expected to choose between the two firms by early next week, with an announcement possibly coming earlier than that. Telefonica's chairman, Cesar Alierta, was flying to London on Thursday afternoon to help lobby for his side. "BT is not expected to take much longer to choose between the two," one source said. "You can reasonably expect an announcement to be made by early next week, maybe as soon as this Friday." A deal with Telefonica would return O2 to its original owner, as it was demerged from a heavily indebted BT via a share flotation in 2001 and subsequently bought by Telefonica in early 2006. A return to the mobile market now would give BT a strong position as the UK consumer telecoms market converges with single operators offering "multi-play" packages of fixed and mobile broadband, telephony and pay-TV services. But among the issues the BT board has to weigh up is whether it would rather have Telefonica, or France's Orange and Germany's Deutsche Telekom on its shareholder register. Telefonica has had a famously difficult relationship with a previous partner, Telecom Italia, where it has been its largest shareholder but is now in a gradual process of selling out. Telefonica is also seen as the most aggressive among the three companies and its ambition to consolidate the markets where it operates could in the long run lead them to eye more control over BT, said one of the sources. Orange and Deutsche have also had a sometimes strained relationship in running EE. Symptomatic of the heightened state of merger activity in the telecoms industry as services converge, Hutchison's 3 Group is expected to shortly line up a bid for whichever mobile group misses out on a deal with BT, two other sources said. BT, Telefonica, Orange and Deutsche Telekom all declined to comment. (Additional reporting by Julien Toyer in Madrid, Kate Holton in London, Leila Abboud in Paris and Harro Ten wolde in Frankfurt; Editing by Keith Weir, Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Friday. 1. Brent crude dropped to a 5-1/2-year low of $63 a barrel amid a supply glut and weak demand. 2. The US government avoided a government shutdown after the House narrowly passed a $1.1 trillion spending bill Thursday night. 3. A group calling itself the Guardians of Peace sent another disturbing computer message to Sony Pictures in the organization's fourth contact with the studio, The Wrap reports. 4. The world's second-biggest oil services company, Halliburton, is cutting 1,000 jobs in its eastern hemisphere offices because of tumbling oil prices. 5. The IEA cut its outlook for oil demand in 2015 by 230,000 barrels, despite falling prices.  6. The United Nations climate negotiations in Lima, Peru, enter their final day Friday after two weeks of talks hampered by disagreements among rich and poor nations about rolling back carbon pollution.  7. Gucci's CEO Patrizio di Marco and creative director Frida Giannini are leaving the Italian luxury brand early next year.  8. Saudi King Abdullah has donated $35 million to help fight Ebola in West Africa.  9. Protests in the US over alleged police brutality have been particularly heated in Oakland, California, where demonstrators have attempted to shut down a nearby freeway. 10. The Geminids meteor shower, the last major meteor shower of the year, will light up the sky this weekend. And finally ... Boston is digging up a time capsule that might have been buried more than 200 years ago by Paul Revere and Sam Adams. FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices will likely come under further downward pressure, the International Energy Agency said on Friday as it cut its outlook for demand growth in 2015 and predicted that healthy non-OPEC supply gains were poised to aggravate a global oil glut. The agency, which coordinates energy policies of industrialized countries, cut its outlook for global oil demand growth for 2015 by 230,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 0.9 million bpd on expectations for lower fuel consumption in Russia and other oil-exporting countries. The IEA said it was too early to expect low oil prices to start seriously curtailing North American supply boom. "Barring a disorderly production response, it may well take some time for supply and demand to respond to the price rout," the IEA said in its monthly report. Oil prices have been in steep decline since June due to slow demand growth and a North American shale oil boom. The selloff gained pace after OPEC decided last month to keep its output target unchanged to fight for market share with rival producers. Global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading on Friday at a five-year low around $63 per barrel, down more than 40 percent from June. Surging U.S. light tight oil supply will push total non-OPEC production to record growth of 1.9 million bpd this year although the pace of growth is expected to slow to 1.3 million in 2015, the IEA said. Given lower estimates of global demand growth, the IEA said it had revised its predictions for demand for oil from OPEC for 2015 down by 300,000 bpd to 28.9 million bpd. That is more than 1 million bpd below the cartel's current production. Demand for OPEC oil will seasonally bottom in the first quarter of 2015, leading to a large build up in stocks. The IEA said that based on current projections of still relatively weak demand growth and robust supply, global oil inventories would build by close to 300 million barrels in the first half of 2015 in the absence of disruption, shut-ins or cut in OPEC production. "If half of this took place in the OECD, stocks there would approach 2,900 million barrel and possibly bump against storage capacity limits," the IEA said. (Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Christopher Johnson) This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Denis CharletFrench President Francois Hollande wearing a hard hat.  Eurozone industrial production figures are just out, and it's not pretty. Output rose by only 0.1% from September to October, and 0.7% year-on-year. Analysts were expecting a 0.2% increase on the month, and a 0.6% increase from October last year. But that was before we got the grim figures on industrial production from Europe's three biggest economies this month.  This week, data showed Germany's output for October up by 0.2%, disappointing analysts who expected a 0.4% rise, Italian production fell by 0.1%, despite expectations for a 0.3% rise, and French production plunged 0.8%.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The Russian rouble has fallen over 3% against the dollar in early trading, shrugging off the central bank's attempt to halt the slide by raising interest rates. The country's central bank increased interest rates by 1% on Thursday to 10.5% in an effort to slow the pace of rouble falls. However, the currency has continued to track the oil price downward as WTI crude dropped below $60 a barrel, down from $107 a barrel in June, and Brent slid to $63.12 on Friday. BloombergThe dollar/rouble versus Brent crude oil price. At the time of writing, $1 would buy more than 57 roubles, a record number. While the country still has about $416 billion in reserves and low government debt equal to only 9.2% of GDP, concerns have been focused on Russia's corporate sector. In particular, numerous Russian businesses borrowed heavily in dollars over the past few years, and repaying those loans is quickly becoming a much more expensive prospect. This chart from Wells Fargo shows Russia's external debt by sector (as in, who is holding that dollar debt): Wells Fargo Russian corporates are scheduled to pay about $35 billion on this debt in December and over $100 billion in 2015. These firms, and especially Russia's banks, face major challenges funding this bill with Western sanctions freezing them out of global capital markets on the one hand and a weakening domestic economy putting pressure on profits on the other. This problem is being compounded by concerns that the country's financial sector may be running low on collateral that banks can use to access dollar reserves at the central bank. Usually it is the job of the central bank to provide emergency funding for a country's financial institutions. In Russia this is typically done through what are known as "currency repo auctions," in which banks offer collateral (like high-quality bonds) in exchange for access to currency, especially dollars, that they need to meet foreign-currency obligations. Last week the Russian central bank cut the foreign-exchange repo rate, the interest rate it charges on the currency it gives to banks. The rate fell from 1.5% above the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) — the benchmark interest rate at which banks lend to one another — to 0.5% above Libor. A lower interest rate should make it less expensive for banks to borrow from the central bank and therefore more appealing. The rate cut illustrates that the central bank is growing concerned about the ability of Russian banks to meet their debt repayments. Underlining the point, in her statement following the interest rate hike Thursday, Elvira Nabiullina, head of the Russian central bank, announced that the Bank of Russia planned "to consider the introduction of foreign currency lending on the security of non-marketable assets." That suggests the central bank is considering expanding the types of assets that it will accept as collateral, by which it likely means accepting lower-quality, less-easily traded loans or financial securities. In other words, the state has to take on more risk as the private sector struggles.   FREE AppDownload
France is sliding into a deflationary vortex as manufacturers slash prices to keep market share, intensifying pressure on the European Central Bank to take drastic action before it is too late. The French statistics agency INSEE said core inflation fell to -0.2pc in November from a year earlier, the first time it has turned negative since modern data began. The measure strips out energy costs and is designed to “observe deeper trends” in the economy. The price goes far beyond falling oil costs and is the clearest evidence to date that the eurozone’s second biggest economy is succumbing to powerful deflationary forces. Headline inflation is still 0.3pc but is expected to plummet over the next three months. French broker Natixis said all key measures were likely to be negative by early next year. Eurostat data show prices have fallen since April in Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Holland, Belgium, Portugal, Greece and the Baltic states, as well as in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria outside the EMU bloc. Marchel Alexandrovich, from Jefferies, said the number of goods in the eurozone’s price basket now falling has reached a record 34pc. “Eurozone deflation is now inevitable. There is no way around it,” said Andrew Roberts, at RBS. “We think yields on German 10-year Bunds will fall to 0.42pc next year.” “The ECB is presiding over a deflationary disaster. They need to act fast and aggressively or else markets will start to attack Italian debt. Italy’s nominal GDP is falling faster than their borrowing costs and that is pushing them towards a debt spiral,” he added. The Bank of Italy’s governor, Ignazio Visco, said any further falls in prices at this stage could have “extremely grave consequences for economies with very high public debt levels, such as Italy”. The trade-weighted exchange rate of the euro has risen by 2pc over the past two months as the rouble plummets and currencies buckle across the emerging market nexus, despite the ECB's efforts to talk it down. This is a form of monetary tightening. The German-led hawks at the ECB are running out of excuses for opposing quantitative easing after demand for the ECB’s second auction of cheap four-year loans (TLTROs) fell short of expectations. “The TLTRO is a peashooter rather than a bazooka,” said Nick Kounis, at ABN Amro. Lenders took up just €129.8bn of fresh credit, far less than €270bn of old loans due to be repaid. This means that the ECB’s balance will continue to contract – rather than expanding by €1 trillion as intended - unless it embraces full-blown QE. Alasdair Cavalla, at the Centre for Economics and Business Research, said QE was “all but inevitable” at this stage. Mario Draghi, the ECB’s president, vowed to pull out all the stops to head off deflation. “Let me be absolutely clear. We won’t tolerate prolonged deviation from price stability,” he said last week. Yet the ECB council continues to insist that it will expand its asset purchases only “if needed”, without explaining what the threshold is. Critics say it should already be obvious that full QE is needed immediately. Mr Draghi faces stiff opposition from Germany’s members, Jens Weidmann and Sabine Lautenschlager. He has to navigate a legal minefield involving one case at the European Court, and another likely case at Germany’s top court against any QE. Yet the hawks are becoming isolated. Their suggestions that QE will not work because rates are already low are hard to square with orthodox monetary theory. “The interest rate is totally irrelevant. What matters is the quantity of money,” said Tim Congdon, at International Monetary Research. “Large scale money creation is a very powerful weapon and can always create inflation.” The tide is clearly moving in favour of sovereign bond purchases. Several ECB governors have given hints of strong action over recent days. Peter Praet, the ECB’s chief economist, suggested this week that the latest oil price shock is a further reason for stimulus. “Normally, any central bank would prefer to look through a positive supply shock. After all, lower oil prices boost real incomes. But we may not have that luxury at present. Shocks can change: in certain circumstances supply shocks can morph into demand shocks via second-round effects,” he said France’s price slide is comes at a delicate juncture - as many firms have been going bankrupt over recent months as occurred during the Lehman crisis. The jobless rate has remained stuck at 10.4pc with a record 3.4m workers in “category A” unemployment. This spells political disaster for President Francois Holland, who asked voters to judge him on creating jobs. The biggest price falls in France were in photographic, audio and information equipment (-7.3pc), medical goods (-3pc), household appliances (-2.5pc) and toys (-2.2pc). Even services fell slightly. “The struggle against deflation must be our absolute priority; at a national and a European level,” said Karine Berger, a French economist and Socialist MP. Mathieu Plane, at the French Observatoire, said a “dangerous dynamic” is setting in where high unemployment is sapping demand, causing companies to cut prices to hold on to market share. This in turn leads to further pay cuts in a vicious cycle. It is exactly what happened in Japan. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joe Penney High CEO pay is back in the news. This is disappointing. We keep thinking that the tide is turning, and that top corporate executives and their self-serving remuneration committees have finally grasped that it is nuts to pay people enough to transform their finances for generations, to run a company that they didn’t start and don’t own. We keep being wrong. The Mail on Sunday this week reported on the tripling of the amount to be paid to Mike Tye, the chief executive of Spirit Group, and on the £9.5m to be paid to Carolyn McCall of EasyJet. There was also a row over at BG Group earlier in the month when CEO Helge Lund was awarded a total package worth something in the region of £14m. This was later halved – but £7m is still clearly an awful lot of money to earn in one year for taking over a going concern. We’ve written here a great deal about the pointlessness of all this, about the ‘talent myth’, and about the silly long-term incentive plans that got us to this point. But there is one experiment, pointed out to me by David Gait of First State, that makes the case particularly well for dumping financial incentives and going back to fixed pay levels for all. It is the candle task. Subjects are given a candle, a book of drawing pins, and a box of matches. They are asked to use them to find a way to fix the candle to the wall so that wax will not drip on to the floor when the candle is lit. The answer is to empty the matchbox and pin it to the wall. You then put the candle in the matchbox. Job done. This sounds easy, but for most people the matchbox is not immediately obvious as a tool: it is seen purely as a container for matches. They can’t do it. (But if you take the matches out, pile them next to the box and give a subject the same task, almost everyone can do it). This experiment was refined in 1962 by Sam Glucksberg to see how financial incentives affected the outcome. Two groups were used. The first were not offered cash rewards, just told that it was pilot work on problem solving. The second were told that those who finished the task fastest would get $5 or $20, with the very fastest getting the latter. Here’s what happened: those incentivised by high cash payments performed worse than those not incentivised by payment at all. Yes you read that right: worse. There are several explanations. It could be about justification – people think that if they are getting paid that much to do something it must be really hard, so they over complicate it. Or it could be that making payment dependent on performance creates stress, something that we know can shut down our creative and problem-solving skills (think ‘fight or flight’). Glucksberg reckoned it was the latter. The conclusion was that if you are hiring people to do what is essentially problem solving work (as most management is), tying their pay directly to the result of that work is a really bad idea. Something for shareholders to think about. This article originally appeared at MoneyWeek.  Copyright 2014. Follow MoneyWeek on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee monitors molten iron being poured into a container at a steel plant in HefeiBEIJING (Reuters) - China's industrial output rose by a less-than-expected 7.2 percent in November from a year earlier, though retail sales expanded 11.7 percent, beating forecasts, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Friday. Fixed-asset investment, an important driver of economic activity, grew 15.8 percent in the first 11 months of the year from the same period last year, in line with forecasts but easing slightly. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial output to rise 7.5 percent and retail sales to rise 11.5 percent. Fixed-asset investment for the January-November period was seen up 15.8 percent. Output grew 7.7 percent in October and retail sales rose 11.5 percent, with January-October fixed-asset investment up 15.9 percent from the same period a year earlier. China's economic growth slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter, the weakest pace since the global financial crisis, despite a series of stimulus measures. The central bank surprised markets by cutting interest rates on Nov. 21 and analysts see further easing in coming months as Beijing tries to avert the risk of a sharper slowdown. (Reporting By Xiaoyi Shao and Kevin Yao; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDesigner Frida Giannini chats with Gucci CEO Patrizio Di Marco at the new Gucci flagship store on its opening day in ShanghaiPARIS (Reuters) - Kering  named Marco Bizzarri as the new head of its Gucci luxury brand to replace Patrizio di Marco from the start of January. Kering added that Gucci Creative Director Frida Giannini would also leave her post at the end of February, with a replacement to be appointed later.  (Reporting by James Regan; Editing by Ingrid Melander) FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A landmark U.S. Supreme Court decision in 2013 that made it all but impossible to sue foreign companies in U.S. courts for alleged roles in overseas human rights abuses is proving to be a boon for U.S. firms too, court documents show. In the roughly year and a half since the ruling in Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co, U.S. companies such as Chiquita Brands International Inc, IBM Corp and Ford Motor Co have successfully invoked the Supreme Court's reasoning to fend off lawsuits alleging they were involved in human rights abuses in South Africa, Colombia and elsewhere. In the seven cases involving U.S. companies that federal appeals courts have decided since the Supreme Court rulings, corporate defendants have won five, according to a Reuters review of the court documents. Only one ruling was an outright win for plaintiffs. A similar pattern has played out in lower courts, with judges citing the Kiobel decision in favor of defendants in seven of eight human rights cases involving U.S. companies that have been decided since the ruling With rulings tending to favor companies, human rights lawyers are thinking twice before filing new lawsuits. The Reuters review shows only one new human rights lawsuit filed against a U.S. company since the ruling came down in April 2013. In the 1990s and 2000s, up to half a dozen cases were filed every year against U.S. or foreign corporations. Paul Hoffman, a leading Venice, California-based human rights lawyer who argued Kiobel for the plaintiffs, said he has been fighting to keep his existing cases alive rather than planning new ones. He has been presenting legal arguments explaining why the Supreme Court decision does not mean his lawsuits should be dismissed. "People are waiting to see what the landscape is going to look like," he said. Lawyers on both sides of the issue say the Supreme Court might yet have to take another case to clarify exactly when U.S. companies can be sued. In the Kiobel case, the court unanimously threw out a lawsuit by 12 people from Nigeria that accused British and Dutch-based Royal Dutch Shell Plc of aiding state-sponsored torture and murder. The court said the law under which the Nigerians brought the case, the 1789 Alien Tort Statute, was presumed to cover only violations of international law occurring in the United States. Violations elsewhere, Chief Justice John Roberts wrote, must "touch and concern" U.S. territory "with sufficient force to displace the presumption." Before the Kiobel ruling in April 2013, the law had been the primary vehicle for bringing human rights cases for more than 30 years, not just in the United States but globally. "Human rights litigators have lost a significant weapon," said John Bellinger, a Washington-based lawyer at the Arnold &amp; Porter law firm who has played a prominent role advocating for corporate defendants. Bellinger was the top legal adviser to the U.S. State Department under President George W. Bush when it filed briefs in various cases arguing that the scope of the law should be pared back. The Supreme Court ruling means human rights lawyers now have to look more seriously at alternative ways to seek redress for alleged abuses. Human rights lawyers can sue multinational companies in other countries, which has happened in Canada, the United Kingdom, and a handful of other countries, but that option is usually only viable if the defendant is based in one of those countries. Bringing suit in a developing country where alleged violations occurred is often less appealing to plaintiffs, as such countries often have troubled judicial systems. In theory, some of the major cases against U.S. companies filed before the Supreme Court ruling could go ahead on other grounds because the lawsuits cite other legal claims. There is also the possibility that alleged human rights victims could sue companies in U.S. state courts, under common law theories of wrongdoing such as assault and battery. But that too has its drawbacks for plaintiffs, including a shorter window in which to file lawsuits, which are often based on alleged conduct that doesn’t come to light until years after it occurs. Also, lawyers on both sides say such cases would lack the headline-grabbing punch of a case filed under the Alien Tort Statute alleging human rights violations. A limited number of Alien Tort Statute cases could still move forward in the United States even under the new restrictive interpretation. In the one clear victory for plaintiffs since the Supreme Court ruling, an appeals court in Virginia said in June that Iraqi nationals who complained of mistreatment at Abu Ghraib prison near Baghdad could sue a subsidiary of U.S.-based CACI International Inc, a military contractor that worked at the site. Judge Barbara Keenan wrote that the plaintiffs had alleged sufficient connection to the United States to "require a different result than that reached in Kiobel." (Reporting by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Amy Stevens and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche is seen outside the Shanghai Roche Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. headquarters in ShanghaiZURICH (Reuters) - Roche  said the head of research operations at its subsidiary Genentech would retire at the end of the year, the latest in a string of executives to leave the Californian biotech unit. The Swiss firm said on Friday Richard Scheller, 61, had decided to retire as head of Genentech Research and Early Development -- known as gRED -- on Dec. 31. Michael D. Varney, who currently leads the company's small molecule drug discovery unit, will take over as head of gRED and become a member of the enlarged corporate executive committee. Scheller is the latest high-profile departure from Genentech, seen as the main driver of the company's drugs pipeline having produced Roche's three top-selling medicines since 2011 as well as new breast cancer drugs Perjeta and Kadcyla. Roche paid $47 billion in 2009 to buy out the remaining stake in Genentech, considered by many as one of the most successful biotechnology companies in history. In September, former Genentech CEO Art Levinson resigned from Roche's board to avoid any conflict of interest due to his role as chief executive of Google's  Calico. Hal Barron, Roche's former chief medical officer, also joined Calico last year. Roche also said all current members of its board of directors would stand for re-election at its annual general meeting in March. The board has decided to nominate former Wyeth CEO Bernard Poussot and Richard P. Lifton, professor of genetics and medicine at Yale University, as new members.  (Reporting by Caroline Copley; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersQantas Chief Executive Officer Simon Hickey speaks during the inauguration of their Qantas Singapore Lounge at Changi Airport in SingaporeSYDNEY (Reuters) - Qantas Airways Ltd  said on Friday that the heads of its two main divisions, international and domestic, "decided to leave" the Australian carrier, four days after the airline said it expects to swing back to profitability. Qantas International Chief Executive Officer Simon Hickey and Qantas Domestic Chief Executive Officer Lyell Strambi will leave as the company takes a "flatter" executive structure, Qantas said.  (Reporting by Byron Kaye; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
