LOCThe Grand Tetons, in a photo from the 1930s. The weekend is over and stocks are mostly up. Korea's Kospi index climbed 0.3%. U.S. futures are up 0.3%. Japan's Nikkei opened flat. New Zealand stocks were down 0.2%. This week all eyes will be on  the K.C. Fed's Jackson Hole economic conference. Click here to read Sam Ro's Scouting Report » FREE AppDownload
LOCThe Grand Tetons, in a photo from the 1930s. The weekend is over and stocks are mostly up. Korea's Kospi index climbed 0.3%. U.S. futures are up 0.3%. Japan's Nikkei opened flat. New Zealand stocks were down 0.2%. This week all eyes will be on  the K.C. Fed's Jackson Hole economic conference. Click here to read Sam Ro's Scouting Report » FREE AppDownload
CoindeskBitcoin prices have declined $100 in the past week, about 17%, to $488, according to CoinDesk.  The news comes despite announcements last week that Overstock.com was now averaging $15,000 a day in Bitcoin sales, and that DISH Network had officially begun accepting the cryptocurrency. Some analysts are blaming the plunge on a "margin call" at Hong Kong exchange Bitfinex, which is one of the only platforms that allowed users to borrow funds from peer liquidity providers to trade bitcoins. As prices fell through $530, a "cascade" of calls appears to have occurred, according to Raffael Dannielli of MatLabTrading. Tim Swanson, a Business Insider contributor who blogs at Of Numbers, had a more conceptual explanation for the price decline. "It’s unclear if the news itself is leading it because it is hard to quantify and qualify; how do we know it is not manipulated via coordination by whales, Willy bots or exchanges?" he writes. He goes on to say that there is work being done to make exchanges more transparent, and that this could result in a new kind of exchange that supplants those like Bitfinex, whose website contains a minimum amount of information about its operations. This is one of the reasons why Coinometrics is trying to spearhead the Compare The Exchange (CTE) transparency effort, by surveying exchanges to find out what kind practices they implement...While it is unclear what immediate impact regulatory compliance proposals such as Bitlicenses from New York may have on exchanges (e.g., are all fiat-based exchanges depository institutions?), in the long-run the first two generations of exchanges may be living on borrowed time. That is to say, if the first generation was Mt. Gox and, 2nd generation exchanges are Bitfinex and Bitstamp, then the rise of a 3rd generation, potentially regulated or consortium of “self-regulated” exchanges, could eventually implement some of the suggested CTE “best-practices. Click here to read Swanson's full post on his blog Of Numbers » FREE AppDownload
Adam Carstens via Pete SaundersCities by gentrification type.  Special thanks to Adam Carstens for producing this map!Patterns of gentrification vary by city, and the spread of gentrified areas is partly determined by the city's predominant development form and the historic levels of African-American populations within them. Gentrification is a nuanced phenomenon along these characteristics, but most people engaged in any gentrification fail to acknowledge the nuances.Spurred on by the recent debate on the impact of limited housing supply on home prices and rents, thereby "capping" gentrification, (taken on fantastically by geographer Jim Russell in posts like this), I decided to do a quick analysis of large cities and see how things added up. The analysis was premised on a couple of observations of gentrification, one often spoken and one not. One, gentrification seems to be occurring most and most quickly in cities that have an older development form, offering the walkable orientation that is growing in favor. Two, gentrification seems to be occurring most and most quickly in areas that have lower levels of historic black populations. This less noted observation was the thrust of a study by Harvard sociology professor Robert Sampson and doctoral student Jackelyn Hwang, recently described here. Here's what they said, after conducting an exhaustive study of gentrification patterns in Chicago: After controlling for a host of other factors, they found that neighborhoods an earlier study had identified as showing early signs of gentrification continued the process only if they were at least 35% white. In neighborhoods that were 40% or more black, the process slowed or stopped altogether. That prompted my quick study. I wanted to categorize cities by old and new development forms, and low and high historic levels of black population. To do that I came up with an arbitrary proxy for the age of development form. Using decennial Census data, if a city reached 50 percent of its peak population by 1940, it was deemed to have an old development form; if a city reached 50 percent of its peak population in 1950 or later, it was deemed to have a new development form.  Here's a quick example of how this works. Baltimore, currently with a population of a little over 600,000, reached its peak of 949,000 in 1950. Baltimore reached half its peak, or about 475,000, by 1890, a time at which it could be said that Baltimore's form as a city had been firmly established. Similarly, Austin reached its peak of 790,000 in 2010. The fast-growing Texas city was half that size in only 1990, a year in which it could be said that its development form was established and the city began to see itself as a major city. Imprecise, yes, but a decent proxy for examining old and new city development forms. The second piece of analysis was gathering Census data on central city black populations in 1970. This decade was chosen largely because it represents the end of the Great Migration, when millions of African-Americans left the rural South for cities across the nation. By that time the cities that are generally recognized as having large black populations had already been identified, and it is possible to explore the impact of the migration on them. I arbitrarily said cities with black populations lower than 25 percent of the total in 1970 had a low black population, and those above 25 percent had a high black population.Using those two factors, I put together this table of the 64 primary cities over 250,000 in the U.S.: More than a few cities are exceptions, largely because recent consolidations or large-scale annexations have boosted them into more unfamiliar boxes. But some patterns are evident, and if you think of these in terms of gentrification, you might be able to make the following general assumptions:Old Form + Low Black Population = Expansive Gentrification (OFLB)Old Form + High Black Population = Concentrated Gentrification (OFHB)New Form + Low Black Population = Limited Gentrification (NFLB)New Form + High Black Population = Nascent Gentrification (NFHB)Identifying the examples might be the best way to explain what I mean. New York, San Francisco, and Boston are the prototypical OFLB cities, and gentrification has made its widest impact in these three cities. Chicago, Washington, and Atlanta are the classic OFHB cities, where gentrification is concentrated in certain areas of the city (or region), and eludes the heavily African-American parts of the city.   Phoenix, San Diego, and Las Vegas might be the prototypical NFLB cities, all of which came of age with the car as the dominant mode of transport and with few African-Americans. NFLB cities may also be the leaders and innovators in seeking ways to catalyze their inner cities, with greater tangible investments in public transit and mixed-use development. The relatively few NFHB cities are a distinctly Southern phenomenon, and by all appearances gentrification activity lags behind other cities, with sprawl still the dominant development engine. Why would any of this matter? Nationally, the gentrification debate is defined by the experiences of the OFLB types like New York, San Francisco, and Boston. There, the issues are rapidly growing unaffordability, concerns with displacement and growing inequality. But the gentrification debate is quite different in OFHB cities like Philadelphia and Atlanta, where seeking ways to more equitably spread the positive benefits of revitalization might lead such discussions. In other words, it's not exactly correct to look at what's happening in Los Angeles or San Diego, or Baltimore or St. Louis, in the New York-San Francisco-Boston context. Different forces and different experiences are creating different outcomes in each city, and if we want to understand how to look at gentrification's impact, we need to understand its foundations. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - The S&amp;P 500 could hit 2,500 within the next 18 months to two years, Barron's reported on Sunday, citing its interview with Stephen Auth, chief investment officer, equities at Federated Investors. Auth oversees a staff that runs about $50 billion in assets. A robust U.S. economy growing at an annual rate of 3.5 percent to 4.0 percent should help the S&amp;P 500 achieve the 2,500 milestone, about 30 percent higher than its current level of around 1,955 points. "Market valuations depend on growth, bond rates and perceptions of risk, and all three of those are going in the direction that actually expands the price/earnings multiple," Auth said. "At the same time, earnings are expanding, and that's a recipe for another leg up in the market." He cited the improving trend in the labor market as well as growth in the underlying private economy, which has been growing at 3 percent over the last three years. Auth also said he expects the energy sector to create a "manufacturing renaissance" because of lower costs. The Federated CIO sees the S&amp;P 500 reaching 2,100 points at the end of the year. That would be a gain of about 7.4 percent above the benchmark's closing level on Friday. "Our view is that $120 in earnings is very likely," Auth said, referring to Federated Investors' target for S&amp;P 500 earnings this year. "And the market multiple, considering the level of long-term inflation we see and where long-term bond yields ought to be, should be 17-1/2 times." In terms of bond yields, he said Federated expects the benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury note yield to hit 4.5 percent over the next three to five years, compared with the current yield of 2.3 percent. But in the near term, he expects 10-year yields to slide to 2.2 percent. He estimated that equities are trading at a 50 percent discount to bonds. Auth noted that there are many near-term forces keeping bond yields down and those factors are bullish for equities. "For one thing, the Fed is very skittish about the mistake that was made in 1937 that caused basically the second Great Depression — that is, rates were tightened too soon." In addition, Auth said Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen believes "there is a lot of slack in the labor force, and she doesn't want to slow this recovery down until these people come back into the workforce." (Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Twitter/EsuranceplsThe world’s corporate giants are poised to tap into record cash reserves and possibly embark on a long-awaited spending spree, fuelling hopes of a massive boost to the global economic recovery. Companies, together with private equity firms, are coming under mounting pressure to delve into a global cash mountain of $7 trillion (£4.1 trillion) that has been amassed since the dark days of the financial crisis. As the economic recovery gets under way and factories begin to operate at full capacity, investors are growing increasingly frustrated at more than half a decade of prudence, pushing chief executives to loosen the purse strings, experts believe. “Capital spending could increase as early indicators show that industrial companies are beginning to run at higher levels of capacity than has been the case over the last five years,” Dennis Jose, senior global and European equity strategist at Barclays, said. “When factories and the like are running at less capacity on the back of lower demand there is very low capital expenditure.” In the aftermath of the financial crisis companies hunkered down and re-engineered their balance sheets, diverting funds from investment to pay off debt or stockpile cash. However, even since the recession ended and the economy has picked up, many have continued to hoard cash leading to growing calls from investors to deploy cash reserves, which earns low returns sitting on balance sheets. Governments too are calling for a loosening of the purse strings to help propel the economic recovery, which is showing signs of stalling in many parts of Europe. The bulk of the cash is held by 5,100 of the world’s biggest companies, which had combined reserves – cash and short-term debt – of $5.7 tn as of the end of 2013. The cash pile total excludes financial companies such as banks and insurers, who are required by regulators to hire capital. Corporate America dominates the pack with about $2tn at its disposal, led by a clutch of tech titans. Apple’s cash mountain of $140bn means it has more unspent capital than any other American company, followed by Microsoft with $83bn, and Google, which has built up $59bn of reserves. The FTSE 100 has $85.5bn of untapped cash reserves. Drugmaker AstraZeneca leads the pack with $8bn, closely followed by miners Anglo American with $7.7bn and BHP Billiton at $5.6bn. The pile of unspent corporate cash that has built up since the start of the financial crisis is being held by an increasingly concentrated pool of companies. However, those companies are now expected by their investors to put the money to work, which is crucial to there being a pick-up in business investment in order to stimulate the world economy. “If a company has cash on its balance sheet, it has three options; mergers and acquisitions, invest in its business to pursue organic growth, or return it to shareholders,” said Laurence Hollingworth, head of corporate coverage EMEA at JPMorgan. Investor appetite for companies to spend their cash is highlighted by a record number of investors calling for companies to invest more in capital spending in a well-respected poll of fund managers by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. By comparison, the number of investors wanting companies to return surplus cash to them, via dividends and buybacks, is at the lowest level in five years. With confidence returning to the economy, the pace of deal making has increased and cross-border M&amp;A is already totalling $883.6bn this year, 127pc higher than the same period last year. A greater appetite for risk has also fuelled investment for buyout groups, who have spent the past year raising money to pursue new investment opportunities. “Investors in private equity firms, which include pension and sovereign wealth funds, now have a greater risk appetite and are looking for returns in an environment with relatively low interest rates”, said Richard Parsons, head of private equity coverage at Deloitte. “They see the private equity market as being able to provide this.” The private equity industry is now sitting on $1.2tn of so-called dry powder – the highest ever amount for the industry. As a result, industry experts believe the wall of cash and the ongoing recovery in debt markets could mean that private equity could start to write multi-billion cheques for deals. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a garment worker holding a placard during a protest in central Phnom PenhBy Eveline Danubrata and Prak Chan Thul JAKARTA/PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Labor leaders behind the biggest strikes in Cambodia's $5 billion garment industry knew last year they had a strong case for higher wages: they had already compared notes with activists in neighboring countries. The result was a 25 percent increase in the minimum pay for an estimated 600,000 garment workers, to $100 a month, the biggest jump in around 15 years. Now, they're asking for more. Negotiations over pay and working conditions have typically remained within national borders, but activists are now bringing more muscle to the table and putting more pressure on employers and governments by using shared experiences in nearby markets. For global companies that have shifted production to Southeast Asia's low-cost manufacturing hub, this could mean less room for wage bargaining, a squeeze on profits and maybe even higher price tags on anything from shoes and clothing to cars and electronics appliances. "I see a trend towards more and stronger collaboration among labor leaders that can take different shapes and forms, from exchanging information to partnerships," said Peter van Rooij, director of the International Labor Organization (ILO) in Jakarta, noting ties would likely strengthen with next year's planned economic integration by the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Thousands of workers in China, Indonesia and Cambodia have protested in recent months at local firms supplying U.S. sportswear company Nike Inc to press for better pay and conditions. Up to 4,000 workers at Sabrina (Cambodia) Garment Manufacturing Co, which makes clothes for Nike, went on strike in May last year demanding higher wages to keep pace with transport, rent and healthcare costs.  HOTEL LOBBY Across Asia's low-cost garment manufacturing industry in particular, there have been more strikes as unions use a shortage of skilled workers to press for better pay and improved safety - an issue highlighted by the April 2013 collapse of the Rana Plaza garment factory in Bangladesh, which killed at least 1,130 people. Members of the Garment Manufacturers Association in Cambodia (GMAC) have reported a jump in the number of strikes to 147 last year from fewer than three dozen in 2011. Other international brands hit by protests at Cambodia-based suppliers last year include H&amp;M Hennes and Mauritz AB, Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Gap Inc and Puma SE. Following the Bangladesh disaster, local unions reached out to international labor representatives, said Annie Adviento, director of IndustriALL's Southeast Asia office, helping create the landmark Accord on Fire and Building Safety - a legally binding agreement signed by more than 150 apparel firms and the unions that requires factories to have independent safety inspections with the results made public. IndustriALL, which represents 50 million workers in 140 countries worldwide, said it arranges meetings two to three times a month to bring together labor activists from across Asia, something that was rarely done before last year. "Issues are not being kept secret at the national level anymore. The capacity of the unions to share information has improved," said Adviento. "We're doing many exchanges this year as we found they are very effective and we intend to continue in 2015," she said, adding Cambodia and Bangladesh have been "high profile cases" for the global labor union. "We communicate with each other and we give duties to this international union to lobby in asking for pay rises," said Chea Mony, president of the Phnom Penh-based Free Trade Union. Said Iqbal, who heads the Confederation of Indonesian Trade Unions, with more than 1.4 million members, said he has been invited to Malaysia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos to share his experiences with other activists. "Our motto is clear - say no to cheap wages. We're spreading that principle in Southeast Asian countries," he told Reuters. Iqbal said the meetings arranged by IndustriALL can be seminars for up to 50 people, or gatherings drawing a group of labor leaders from several countries to a hotel in one of the region's capitals, where they compare minimum wages and talk about social security and other labor-related issues. "We're trying to spread the principle of 'concept, lobby, action'," said the 46-year-old, recalling how he became involved in labor activism to fight the kind of poverty that forced his mother to sell cakes to fellow workers in a Jakarta textile factory just to make ends meet. "That probably took root in my mind and heart. A person can work for decades for one company and still remain poor. I felt a call to really fight at the labor unions," he said.  UNION INFLUENCE When negotiating with the GMAC and the Cambodian government, unions have drawn on examples from other Asian countries such as Thailand - which last year brought in a national daily minimum wage of 300 baht ($9.42) - said Pav Sina, president of the Collective Union Movement of Workers. While the GMAC agreed to gradually raise the monthly minimum pay to $160 by 2018, the unions - which have power and influence over Cambodia's economy - are pushing for $177 a month and have threatened more strikes, Pav Sina told Reuters. In Jakarta, capital of Southeast Asia's largest economy, the minimum monthly wage has jumped around 60 percent to 2.4 million rupiah ($205.30) over the last two years, partly due to intense lobbying by labor activists. That compares to 1,820 yuan ($295.79) a month in Shanghai - the highest in China, once the world's 'cheap factory'. Even as wages rise, labor activists are confident they aren't at risk of pricing themselves out of the market. Arief Budiman, President Director of consultancy PT. McKinsey Indonesia, says global firms recognize Asia's "market opportunity" and expanding consumer base. "Companies have threatened to move out of Indonesia, but I think that's just an empty threat," said Wahidin, an official at the Indonesian Muslim Workers Brotherhood. "The reality is that few have closed, and in fact more want to expand here." In an emailed statement, Nike said it takes a "long-term approach" to sourcing decisions - it has contract factories in 44 countries - and is always looking to improve its supply chain, through increased productivity and efficiency.   (Additional reporting by Dennys Kapa in JAKARTA and Emma Thomasson in BERLIN; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA staff arranges Kewpie Corp's nursing care food packages on a display shelf at an Ito-Yokado shopping centre in TokyoBy Minami Funakoshi TOKYO (Reuters) - Back in 1960, Japan's Kewpie Corp began selling canned baby food, sensing a chance to catch a wave of young families raising kids in an economy roaring back to growth after the devastation of World War Two. Almost 55 years later, the Tokyo-based company sees a new opportunity opening up in rapidly ageing Japan as parents who brought kids up on Kewpie approach their sunset years - what it calls "nursing care food" for the elderly. Kewpie says it's on the brink of turning a profit on a range of stewed or pureed ready-to-eat meals called "Gentle Menu", currently sold in specialist sections of drugstores and a small number of supermarkets. Served in plastic pouches, they're aimed at the growing numbers of elderly Japanese who have difficulty chewing and swallowing, but crave the taste of favorites like beef sukiyaki. Known for its signature baby mascot and mayonnaise, Kewpie estimates it now accounts for roughly 70 percent of sales in a niche food market in Japan worth nearly $30 million. That number is dwarfed by Kewpie's annual revenue of close to $5 billion, but growth is expected to be swift: the market nearly doubled in the last four years, according to market research firm Fuji Keizai, and official government estimates say it's potentially worth tens of billions of dollars. With limited distribution and money being spent on advertising, "Gentle Menu" is unprofitable for now. But Tsutomu Morota, who heads Kewpie's healthcare food unit, says it will probably become profitable next year. "What we need to do is to make it easier for consumers to access our goods by securing stores that sell our products. We need to work on direct marketing, which includes home deliveries," Morota told Reuters. "We want to strengthen our brand by introducing it into various places, like nursing homes and restaurants." With one in four in the country above the age of 65, Kewpie's gambit comes as Japanese consumer goods face growing pressure to find new products to stimulate domestic demand, or boost exports - or both. In 2012, Unicharm Corp, Japan's biggest diaper maker said its sales of diapers for adults topped those for babies for the first time. Kewpie and other makers of food for the elderly say they're concentrating on boosting the domestic market for now, and that variations in international food preferences make direct exports a limited prospect. But the expertise they're developing is attracting interest from overseas: Thai and South Korean researchers, government officials and food makers have already visited Japan to find out more about the business of food for the elderly.  'GENTLE' PERSISTENCE The company that built its fortune on selling jars of mayonnaise in 1920s Japan has learned from experience over the decades since it started selling baby food that it can take time to turn innovation into a product people will buy. Kewpie first tried selling food for the elderly to hospitals in the late 1980s, packaging the contents in the same bottles they used to sell baby food. The product flopped. A decade later, Kewpie came back, this time marketing to consumers for use at home. It has also lowered prices, increased the variety of food on offer and set out to build a more appetizing brand, naming the product line "Gentle Menu" and using the slogan "The joy of eating" in its advertising. Each serving now costs 180 yen ($1.76), a sharp drop from 300 yen in 1999. It also offers more than 60 different products compared with just eight at the outset, although the company admits some have been slow to catch on, like its jellied scrambled eggs. Japan's Ministry of Agriculture is bullish about prospects for a business it believes could help support the country's beleaguered farm sector. The ministry projects that if everyone in Japan above the age of 65 were to spend on average $13 a day on food - a projection food industry executives take with a hefty dose of salt - the market would be worth $24 billion. Alongside questions about older people's food budgets, Kewpie is still grappling with problematic distribution. Japanese supermarkets experimented with stocking food for the elderly in their regular food sections more than a decade ago, but pulled the offerings when they failed to sell. Supermarket chain Ito Yokado, owned by convenience store giant Seven &amp; I Holdings Co Ltd, has seen its sales of food for the elderly rise consistently over the past decade. It attributes that success to a decision to devote a special corner of its stores - and dedicated staff - to selling nursing care products including special foods. "There are still a lot of people who don't know what food for the elderly is," said Shogo Aoto, head of nursing goods at Seven &amp; I. "We need our staff to be able to explain what it is." Meanwhile, Japan's bureaucrats are also working to give "nursing care food" a makeover. The Ministry of Agriculture has been leading an effort to come up with a more appealing name for the category: candidates includes "active life support food", "lively, energetic food", "easy food" and "happy food".    (Editing by Kevin Krolicki, Miyoung Kim and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
 Growing up in Lebanon during the country's civil war, Fuad Sawaya lived through a "nightmare," sometimes attending  school in a shelter and learning by candle light. That did not stop him from eventually founding the consumer industry-focused investment bank, Sawaya Segalas. In a recent interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, Sawaya recounts his journey from the Middle East to the United States. After he graduated college, the situation in Lebanon left Sawaya with little choice but to continue his education in the U.S. He attended Columbia Business School and fought his way onto Wall Street, landing a job at Paine Webber. Sawaya and his partner, Hercules Segalas, then cofounded their firm in 2001 in New York City on the brink of Sept. 11. Then Sawaya’s wife, who had been an instrumental figure for the first few years at the firm, passed away. Sawaya says that all these experiences informed how he does business and made his firm stronger. "They taught me how to be resilient, [have a] survivor instinct, and always see through challenges and come out ahead on the other side," he said. The year following the passing of Sawaya’s wife was a record year for the firm. He recalls, "The firm rallied together and got closer … and decided that in the memory of [my wife], we’re going to make the firm that much better." Watch more interviews with Wall Street executives, entrepreneurs, and more by subscribing to OneWire’s YouTube Channel. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Credit Suisse helped put together billions of dollars in securities that were issued by offshore investment vehicles and then sold to retail customers of Portugal's Banco Espirito Santo SA , the Wall Street Journal reported Sunday. In the article in its online edition, the newspaper cited corporate filings and people familiar with the situation, saying customers didn't know the investment vehicles were loaded with debt issued by various Espirito Santo companies and served as a mechanism to finance the Portuguese conglomerate. Credit Suisse was not immediately available for comment when contacted by Reuters in Switzerland. WSJ.com said representatives of Credit Suisse and Espirito Santo declined to comment on the story. Troubled Banco Espirito Santo is Portugal's second largest bank. The Portuguese government said it will extend a loan of 3.9 billion euros ($5.2 billion) to the bank resolution fund in charge of rescuing Banco Espirito Santo. WSJ's website also said it was unclear about Credit Suisse's direct role in selling the securities to bank customers. Portuguese regulators investigating the Espirito Santo case have identified at least four offshore investment vehicles whose securities, mostly preferred shares, were sold with the help of Credit Suisse to Espirito Santo customers, WSJ.com reported, citing sources familiar with the investigation. WSJ.com said three of the investment firms - Top Renda, EuroAforro Investments, and Poupanca Plus Investments - are based in Jersey, a tax haven in the Channel Islands. According to corporate records filed with the Jersey Financial Services Commission quoted by WSJ.com, Credit Suisse served as "arranger and dealer" for those three vehicles, a role that included not just underwriting securities but also handling administrative and financial needs. The fourth vehicle, EG Premium, is in the British Virgin Islands, also a tax haven. The people familiar with the investigation quoted by WSJ.com said all four entities are controlled, at least in part, by Swiss financial company Eurofin Holding SA, also partly-owned by Espirito Santo until 2009 and has had close business ties to the collapsed family-owned conglomerate. The four investment firms invested primarily in debt issued by Espirito Santo companies, including the Portuguese bank, its Luxembourg-based parent and an Angolan mining and infrastructure investment company called Escom, according to corporate filings and internal Eurofin documents reviewed by WSJ.com Credit Suisse had agreements dating back to the mid-2000s with EuroAforro and Top Renda to handle the issuance of up to $2.5 billion of each of their preference shares, WSJ.com reported, citing corporate filings. Those programs were still active as recently as last year, the same filings showed. Credit Suisse also was responsible for Poupanca's preferred-share sales, according to the filings. The Swiss bank also paid the three vehicles' operating expenses, including legal and audit fees and administrative costs, WSJ.com said citing filings. (Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; Additional reporting by Alice Baghdjian in Zurich; Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
 The shroud of mystery has been (slightly) lifted from the so-called King of Beer. Daily Beast reporter Tim Mak wrote a fascinating article about Kent "Battle" Martin, whose work you see every day but whom few know anything about. Martin is known for approving practically every beer bottle and label on the market for the Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB). He is also known for being highly enigmatic. He's so secretive, in fact, that the publication wasn't even able to interview the regulator. Regardless, here are some interesting tidbits about the most powerful man in the brewing world that they were able to dig up:  He goes by the name "Battle." Martin has approved over 29,500 beer labels just this year.  The Tax and Trade Bureau would not even tell The Daily Beast any basic biographical details about Martin. Good luck Googling him. He is described as awkward and robotic. Brewers say they have received approvals and notices coming in the middle of the night. There was even one anecdote of him at a craft brewers' conference working on several laptops at once, simultaneously looking at different labels. Martin once rejected a beer label for the King of Hearts because the image of the heart on the bottle implied that the beer would have health benefits. He also rejected a beer label called St. Paula’s Liquid Wisdom because he thought it made the medical claim of granting wisdom.  He rejected the label of a beer called Bad Elf because it featured an "Elf Warning" that said elves should not drink while making toys. Battle thought the warning was confusing to consumers. Read more about Kent "Battle" Martin over at The Daily Beast.  FREE AppDownload
Grand Canyon National ParkA new construction project being proposed for the eastern rim of the Grand Canyon has conservationists, members of the Navajo tribe, and nature lovers across the United States up in arms. The project, known as the Grand Canyon Escalade, would create a large tourist area on the rim of the Canyon, complete with shops, restaurants, and hotels. It would also boast a tramway that would take visitors on a gondola ride to the canyon floor. There, they would access a riverwalk with an ampitheatre and another restaurant. Proponents of the development argue that the project would allow visitors unprecedented access to the Canyon basin, an area they argue is currently inaccessible to less adventuresome tourists. They also say it will create more jobs and revenue for the Navajo people, who control the 420 acres and who are desperate for an economic boost.  Protestors of the plans, however, say the project would be built on sacred lands and endanger the resources and ecosystem of the fragile Canyon. They also say that the Grand Canyon is a national treasure, one which would be irrevocably blighted by the construction of such a tourist complex.  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images A lawyer for Ghana's Ports and Harbor Authority called it an "international disaster." The International Maritime Court of the Sea had to get involved. As you can imagine, Argentina's President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, was enraged at the "vulture" hedge fund manager. Wikimedia CommonsLa Fragata Libertad A Judge in Nevada has granted Singer's request to dig into over 123 shell companies allegedly set up by an Argentine businessman named Lazaro Baez. In Argentina, Baez has been accused of laundering money for the President and her late husband, former President Nestor Kirchner, since they got to power in 2003. Singer's lawyers allege that around $65 million in Kirchner ill-gotten gains could be sitting within those companies — and thanks to a June Supreme Court ruling upholding a part of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, he's allowed to chase Kirchner money to the end of the earth. It's all in an effort to seek some payment of the over $1.3 billion worth of sovereign debt the country owes him and a group of hedge funds known collectively as NML. Back in 2001 they bought Argentine debt for pennies on the dollar and refused to take haircuts on that debt. Argentina, in turn, refuses to pay them even under an American Court's order. Until Argentina pays up, NML is trying to get whatever Argentine money it can through what seems like dogged detective work — this investigation into 123 Nevada companies is just one example of that. "We will have a much clearer road map to the source of the funds that funded these 123 corporations [once discovery is complete]," said Robert A. Cohen who serves as legal counsel to Singer and the group of hedge fund creditors known as NML Capital. "It is believed that at the end of the rainbow we will find high powered Argentine official." Here's why: Last year an Argentine TV show called Periodismo Para Todos (Journalism For Everyone) aired a series called The "K" Money Route. It was an expose attempting to answer a simple question; In the 11 years since the Kirchners came to power, how did their wealth explode from $1.4 million to $14.1 million according to government filings? The President's annual salary equals a little more than $100,000 a year according to the Council of Hemispheric Affairs. The series alleged that that $14.1 million number might low, and focused on Baez, a construction magnate who won millions in government contracts after Nestor Kirchner took power. Two businessmen — one allegedly working as a courier for Baez, and another as a financier — admitted that they had a hand in laundering money for the Kirchner's. One was even caught on tape weighing bags of cash to be sent abroad. After the segment aired, though, the two businessmen retracted their statements. One of the businessmen is now in jail for tax evasion, according to the Wall Street Journal. Also, an Argentine prosecutor named Jose Maria Campagnoli, who produced a big report on the matter was suspended in December. The report spoke of 150 companies Baez set up in the United States to funnel kickbacks from his government contracts back to the Kirchners. Baez denies any wrongdoing. He also denies that he has any business ventures outside of Argentina — let alone shell companies in the American desert. The way Baez tells it, he's only a good friend of the Kirchners; The kind of friend who allegedly rents out 90 hotel rooms from the Kirchners' boutique hotel a year — rooms that stay empty, according to the Wall Street Journal.  The kind of friend who offers to pay $1.6 million in eight installments for a property worth $1.5 million — as long as $200,000 of the last installment go to the President's reelection campaign. Baez also built the mausoleum in which Nestor Kirchner's body rests. World Economic Forum via FlikrPaul Singer, founder of Elliott Management "We're not terribly sensitive to where the money is," said Cohen on a conference call to journalists on Thursday. That lack of "sensitivity" is how, according to a Court filing, NML's lawyers tracked down these 123 shell companies in Nevada set up by a Panamanian law firm called Mossack and Fonseca. In Cohen's own words, Mossack and Fonseca operates "close to the edge of the law", with operations in Seychelles, a popular tax haven. In a Court filing NML wrote: NML suspects that 123 Nevada corporations were used to launder $65 million of embezzled Argentine funds. Now, as Argentina suffers its second sovereign default in thirteen years—(in part because of this action)—NML seeks information from these corporations to locate the $65 million. In August of 2013, NML served subpoenas on the 123 corporations and their commercial registered agent, M.F. Corporate Services. M.F. Corporate Services produced responsive documents; but the corporations did not. They contend that no responsive documents exist. NML contends this is false. The custodian of  the 123 companies is one of the firm's attorneys Leticia Montoya. In response to a subpoena from NML's lawyers issued in August of 2013, she conceded that "the 123 corporations are shell corporations without any offices, business, or personnel in Nevada." With this response in hand, NML rolled its eyes and filed a motion to compel discovery — forcing Montoya to cough up any and all documents related to the 123 — and a Nevada Judge granted that motion. "We really don't know the extent of the corruption and how much has been stolen," said Cohen. He admitted that $65 million might just be the tip of the iceberg here. "It would be a mistake for us to disclose what our plans are," said Cohen, "but I assure you we will follow [Argentina's funds] the ends of the earth."  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Naoki Hiroshima On Tuesday the winners of the most prestigious award in mathematics — the Fields Medal — were announced. The award is given to two to four mathematicians under age 40 every four years "to recognize outstanding mathematical achievement for existing work and for the promise of future achievement." This award is typically given for mathematical research that solves or extends complicated problems that mathematicians have struggled with for decades or even centuries. And, believe it or not, one of the winners, Manjul Bhargava, reformulated a 200-year-old number theory problem in a rather unconventional way: by using a Rubik's Cube and Sanskrit texts. But before we get to his idea, let's go over some background. Here's an interesting mathematical idea: If two numbers that are each the sum of two perfect squares are multiplied together, the resulting number will also be the sum of two perfect squares. Let's take the numbers 25 (a perfect square of 5) and 36 (a perfect square of 6) and add them together as an example. The resulting equation would read: (25 + 25)(36 + 36) = 3600, where 3600 equals ((36*36) + (48*48)), or (1296 + 2304). You can keep trying this with all different number combinations — as long as the four numbers in the brackets are perfect squares — and the output will always also be a perfect square. (Yes, math is awesome.) But let's get back to Bhargava. His grandfather, Purushottam Lal Bhargava, was the head of the Sanskrit department of the University of Rajasthan — and so "Bhargava grew up reading ancient mathematics and Sanskrit poetry texts," according to Quanta Magazine. In one of these manuscripts, he discovered a "generalization [similar to the above math] developed in the year 628 by the great Indian mathematician Brahmagupta" that stated: If two numbers that are each the sum of a perfect square and a given whole number times a perfect square are multiplied together, the product will again be the sum of a perfect square and that whole number times another perfect square. Later on, when he was a graduate student, Bhargava learned that Carl Gauss — a leading mathematical figure of the 18th and 19th century "came up with a complete description of these kinds of relationships" — provided that the expressions had only two variables, and only quadratic forms (meaning x2, but not x3). Essentially, Gauss came up with a "composition law" that would tell you which quadratic form you'd get if you multiplied two of these kinds of expressions together. But here's the downside: Gauss' law took him approximately 20 pages to write out. Ouch. No one wants to read through all of that. Bhargava was interested in uncovering an easier way to describe Gauss' law — and perhaps if he could tackle higher exponents, according to Quanta Magazine. Then one day, Bhargava thought of a solution when he was sitting in his room, looking at a Rubik's Cube. He took a mini-cube (a 2x2 Rubik's Cube) and "realized that if he were to place numbers on each corner of the mini-cube and then cut the cube in half, the eight corner numbers could be combined in a natural way to produce a binary quadratic form," according to Quanta Magazine. If you think about a Rubik's Cube, you'll note that there are three ways to cut the cube in half. You can split the top from the bottom; you can split the right from the left; you can split the front from the back.  In fancy math terms, that means that by cutting a Rubik's cube in three ways, you can generate "three quadratic forms."  The interesting thing about this, is that Bhargava discovered that these quadratic forms "add up to zero" — not when using normal addition, but "with respect to Gauss' method for composing quadratic forms."  And ta-da, by simply dividing a Rubik's Cube, he "gave a new and elegant reformulation of Gauss' 20-age law." Bhargava said about this moment to the New Scientist: Gauss's law says that you can compose two quadratic forms, which you can think of as a square of numbers, to get a third square. I was in California in the summer of 1998, and I had a 2 x 2 x 2 mini Rubik's cube. I was just visualising putting numbers on each of the corners, and I saw these binary quadratic forms coming out, three of them. I just sat down and wrote out the relations between them. It was a great day! Afterward, Bhargava worked with a Rubik's Domino (a 2x3x3 shape) — and he realized that he could go beyond the limited quadratic forms of Gauss' law.  Eventually, he went on to discover 12 more compositional laws, which later became his Ph.D. thesis. According to Quanta Magazine, Barghava said that he had always been interested in ideas like this — the “problems that are easy to state, and when you hear them, you think they’re somehow so fundamental that we have to know the answer.”   FREE AppDownload
USFunds2011 via FlickrPart of the trans-Siberian routeA trans-Siberian train ride highlighted how China is racing ahead compared with Russia's slower progress I have just returned from a mega train trip, starting in Moscow, following the route of the Trans-Siberian railway, and then branching off to Mongolia, ending up in Beijing. As well as enjoying the extraordinary scenery, I found myself reflecting on essential matters of economics. I had first set foot in Moscow 40 years ago, and in Beijing 30 years ago. My mind was full of comparisons and conjectures. When I visited Moscow in 1974 this was in the midst of the Brezhnev era and at the height of the Cold War. The city was grim in the extreme. I stayed in a ghastly Soviet hotel. You felt as though you were being followed by the KGB (and you probably were). Where you were able to shop depended upon who you were: foreigner, communist party hack, or mere mortal. Not that there was much to spend your money on anyway. The only thing worth taking home were the fur hats, one of which I still have today. In those days the sugar did not dissolve in your coffee. You had to repeatedly bash the cube with a spoon to get it to break up. I also have one of those Soviet sugar cubes today, still undissolved after all those years. I next visited some 15 years later, as the Soviet Union was about to do what the sugar couldn’t. My hotel was another Soviet disaster zone, where the top floor was given over to spies and their listening equipment. I well remember visiting the hotel restaurant with my friend, the journalist William Keegan, to find ourselves kept at bay by a sign in the window announcing that the restaurant was closed for lunch – closed to customers that is, so that the staff could have lunch. Today Moscow is a radically different city – brash, traffic-clogged, sophisticated and dedicated to conspicuous consumption: smart girls, smart cars and smart restaurants, all at eye-watering prices. Amusingly, I thought there was something very familiar about the extremely luxurious hotel I was staying at. And then I realised: it was in the same position as the hotel I had stayed at before, since completely remodelled. But there wasn’t a KGB man to be seen; the top floor was now a swish bar. With Moscow coming across as the quintessence of capitalism unbridled, I was unprepared for the cities of Siberia. Here the Soviet era seemed to be alive and well, complete with tour guides straight out of central casting: “On the right you see car park number three. It measures 330 metres by 84 metres and can take a maximum of 330 cars. It replaced car park number two in 1984.” After 20 minutes of this stuff you start to lose the will to live. In one Siberian town we were taken to see its claim to fame – the world’s largest bust of Lenin, still glaring out across a windswept, decrepit central square - lucky us. Interestingly, we saw no statues of Stalin anywhere – except in Mongolia, where tradesmen were selling a trio of busts of what they construed as notable world leaders: the inevitable Genghis Khan, Stalin and Hitler. One favourable legacy from the Stalin era in Russia is the apartment blocks built during his reign and still referred to as Stalin flats, which are much sought after today. They looked to be well built, elegant in style and evidently spacious within – in contrast to the so-called Khrushchev flats which looked ghastly. Was this an instance of falling building standards everywhere, I asked myself. Or did it reflect something specifically Soviet? Whatever the answer, there are clearly large parts of the country that have been little touched by the prosperity that is evident in Moscow. The need to spend money on infrastructure and residential construction is simply immense. As we left Siberia, I mused on the economic significance of space. In the UK we are used to the idea that the lack of space is a major economic drawback. But an abundance of space can be a problem too. It creates significant communication and transport problems and it also makes it difficult to enjoy the benefits of agglomeration, including economies of scale and specialisation. Despite its vast array of natural wealth, over and above its extreme climate, Siberia suffers from huge disadvantages because of its size. In some ways, arriving in China left me with the opposite impressions. After I returned from my first trip to Beijing 30 years ago, I wrote in this very newspaper that two things struck me forcibly about the city – cabbages and bicycles: cabbages piled 10ft high on the pavements of the streets and bicycles in swarms, ridden by anonymous characters in grey or brown Mao suits. Thirty years on there wasn’t a single cabbage or Mao suit to be seen – although Mao himself is still venerated. There were a few bicycles but far more motor scooters and hugely impressive, city blocking, volumes of traffic. As well as the bustle of the city I was impressed by the quality of the building and the apparent prosperity of the people. Given that on average, China is still a poor country, there must be oodles of severe rural poverty to offset the prosperity visible in Beijing and many other cities. Interestingly, China is not a country blessed with endowments of natural resources; despite its vast size it does not even have a massive surplus of land. For large parts of the country are largely uninhabited desert. In those parts of the country that are inhabited, the population density is high. Interestingly, China’s surge in GDP and living standards of the past 30 years has been intimately bound up with urbanisation. I was as conscious of the state on this visit as I had been 30 years ago: lots of uniformed people on the streets: soldiers, police, and officers of all kinds. When entering the country, for heaven knows what reason, there were uniformed border officers taking photographs of people as they waited to go through the immigration procedures. It is difficult not to be bowled over by what China has achieved - especially when contrasted with Russia. Average Russian living standards are still higher than China’s. But whereas Russia’s have doubled since the early 1990s, China’s have increased 10-fold. As I left the country, I found myself wondering whether this has been despite the continuation of communist dictatorship or because of it. Roger Bootle is managing director of Capital Economics. His latest book, The Trouble with Europe, has just been published by Nicholas Brealey Publishing. roger.bootle@capitaleconomics.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. President Barack Obama participates in a LinkedIn town hall-style meeting with LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner (L) in Mountain View, California, September 26, 2011. A LOT of room in an office is a sign either of a blossoming company or a shrivelling one. Happily for Frank Han, the empty space at Kenandy, a cloud-computing company in Redwood City, a few miles south of San Francisco, indicates the former.  As manager of "talent acquisition", he is busy filling it. Since he joined Kenandy last October, Mr Han has recruited 32 of the nearly 80 staff. At some point when hiring half of them, he used LinkedIn. LinkedIn, based a bit farther south in Mountain View, had its origins in 2002 as a "network of people", says Allen Blue, one of its founders. "We had in mind a tool for ourselves," he explains, "and we were entrepreneurs." People starting a business may have a little money, but no office, no team and no big institutions behind them. "So much of what entrepreneurs need is about interrelationships." The EconomistSince then LinkedIn has spread far beyond Silicon Valley. It is an online contact book, curriculum vitae and publishing platform for anyone wanting to make their way in the world of work. Its membership has almost trebled in the past three years, to 313m (see chart 1); two-thirds of them live outside America. Most are professionals, mainly graduates, neither at the apex of the corporate pyramid nor at its base. "It's a presence in your life that wasn't there a few years ago," says a member who works for a firm of accountants. "You can't walk into a room without everyone having looked everyone else up on LinkedIn." Most members pay nothing to list details of their education and career, to be told about jobs, to "endorse" each other's skills, to read recommended articles-and to be annoyed with endless requests from people wanting to "connect" with them. Some pay a premium subscription for a customised profile, a bigger photograph, and the right to send 25 e-mails a month to other members (even if they are not connections already). Premium subscriptions bring in one-fifth of LinkedIn's revenue, which amounted to $534m in the second quarter, 47% more than a year before. (It reported a small net loss, largely because of a charge for share-based compensation.) Yet LinkedIn is more than just a means for aspiring professionals to make friends and influence people. It has changed the market for their labour-how they find jobs and how employers find them. By bringing so many professionals into one digital place, it has become a honeypot for folk like Mr Han. One corporate recruiter after another calls it a "game-changer". But LinkedIn's ambitions do not end there. They are limited only by the size of the world's labour market. Its chief executive, Jeff Weiner, envisions what he calls a vast "economic graph", connecting people seeking or starting work or wanting more from their careers. That implies an eventual membership of 3 billion-Mr Weiner's estimate of the global labour force. In other words, LinkedIn wants to change not only the business of recruiting, but also the operation of labour markets and, with that, the efficiency of economies. Recruiters are LinkedIn's main source of revenue. They pay for licences to trawl for likely job candidates and to e-mail them about vacancies, as well as for placing advertisements on the site. This business-called "talent solutions"-accounts for about three-fifths of sales. It allows recruiters to be more precise about the groups to search in order to find people to hire-people who attended certain universities, say. Rajesh Ahuja, the senior recruiter in Europe and Asia at Infosys, an Indian software company, focused a recent effort to hire 200 MBA students on graduates of several hundred colleges. LinkedIn's main benefit to recruiters has been to make it easier to identify people who are not looking for a new job, but who might move if the right offer came along. These "passive" jobseekers, says Dan Shapero, head of sales in the firm's talent-solutions business, make up perhaps 60% of the membership (active jobseekers make up 25%; those who will not budge for any money make up the rest). LinkedIn has made it easier for companies to identify such people themselves, rather than rely on recruitment agencies. In that sense, it represents a challenge to the agencies. Mr Ahuja says that two years ago he used external agencies to fill 70% of open positions in Europe. Now their share is 16%. Steven Baert, head of human resources at Novartis, a pharmaceuticals firm, says he hired "at least 250 people through LinkedIn last year when we might have used executive search in the past." The agencies have not been put out of business, but they have to do more than just compile a list of names, which in-house recruiters can now do for themselves. Agencies will still be used in the later stages of hiring-working out who is likely to fit in, for instance. Since LinkedIn greatly increases the number of potential candidates, there also is more sifting to be done. Some recruiters say they are spending as much on agencies as they used to. For the top jobs, LinkedIn is still too public. Denizens of the executive suites often expect a discreet tap on the shoulder from a bespoke headhunting firm. That is why Korn/Ferry, one of the biggest headhunting firms, reported record revenues and profits last year. Even so, LinkedIn is working its way up the greasy pole. Hubert Giraud, head of human resources at Capgemini, a French consulting firm, reports that last year he used it in the hiring of 33 managers in India. "I don't have to pay headhunters hefty money even to reach out to senior people," says Mr Ahuja. Even outside the executive suite, LinkedIn is not ubiquitous. A French rival, Viadeo, is bigger in France and China (see "Viadeo: Nipping at LinkedIn's heels")-although LinkedIn launched a site in simplified Chinese in February. In Germany recruiters are more likely to use Xing. LinkedIn makes planning ahead easier: firms know whom to approach before they start a recruitment drive. "When we're expanding, we've already identified them," says Mr Baert. It improves certain kinds of specialist recruitment because, when trawling for scarce skills, it is better to fish in a bigger pool. Glenn Cook, director of global staffing at Boeing, says LinkedIn is a good source of specialised aircraft mechanics. "You wouldn't necessarily think these folks would be on LinkedIn, but they are." He reckons it is easier to fill posts that used to be vacant for "six or eight months". The EconomistIt is true that LinkedIn makes it easier to lose people as well as to find them, because they are on permanent display to competitors and headhunters. But companies see this glass as half full, not half empty-and, anyway, their employees have joined in large numbers whether they like it or not (see chart 2). Mr Giraud says that when he ran Capgemini's business-process outsourcing unit he encouraged all his 15,000 staff to join. "I thought it would be fantastic to have a nice profile...to make sure our business partners had a clear view of who we were." LinkedIn also helps recruiters scour their own companies for talent: firms are often poor at spotting what is right under their noses. Marie-Bernard Delom, who has the task of identifying high-fliers at Orange, a French telecoms company, is using LinkedIn for that reason. She has commissioned software that combines LinkedIn profiles with internal data. Companies can also see how they measure up against others trying to hire the same people. They can do so using LinkedIn in combination with other sites such as Glassdoor, where people anonymously rate the places where they work or have been interviewed. Mr Shapero calls this a "sales and marketing process", in which companies treat their reputations as employers like brands. The EconomistThey can track how many staff have quit to join the competition, as well as how many are coming the other way. LinkedIn members can "follow" companies they do not work for, another loose indicator of potential interest in a job: both Novartis and Infosys boast 500,000. American tech giants have many more (see chart 3). As LinkedIn attracts more members in more countries and industries, its data will become richer. Put another way, the lines in Mr Weiner's graph will become more numerous-and more useful. He thinks that if you trace the connections between workers, companies and colleges, and if you map people's jobs, qualifications and skills and plot these against employers' demands, you will end up with a step-change improvement in information about labour markets: big data for the world of work. And that, in principle, should help labour markets work more smoothly, potentially reducing Europe's youth unemployment rate, for example; or matching some of America's 20m underemployed with its 4.7m vacancies; or helping the millions of Chinese expected to migrate from the countryside to cities to find work. Such hopes are remarkably ambitious. They amount to a gargantuan exercise in eradicating the mismatch between the skills people have and those employers want, or between the places jobs are on offer and those where people live. As Mr Blue concedes, "there are real barriers that we haven't even begun to face yet." LinkedIn is only starting to reach beyond professionals, for example. Eventually it may have even to think, as Amazon, Facebook and Google are doing, about providing internet access in remote parts of the world; but that is far ahead. Still, LinkedIn is starting to do more than just find and fill professional jobs. Undergraduates can see how many of their predecessors have ended up in given companies or professions, to help them plot their own paths. (Those who graduated years ago can do the same for their classmates, and laugh or weep accordingly.) Some companies have begun to use LinkedIn's data to help them decide where to open new offices and factories. By looking at the skills on offer-at least among the network's members-and demand for them in different parts of the United States, LinkedIn's data scientists can identify "hidden gems" where there are plenty of potentially suitable employees but little competition for their services. Perhaps most significant, LinkedIn has started to feel its way beyond professionals. Since early June the number of jobs on its site has jumped from 350,000 to about 1m. As well as openings for software engineers at IBM can be found jobs as delivery drivers for Pizza Hut or on the tills at Home Depot-which until now no one would have expected to find there. This is because LinkedIn has added jobs from employers' websites or human-resources databases to its existing paid advertisements. Unlike paid ads, the new ones are seen only by members who are actively seeking jobs. The idea is being tested only in America so far. But if delivery drivers and checkout clerks start to look for and find jobs on the site, LinkedIn will have taken a step towards becoming a much broader job shop. It is hard to know what its eventual effect might be. Even if Mr Weiner's grand vision were realised, it could not cure global unemployment on its own, though richer data ought to make a difference. In explaining high unemployment rates in Western economies, many economists would put more weight on weak aggregate demand than on a mismatch of location or skills. It is even difficult to quantify the impact of LinkedIn on labour markets so far. In theory, making it easier for people to find better jobs could affect the rate of job turnover within firms: recruiters say they have noticed little impact, and that other factors (such as the economic cycle)-seem to matter more. But no one really knows. As LinkedIn's data pool deepens, its value to researchers as well as its members and corporate customers will increase. Pian Shu, an economist at Harvard Business School, points out that you could compare the career paths of those who graduate in recessions with those who graduate in booms: do the former, as you might suppose, fare worse? Aiding academic research is not LinkedIn's priority. But its interest to economists is a sign of how pervasive it has become. "I'm on there until midnight a lot," says Mr Han, of his quest to find the right people for Kenandy. "I'm hooked." Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
For Porter House New York chef and managing partner Michael Lomonaco, preparing steak is a blend of art and science.  State-of-the-art cooking facilities at the restaurant's prime Manhattan location in the Time Warner Center include a broiler that can reach 1,800º F and a high-quality dry-aging locker for the meat. Watch Chef Lomonaco explain the properties of different cuts of meat and how to choose them, the best way to get your meat ready, and some tips on how to grill them to perfection. Originally produced in January 2013 by Daniel Goodman. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past the Bank of England in the City of LondonLONDON (Reuters) - The Bank of England is hoping it can gently wean Britain's economy off record-low borrowing costs, but its plan for "gradual and limited" rises in interest rates might prove harder to pull off than investors expect. So far, financial markets agree with BoE Governor Mark Carney's reassurances that a return to more normal-looking monetary policy will probably not be a painful one. Speculation, instead, is focusing on the shorter-term question of whether the Bank's first rate rise since 2007 will come in November, February or even May. Yet there are a host of scenarios that could require the Bank to step up the pace of rate increases, such as a further run-up in house prices or an inflationary surge in pay. "At some point their hand may be forced by events," said Andrew Sentance, a former BoE policymaker who has long called for higher rates. "There is a degree of inconsistency in pushing off interest rate rises as long as you can and still saying they can be done gradually." Britain's economy looks set to enjoy its fastest growth in a decade this year, beating all other major advanced economies, and unemployment has fallen to a five-year low of 6.4 percent. At the same time, though, output has only just recovered to pre-crisis levels and wage growth is painfully slow. Inflation is also below the BoE's target and forecast to stay there, making many observers confident that interest rates are set to stay low for the long term. Carney says the "new normal" for British interest rates is around 2.5 percent, about half their level before the crisis, and in a newspaper interview on Sunday he said the economy and banks are not yet back to full strength. CAUTIOUS LENDERS Certainly there are strong reasons to expect rates to be lower than before. Greater caution from lenders means that there is a bigger gap between official BoE rates and those charged by banks, making effective interest rates higher. High household debt levels combined with years of weak wage growth mean that household finances are more stretched than before the crisis. A rise in borrowing costs may thus have a bigger effect on consumer spending than previously. Moreover, the U.S. Federal Reserve's caution about raising rates, combined with economic stagnation in the euro zone, suggests little upward pressure on BoE rates from abroad. However, investors seem to give little weight to alternative scenarios that could require rates to rise faster from their record low of 0.5 percent, where they have been since 2009. Five-year British government bond yields &lt;gbt3t19=&gt; have hit a nine-month low of 1.74 percent, reflecting global economic worries more than Britain's medium-term interest rate outlook. Markets expect the BoE to raise rates by less than a quarter of a percentage point every three months after it starts to tighten monetary policy early next year - an outlook that was broadly endorsed by Carney last week. Economists expecting an early rate rise were surprised by Carney last week when he suggested that the Bank was in no hurry to change policy and that it was focused on the prospects for wages - by far the weakest part of Britain's economic picture. "This bias to 'low for longer' increases the likelihood that GDP ... will again outpace the consensus and reduces the likelihood that tightening will be anything like as gradual and limited as markets currently expect," said Michael Saunders, chief UK economist at Citi. REUTERS/Sang TanBank of England Governor Mark CarneyEXPECTATION, NOT GUARANTEE Carney and the BoE have said that the gradualist approach to rate rises is an expectation, not a guarantee. While stronger than expected growth is one possible cause for higher rates than markets have penciled in, another would be if the labor market once again defies BoE forecasts. Price pressures in Britain have so far been muted, with wages staying low despite robust growth and falling unemployment. The BoE expects wages will pick up in 2015 and 2016, but not by as much as their long-term average. That is partly because it thinks the number of people wanting to work will hit new highs. The inflation impact of higher wages will be reduced further by a pick-up in workers' productivity, but that is something the Bank has been predicting almost since the start of the crisis. All these pieces need to come together for Britain to enjoy strong growth and low inflation, which would enable gradual and limited monetary tightening. Yet the BoE - like many others - has struggled to forecast labor market trends over the past year, failing to predict the big fall in unemployment. "It could be that their earnings numbers translate into stronger cost increases than the BoE thinks. In that case, the pace of (rate) increases would be greater, without any doubt at all," said Brian Hilliard, chief UK economist at Societe Generale. Another risk is that the BoE has to raise rates to curb risks from house prices, which have jumped 10 percent in a year. This would be a last resort for the central bank, which has said it wants to stop household debt from reaching dangerous levels by imposing curbs on how much banks can lend and to whom. But the track record of such controls in other countries is mixed. They often put only a temporary brake on rises in house prices - especially when, as in Britain, planning rules make it hard to build new homes to meet demand. [ID:nL6N0O540L] Sentance, who now advises accountants PwC, said the best way to stem such risks would be to raise rates now, and that some firms he speaks to are worried about the policy outlook. "There is an increasing concern ... that we might not be getting this part of the management of the aftermath of the financial crisis right," he said.   (Editing by William Schomberg and Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Richard Carson Rich Kinder.On Sunday evening, giant Houston-based pipeline operator Kinder Morgan announced it was buying up its three independently traded partnerships for an all-in price of $71 billion, the second-largest energy transaction ever. Investors loved the deal: Shares in all four Kinder units were rallying Monday morning. CEO Rich Kinder has made $1.5 billion today alone on the increase in his shares. The reason: Kinder Morgan has been under pressure to lower its cost of capital. The announcement instantly blows up those concerns by creating an entirely new corporate structure. It's also a sign that Rich Kinder remains one of the canniest players in the energy world.   "One thing Rich Kinder has shown an absolute brilliance for is reinventing his company to drive growth going forward," Morningstar energy analyst Jason Stevens told Business Insider on Monday. "It's very much unique to their current structure." The Kinder Morgan family comprises Kinder Morgan Inc., a general partner, and three master limited partnerships. MLPs are publicly traded firms that pay no corporate income taxes, which allows investors to avoid getting levied twice on dividends.  Most MLPs have two obligations: paying out to investors, and paying what amounts to a performance fee to a general partner. This gives the GP an incentive to grow returns to the MLP's investors, so that returns to the GP investors can also grow. But the "fees" to the GP increase with each increase in distribution to MLP investors. Morgan Stanley says that in many cases they can reach of 50% of the MLP's total cash payout. And one morning, KMP investors woke up to find themselves paying out close to a 50% fee to KMI. As Tudor, Pickering, Holt &amp; Co.'s Bradley Olsen's wrote in a note last month, KMP now sits on a $17 billion queue of "great near-term and medium-term projects" including Marcellus gas and Canadian crude pipelines, as well as Mexican gas exports.   But the returns on those projects were getting shifted to KMI. "We assume that KMP’s backlog will generate unlevered [returns] of 14%, in-line with historical averages. With the current GP burden sucking up 45% of total cash payout, a staggering $16B in projects will generate only ~$0.40-0.50/unit of [cash] at KMP, or 8% LP accretion."  Hedgeye Risk Management analyst Kevin Kaiser highlighted this issue last September, calling it "an enormous transfer of wealth from KMP [the MLP] to KMI [the GP]." Morningstar's Stevens estimates that KMP's all-in cost of capital was hitting as much as 12%, endangering returns to both KMP and KMI investors.   "[For KMP] to do deals or put forward new capital growth — that's a pretty high hurdle rate," Stevens said.  So, everyone began forecasting KMP would someday "take out" KMI, the parent, eliminating its albatross.  But no one expected the opposite would occur: that KMI would simply capitalize on its own lopsided cash receipts.  "The deal announced Sunday turns this on its head and takes advantage of the relative discount the market had assigned to KMP and other Kinder family master limited partnerships," Stevens said in a note.  Here's what the Kinder family looks like under one roof: Kinder Morgan via RBC Kinder itself had once raised the prospect of a merger. In response to a February Barron's article from Andrew Bary restating the KMP payout balancing act problem, the firm released a six-page response that addressed the prospect of consolidation: Q: Would KMI ever merge with KMP the way Enterprise Products merged with its GP? As was mentioned in our analyst day materials, KMP would consider other options if we get to a point where we cannot deliver attractive returns to LP investors. However, we do not believe we are at that point. We would point out that KMP has a highly attractive total return prospect, with a current yield of nearly 7% and a target distribution growth rate of 5% for the next three years supported by organic expansion capex projects of nearly $14 billion that we expect to place in service over the next 5 years. Since February, the Kinder family has rallied about 8%. And on Sunday, Kinder decided that now is the time to get even more appealing. In a note this morning, RBC capital management said the move comes a bit earlier than they'd foreseen, but that it will allow the Kinder Morgan empire to cut its capital costs by nearly half by knocking out those cash distribution obligations. Meanwhile, everyone is crediting Rich Kinder's maneuvering. Forbes's Chris Helman points out that he "has shown an uncanny ability to move ahead of the market," citing things like his early purchase of Enron's pipeline business before the energy giant collapsed; a 2006 leveraged buyout of Kinder Morgan Inc. for $21 billion, and re-IPO'ing in 2011. "Why should this be any different?" Helman says. And that seems to be the big takeaway from the deal: Kinder Morgans problems were real, but anyone who believed they wouldn't be able to find a way out of it was setting themselves up for some pain. There may be implications for other MLP players. Some analysts, including Morningstar's Stevens, are saying that at least one other firm, Energy Transfer Partners, is in a similar position that Kinder was in, and that there may be others. "There is a very strong argument that general partners get too much of the incremental cash flow, and these mergers help to address the problem," SeekingAlpha user "SeekingProfits," wrote on that site. Meanwhile, once the deal goes through (which won't happen until Q4), Kinder Morgan will likely be in a position to take on even more projects, including other MLPs. RCB notes KMI now expects about $20 billion of tax savings over the next decade and a half. FREE AppDownload
PanamasCanal.com On Aug. 15, 1914, the Panama Canal saw its first cargo ships slice through two continents on their way to Asia, forever transforming global trade flows. It was the product of almost 15 years of military, diplomatic, and economic maneuvers. Now, 99 years later, the canal is set to cause a surge in U.S. exports across the commodities sector. A $5.25 billion expansion is set to wind down in 2015. In its current form, the canal can handle vessels that can carry up to 5,000 TEUs, or 20-foot equivalents — basically, the size of a shipping container. Once the expansion is completed, the canal will be able to handle "Post-Panamax vessels," which can carry up to 13,000 TEUs.  For reference, according to the FT, carrying a 10,000-size load would require 18 trains, 5,800 trucks or 570 planes. Any sector where the U.S. is a net exporter is likely to reap some benefit from the expansion. For instance, the U.S. currently enjoys a positive balance of trade in its paper, raw textile, and machinery industries.   But their gains are likely to be modest compared with those of two other major sectors: agriculture and natural gas. U.S. agriculture stands to gain the most from the expansion, further entrenching America as the world's breadbasket (we're already No. 1 in wheat, corn and soybeans exports). In a 2011 report prepared for the U.S. soybean industry, Informa Economics forecast that volumes of grain and soybeans transiting the Panama Canal will jump 30% or 426 million bushels (or 11.2 million metric tons) to 1,840 million bushels (the equivalent of 48.4 million metric tons) by 2020/21 from the projected volumes for 2011/12. It's already $6 per metric ton cheaper for farmers in the country's midsection to ship their goods down the Mississippi River through the Gulf than to ship them out through Seattle. Once the expansion is finished, vessels will be capable of handling an additional 7,000 metric tons on a Panamax or 13,300 metric tons on a small Capesize vessel. As a result, the area of farms who can take advantage of traveling down the Mississippi through to the Gulf instead of using freight trains to the West Coast will be able to expand, Informa says, while putting pressure on freight train companies to lower their rates, as shown in this map:  Informa Economics "For bulk shipments, the expansion of the Panama Canal is extremely important," Informa says. "The possibility of lowering the Center Gulf freight rate by $14 per metric ton will expand the barge competitive draw area. The railroads shuttle train locations in the expanded barge draw area will either lower freight rates or lose modal share. Of course, the canal is a two-way street, and Informa says any domestic U.S. industry that has to compete could face losses because their competitors will also be seeing transportation gains. Steel, cement, and fertilizer are likely to take the largest hits, Informa says. But this also means consumers and end users will be seeing price gains and increased economic activity. Informa:  "The ability to unload larger ships on the East Coast makes it more likely a large retailer will build a major distribution center in the the Eastern US That will in turn enable ocean carriers to add a string of ports to call. The new availability of containers, load out times and increased destination ports expand backhaul [trucking] opportunities." Ports up and down the East Coast have already invested millions of dollars to prepare for this outcome. Savannah, Georgia, for instance, has spent $662 million expanding its own port to accommodate post Panamax vessels, the benefits of which the Army Corps of Engineers said in 2012 would far outweigh costs.  Currently, Very Large Gas Carriers, the vessels used to transport American petroleum and natgas products, must sail all the way around South America to reach Asia. But once the expansion is complete, shipping days will be cut to 25 from 41. That means the time it takes to get from the East Coast to Asia will now be comparable to the time it takes to get there from the Middle East, resulting in freight cost savings of up to 50%, according to AllianceBernstein's Neil Beveridge. Beveridge says the coal and petroleum product sectors are unlikely to change much given flagging demand former the former and narrow pricing spreads for the latter. Not so with natural gas. Thanks to the shale boom, which has made the U.S. the world's largest natural gas, natgas prices have plummeted, which has enticed importers, especially in Asia to start sending for U.S. goods. The current cost of transporting natural gas is already relatively high, which means it has more to gain from a canal expansion, Beveridge argues.  Bloomberg's Isaac Arnsdorf says exports to Japan, which has shut down its nuclear plant fleet in the wake of the Fukushima incident, could surge, and with the canal expansion, it will cost 30% less for carriers to reach a the country from Louisiana. "There’s a huge market in Asia, a huge resource in the United States, and the Panama Canal is an enabler of this trade, reducing the cost of getting LNG to the market," Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley group in Oslo who's studied the canal expansion told Arnsdorf. "We didn’t see this coming." Most gas gets exported in the form of liquefied natural gas (LNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Beveridge is slightly more bearish on efficiencies for LNG, since Washington may seek to limit LNG exports to maintain cost advantages now enjoyed by U.S. consumers.  Rather, he argues, LPG is likely to be the greatest beneficiary. LPG consists of hydrocarbons like propane and butane that exist as a gas at sea level but liquid at reduced  pressures and temperatures. It's mostly used for cooking and space heating, as well as an industrial feedstock. Global LPG demand is about 30% larger than the global LNG market.  Asia-Pacific countries comprise 40% of global consumption and 7% of demand growth. With the expansion, the cost of shipping LPG from the U.S. to Asia will equal the cost of shipping it from the Middle East, Beveridge says. "As such we expect demand for US LPG to increase sharply which will put downward pressure to Middle East LPG export prices," he writes. We've come full circle. FREE AppDownload
Here’s a lesson in the dangers of charting.  The following quote is from John Mauldin’s latest weekly letter. He’s making the case for a bond bubble.  This chart specifically refers to US government 10 years: One day, all the debt will come due, and it will end with a bang. “We are building a bigger time bomb” with $500 billion a year in debt coming due between 2018 and 2020, at a point in time when the bonds might not be able to be refinanced as easily as they are today, Mr. Ross said. Government bonds are not even safe because if they revert to the average yield seen between 2000 and 2010, ten year treasuries would be down 23 percent. “If there is so much downside risk in normal treasuries,” riskier high yield is even more mispriced, Mr. Ross said. “We may look back and say the real bubble is debt.” Pragmatic Capitalism I have a couple of thoughts here: 1) The debt actually doesn’t all “come due.” In a credit based monetary system it’s actually impossible for ALL of the debt to come due because that would actually eliminate most of the money we use. Repaying loans destroys deposits just like new loans create deposits. But think of this specifically from the government’s perspective. The only way the debt goes away is if the government goes away or is reduced SUBSTANTIALLY. But the reason the government’s debt continually expands is because the services never go away. The government tends to grow in-line with the economy and the population as the needs of the public grow. That doesn’t mean the government can’t shrink or that debt can’t be reduced, but it’s virtually impossible for it to all “come due”. I’m not against shrinking the size of government at all, but I think the terminology here is a little misleading. 2)  More importantly, the chart is a case of manipulating the axis on one side to make the other lines appear similar.  If you look closely you’ll see that the Nasdaq expanded over 400% over this period while the bonds are up just 33%. Using this sort of analysis could lead one to justify the idea of a “bubble” using almost any level of price rise at all. That’s obviously not very useful and in this case a 33% rise and a 400% rise are obviously apples and oranges. I’ve been debunking the US government “bond bubble” story for over 4 years now so you’ve probably read some version of this over the years.  But this doesn’t mean bonds aren’t potentially overpriced. Especially junk bonds and some other corporate bonds that have benefited from the chase for yield induced by the Fed. But I think we have to be careful about the term “bubble”, especially when discussing government bonds. “Bubble” implies an extraordinarily overpriced market susceptible to tremendous downside. Frankly, I don’t think Treasury Bonds look remotely similar to something like the Nasdaq … FREE AppDownload
Third, the euro was fairly resilient, unable to take out the August 6 low last week. The dollar remained in the upper end its four-month trading range against the yen, even though US yields fell to their lowest level in 14 months.  Fourth, in light of the recent economic developments, the Kansas City Federal Reserve's Jackson Hole confab at the end of next week, is hoped to generate new insight into the thinking of policy makers. Both, Fed head Yellen and ECB's President Draghi will speak there on August 22.   There are three geopolitical flash points on investors' radar screens:  Gaza, Iraq and Ukraine.  There have been some encouraging developments that suggest near-term stabilization in Gaza, though the basis for a sustainable and politically viable resolution still does not appear at hand.  Moreover, once again, though, in a different way, Israel's deterrence doctrine appears to have failed again.  It is this failure of deterrence that then requires Israel forces to act in ways ensures that its military victories lose in the court of public opinion.   The inability to protect the territorial integrity of Iraq has seen the conflict escalate there.  Outside of a brief market reaction when the US decided to strategically bomb part of Iraq to slow the advance of the ISIS insurgents and/or to defend US personnel, this conflict has generally not had much-direct impact on the capital markets.   One dimension of this conflict that continues to appear under-appreciated in the media is the role of the larger Saudi Arabia-Iran confrontations through proxies.     Of these geopolitical flash points, the situation in the Ukraine stands out.  Russia is integrated into the world economy as both a customer and energy provider, especially in Europe.  A disruptive impulse will hit an already fragile economic situation in the euro area.    It can only add to the downside risks to growth and prices.  Developments remain fluid amid conflicting media reports.  However, despite that some observers interpreted at conciliatory by Putin, it seems clear that he has not abandoned his goal of destabilizing Kiev and carving another piece out of Ukraine.   US:  The highlight of the week is the July CPI figures on August 19.  The consensus expects the headline rate to tick down to 2.0% from 2.1% and the core rate to be unchanged at 1.9%.  We place the risk on the upside.  The rental market is tight, and this may translate into higher core prices.  Medical care costs may be rising, and to filters into core prices.  In addition to the CPI, the US reports housing starts.  In June, the seasonally adjusted annualized rate fell below 900k for the first time since September 2013.  They are expected to have rebounded in July.  On the other hand, existing home sales, reported later in the week, trended up in Q2 after weakening in Q1.  They may pullback in July.  Lastly, following the disappointing Empire State August Survey (14.69 from 25.60; the consensus forecast was 20.00), this week's Philly Fed survey will also draw attention.  Some economists have already revised down Q3 growth forecasts; more may follow.   EMU:  The preliminary PMI reports are of chief interest.  The unexpected stagnation of the euro area economy in Q2 and the outright contraction in Germany was disappointing to say the least.  While the US economy will likely slow sequentially in Q3, the euro area can do better.  A small decline in the manufacturing and service sector readings will translate into a softer composite, but it will remain in the 52-54 range that has confined it since the end of last year.  This is consistent with slow growth.  We look for a 0.1-0.2% Q3 GDP.   UK:  The consensus expects the UK to report lower inflation and stronger retail sales. We suspect there is some upside risk to CPI, partly owing to the base effect.  Retail sales should bounce back after the weakness seen in May and June.  The risk here also seems to be on the upside.   Japan:  We have suggested that Japanese policy makers had likely written off Q2 due to the sales tax and that any policy response would depend on the economic performance in Q3.  In the week ahead, Japan reports July department store sales.  Investors and policy makers will learn whether consumers remain on strike.  Foreign demand likely improved.  Exports are expected to have risen by 3.8% after falling 1.9% year-over-year in June.  Imports may have fallen.   As a consequence, the trade deficit is likely to have been reduced.   Central Bank Minutes:  Minutes from the recent FOMC and BOE meetings will be released.  While there is a clear consensus to wind down QE on schedule, other issues, like the timing of the first rate hike and which instruments will be used to neutralize the excess reserves, are unresolved.  That said the nature of minutes gives greater expression to a wider range of opinion than may be found among the voters on the FOMC.   The key policy signals come from the Yellen, Fischer and Dudley.   The Bank of England's MPC meeting may have been more contentious.  A dissent or two is within the realm of expectations, which seem to carry more weight that dissents at the Federal Reserve.  Some observers see MPC member David Miles as the most likely to dissent, though we are less sanguine.   The pendulum of market sentiment has swung quite hard in response to Carney's presentation of the Quarterly Inflation Report, driving interest rates and sterling lower.  It is difficult to envision the minutes being as dovish, which highlight the risk that the pendulum swings back, lifting sterling and short-term interest rates.  In addition, in an interview in the Sunday Times, Carney seemed to contradict what he appeared to have signaled last week by saying that the BOE will not wait until real wages rise before raising rates.   What economists euphemistically call "temporal inconsistencies" with Carney's forward guidance is frustrating investors goes beyond the strategic ambiguity often seen from central bankers.  The Federal Reserve, the ECB and the Bank of Japan communications have challenges, but none appear to be as self-contradictory as the BOE, which has made some observers raise questions of the credibility of its forward guidance.   Several times in recent year, investors have thought the US economy was on the verge of accelerating, and have been disappointed.  It is being played out again now. The disappointment comes after a strong dollar rally and leaves the greenback vulnerable. The inability euro to fall to new lows following its own poor data and the inability of the Dollar Index to make new highs  may be warning signs.  The drop in US yields argues against buying dollars for yen.   There is nothing that says sterling has bottomed after shedding 5.5 cents since mid-July, but we are more inclined to look for a near-term bounce.   The decline in US yields remains a critical element shaping the investment climate.  Nearly half of the decline in the 10-year yields, thus far, this quarter, took place last week (9 of 19 bp).  The same is true for the UK (16 of 34).  In Germany, the 10-year bund yield fell below zero for the first time, and the 11 bp decline last week brought the quarter-to-date decline in 29 bp.  For its part, the 10-year JGB yield fell be 50 bp for the first time in sixteen months.   Given growth and inflation expectations it is difficult to see the value in US 10-year bonds with 2.34% prevailing yields.  Technical analysis warns that a break of the 2.30% area could spur a move toward 2.16%.  German 10-year yields are in record low territory and hence in uncharted waters.  The 2-year yield is negative.  As noted above, we are concerned that the pendulum has swung too hard in the UK, and this warns of some backing and filling with rates.   The DAX and CAC suffered dramatic downside reversals before the weekend.  The price action was not quite a damaging in the FTSE, but it did settle on its lows too, surrendering most of its earlier gains.  The US S&amp;P 500 was turned back from a key level.  It is difficult to see the core bond yields rising if the equity markets see follow through selling at the start of the week.   The Sept oil futures contract fell to five-month lows last week near $95.25 a barrel.  It staged an upside reversal before the weekend.  A move above $95.70 would suggest the leg down from $106.65 in June is over.  More broadly, commodity prices (CRB) are also technically poised to move higher in the near-term.   Many observers play up the significance of the Jackson Hole gathering of monetary officials.  We demur.  By the time that Yellen and Dudley speak on August 22, the market will be winding down before next weekend. Yellen will likely use her talk on "Re-evaluating Labor Market Dynamics" to argue the case of there being significant slack (under-utilization) in the labor market.  Moreover, because she is likely speaking as herself, and not representing the Federal Reserve as she does, for example, before Congress and in her post-FOMC press conferences, the risk is her tone may be somewhat more dovish.  Her leadership style seems to preclude signaling any new initiative in Jackson Hole. For Draghi too, Jackson Hole does not seem like a particularly likely forum for some policy revelation.  He will likely use this opportunity to discuss, even candidly, the challenges that the euro area faces and how its policy framework differs from the US.    September and October will be important months for the euro area.   The TLTRO facility will be launched.  Updated forecasts from the ECB staff and the results of the asset quality review and bank stress tests will available (before the ECB formally take on supervisory responsibility). Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
 New York State prosecutors have indicted three executives for allegedly far exceeding the state's limits on interest rates on short-term loans, through so-called payday loans that are often poorly regulated, reports The New York Times. The rare case highlights the risk customers can face from payday loans that can lead them to dire financial straits. It also sheds light on a multibillion-dollar industry that has rarely been the subject of criminal actions, The Times points out. Payday loans are typically for less than $500 and due on the borrower's next payday, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The loan's finance charge could range from $10 to $30 per $100 borrowed, with a typical two-week loan amounting to an annual percentage rate (APR) of nearly 400%, compared to 12% to 30% for credit cards. Carey Vaughn Brown allegedly owned a dozen companies throughout the U.S. and overseas to try to dodge American authorities while controlling all parts of an exploitative loan process, including extending loans with exorbitant interest rates between 350% and 650% and collecting automatic payments from borrowers' bank accounts.  Business Insider reached out to Brown's attorney for the case, Paul Shechtman, for a comment and will update if we hear back. He told The Times his client "acted in good faith and looks forward to showing his innocence.” Although New York has laws capping interest rates at 25%, these charges are rare because lenders continue to get away with illegally extending loans at far higher rates. In all, 18 states and the District of Columbia prohibit excessively high-cost payday lending through a variety of measures, according to the Consumer Federation of America. But 32 states still permit payday loans at triple-digit interest rates, some without even setting any rate cap. The biggest trouble for payday lending customers is what happens when they miss payments, leaving them susceptible to fees they may not be aware of and tremendous levels of interest, as John Oliver has pointed out on a segment of his talk show "Last Week Tonight." More than 75% of the payday lending industry's loan volume is generated by borrowers who are forced to borrow again before their next pay period, Oliver reported. The training manual of one payday lending company features a circle diagram clearly showing a vicious cycle customers can face. “An actual Ace Cash training manual for employees features a diagram which starts with the customer applying for an ACE loan, moves through them spending the money on that loan, being unable to pay it back, and then being forced to apply for an ACE loan again,” John Oliver said on his show. We reached out to ACE loan to give it an opportunity to comment on the Oliver segment, and we will update this post if we hear back. The problem persists because payday lending companies find ways to skirt legislation in many states through minor changes. For example, businesses in Ohio have registered as mortgage lenders to escape legislation targeting businesses licensed as short-term lenders — while maintaining the same practices. "For regulators it's like playing legislative wack-a-mole," Oliver said. "Just when you think you've squashed them down, they pop up somewhere else wearing a completely different outfit." That vicious cycle impacted Columbus, Ohio poet and author Joylynn M. Jossel after she borrowed just a couple hundred dollars but couldn't pay it back two weeks later, reported DailyFinance. Since she couldn't pay off her debt in time, she became plagued by excessive interest rates. Jossel then borrowed from another payday lender to pay back her first loan, creating a slippery slope that left her owing money to four different lenders. When she did pay off her loans, she would immediately have to take out another loan to pay her bills. Eventually, she was paying $1,800 toward those loans each month. That led to harassment from collection agencies. "They tell you any and everything to get you to come in and pay for the check that didn't clear," Jossel told Daily Finance. "They'll tell you, 'You're a criminal, you wrote a bad check. That's against the law, it's a felony, you're going to jail.' They call all of your references and your job. It's horrifying. I felt so suffocated. It felt as if I was in this black hole that I just couldn't get out of." Jossel escaped the cycle after she received money from an unrelated civil lawsuit. "I have never, and I mean never, thought twice about visiting a payday loan center ever again in my life," she said.  FREE AppDownload
Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesThe difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits. – Albert Einstein Genius is a rising stock market. – John Kenneth Galbraith Any plan conceived in moderation must fail when circumstances are set in extremes. – Prince Metternich I'm forever blowing bubbles, Pretty bubbles in the air, They fly so high, nearly reach the sky, Then like my dreams they fade and die, Fortune's always hiding, I've looked everywhere, I'm forever blowing bubbles, Pretty bubbles in the air – Burr and Campbell You can almost feel it in the air. The froth and foam on markets of all shapes and sizes all over the world. It’s exhilarating, and the pundits who populate the media outlets are bubbling over. There’s nothing like a rising market to lift our moods. Unless of course, as Prof. Kindleberger famously cautioned (see below), we are not participating in that rising market. Then we feel like losers. But what if the rising market is … a bubble? Are we smart enough to ride it high and then bail out before it bursts? Research says we all think that we are, yet we rarely demonstrate the actual ability. My friend Grant Williams thinks the biggest bubble around is in complacency. I agree that is a large one, but I think even larger bubbles, still building, are those of government debt and government promises. When these latter two burst, and probably simultaneously, that will mark the true bottom for this cycle now pushing 90 years old. So, this week we'll think about bubbles. Specifically, we'll have a look at part of the chapter on bubbles from "Code Red," my latest book, coauthored with Jonathan Tepper, which we launched late last year. I was putting this chapter together about this time last year while in Montana, and so in a lazy August it is good to remind ourselves of the problems that will face us when everyone returns to their desks in a few weeks. And note, this is not the whole chapter, but at the end of the letter is a link to the entire chapter, should you desire more. As I wrote earlier this week, I am NOT calling a top, but I am pointing out that our risk antennae should be up. You should have a well-designed risk program for your investments. I understand you have to be in the markets to get those gains, and I encourage that, but you have to have a discipline in place for cutting your losses and getting back in after a market drop. There is enough data out there to suggest that the market is toppy and the upside is not evenly balanced. Take a look at these four charts. I offer these updated charts and note that some charts in the letter below are from last year, but the levels have only increased. The direction is the same. What they show is that by many metrics the market is at levels that are highly risky; but as 2000 proved, high-risk markets can go higher. The graphs speak for themselves. Let’s look at the Q-ratio, corporate equities to GDP (the Buffett Indicator), the Shiller CAPE, and margin debt.     We make the case in Code Red that central banks are inflating bubbles everywhere, and that even though bubbles are unpredictable almost by definition, there are ways to benefit from them. So, without further ado, let’s look at what co-author Jonathan Tepper and I have to say about bubbles in Chapter 9. Every year, the Darwin Awards are given out to honor fools who kill themselves accidentally and remove themselves from the human gene pool. The 2009 Award went to two bank robbers. The robbers figured they would use dynamite to get into a bank. They packed large quantities of dynamite by the ATM machine at a bank in Dinant, Belgium. Unhappy with merely putting dynamite in the ATM, they pumped lots of gas through the letterbox to make the explosion bigger. And then they detonated the explosives. Unfortunately for them, they were standing right next to the bank. The entire bank was blown to pieces. When police arrived, they found one robber with severe injuries. They took him to the hospital, but he died quickly. After they searched through the rubble, they found his accomplice. It reminds you a bit of the immortal line from the film "The Italian Job" where robbers led by Sir Michael Caine, after totally demolishing a van in a spectacular explosion, shouted at them, “You’re only supposed to blow the bloody doors off!” Central banks are trying to make stock prices and house prices go up, but much like the winners of the 2009 Darwin Awards, they will likely get a lot more bang for their buck than they bargained for. All Code Red tools are intended to generate spillovers to other financial markets. For example, quantitative easing (QE) and large-scale asset purchases (LSAPs) are meant to boost stock prices and weaken the dollar, lower bonds yields, and chase investors into higher-risk assets. Central bankers hope they can find the right amount of dynamite to blow open the bank doors, but it is highly unlikely that they’ll be able to find just the right amount of money printing, interest rate manipulation, and currency debasement to not damage anything but the doors. We’ll likely see more booms and busts in all sorts of markets because of the Code Red policies of central banks, just as we have in the past. They don’t seem to learn the right lessons. Targeting stock prices is par for the course in a Code Red world. Officially, the Fed receives its marching orders from Congress and has a dual mandate: stable prices and high employment. But in the past few years, by embarking on Code Red policies, Bernanke and his colleagues have unilaterally added a third mandate: higher stock prices. The chairman himself pointed out that stock markets had risen strongly since he signaled the Fed would likely do more QE during a speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in 2010. “I do think that our policies have contributed to a stronger stock market, just as they did in March of 2009, when we did the last iteration [of QE]. The S&amp;P 500 is up about 20 percent plus and the Russell 2000 is up 30 percent plus.” It is not hard to see why stock markets rally when investors believe the most powerful central banker in the world wants to print money and see stock markets go up. Investors are thrilled. As Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Company, said, “Central banks are our best friends not because they like markets, but because they can only get to their macro objectives by going through the markets.” Properly reflected on, this is staggering in its implications. A supposedly neutral central bank has decided that it can engineer a recovery by inflating asset prices. The objective is to create a “wealth effect” that will make those who invest in stocks feel wealthier and then decide to spend money and invest in new projects. This will eventually be felt throughout the economy. This “trickle-down” monetary policy has been successful in creating wealth for those who were already rich (and for the banks and investment management firms who service them) but has been spectacularly a failure in creating good jobs and a high-growth economy. The latest quarter as we write this letter will be in the 1 percent gross domestic product (GDP) range. And to listen to the speeches from the majority of members of the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee, their prescription is more of the same. Indeed, when Bernanke merely hinted this summer that QE might end at some point, something that everyone already knows, the market swooned and a half-a-dozen of his fellow committee members felt compelled to issue statements and speeches the next week, saying, “Not really, guys, we really are going to keep it up for a bit longer.” We’ve seen this movie before. In the book "When Money Dies," Adam Fergusson quotes from the diary of Anna Eisenmenger, an Austrian widow. In early 1920 Eisenmenger wrote, “Speculation on the stock exchange has spread to all ranks of the population and shares rise like air balloons to limitless heights. ... My banker congratulates me on every new rise, but he does not dispel the secret uneasiness which my growing wealth arouses in me ... it already amounts to millions.” Much like after the initial Nixon Shock in the 1970s, stock prices rise rapidly when a currency weakens and money supply grows. Not surprisingly, the 1970s led to bubbles in commodities. This chapter will show how to spot bubbles when they form, how to profit from them, and how to avoid the dire consequences when they burst. As we write "Code Red," stock prices are roaring ahead. In fact, many asset classes are looking like bubbles from our cheap seats. (While we expect a correction at some point, when the Fed or the Bank of Japan creates money, it has to go somewhere.) One area that stands out as particularly bubbly is the corporate bond market. Investors are barely being compensated for the risks they’re taking. In 2007, a three-month certificate of deposit yielded more than junk bonds do today. Average yields on investment-grade debt worldwide dropped to a record low 2.45 percent as we write this from 3.4 percent a year ago, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporate Index. Veteran investors in high-yield bonds and bank debt see a bubble forming. Wilbur L. Ross Jr., chairman and CEO of WL Ross &amp; Co. has pointed to a “ticking time bomb” in the debt markets. Ross noted that one third of first-time issuers had CCC or lower credit ratings and in the past year more than 60 percent of the high-yield bonds were refinancings. None of the capital was to be used for expansion or working capital, just refinancing balance sheets. Some people think it is good there is no new leveraging, but it is much worse. This means that many companies had no cash on hand to pay off old debt and had to refinance. One day, all the debt will come due, and it will end with a bang. “We are building a bigger time bomb” with $500 billion a year in debt coming due between 2018 and 2020, at a point in time when the bonds might not be able to be refinanced as easily as they are today, Mr. Ross said. Government bonds are not even safe because if they revert to the average yield seen between 2000 and 2010, ten year treasuries would be down 23 percent. “If there is so much downside risk in normal treasuries,” riskier high yield is even more mispriced, Mr. Ross said. “We may look back and say the real bubble is debt.”  Another bubble that is forming and will pop is agricultural land in many places in the United States (although agriculture in other countries can be found at compelling values). The bubble really started going once the Fed started its Code Red policies. Land prices in the heart of the Corn Belt have increased at a double-digit rate in six of the past seven years. According to Federal Reserve studies, farmland prices were up 15 percent last year in the most productive part of the Corn Belt, and 26 percent in the western Corn Belt and high plains. Iowa land selling for $2,275 per acre a decade ago is now at $8,700 per acre. As you can see from Figure 9.2, the increase in farmland prices beats almost anything the United States saw during the housing bubble. A lot of banks in the Midwest will have problem with their lending.  Why are we seeing so many bubbles right now? One reason is that the economy is weak and inflation is low. The growth in the money supply doesn’t go to driving up prices for goods like toothpaste, haircuts, or cars. It goes to drive up prices of real estate, bonds, and stocks. Excess liquidity is money created beyond what the real economy needs. In technical terms, Marshallian K is the difference between growth in the money supply and nominal GDP. The measure is the surplus of money that is not absorbed by the real economy. The term is named after the great English economist Alfred Marshall. When the money supply is growing faster than nominal GDP, then excess liquidity tends to flow to financial assets. However, if the money supply is growing more slowly than nominal GDP, then the real economy absorbs more available liquidity. That’s one reason why stocks go up so much when the economy is weak but the money supply is rising. It is also why stock markets are so sensitive to any hint that the Fed might ease off on QE. Real players know how the game is played. You can listen to the business media or read the papers and find hundreds of “experts” saying that stock prices are rising based on fundamentals. You can take their talking points and change the dates and find they are essentially the same as 1999 and 2006–2007. (More on the implications of this in Part II when we talk about investing.) The rise in real estate, bonds, and stocks does not count toward any inflation measures. On the desk in his office at Princeton, Einstein once had the words “not everything which can be measured counts, and not everything which counts can be measured.” Inflation happens to be one of the things that counts but can’t be measured (except in very narrow terms). Excess liquidity flows from asset class to asset class. As you can see from Figure 9.3, booms and busts around the world happen whenever central banks tighten or loosen monetary policy.  Financial bubbles happen frequently. In the 1970s, gold went from $35 to $850 before crashing. In the 1980s, the Japanese Nikkei went from 8,000 to 40,000 before losing 80 percent of its value. In the 1990s, the Nasdaq experienced the dot-com bubble and stocks went from 440 to 5,000 before crashing spectacularly in 2000. The Nasdaq lost 80 percent of its value in less than two years. Many housing bubbles over the past decade in the United Kingdom, United States, Ireland, Spain, and Iceland saw house prices go up 200 and even 500 percent and then lose over half their value in real terms. The U.S. market has had frequent crashes: 1929, 1962, 1987, 1998, 2000, and 2008. Every time, the bubble was driven by different sectors. In 1929, radio stocks were the Internet stocks of their day. In 1962, the electronic sector crashed. The previous year, most electronic stocks had risen 27 percent, with leading technology stocks like Texas Instruments and Polaroid trading at up a crazy 115 times earnings. In 1987, the S&amp;P had risen more than 40 percent in less than a year and over 60 percent in less than two years. In 1998, it was strong expectation on investment opportunities in Russia that collapsed. In 2000, the Internet bubble was so crazy that companies with no earnings and often no real revenues were able to go public, skyrocket, and then crash. Eventually, in all bubbles fundamental values re-assert themselves and markets crash. Economists and investors have spilled a lot of ink describing bubbles, yet central bankers and investors never seem to learn and people get caught up in them. Peter Bernstein in "Against the Gods" states that the evidence “reveals repeated patterns of irrationality, inconsistency, and incompetence in the ways human beings arrive at decisions and choices when faced with uncertainty.” What is extraordinary is how much bubbles all look alike. The situations were similar in many ways. In the 1920s, the financial boom was fueled by new technologies such as the radio that supposedly would change the world. In the 1990s, the stock market rose on the rapid adoption of the Internet. Both technologies were going to fundamentally change the world. Stocks like RCA in the 1920s and Yahoo in the 1990s were darlings that went up like rockets. Figure 9.4 plots the two charts against each other. The similarities and timing of market moves are uncanny.  If you look at Figure 9.5, you can see the gold bubble in the 1970s. (Some academics have noted that the surge in gold prices closely followed the increase in inflation in the late 1970s, reflecting its value as a hedge against inflation. When inflation fell in the 1980s, gold prices followed. So it is an open question whether gold in the 1970s should be considered a bubble.)  Fast-forward 10 years, and you can see from Figure 9.6 that the bubble in the Japanese Nikkei looked almost exactly the same.  Bubbles happen again and again. The same basic ingredients are found every time: fueled initially by well-founded economic fundamentals, investors develop a self-fulfilling optimism by herding that leads to an unsustainable accelerating increase in prices. And each time people are surprised that a bubble has happened. As billionaire investor George Soros once said about financial cycles: “The only surprise is that we are always surprised.” For example, the corporate bond market appears to be in another bubble. “We have a hyper-robust bond market right now,” Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher, a former investment manager, said in an interview. These robust markets are part of the Fed's policy intent, he said, but the credit market jump has put him on guard for a new destabilizing credit boom. “You don’t sit on a hot stove twice.” Economists and investors, though, repeatedly sit on hot stoves. Economic researchers have managed to create bubbles in laboratories. Economist Reshmaan N. Hussam and his colleagues not only managed to create bubbles once, they managed to bring the same subjects back in for the same experiment and still managed to reproduce bubbles. It didn’t matter if people were given fundamental information regarding what was available or not. It didn’t matter how financially sophisticated the participants were either: corporate managers, independent small business people, or professional stock traders. No one was immune from re-creating bubbles. It seems that everyone is born a sucker. As humans, we developed our instincts dodging lions and chasing antelopes on the African savannah over hundreds of thousands of years. Now it seems we chase asset prices. It is as if we are hard-wired to respond to movement in what market we are following. The conclusion from repeated experiments shows that it doesn’t matter if people live through one bubble or even two, they’ll likely fall for bubbles again. The smarter people learn from bubbles. But they don’t learn to avoid them; they participate again and simply think they’re smart enough to know when to get out. This has been showed many times in trading experiments conducted by Vernon Smith, a professor at George Mason University who shared in the 2002 Nobel Prize in Economics. As Smith said, “The subjects are very optimistic that they’ll be able to smell the turning point. They always report that they’re surprised by how quickly it turns and how hard it is to get out at anything like a favorable price.” There is no standard definition of a bubble, but all bubbles look alike because they all go through similar phases. The bible on bubbles is "Manias, Panics and Crashes," by Charles Kindleberger. In the book, Kindleberger outlined the five phases of a bubble. He borrowed heavily from the work of the great economist Hyman Minsky. If you look at Figures 9.7 and 9.8 (below), you can see the classic bubble pattern. (As an aside, all you need to know about the Nobel Prize in Economics is that Minsky, Kindleberger, and Schumpeter did not get one and that Paul Krugman did.) Stage 1: Displacement All bubbles start with some basis in reality. Often, it is a new disruptive technology that gets everyone excited, although Kindleberger says it doesn’t need to involve technological progress. It could come through a fundamental change in an economy; for example, the opening up of Russia in the 1990s led to the 1998 bubble or in the 2000s interest rates were low and mortgage lenders were able to fund themselves cheaply. In this displacement phase, smart investors notice the changes that are happening and start investing in the industry or country. Stage 2: Boom Once a bubble starts, a convincing narrative gains traction and the narrative becomes self-reinforcing. As George Soros observed, fundamental analysis seeks to establish how underlying values are reflected in stock prices, whereas the theory of reflexivity shows how stock prices can influence underlying values. For example, in the 1920s people believed that technology like refrigerators, cars, planes, and the radio would change the world (and they did!). In the 1990s, it was the Internet. One of the keys to any bubble is usually loose credit and lending. To finance all the new consumer goods, in the 1920s installment lending was widely adopted, allowing people to buy more than they would have previously. In the 1990s, Internet companies resorted to vendor financing with cheap money that financial markets were throwing at Internet companies. In the housing boom in the 2000s, rising house prices and looser credit allowed more and more people access to credit. And a new financial innovation called securitization developed in the 1990s as a good way to allocate risk and share good returns was perversely twisted into making subprime mortgages acceptable as safe AAA investments. Stage 3: Euphoria In the euphoria phase, everyone becomes aware that they can make money by buying stocks in a certain industry or buying houses in certain places. The early investors have made a lot of money, and, in the words of Kindleberger, “there is nothing so disturbing to one’s well-being and judgment as to see a friend get rich.” Even people who had been on the sidelines start speculating. Shoeshine boys in the 1920s were buying stocks. In the 1990s, doctors and lawyers were day-trading Internet stocks between appointments. In the subprime boom, dozens of channels had programs about people who became house flippers. At the height of the tech bubble, Internet stocks changed hands three times as frequently as other shares. The euphoria phase of a bubble tends to be steep but so brief that it gives investors almost no chance get out of their positions. As prices rise exponentially, the lopsided speculation leads to a frantic effort of speculators to all sell at the same time. We know of one hedge fund in 1999 that had made fortunes for its clients investing in legitimate tech stocks. They decided it was a bubble and elected to close down the fund and return the money in the latter part of 1999. It took a year of concerted effort to close all their positions out. While their investors had fabulous returns, this just illustrates that exiting a bubble can be hard even for professionals. And in illiquid markets? Forget about it. Stage 4: Crisis In the crisis phase, the insiders originally involved start to sell. For example, loads of dot-com insiders dumped their stocks while retail investors piled into companies that went bust. In the subprime bubble, CEOs of homebuilding companies, executives of mortgage lenders like Angelo Mozillo, and CEOs of Lehman Brothers like Dick Fuld dumped hundreds of millions of dollars of stock. The selling starts to gain momentum, as speculators realize that they need to sell, too. However, once prices start to fall, the stocks or house prices start to crash. The only way to sell is to offer prices at a much lower level. The bubble bursts, and euphoric buying is replaced by panic selling. The panic selling in a bubble is like the Roadrunner cartoons. The coyote runs over a cliff, keeps running, and suddenly finds that there is nothing under his feet. Crashes are always a reflection of illiquidity in two-sided trading—the inability of sellers to find eager buyers at nearby prices. Stage 5: Revulsion Just as prices became wildly out of line during the early stages of a bubble, in the final stage of revulsion, prices overshoot their fundamental values. Where the press used to write only positive stories about the bubble, suddenly journalists uncover fraud, embezzlement, and abuse. Investors who have lost money look for scapegoats and blame others rather than themselves for participating in bubbles. (Who didn’t speculate with Internet stocks or houses?) As investors stay away from the bubble, prices can fall to irrationally low levels.   A Few Good Central Bankers Space suggests we need to cut it off there. You can read the rest of the chapter here. I invite you to visit the Code Red website to get the book. Jack Rivkin at His Best Earlier this year I shared with you a tremendous resource from my friend and Altegris CIO Jack Rivkin. Since joining Altegris in December, Jack has been offering commentary about global economic and political events, trends, investing, and alternative investments in his “CIO Perspectives” at Altegris.com. If you were able to read some of his articles, you know that he has been remarkably accurate in his predictions for the first half of the year. I highly recommend you take a moment to read his recent Mid-Year Update, which offers a valuable look at an eventful last six months and his expectations for the second half of 2014 and beyond as we get closer to the end of QE . For more reading from Jack, I suggest his piece on the opportunities for investing in credit, “The Illiquidity Premium.” Qualified investors interested in learning more can register for the Mauldin Circle to get access to the exclusive Altegris private placement platform.  I am enjoying my respite from travel. Right now I’m not scheduled to get on a plane until the middle of September, when I go to the Texas Hill Country near San Antonio for the Casey Research Summit, which you should check out if you’re looking for a great conference this fall. I did work in a quick trip to Washington DC at the end of the month; but now I’m home again for a spell, although partners and friends are beginning to notice that I have some time in my schedule, and I’m sure that New York will have to appear on my schedule at least once in the next two months. We celebrated my mother’s 97th birthday party last night here at the apartment, and many of her friends and family showed up. My brother told me she had been focused on the party for the last month or so, and she was certainly happy with everything last night. Her regular nurses (who come to her home to see her) told me that she is getting visibly weaker, and I was already seeing that; but she was certainly “all there” for her party. There were a few poignant moments. “I would hug you, but I can’t make my arms work,” she told Tiffani. And indeed she has lost much of her arm movement. The ambulance service brought her in on a stretcher and moved her around the apartment to visit with her friends. I have to confess the evening made a bit of an emotional impact on me, as I realized when I was going to bed that evening. I really lost my desire to have a conversation, lost in my own thoughts. Mother is “only” some 32.867 years older than I am, and unless there are some significant advantages in biotechnological medicine, I may not make it past 100, either. So the final future was brought home in a fairly stark way. Perhaps, I thought to myself, part of the reason that I so strongly believe in a biotechnological revolution happening in my lifetime is that I want/need it to happen. But then, I considered again the data that tell me it really is happening, and I got up the next morning to go dance with The Beast (my trainer) at 8:15. Sunday I go to deep East Texas to visit the weekend home/ranch of my good friend Monty Bennett. Monty grew up in the hotel business and runs a large hotel REIT and associated companies. He gives me insights into the hotel business, and we talk macro. Turns out he is an economics junkie, and I am part of his “fix.” I keep running into successful businessmen who also pay attention to macroeconomics and how it affects the business cycle of their particular worlds. The hotel gig is about as countercyclical as you can get. While that makes intuitive sense, it does require a certain type of contrarian nature to be successful at hotel investing. And that nature becomes suspicious of bubbles. So we have some fodder for an interesting conversation this week as we drive through Monty’s ranch, which is really an international wildlife preserve. He has all sorts of exotic deer and sheep and such from all continents of the world — ibex, gemsbok, sable antelope, red kangaroos, and something called a Barasingha deer, which I really hope to see. And all sorts of sheep that I have only read about and seen in "National Geographic" magazines. Have a great week. And enjoy each and every moment you have. Your enjoying-his-summer analyst, John Mauldin Thoughts from the Frontline subscribers@mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Mark/flickrHigher driving costs and falling pay have created a truck-driver shortage that's likely to worsen in the coming years. The American Trucking Associations (ATA) estimates the U.S. is short 30,000 truck drivers — a number expected to surge to 239,000 by 2022. In July 2013, new federal hours-of-service rules went into effect.  The key provision was a limit to the use of a 34-hour "restart." Drivers have a 70-hour-a-week cap on how much time they can be on the road. Previously, they'd been able to artificially reset that cap to zero if they took 34 consecutive hours off. Now, many are unable to do so. As a result, according to a survey from the American Transportation Research Institute, more than 80% of motor carriers have experienced a productivity loss, with nearly half saying they require more drivers to haul the same amount of freight. "Smaller 'owner/operator' firms are increasingly dropping by the wayside as the cost of operations and maintenance are simply becoming too expensive to stay in business," Paul Pittman, a planner at a North Carolina-based logisitcs company, told Business Insider by email.  So drivers are suddenly faced with the choice of leaving the profession entirely or moving to a larger company where wages are likely to be lower.  "As controls continue to tighten, many of the existing drivers currently employed are turning to other areas of employment simply to get off the road and escape some of the regulations implemented to govern their operations," Pittman said. To hang on, small operators are forced to cut corners. For Jeff, a driver who asked to be identified by only his first name, the pay isn't the biggest issue — it's the compromises some firms are making on driver compliance. "With how my lifestyle is [the pay is] pretty decent. I don’t go out and blow money on speed boats, or the best electronics, or hookers and blow," Jeff said. "I’m married and I have four children. We prioritize our finances. Two years ago we finally bought an HDTV. My main issue is the safety aspect." His primary issue with trucking companies is the pressure they put on drivers to violate federal rules. Jeff worked for a small outfit in the Midwest. The owner of that company, he says, wanted him to take a dry van load from Hubbard, Ohio, to Syracuse, New York, which is about 327 miles. Jeff explained that this trip takes longer for trucks than it does for cars, because trucks carry heavier loads, and it takes longer for them to speed up and slow down. It would take a truck about five hours and 15 minutes from Hubbard to Syracuse.  The owner, whom Jeff didn't want named, asked him to drive back to Hubbard empty, do a drop-and-hook (drop one trailer, hook another) and take another trailer up to Binghamton, New York, the same day. And the trip from Hubbard to Binghamton is about five and a half hours, meaning a round trip would only leave him about 30 minutes of driving for the day and legally Jeff couldn't. Google Maps "When you're non-compliant as a driver you run the risk of fatigue and the risk of hurting other people," he said. "And as a driver it's my license on the line." Jeff said he was asked by multiple trucking companies to falsify his logs, but he refused to. "I consider myself a safety-oriented driver, and I have found that is a bad thing," Jeff said. "Because since I got my CDL [commercial driver's license] in 2008, I have worked for about 10 different trucking companies. That doesn't look good because it looks like it is job hopping ... I'm sticking to my guns." Another problem is lack of time spent at home. Todd Feucht of Wisconsin says drivers can expect to spend as little as 52 days at home a year. Feucht, who hauls oversize loads, averages about three to five weeks. Last year he was home 54 days, including his vacation days. "Back in the day you were treated like a knight, but now you're treated like a peon," Feucht says. All of this helps explain why the turnover rate at large truckload carriers was 92% annualized in Q1, according to the ATA. Turnover refers to the rate at which drivers leave the industry and are replaced. "One-hundred percent turnover doesn’t mean that every driver left," ATA chief economist Bob Costello says. "If you keep a driver for 90 days, the rate generally drops in half. However, there are a group of drivers that churn, and they generally stay at a carrier for a short length of time (just weeks or a couple of months). Many drivers stay with a carrier for years." Meanwhile, drivers with less experience or bargaining power get squeezed. Feucht has been driving trucks for 20 years and thinks trucking companies need to be more honest when recruiting. The new drivers are "greener than grass," he said. Those who attempt to lease trucks quickly discover the significant cost of maintenance and overhead. Young drivers who go this route end up having very little to show for it.  "I meet these guys at truck-stops and they can barely afford to eat ramen during the week," Feucht told Business Insider. "They're dropping $850 on a truck a week." Truck drivers typically get paid hourly or by the mile. Some get a percentage of the load. If you're getting less than 33 cents a mile "you're getting ripped off," Jeff, a 36-year old truck driver from Ohio, told Business Insider. The truck drivers suggest if these companies want to see this turnover decrease they need to focus on improving pay, improving training for new entrants, and they need to not push them to violate federal regulations. There may finally be some movement on this front. Last month, Swift, one of the largest haulers in the U.S., announced it would refocus expenditures on better labor conditions for employees, including higher wages. "After assessing the current and expected environment, we believe the best investment we can make at this time, for all of our stakeholders, is in our drivers," the firm said in its earnings release. "Our goal is to clear the path for our drivers by helping them overcome challenges, eliminate wait times and take home more money." ATA FREE AppDownload
1. Know how to sell. Selling means being able to convey why your product or service, which may be you if you are looking for a job, will make things better. Selling is never about convincing. It is always about helping. 2. Put yourself in the shoes of your customer. If you know how to put the person you are dealing with in a position to succeed, you can be successful. In order to do this, you must be able to quickly understand the needs and demands of that person and those of the company(s) they work for or with.   Every person and industry is different. This is something that comes from investing incredible amounts of time to understand different industries, businesses, roles, and what has made them work and not work. It is a never-ending process of learning about what companies need. What people in those companies need and how they work. If you don’t understand what it takes to make the people and companies you work with better, you don’t understand how to be successful. 3. Know as much as you can about technology. The beautiful thing about technology is that it changes ever day.  Look at any tech you can see today or have ever seen. Any tech you have read about. It was invented by someone(s). They know the product better than everyone. On the day that it is released, you are as knowledgeable about that technology as anyone else in the world. From there it's just about effort to keep learning. If you are one of the few people that know the new technologies, you are in a unique position to put yourself in the shoes of your customer(s) and determine if the new technology can be of benefit. New technologies enable change and where there is change, there is opportunity.  It's up to you to figure out  what that opportunity is. 4. Always ask how you would design a solution if no current solution existed.  99.99% of the things we do in business are being done the way they have always been done. No one has re-imagined how things should be done.   That is what successful people do. Every situation they are in they take their knowledge of the business or situation they are visiting, whether it's buying a deck of playing cards, eating at a restaurant or trying to solve a problem and think about how to re-invent it. They don't ask people what they would want. They envision a complete reapplication. Then they decide what to do with what they just recreated. 5. Is it the path of least resistance to something better. Lots of people come up with ways of doing things that they think are great/amazing. What they fail to ask is whether it will make anyone else’s life better or easier. The simple test of any imagineering of a process or situation is simple. Is this the path of resistance to a better place for the user? Yes or No. 6. Be nice.  People hate dealing with people who are jerks. It’s always easier to be nice than to be a jerk. Don’t be a jerk. Read more posts on Blog Maverick » FREE AppDownload
Nassim Taleb, the noted author who has written best-selling titles including "The Black Swan" and "Antifragile," just tweeted a photo of an index card outlining his "sins to remember." The card, which appears to be a quote from Taleb himself, reads: "Muscles without strength, friendship without trust, opinion without risk, change without aesthetics, age without values, food without nourishment, power without fairness, facts without rigor, degrees without erudition, militarism without fortitude, progress without civilization, complication without depth, fluency without content; these are the sins to remember." Taleb is big on short, aphoristic statements. He even published a whole book of aphorisms, "The Bed of Procrustes." Here's another one to file away.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe ceiling of the Sistine ChapelThe government has clamped down on Wall Street banks, but that doesn't mean money goes to sleep.  In a shift decades in the making, the hedge fund world has exploded in size, filling the void banks have left open to take finance's biggest risks and reap its greatest rewards. Sebastian Mallaby's book 'More Money Than God,'documents the rise of hedge funds, from the very first venture in 1949 to the giants that they are now. It also provides insight into how many of today's star hedge fund managers go their starts. We've gone through Mallaby's book for you, and highlighted the most important people that made hedge funds into the powerful, driving market force it is today. FREE AppDownload
Want to catch up fast on the US economy? This simple summary from Nomura is quick and fast. Nomura And now you're caught up. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Telecom Italia antenna booster is seen in northern RomeMILAN (Reuters) - Telecom Italia is preparing to offer up to 7 billion euros ($9.4 billion) to outbid Spain's Telefonica in the race to acquire Vivendi's Brazilian broadband unit GVT, according to a Bloomberg report on Sunday. The report, citing anonymous people with knowledge of the plan, said Vivendi would get a 20 percent holding in Milan-based Telecom Italia and a stake in the entity that combines the two companies' Brazilian units. Neither Telecom Italia or Vivendi were immediately available for comment. Sources told Reuters earlier this month that Telecom Italia is in talks with Vivendi over a possible bid for GVT as it seeks to head off a 6.7 billion euro bid from Telefonica. The Spanish company, which made its unsolicited offer for GVT earlier this month, is Telecom Italia's biggest single investor and competes with the Italian company in Brazil's phone market. Telecom Italia confirmed on Thursday it was studying a bid that would result in an "industrial combination" between GVT and its own Brazilian unit, Tim Brasil. It said it had not made a final offer, which would be subject to approval by the boards of both Telecom Italia and its Brazilian unit. Telecom Italia Chief Executive Officer Marco Patuano met Vivendi Chairman Vincent Bollore on Wednesday to discuss the potential tie-up, according to two sources with knowledge of the situation. Telecom Italia is proposing to merge TIM Brasil with GVT, and in exchange Vivendi would take a stake in the Italian group, the sources said. It could submit its offer to Vivendi by the end of the month.   ($1 = 0.7464 Euros)  (Reporting by Silvia Aloisi) FREE AppDownload
I was watching this CNBC video with Chase’s Chief Economist Anthony Chan who cites three reasons why he thinks Europe is struggling: 1. Q1 weather in Europe hurting Q2 numbers.2. Negative sentiment.3. A lack of ECB action.  I don’t know about all of that. Those sort of sound like lame reasons for the lagging growth (no offense to Mr. Chan). I have three reasons of my own: 1. A flawed currency union.2. A flawed currency union.3. A flawed currency union. This environment is and has been the result of the flawed currency union that is acting a lot like a gold standard handcuffing Europe’s economies. We experienced a small bounce back in the last few years from a minor trade rebalancing, but it’s been far from enough to generate substantial growth. And all the while the recovery has been very uneven with many of the periphery countries continuing to suffer.  The Japanification of Europe is continuing. The Euro remains an inherently flawed currency system that has no efficient rebalancing mechanism. The ECB has done enough to quell solvency concerns at the sovereign level in the peripheral countries, but the ECB cannot fix the inherent imbalances that have arisen. I continue to think that the only measure that can efficiently resolve this is a form of fiscal transfers that turns Europe into a single currency system with a national treasury that acts as a redistributive entity to help the current account deficit countries in the process of rebalancing as the existence of the single currency makes trade rebalancing a highly inefficient process (unlike the USA’s system). Until this is done I have a hard time seeing how the problems on the periphery can be resolved. As I’ve said a million times over the years the debts will continue to rise relative to growth because there is insufficient demand.  The lack of a real resolution here means continuing high sovereign debt levels, continued austerity and aggregate demand that is too weak to sustain high levels of growth. Related: FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/AP Yale Professor Robert J. Shiller has a new piece examining the market up at The New York Times in which he notes that stocks are indeed expensive: The United States stock market looks very expensive right now. The CAPE ratio, a stock-price measure I helped develop — is hovering at a worrisome level. I wrote with some concern about the high ratio in this space a little over a year ago, when it stood at around 23, far above its 20th-century average of 15.21. (CAPE stands for cyclically adjusted price-earnings.) Now it is above 25, a level that has been surpassed since 1881 in only three previous periods: the years clustered around 1929, 1999 and 2007. Major market drops followed those peaks. Unlike the standard way of valuing the market, based on trailing 12 month earnings, Shiller prefers to look at a smoothed out 10-year average of earnings to gain a long-term perspective, and to reduce the effect of the business cycle. So while it's true that the market is very expensive right now, based on his measure, he notes that it's difficult to use this information to actually time the market. Just because it's expensive, doesn't mean it will go down. Furthermore, the market has been expensive based on his measure for the past 20 years (excluding the period of the recent crash), which raises the question of whether there's been some fundamental change to the economy or markets that would warrant higher valuations. Shiller's piece examines some theories. One possibility is worker anxiety, and a higher inclination to put money into savings vehicles. He doesn't give this tons of credence. Another possibility is interest rates, which have been low and going lower. Ultimately, he thinks it's simple: ...nothing I’ve come up with is a slam-dunk explanation for the continuing high level of valuations. I suspect that the real answers lie largely in the realm of sociology and social psychology — in phenomena like irrational exuberance, which, eventually, has always faded before. If the mood changes again, stock market investments may disappoint us. And of course, the mood will at some point change. Read the full piece here &gt; FREE AppDownload
AFP/Getty Images The financial crisis was so traumatizing, people haven't been able to stop worrying that it could happen again very soon. Questions like "when's the next crash?" or "when will be the next bailouts?" have been talked about basically non-stop since 2009. According to Goldman, another real bust (by which they mean a big stock market drop, a housing market drop, and a recession) is pretty unlikely. Historical analysis of past big busts done by top economist Jan Hatzius and Sven Jari Stehn shows that while there is growing risk of a stock market drop (because of the big rally) we're missing one of the key preconditions needed for a true bust: high credit growth. They write: [C]redit growth is the most important predictor of house price busts, especially when we focus on busts that involve a recession. House price busts have also tended to follow periods of high inflation, high equity volatility and large current account deficits, although all of these effects become less pronounced when we focus on recessionary busts. . ... [T]he current picture looks reasonably reassuring from a macroeconomic perspective. The runup in equity prices since 2009 has modestly raised the estimated risk of an equity bust from low to near-average levels. However, the risk of a recessionary equity bust or any kind of housing bust remains low. The key reason is the weakness of credit growth in recent years. To have a real painful crackup you need to have a major credit buildup. There have been some signs of credit accelerating lately, but overall we've barely gotten anywhere. FREE AppDownload
A common source of anxiety stems from wondering what jobs robots will take over from humans. Some people are worried that the rise of robots will have profound economic effects, causing some extreme winners and extreme losers, depending on whether you own the robot or get replaced by the robot. And some people are just concerned that robots will take their job specifically. Pew recently reviewed a 2013 paper that showed which careers have the highest "Routine Task Intensity." If there's one thing that robots are good at, it's routine tasks, the same activity over and over again. Jobs that entail routine tasks are the best candidates. Here's the list of careers with the highest Routine Task Intensity (RTI). Pew Looking at the above list, it should be kind of intuitive that these jobs are susceptible to automation. Here are the jobs with very low RTI: Pew (Via Boston.com) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Andy Bruce LONDON (Reuters) - Flashes of illumination rather than fireworks are expected at this week's annual meeting of top central bankers and economists in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Few predict anything so momentous as the speech by Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke two years ago that paved the way for an unprecedented $85 billion per month stimulus plan. But policymakers will discuss at length their thinking around the labor markets of major economies at the Aug. 21-23 meeting, perhaps dropping clues about the path for monetary policy in the months ahead. The spotlight will be on Janet Yellen, who will speak on Friday in her first appearance at Jackson Hole as Fed chair. "I don't think she's going to go anywhere close to monetary policy," said Stephen Lewis, chief economist at ADM Investor Services. "The theme of the meeting is going to be dynamics of the labor market, which is a subject very close to her heart, and it is a key question for the Fed as it tries to work out what its policy should be over the next few months." Lewis said he expected a speech similar to one given by Bernanke in March 2012, when he outlined what he thought of the various indicators of the labor market. Other speakers include Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, Central Bank of Brazil Governor Alexandre Antonio Tombini and Bank of England Deputy Governor Ben Broadbent. Further policy hints might also come in the form of minutes from the Fed and BoE's last monetary policy meetings, due to be published on Wednesday. "We look for new clues on how the Fed plans to gain greater control of the Fed funds rate as it tightens policy, while the system is still swimming in reserves as a result of the three quantitative easing programmes undertaken," said Victoria Clarke, economist at Investec. The BoE minutes will be examined for concrete signs of dissent among members of the Monetary Policy Committee, after the Bank last week seemed to push back the prospect of a rate hike this year. "With spare capacity being rapidly used up, we expect (MPC member) Martin Weale to have dissented in favour of a rate hike this month," said Philip Rush, economist at Nomura. If the minutes do not reveal the first dissenting vote to hike rates since July 2011, that would make predictions for a November rate hike from the BoE a tough ask, added Rush.   PRICE PRESSURES U.S. inflation figures for July due on Monday will also flavor the debate about the Fed's monetary policy outlook next week, with some signs emerging that price pressures are building slowly as the world's largest economy recovers. Still, few economists polled by Reuters expect any surprises. "We expect inflation data to test monetary policymakers' resolve before the end of the year, but do not expect that challenge to begin with the July report," said Brian Jones, economist at Societe Generale. Purchasing managers' indexes (PMIs) from Europe will also offer an early look at how the euro zone economy has fared this month, after data last week showed the region effectively stagnated in the second quarter. [ID:nL6N0QK29F] While a weaker euro and improving credit conditions ought to boost business activity, the European Central Bank will come under more pressure to act if the PMIs - which have a good relationship with economic growth - disappoint. "If we see any signs of softness, whether through domestic weakness or growing concerns about the Russia-Ukraine crisis, then that would really reinvigorate worries about the outlook for Europe," said James Knightley, economist at ING. Rising tension in Ukraine last Friday drove major government bond yields to their lowest level in more than a year, and the crisis could make for a volatile week ahead for financial markets. "Even if the issues today are resolved and there isn’t a shooting war, that ongoing tension between the Ukraine and Russia puts an underlying bid into the Treasury market," said Lou Brien, market strategist at DRW Trading in Chicago.   (Additional reporting by Sam Forgione; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall) FREE AppDownload
