YouTube / PredatorShorting a stock can be a huge loss of its price goes up. The major stock indices are up this year, with the Dow up nearly 8% year-to-date, and the S&amp;P 500 up 12%. But there are a number of stocks that traders have consistently shorted, or bet will fall. We compiled a list of 30 stocks with market caps over $2 billion that investors are still betting against big time. We ranked the stocks by percentage of shares outstanding held short, going from the least shorted to the most. FREE AppDownload
 In February 2013, NYU professor Nouriel Roubini made the call that US markets had entered the "mother of all asset bubbles." With the rally in stocks that we've seen this year and a surge in high-yield debt issuance, Roubini said we're now at the midpoint of the bubble, in an interview with Yahoo Finance. Next year may see more gains across markets, but the bubble, bigger than the one before the 2008 recession, could pop in 2016.  Because there is low growth, and low inflation in much of the world, there is liquidity that's leading to asset inflation, Roubini said: "I think that this frothiness that we have seen in financial markets is likely to continue, from equities to credit to housing, and in a couple of years, most likely, this asset inflation is going to become asset frothiness and eventually an asset and a credit bubble and eventually any bubble ends up in a bust and a crash. I would say that valuations in many markets, whether it’s government bonds or credit, or real estate, or some equity markets, are already stretched. And they’re going to become more stretched as the real economy justifies the slow exit, and all this liquidity is going to go into more asset inflation. So two years down the line, we could have this shakeout … 2016 I would say." His advice for investors is to be underweight US equities next year as stock valuations increase, particularly in the biotech, technology and social media sectors. Emerging markets that are heavy oil importers and will benefit from lower oil prices are attractive. Here's the full interview.      FREE AppDownload
Don Emmert/AFP/Getty ImagesIn ancient Greek mythology, the Titan Atlas was charged with holding up the world. Today, that task largely falls on the shoulders of American businesses. For the month of November, the Manufacturing Institute for Supply Management (ISM) reading was 58.7, marking the 18th consecutive month of manufacturing expansion in the U.S. Anything above 50.0 denotes growth, anything below, contraction. Among the areas that showed particularly strong growth were new orders and exports. But while the U.S. continues to expand, the rest of the world cools or, at best, remains in a holding pattern. The J.P.Morgan Global Manufacturing Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI), released Monday, registered a 14-month low of 51.8. Had the U.S.’s individual score not been as strong, the global PMI number might not have exceeded the expansion threshold. U.S. Global Investors The eurozone and China were the largest drags on global manufacturing. Whereas Europe registered a 50.1 for November—even usually dependable Germany scored a 17-month low of 49.5—China remained flat with a 50.0, the country’s lowest reading since May. You might wonder how this relates to oil prices. The answer: Quite a lot, actually. Just as the U.S. is the standout in manufacturing growth, it's also now the world leader in oil production, thanks largely to hydraulic fracturing. The two combined—global slowdown and abundant oil—have prompted the rapid decline in prices. Not only is the global PMI at a 14-month low, but it also marks the fourth-consecutive month that the one-month reading has stayed below the three-month. Regular readers might recall seeing the following chart, which helps explain why oil prices are so depressed: US Global Investors When global manufacturing has slowed in the past, so too has oil demand, driving prices down 7 percent 100 percent of the time. Today, crude has fallen much more steeply than that—35 percent since June—but other factors have contributed to the recent slump, from the strong U.S. dollar to oversupply fears. The chart also shows that when manufacturing activity has ramped up, prices have jumped over 16 percent 100 percent of the time three months later. So short of an unexpected jumpstart to global manufacturing, how else might oil break out of its trough? “The theme going into 2015 is mean reversion,” says Brian Hicks, portfolio manager of our Global Resources Fund (PSPFX). “Oil prices are below where they should be, and hopefully they’ll start gravitating back to the equilibrium price of between $80 and $85 a barrel.” Crude oil is currently down 1.2 standard deviations for the 10-year period. This might not sound like much, but as you can see, oil has rarely gone above or below one standard deviation during this time. Plus, its wild volatility during the financial crisis rejiggered the commodity’s mean. US Global Investors What the oscillator above also shows is that oil has eventually returned to where it should be, as it did not only after the financial crisis but also in the third quarters of 2011 and 2012. Barron’s pointed out in a piece published this week that “prior price slides lasted roughly 20 weeks. The current slide is already at week 24. History suggests the panic… is near its end.” Indeed, oil markets have historically been quick to recover because exploration and production become unsustainable otherwise. Several shale regions in Texas were already unprofitable at $75 per barrel. At $70, expect more companies, especially those involved in fracking and deepwater drilling, to cut production even further. The problem is, they really can’t afford to do so. It currently takes output from four or five new wells to replace the cost of one previously drilled unconventional well, which is why companies must keep up with exploration and production. And that’s just in the U.S. Many countries whose economies rely on oil exports, including Russia, Venezuela and Nigeria, will be unable to balance their budgets with $65-per-barrel oil. Though not yet underwater, Saudi Arabia might soon begin to feel the pinch, as Brent is getting treacherously close to the Kingdom’s breakeven price, which has risen about $10 per barrel in only five years. US Global Investors At the same time, many of Saudi Arabia’s traditional vertical wells can continue to operate at less than $10 per barrel. A production cut, then, is not as imperative to the Kingdom’s budget as it is to Russia’s or Venezuela’s. However, Prince Turki bin Faisal, former Saudi ambassador to the United States, stated on Tuesday that Saudi Arabia would agree to cuts only if other countries, including non-Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), participated. This indicates that, while the Kingdom doesn’t want to lose market share, it realizes action must be taken to prop up prices. And herein lies the opportunity. “Oil is way oversold right now on a relative strength basis,” Brian says. With the commodity at a five-year low, oil stocks are on sale, just in time for holiday shopping. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBitcoin is a topic of discussion almost everywhere I go. My introduction to Bitcoin came when I was speaking at a gold conference in Palm Springs and three bright-eyed, bushy-tailed college students approached me with a video camera and asked for my thoughts on Bitcoin. Noting my confusion, they began to evangelistically espouse the virtues of Bitcoin and tell me how it would save us from the evils of the Federal Reserve. I kept from rolling my eyes (you do want to encourage passion in the young) and mentioned a meeting that I had to go to – at that very moment as it turned out. Since that time Worth Wray and I and our entire team at Mauldin Economics have done a great deal of research on Bitcoin.  We will soon release a video documentary that is one of the best productions I’ve ever been involved with and that does a good job of explaining both the controversy around Bitcoin and its considerable promise. We talked with skeptics, enthusiasts, and people willing to put up tens of millions of dollars betting on the future of Bitcoin. Worth Wray has written a summary of what we know about Bitcoin. Delving into its history and bringing us up to date, he also offers a glimpse of the future. At the end of the letter I offer a few of my own thoughts on the relationships among gold, fiat money, Bitcoin, and financial transactions. If nothing else, Bitcoin offers a provocative way to think of the future of money. Now let me turn it over to Worth. Is Bitcoin the Future? By Worth Wray “Growth demands a temporary surrender of security.” – Gail Sheehy “When people write the history of this thing, of bitcoin, they are not going to write the story of 6 million to a billion. What is truly remarkable is the story of zero to 6 million. It has already happened! And we’re not paying attention! That’s incredible. That’s what had one chance in a million, and it already happened.” – Wences Casares, Founder &amp; CEO of Xapo “[Virtual currencies] may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system.” – Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, USA Yusko’s Rule  Before I teamed up with John Mauldin in July 2013, I worked as the portfolio strategist for an $18-billion money manager in Houston that, among its other businesses, co-managed (with an elite team of investors from the university endowment world) one of the largest registered funds of funds in the United States. I had a front-row seat for every investment decision in a multi-billion-dollar portfolio for almost five years, and for a bright-eyed kid from South Louisiana it was a life-changing experience that no graduate school in the world could have offered… an opportunity to learn from some of the most experienced minds in finance and hone the skills I would need to identify disruptive macro trends and build more balanced portfolios with those forces in mind. That opportunity to learn, not just about investments but also how to think about emerging trends, continues to inform everything I do today; and Morgan Creek Capital Management’s Mark Yusko – a man who has built his career on incorporating investment talent and macro themes into highly diversified portfolios – continues to be one of my most important teachers. In the course of his daily business (which involves bouncing around the world searching for new ideas and world-class talent), Yusko has evolved a rule for vetting new ideas: If I hear something once, I remember it. If I hear it twice, I write it down. If I hear it three times, I do something about it. It sounds simple, as the most valuable investment insights usually are; but Mark is not just talking about “new” ideas that appear on the front page of the New York Times or the opening segment of CNBC’s Squawk Box. He’s saying that in the course of tapping into a large pool of truly world-class thinkers – who range from hedge fund legends like Julian Robertson and Stanley Druckenmiller to venture capitalists like David Hornik and Marc Andreesson – it pays to pay attention.  Innovative ideas can grow into consensus views and missed investment opportunities before our very eyes in a world awash with information. With constant access to the web through our computers, tablets, and smart phones, it’s easy for investors to filter out valuable information in an effort to cut through all the noise; but even still, it’s possible to catch emerging trends early enough in their life cycles by holding to a homework rule: When an idea comes up over and over again – especially when it’s validated by experienced investors who command and influence vast sums of capital – it’s not necessarily time to buy, but it’s time to do your homework. And when it comes to Bitcoin, I should have done my homework earlier. Thank goodness it’s still early… What is Bitcoin, Anyway? Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer digital currency that trades on public exchanges and can be instantly transferred between any two people anywhere in the world with the speed of an email… and at FAR lower cost than for transactions processed through the traditional financial system. While a lot of people have experimented with digital currencies in the internet age, Bitcoin’s mysterious creator, “Satoshi Nakamoto,” was the first person to solve the issue of “double spending” in a completely decentralized network, meaning that all transactions are made directly between parties, with no middlemen, yet in a way that is verifiable across the entire network and virtually impossible to counterfeit. Much like the internet itself, the Bitcoin hive is essentially a distributed network of computers and people that are relying on a common technological process – the Bitcoin protocol – to confirm and validate every transaction made, using a unit of account called a “bitcoin” that can be broken down into fractions, thereby enabling previously impossible micro-transactions. The genius behind the Bitcoin protocol is an element of the system called the “blockchain” – essentially a giant, globally shared ledger of every bitcoin and every transaction in the history of the network. Whenever two people follow through with a transaction, it is broadcast throughout the entire network, and the blockchain expands as that exchange is automatically lumped together with other transactions in a new “block.” While it requires a MASSIVE amount of computing power to verify, confirm, and record every transaction that occurs within the network, it’s basically a self-funding system. Bitcoins are created through a process called “mining,” which happens to be the same mathematical process that seals blocks of new transactions onto the blockchain by verifying that every exchange is valid and using real bitcoins. By rewarding “miners” with new bitcoin for devoting their time and computing power to maintenance of the blockchain, the Bitcoin protocol provides the incentive for the network to continue running in a completely decentralized manner. In the early days, the mining process could be competitively and profitably run from a series of graphics cards linked to a home computer, but in recent years bitcoin mining has become a BIG business. Today, a lot of the mining is done on massive server farms in places like Iceland, where temperatures are cool and power is cheap. There is an upper limit of 21 million bitcoins that can ever be minted, and the protocol is designed to release a “reward” of a new bitcoin every 10 minutes until every unit of the digital currency has been created. As of today, roughly 13.5 million bitcoins have been mined, with roughly 7.5 million to go.  Source: Coinbase On paper, Bitcoin is an elegant and efficient way to streamline a global payments system; but in practice, the web of businesses and support structures around the Bitcoin protocol must pass a wide range of tests, from storage security and compliance to the creation of tradable derivatives and merchant adoption, before any kind of digital revolution can begin. That said, Bitcoin – or something like it – has the potential to do for finance what the internet has done for communications and commerce… and we’re already six years into the process.  Bit by Bit When I heard about Bitcoin for the first time, I dismissed it almost immediately. It seemed like a half-baked scheme cooked up by a bunch of technically skilled but financially naïve computer nerds to disrupt a global financial system that none of them really understood. Early adopters espoused ideas about freeing the individual from the tyranny of a government-controlled money supply; but in order to pull off their grand vision, Bitcoin’s programming forefathers had to convince enough people to put their trust in the system – without governments shutting them down in the process. It seemed unlikely. In the early days – 2009 and 2010 – a single bitcoin traded for pennies… – but its value was basically unknowable. The digital currency had virtually no daily trading volume; its price swung around wildly (volatility that only became more pronounced over time); and aside from experimental transactions within a small online community, it was virtually useless as a reliable unit of account or medium of exchange.  Internet legend has it that the first real-world Bitcoin transaction was a long-distance arrangement made on May 18, 2010, between an American programmer named Laszlo Hanyecz and a fellow enthusiast he met on the Bitcoin Talk forum. Apparently, Hanyecz offered to pay 10,000 bitcoins to anyone willing to buy him pizza, and an Englishman took him up on the offer… making an international phone call to a Papa John’s in Jacksonville, Florida, in exchange for roughly $25 in bitcoins at the then-current exchange rate. I can’t help but wonder if that Englishman turned around and spent his 10,000 bitcoins or saved them for a rainy day. At today’s US dollar exchange rate, they would be worth nearly $3.8 million. The second time I heard about Bitcoin (about a year later), it sounded a lot more interesting as a medium of exchange; but it seemed imminently doomed by regulation. The virtual currency had risen from a price around of $0.0025 the day of Laszlo Hanyecz’s pizza purchase to nearly $30 in early 2011 as Bitcoin became the basis for real-world transactions within the Bitcoin community… and the preferred medium of exchange for nefarious activities on the web.  Following the embarrassing release of US diplomatic cables to the general public in late 2010, the US government organized a financial blockade against the hacker/whistleblower Julian Assange and his nonprofit firm WikiLeaks. When Bank of America, Visa, Mastercard, PayPal, and Western Union refused to transmit donations to WikiLeaks, the nonprofit started accepting donations in Bitcoin. As the price of Bitcoin began to rise, it saw another big uptick in volume when an online black market named Silk Road launched in early 2011, enabling the sale of illicit drugs and forged IDs exclusively in exchange for Bitcoin.  Business boomed, and the Bitcoin community expanded from computer nerds to mischievous hackers and anonymous drug dealers who wished to skirt the financial system and/or the eyes of the law. And for the libertarians and anarchists who embraced Bitcoin as an anti-QE investment at this stage, it essentially became an enlightened bet against corrupt governments.  Teething Issues  Within a few months the price of Bitcoin surged to nearly $30… and then Mt. Gox, the most popular Bitcoin exchange, was hacked and trading suspended for several days in June 2011. In the following months the price collapsed by roughly 90% to less than $3, but that was not the end of Bitcoin. “Naturally there were teething issues,” my friend Grant Williams explained in his April 2013 letter, “Bit Happens,” “exchanges were hacked and wallets full of bitcoins stolen after being left unprotected on users’ computers; and [there was] much bad press… but slowly and steadily the marketplace weathered the growing pains and, as more and more merchants began accepting payment in bitcoins, the community broadened into something more than just a weird underground movement.” Trading volume increased in the months that followed, and the price of Bitcoin trended upward, albeit in volatile fashion with two 35%+ drops in 2012:  But Bitcoin generally stayed under most investors’ radars until March 16, 2013, when a banking crisis in Cyprus sent savers across southern Europe scrambling for a way to get their money out of harm’s way. Google searches for the word bitcoin surged to all-time highs.  Source: Google Trends Although the financial risks to the Cypriot banking system were rather obvious to economists in the months leading up to the panic, it struck almost without warning for most citizens, explains Sovereign Man’s Simon Black: On Friday, March 15, 2013, practically everyone in [Cyprus] went to bed thinking that everything was just fine. Many had probably gone to the bank that very day to do business, or logged on to an Internet banking platform. Yet the very next morning, they woke to a completely new reality: the nation’s banks were broke, and the government was in no position to rescue them. All the promises they had been told about government guarantees and having a ‘well-regulated’, sound banking system turned out to be lies. The government proclaimed a bank holiday, and banks remained closed for the next several days. Accounts were frozen and ATM withdrawals were limited to only 100 euros a day. Eventually the plan materialized [as a hard-line demand from the island nation’s German creditors]: substantial portions of deposits over 100,000 euros would be confiscated in exchange for equity in the banks. (Just imagine – Bank of America, RBC, or Lloyds takes your money and gives you stock certificates that subsequently plummet in value!) And for everyone else, severe capital controls were instituted – some of the worst in decades. Here again we see a peculiar property of Bitcoin: its value is bid up in a time of desperate uncertainty, and it is able to circumvent the traditional banking system and government-imposed restrictions on capital flows. Savers in Cyprus could convert their cash to Bitcoin in an effort to escape local capital controls, but most of their funds had already been locked up in the bank holiday, aside from 100 euros a day, which in aggregate had a meaningful effect on Bitcoin’s price. The burning question at that moment was how much Cypriot savers could expect to recover. Their fate was a warning to savers in other fragile Eurozone member states. With the rising fear that the same kind of policies could be imposed on their countries next, savers in Greece, Spain, Portugal, etc. started abandoning their euro-denominated bank accounts for the “safety” of Bitcoin. In the event of contagion and banking collapse, Bitcoin balances could be moved out of the country rather than getting clogged in the system… and so the price naturally surged to a peak of $230 by early April 9, 2013. But with more trading volume than the exchange could handle, problems arose, and hackers attacked, forcing another trading halt and making off with over $8.5 million in customer bitcoins. Then the idea of widespread levies on Cypriot bank accounts was dropped, and fears subsided across the Euro area. The price of a bitcoin fell more than 60%, although it remained far above its pre-crisis peak of $47.  With the virtual currency in the news and on the periphery of my radar screen, this was the third time I was forced to think about Bitcoin. I assumed the price surge would be the beginning of a government crackdown and the likely legal death of the experiment… so I continued to ignore it as an investment opportunity. Wrong again. Bitcoin fell back into relative obscurity for several months, as indicated by Google searches:  Source: Google Trends But rather than cracking down on Bitcoin itself, the US government went after nefarious dealers like Silk Road and effectively found itself invested in the virtual currency (which it later auctioned off to the general public). Despite the price collapse, Bitcoin had caught the world’s attention, and venture capitalists started pouring real money ($88 million in 2013 compared to $36 million in 2012) into a wide range of related businesses, from wallet providers and exchanges to payment processing and other financial services. That meant not only an injection of capital but also a massive influx of expertise into an industry still dominated by inefficient and/or poorly run firms. At that moment, it started to seem that Bitcoin might just change the world. Bitcoin downloads spread like wildfire across the emerging world by the summer of 2013…  … and the search term bitcoin was suddenly more popular than ever:  Then China’s state-owned TV station, CCTV, aired a documentary on the crypto-currency around the same time that serious cracks started to show in China’s “miracle” economy. Suddenly China’s credit markets were acting more erratically than during the global financial crisis, and Bitcoin saw its greatest surge in demand to date – again as a way of circumventing the traditional banking system and the limited mix of financial assets available to Chinese investors. As China’s interbank market began to freeze in the summer of 2013, John and I were watching closely. Here’s an excerpt from the August 31, 2013 Thoughts from the Frontline, “How Do I Hate Thee”: The next chart shows the recent price spike in the Chinese SHIBOR (their short-term interbank rate, more or less equivalent to LIBOR). It is difficult to trust any of the economic data (positive or negative) coming out of China, so we really do not know whether China's growth story is simply moderating or whether we are seeing a hard landing in progress; but the sudden shock in interbank lending rates is an important sign that all is not well in the Middle Kingdom. The big question: is the recent SHIBOR spike a harbinger of a banking crisis, or does it presage an RMB devaluation? Interbank rates do not spike from 3% to 13% (in about 2.5 weeks) in a healthy economy, and a big event along these lines in China would have enormous implications for global growth.  As I’ve written over the course of the past year, John and I have been nervously watching China’s slowdown and have voiced real concern over the possibility of capital flight if and when a debt crisis bubbles over; but we clearly underestimated the role that Bitcoin was already playing in China. By late November 2013 demand for the virtual currency had grown so fast in the People’s Republic that BTC China quickly became the largest Bitcoin exchange in the world, and over 100,000 bitcoins were trading every day in China alone:  The price of Bitcoin surged by more than 10x, from $87 to over $1000, as Chinese savers piled in…  ... until emerging-market central banks in places like China, India, Taiwan, and Thailand started to grasp the threat that Bitcoin’s rise posed in a world where US monetary policy was tightening and capital flows could reverse dramatically. While the People’s Bank of China did not explicitly ban owning or mining Bitcoin, it issued a statement in December 2013 saying that the virtual currency was “not a currency in the real meaning of the word” and that “it cannot and should not be used as a currency circulating in the market.” In addition to firm language intended to cool the speculative fever among Chinese investors, the State Council mandated a series of prohibitions on Bitcoin trading and forced banks and other payment institutions to refrain from dealing in the cryptocurrency… warning that virtual currencies like Bitcoin posed “a risk to the public interest and legal status of the renminbi.” In other words, the People’s Bank of China all but spelled out that Bitcoin was an avenue by which local savers could circumvent long-standing Chinese capital controls. If Chinese investors continued to pile into Bitcoin, they could set up a situation where capital could leave very quickly in the event of a panic… or, in the meantime, the money could leave temporarily and then “round-trip” its way back into the Chinese economy, seeking the benefits afforded only to foreign investors. From its peak in early December 2013, the price of Bitcoin fell more than 40% before finding its bottom. And the average daily trading volume in China fell from over 100,000 in November 2013 to only 2,000 today.  As if the crackdowns in China and other emerging markets in December 2013 and January 2014 were not enough, rumors began to swirl in February that the world’s largest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox, had been hacked and more than $460 million in customer Bitcoin had been stolen. In a Wired magazine article published in March 2014, “The Inside Story of Mt. Gox, Bitcoin’s $460 Million Disaster,” Robert McMillan explained it was not just one-time event but a “years-long hack,” dating back to the June 2011 incident. “According to a leaked Mt. Gox document… hackers had been skimming the company for years.” Mt. Gox quickly went offline and collapsed into bankruptcy. It was a devastating blow to confidence in the entire Bitcoin system. With the shock that client accounts could be so insecure for so long, the value of Bitcoin plummeted another 60%+ in the following months. With the successive blows, Bitcoin fell from nearly $1,200 in early December 2013 to less than $360 by April 2014 – a whopping 70% loss. And then I really started paying attention. At a dinner following John’s annual Strategic Investment Conference in San Diego, Raoul Pal (author of Global Macro Investor and co-founder of Real Vision TV) helped me to see Bitcoin in a totally different light. He explained that Bitcoin could be as transformative for finance as the internet has been for commerce and communication, and it could happen FAST… especially if central banks and governments mismanage the next global downturn to the detriment of a highly leveraged, highly interconnected financial system. Or, in a less extreme scenario, the Bitcoin protocol could quietly but steadily replace the decades-old payment system that underpins the current system. Up to that moment I had never really taken the time to understand the technology behind Bitcoin or how it could change the world… but the sudden fall in valuation was interesting. I had seen a lot of chatter about Bitcoin’s wild price swings in the media and on Twitter (feel free to follow us at @WorthWray and @JohnFMauldin), and I had heard wild claims from Libertarians and anarchists that this Bitcoin would soon replace the US dollar and all other forms of fiat money. I knew Bitcoin was an interesting way that money could flow freely around government-imposed capital controls in the emerging world. But until that moment I completely failed to grasp what Bitcoin could really mean for the global financial system. I’ll omit the finer details of my conversation with Raoul, but suffice it to say that it kicked off the six-month research project that has inspired and enabled this letter... and pushed my wife, Adrienne, and me to start buying some Bitcoin of our own… not as an all-out bet on Bitcoin’s future but as an option on its development. Either Bitcoin becomes a new foundation stone of the global financial system – delivering a handsome return in the process – or it will give way to something even more powerful. It’s a pretty binary range of outcomes, but it’s worth taking on some exposure with a small percentage of our savings. The Five Phases of Adoption In an effort to understand how Bitcoin could continue to mature, I sat down with Barry Silbert, founder of the Bitcoin Investment Trust. As one the most active venture capitalists in the industry (with investments in over 30 bitcoin-related portfolio companies through the Bitcoin Opportunity Corp), Barry has gone all-in on Bitcoin and Bitcoin-related businesses. He believes the halting rise of Bitcoin from 2009 to 2014 is just the beginning… and that the virtual payment system may be approaching a big inflection point as Wall Street takes the baton from Silicon Valley. Barry thinks about Bitcoin adoption in five general phases: If Barry is right, Bitcoin’s continued rise depends on (1) Wall Street money flowing in to deepen the digital currency’s trading volume and fuel the development of hedging instruments, (2) continued innovation to make Bitcoin more secure and more user friendly, (3) broad acceptance by merchants as a medium of exchange, and (4) an explosion in public awareness. It’s impossible to know for sure yet… but it looks like all four of those are taking place. Satoshi’s Revolution Crosses the Chasm While search volumes have moderated, the trend in broad public interest is rising.  Source: Google Trends And while the price of Bitcoin has continued its downward trend, it seems that the network continues to deepen and mature.  Over time, many investors have realized that it was not a problem with the Bitcoin protocol that allowed the security breach at Mt. Gox or the frequent theft of unsecured bitcoins, it was inadequate security – basically, poor business practices – at the exchanges and wallet providers. Rather than exposing some flaw in Bitcoin, the collapse of Mt. Gox revealed the desperate need for better management and the opportunity for improving the services that surround the Bitcoin network. And the venture capital community has certainly responded. This year, by the end of Q3 2014, over $290 million of venture investments had flowed into Bitcoin-related businesses, compared to the $250 million that poured into internet-related businesses in 1995.  Source: CoinDesk And the trend toward greater average daily trading volume has continued to rise.  Source: Blockchain.info Not only is real money starting to flow into the growth industries surrounding Bitcoin, but real businesses are starting to accept bitcoins as payment. At the end of Q3 2014, the top eight companies accepting payments in Bitcoin had annual revenues totaling more than $85 billion, and among them was Dell.  Source: CoinDesk The price of Bitcoin may swing dramatically in the coming days, months, quarters, and years. The currency may not survive in its current form… but the technology underpinning it is not going away any time soon. Thoughts on Bitcoin from John If you ask me whether I truly believe that in 2050 the main medium of exchange will be paper money, the very quick answer is that I don’t. I also think there is a better than reasonable chance that it won’t be a fiat currency. But will it be Bitcoin? My best guess is that it will not be Bitcoin as currently constructed but rather an evolved version. I know the following will be somewhat controversial, but work through with me on what I hope will be a helpful way to think about money in general. The current structure of Bitcoin carries the same inherent flaw that gold does (and to some extent the euro, too): in a world of ever-increasing abundance, gold is massively deflationary and provides unreasonable “rents” to those who hold it. Even given that inherent flaw, it has been the most stable store of value for millennia. To think about what money will be in the future you have to shake off the chains of the past and your preconceived notions of what money is. Money is not just, or should I say, is more than a medium of exchange. It is also a medium of information. It tells us what the marketplace wants and the price it is willing to pay for a particular good or service. The (often fatal) flaw in fiat currencies is that they manipulate and distort the information contained within the currency, thereby damaging the information flows involved in the exchange of goods and services. For instance, the practice of quantitative easing engaged in by major central banks has encouraged money to go into certain markets (such as stocks), distorting the information reflected in the price. Rather than looking for the information provided by the market and adjusting our investments and purchases accordingly, we are forced to focus on the information provided by the Federal Reserve and its quantitative easing. To confuse the actions of the Federal Reserve with the actions of the market is to miss the point that the Federal Reserve is actively manipulating the market for its own purposes, however positively motivated. Advocates of gold believe that a gold-backed currency would eliminate that price distortion, and they have a point. However, if we were to decide to use gold as the sole basis for our currency, we would have to value it at some order of magnitude higher than it is today in order not to create massive deflationary instability. I’m not sure that $10,000 or even $20,000 per ounce of gold would be nearly high enough, given the massive amount of sovereign debt in the world. But even supposing that we (as a global system) could somehow manage to deal with the logistical nightmare of moving to a single, physical, commodity-backed currency, future growth in the world would soon overwhelm the limited supply of gold, and the prices of goods and services would deflate over time, creating their own backlash. History buffs will recall William Jennings Bryan and his famous cry, “We [mostly referring to farmers] will not be crucified on a cross of gold!” Now some might see ever-falling prices as a good thing, but they would induce a different type of instability in the system. Given the overwhelming extent of global debt, I think the chances of moving to a physical currency based on gold are slim to none, and Slim left on the morning train. Go back and read the economic history of the latter half of the 1800s in the US. From one point of view it was a golden era of growth and prosperity driven by huge leaps in technology. But it created serious problems for many of those on the lower economic rungs. If you think income inequality is a problem today, then you won’t like what happened in the late 1800s. The leaders of that era came together to try to create a new system that could prevent the frequent panics and crashes that were inherent in the financial system of the day, and eventually we got the Federal Reserve and other ostensible improvements. But that does not mean the current system of central banks and fiat currencies does not have its own flaws. We should not limit our thinking to the economic systems of the past or present as we think about a future economic system. How do we create a truly stable, equitable, and efficient basis for exchange? While I think that Bitcoin as currently configured has limitations, the technology of the blockchain is one of the most potentially revolutionary developments of the last century. I think we evolve to Bitcoin 2.0 or 3.0, using the same blockchain technology, but with a way to make the new currency a truly stable medium of information that can be easily exchanged for goods and services. Why not create a currency that is backed by a number of commodities, with gold perhaps as the backbone? Why even limit ourselves to commodities? Bitcoin as currently configured could be part of the basket. Anything that can be represented in a digital form and has a reasonably stable long-term value could be considered. All I want from my currency is to be able to buy and sell goods and services, make investments, and have a reasonable expectation as to what my currency will be worth in terms of purchasing power if I hold it for months or years. I think that some of the clever venture capitalists who are exploring Bitcoin will join forces with one or more large international investment banks and create something along those lines. And once someone shows the way, breaking the chains of the past, we will have a period of innovation rivaling the Cambrian explosion. The vast majority of my purchases are electronic today. I think that percentage will continue to grow. Frankly, I really don’t care what happens inside “the system” after I wave my iPhone over the new Apple Pay device (or use my credit card). I just want to walk out of the store with my purchases. (In the not too distant future there will be an extremely tiny RFID chip embedded in my hand, or at least on my person, which will also serve 100 other purposes.) The Bitcoin blockchain technology allows for the most secure electronic transactions ever devised. Its adoption and acceptance seem inevitable to me. It will be used to validate everything we purchase: stocks, homes, investments, airplane tickets, etc. It will be a far cheaper and much more secure way to validate your ownership of anything, from your home to your stocks. The blockchain will form the basis for the perfect medium of information exchange (at least as perfect as we humans can create), which in turn will be the basis for whatever electronic medium of financial exchange we evolve in the future. The market (that would be you and me) will move to whatever new medium serves our purposes best. Satoshi, as technologically brilliant as he (or she or they) was, was limited in his understanding of economic exchange. He was trying to create electronic gold. To some degree, he was confusing technology with money. He was trying to overcome the flaws of our current monetary system (a very laudable goal, I might add) but limited himself to thinking within the box in which the current monetary system placed him. The next generation of Bitcoin developers are going to crawl out of that box and create whole new realms of possibilities. Once you realize that money is just information, and all you need to do is to provide the most stable mechanism of the transfer of information, you turn thinking about money on its head. This is going to be massive amounts of fun to watch. Staying Close to Home Thanksgiving and its aftermath has been a relaxing time for me, letting me charge my batteries for the rather large amount of work that I must do before the end of the year. There is a lot to think about. While there are a few potential trips in December, I will spend the bulk of my time here in Dallas before my travel schedule picks up next year. It’s time to hit the send button. I think I will close the letter without my usual personal comments. Have a great week! Your excited about all the innovations coming in our future analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Winner winner, chicken dinner. The suit — which accused Gagosian of tricking Perelman into spending $4 million on a Popeye sculpture — was billed as "the feud that's shaking gallery walls" in The New York Times. In reality, the appellate division of the New York Supreme Court found that Perelman didn't have much of an argument. Here's the background: First, you have to know that it's really hard to buy art at a high level without the help of dealers. Sure, you can buy at auction, but what you want doesn't always pop up. A dealer's job is to do the looking for you. They also do about as much secondary-market selling as the auction houses, behind the scenes and without any advertising. Often the only way to get the good stuff is to be the client of a dealer. This is a relationship business, but it's also an asymmetrical-information business. The market is unregulated and operates on backroom handshakes. The whole thing perpetuates itself because the dealer knows more than either the buyer or the seller (usually). That's how they earn their hefty fees. And because works of art are generally unique and purchased by uber-wealthy people who aren't super price-sensitive, it's really hard to compare data on even the stuff that gets sold publicly. What someone is willing to pay for a Picasso today isn't necessarily even close to what someone is going to be willing to pay next year. Even the auction houses, which have hundreds of years of data, are pretty bad at predicting sale prices. Associated PressA Jeff Koons Popeye statute on display in Frankfurt. In another, Perelman says that Gagosian quoted him a price of $8 million for a Cy Twombly painting, “Leaving Paphos Ringed with Waves.” Perelman thought about it for a bit, then finally decided he wanted it. By that time, Gagosian said it had already been sold to someone else, according to the lawsuit. Sorry, dude. A little while later, Gagosian allegedly came back and said this person would sell the Twombly to Perelman, but now for $11.5 million. Eventually they settled on $10.5 million. Perelman says he got ripped off. Gagosian says he actually lost money on the transaction (because Perelman traded in a bunch of works instead of paying straight cash). The court found that, whatever this was, it wasn't fraud. From the decision: As a matter of law, these sophisticated plaintiffs cannot demonstrate reasonable reliance because they conducted no due diligence; for example, they did not ask defendants, 'Show us your market data' ... As to the claim that defendants misrepresented the value of certain art works, statements about the value of art constitute 'nonactionable opinion that provide[s] no basis for a fraud claim.' The thing about this case is it proves it's probably pointless to sue your art dealer unless there's some fundamental change in the transparency requirements for selling art (although I'm sure it won't stop a handful of overly litigious collectors from doing it anyway). In art, the price is what you are willing to pay. A dealer's only responsibility is to try to maximize that price, in almost whatever way he wants. In other words, a price quoted by a dealer is not a fact. It's just, like, his opinion, man.    FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesThe worst part of going out to dinner with a group of friends is figuring out who owes what at the end of the night. All too often, once everyone's chipped in, there's either not enough money on the table, or way too much. When trying to plan for retirement, or figure out whether to make an investment, one helpful thing to know is how long it will take to double your initial capital. And when you're considering taking a new job with an annual salary, it might be useful to know how that salary compares with what you'd earn at a job with an hourly pay rate. Some handy math tricks can help you figure out each of these situations quickly — and without having to resort to pulling out the calculator on your phone. We've assembled seven such tricks and talk a little about how they all work. Eric Platt and Walt Hickey contributed to earlier versions of this article. FREE AppDownload
Despite falling oil prices, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) voted on November 27th not to cut production in order to boost prices. The key to this decision appears to have been the attitude of Saudi Arabia, which has long been the first among equals in the coalition. Not surprisingly, the decision led to further oil price declines, and led many observers to conclude that OPEC has largely lost the ability to upwardly influence the price of petroleum. But this determination ignores the wider geopolitical considerations that may be convincing Saudi Arabia to be perfectly content, for now, with lower prices. With about 20 percent of the world's proven oil reserves and producing between 10 and 13 percent of the global oil usage, Saudi Arabia is the world's leading oil producer ahead of the U.S., China, Iran and Canada. Perhaps more importantly, with its developed and easily accessible oil fields, Saudi Arabia has some of the lowest "lifting costs" in the world. Some estimate that it only costs the Saudis less than $5 to extract a barrel of oil from its fields. This is stark contrast to the much higher costs in rival countries and offshore and of shale producers. This permits the Saudis to withstand a protracted price slump far easier than other countries. The Saudis can use this ability as a weapon to achieve its strategic ends. Modern U.S./Saudi relations were shaped towards the end of WWII by negotiations between President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Saudi King Ibn Saud. In return for Saudi cooperation over oil, the United States guaranteed Saudi Arabia military protection. Despite the clear ideological differences between a conservative Wahabbi Sunni Kingdom and a Western democracy, this policy has largely held for some 68 years. Saudi Arabia exercised moderation and consistency over oil supplies from the Arab Gulf. In return, the United States led an impressive Allied military defeat of an Iraqi threat to Saudi Arabia in Gulf War I. While the current dip in energy prices clearly does hurt Saudi Arabia, it hurts her enemies far more, particularly Iran and Russia, which has been a key enabler of Iranian power and an international pariah on its own. Putting pressure on Russia has also become a key strategic interest of Washington. For many oil exporting nations, the tax revenues generated from petroleum constitute a major portion of government budgets and have become essential to the maintenance of long-term solvency. Nations like Russia, with oil generating 50 percent of tax revenues in 2013, according to the Ministry of Finance, are assumed to have a 'Budget Break Even Cost' (BBEC) of around $105 per barrel based on Citi Research's data. Obviously the current price, less than $70 per barrel, is placing a great deal of strain on President Putin's finances. Iran has a BBEC of some $131 oil. Recovering from recent sanctions, Iran has few currency reserves. Therefore, oil at $70 will necessitate an early cut in government spending, risking civil discontent and possible regime change. Saudi Arabia is assumed to have a lower BBEC of some $98 per barrel. And although current prices are lower than that, over decades Saudi Arabia has accumulated vast foreign exchange reserves. As a result, many observers believe she can sustain her economic budget for a considerable time with oil selling at below $93 a barrel. Meanwhile, countries such as Russia, Iran and, particularly, Venezuela, which already is nearing default on its debt, must start cutting government spending to reflect depleted oil revenues. These outcomes are firmly in the interests of both Saudi Arabia and her longtime strategic partner, the United States. And although U.S. consumers are now enjoying the benefits of lower fuel costs, which will help spark consumer demand, the threat to the U.S. energy industry should not be overlooked. U.S. oil companies have invested heavily in horizontal oil drilling and so-called fracking to increase well yields. U.S. domestic oil production has risen significantly over the past five years and now approaches 8 million barrels per day based on data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). However, much of this investment was made on the basis of $100 oil. If the price stays below $70 for long, the continued viability of some smaller U.S. oil companies might be threatened, particularly in Texas and South Dakota. Citigroup Inc.'s recent forecast that the U.S. would pump 14.2 million barrels per day by 2020 could prove illusive and result in job losses. However, there are more serious strategic concerns currently in play. The Obama Administration's recent engagement with Iran may be of great concern to the Saudis, who consider Iran to be a mortal threat. Currently, the U.S. and Iran are in protracted negotiations over Iranian nuclear capabilities. The U.S. appears to be willing to acquiesce to Iranian desires in exchange for more cooperation against ISIS. These concerns may have escalated this week when it was announced that Iran had recently conducted air strikes against ISIS insurgents within Iraqi territory. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry reacted to these revelations as a "welcome development." Although ISIS should be considered an enemy to both the U.S. and Iran, American acceptance of Iranian military intervention in Iraq can be seen as a clear shift in Washington's policy towards Tehran. If such is the case, the Saudis may begin to feel 'dumped' by Obama, and may be tempted to turn more forcefully towards China, the world's largest oil importer, offering cheap oil in return for strategic protection against a new American-backed Iranian regional threat. The effects of international recession and the U.S. 'oil boom' were slow to create a production glut because, until recently, production from Iran, Russia, Iraq and Libya was curtailed by sanctions and war. Cheap oil likely will protect and increase Saudi Arabia's oil market share. The real costs of Obama's dropping the U.S.'s 68-year friendship with Saudi Arabia in favor of Iran are becoming increasingly apparent. If Saudi Arabia is forced closer to China, taking with her other Arab Gulf States (OAPEC), the long-range implications could be extremely serious for America and Europe. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA sign is seen advertising a weekly rental location in Williston, North Dakota."Oh my God," exclaimed Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey after the jobs report. "The economy is literally blasting off." The Dow and S&amp;P closed at record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: 1. US companies added 321,000 nonfarm payrolls in November, which was much stronger than the 230,000 expected by economists. October's number was revised up to 243,000 from an earlier estimate of 214,000. November's report was the 50th straight month of job gains for the US economy, the longest streak on record. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.8% and the labor force participation rate held steady at 62.8%. 2. "Blowout," "startling," and "whopping" were just a few of the ways Wall Street reacted to the report. Stocks rallied, the dollar surged, and gold and bonds tumbled. The Dow set an intraday high of 17,991.19. The S&amp;P 500 set an intraday high of 2,079.47. 3. Millenials have been big winners in 2014. "In the last year, the unemployment rate for workers between the ages of 25 and 34 has fallen sharply, from 7.4% to 6.1%," BI's Myles Udland noted. "The number of unemployed people in this age group has fallen from 2.51 million one year ago to 2.08 million in November 2014" 4. The US trade deficit narrowed slightly to $43.4 billion in October; economists had forecast $41.2 billion. "Oil exports fell by $1.4B in response to the drop in prices but imports were little changed, so we expect a hefty improvement in the oil numbers for November and December," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Sheperdson said. "Overall, though, the trade numbers seem to be on course to be a serious drag on fourth quarter growth, subtracting as much as 1 percentage point from the GDP number." 5. Factory orders unexpectedly fell 0.7%, which was well below expectations for 0.0%. 6. Consumer credit balances increased by just $13.22 billion in October, which was lighter than the $16.5 billion expected. Non-revolving credit, which includes auto loans and student loans, increased by $12.3 billion. Revolving credit, which includes credit card debt, climbed by $922 million. Don't Miss: Byron Wien Made 10 Big Predictions For 2014 — Here's How They're Doing » FREE AppDownload
With the Russian ruble’s value at historic lows and the country’s central bank predicting an imminent recession, President Vladimir Putin struck a combative tone in his annual address to the Federal Assembly in Moscow on Thursday. Criticizing international sanctions imposed after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, he said, “talking to Russia from a position of force is an exercise in futility.” If Putin meant to instill confidence in the health of the Russian economy among his listeners, he probably lessened the effect by practically begging Russians with assets overseas — even assets obtained through potentially illegal means — to bring their money home. “I propose a full amnesty for capital returning to Russia,” Putin said, according to an English translation of his remarks provided by the Kremlin. “I stress, full amnesty.” “It means,” he continued, “that if a person legalizes his holdings and property in Russia, he will receive firm legal guarantees that he will not be summoned to various agencies, including law enforcement agencies, that they will not ‘put the squeeze’ on him, that he will not be asked about the sources of his capital and methods of its acquisition, that he will not be prosecuted or face administrative liability, and that he will not be questioned by the tax service or law enforcement agencies. “We all understand that the sources of assets are different, that they were earned or acquired in various ways. However, I am confident that we should finally close, turn the ‘offshore page’ in the history of our economy and our country. It is very important and necessary to do this.” Bloomberg, Business InsiderHere's what the US dollar-Russian ruble exchange rate looks like over the past five years:As the economic situation in Russia becomes increasingly dire, the government is turning to more desperate measures — such as soliciting the capital of likely criminals. With Vladimir Putin comparing opponents of Russia’s militarism to the Nazis, the worry is that he will further escalate tensions in Europe, leading to a broader economic crisis on the continent. In Russia, two of the major classes of people who have large amounts of capital overseas are organized criminal groups and the so-called oligarchs, the people who profited in extraordinary, and sometimes illegal, ways after the fall of Communism left control of former state enterprises up for grabs. In stressing that there would be no prosecution, Putin appeared to explicitly leave the door open to money obtained illegally. “He’s talking to people who have engaged in corporate raiding,” said Professor Louise Shelley, founder and director of the Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center at George Mason University in Fairfax, VA. “There are thousands of cases where people who have used criminal processes and false documents to acquire assets. He’s talking to organized crime figures who have taken over businesses.” She added, “There are no large fortunes that are entirely clean money in Russia.” It should be no surprise that Russia is desperate to bring more capital into the country. In the months since Russian troops invaded Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula last summer, capital flight from country’s economy has intensified. The Finance Ministry now predicts total outflows of $125 billion in 2014, and has increased its estimate for 2015 to $90 billion from $50 billion. In addition, foreign direct investment in Russia has largely dried up. However, experts on the subject of transnational crime and capital flows said that Putin’s proposal probably won’t work. “It's an astonishingly naive — or disingenuous — proposal,” wrote New York University Professor Mark Galeotti in an email. “The primary reason for the massive and increasing levels of illegal capital flight, despite Russia's low tax rate, is precisely because people do not trust the system. They fear predatory and corrupt officials within the tax authorities, the judiciary and the other control mechanisms, and do not believe the courts can or do protect property rights adequately.” Galeotti continued, “A simple promise from the president will not, in my opinion, make the slightest difference. However, given that this is as close to a concrete policy proposal in what is the most arid and insubstantial State of the Federation address that I can remember, it very much demonstrates both the lack of ideas in the Kremlin and their concern about the outflow of money, reflecting a lack of faith in the government and Russia's future.” In his speech, Putin also addressed international outrage over his country’s annexation of Crimea earlier this year. And, despite his claim that “we will never enter the path of self-isolation, xenophobia, suspicion and the search for enemies,” he posited a U.S.-led conspiracy to repress the Russian state. “Crimea, the ancient Korsun or Chersonesus, and Sevastopol have invaluable civilizational and even sacral importance for Russia, like the Temple Mount in Jerusalem for the followers of Islam and Judaism,” Putin said. “And this is how we will always consider it.” Putin discussed the efforts of the U.S. to assist the struggling Ukrainian government, saying, “I mentioned our American friends for a reason, since they are always influencing Russia’s relations with its neighbors, either openly or behind the scenes. Sometimes it is even unclear whom to talk to: to the governments of certain countries or directly with their American patrons and sponsors.” Putin said the sanctions imposed by the West after the invasion of Crimea — and stiffened in response to Russia’s ongoing support for violent separatist groups in the eastern part of Ukraine — are actually part of a larger plan to diminish Russia, and would have been implemented regardless of events in Ukraine. “If none of that had ever happened, they would have come up with some other excuse to try to contain Russia’s growing capabilities, affect our country in some way, or even take advantage of it,” he said. “The policy of containment was not invented yesterday. It has been carried out against our country for many years, always, for decades, if not centuries. In short, whenever someone thinks that Russia has become too strong or independent, these tools are quickly put into use.” He suggested that foreign governments have worked behind the scenes to abet the “disintegration and dismemberment” of Russia with “all the tragic fallout” for the Russian people. “It didn’t work. We didn’t allow that to happen,” he said. “Just as it did not work for Hitler with his people-hating ideas, who set out to destroy Russia and push us back beyond the Urals. Everyone should remember how it ended. “We will do this even if some governments attempt to create a new iron curtain around Russia.” FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Alcorn/ReutersWind energy is environmentally friendly, but difficult to store.Congress passed the wind production tax credit (PTC) more than two decades ago to spur development in an industry still in its infancy. The wind sector has since matured into adulthood, prompting thousands of turbine farms to sprout in fields across the country. The credit, worth 2.3 cents per kilowatt hour of wind electricity produced, expired at the end of 2013 but is being considered for renewal as part of a package of tax breaks that passed the House on Wednesday and is expected to pass the Senate before Christmas. But before that happens, the PTC deserves a critical reevaluation. And the results don’t look good. When they passed it in 1992,lawmakers had hoped the credit would create a robust domestic wind infrastructure and allow the renewable resource to chip away at fossil fuel’s mammoth share of US energy production. The hope was that the industry could eventually thrive without the subsidy. The PTC provided incentives that contributed to the development of roughly 58,000 megawatts of wind electricity. But recent evidence shows that those additional megawatts were merely a response to an overzealous subsidy environment, rather than real-world improvements in wind efficiency and cost reductions. Since the PTC’s latest expiration last year, the growth in wind power has plummeted, from 13,128 megawatts of added capacity in 2012 to only 1,255 megawatts of additional electricity so far this year. Similar drops have occurred during the several previous lapses in the PTC, lending credence to the idea that wind’s rise has been born entirely from heavy subsidies. Union of Concerned ScientistsImpact of PTC expiration The words of Warren Buffet, whose Berkshire Hathaway has invested billions of dollars in wind farms, speak for themselves: “[W]e get a tax credit if we build a lot of wind farms. That’s the only reason to build them. They don’t make sense without the tax credit.” There’s a good reason the growth in wind capacity has fallen to pre-PTC levels: the cost to install a new wind farm has not dropped as significantly as lawmakers had hoped. They intended the credit to ignite a rapid push for innovation in the wind sector, driving down production and installation costs. Instead, we’ve witnessed little change in wind installation prices, with costs in the late 2000s actually rising above those experienced a decade earlier. These numbers reflect how a significant subsidy has failed to make wind power a competitive market option. So what’s the harm in keeping the PTC if it has managed at a minimum to increase the total amount of electricity generated by wind power? Isn’t any progress away from fossil fuel consumption a good thing? Not necessarily. The subsidy that has encouraged Warren Buffett and others to invest in wind turbines comes with significant opportunity cost. In other words, the tens of billions of dollars that have been diverted towards building new wind facilities over the past two decades could have been spent on more promising technologies such as tidal power, cellulosic ethanol or even more efficient battery storage systems. But why would an energy company bother investing in other technologies when it can collect a tax credit that equals one-third of the average cost of producing electricity to power homes and offices? Which then allows them to sell its power output at a loss of $35 per megawatt hour and still turn a profit? The answer is they won’t, and the losers are many: taxpayers, other renewable energy developers and the environment. Keep in mind—the examples of potentially better uses of all those tax credits are not necessarily economically efficient solutions either (nor are they the only alternative options). But they are unlikely to be explored as long as power companies can game the wind subsidy system. The PTC turns a weak technology into a riskless bet, encouraging energy companies to spend their limited renewable budgets on subsidy farming rather than the best prospective solutions. The major players in the US wind industry will continue theirefforts of subsidy-seeking in the coming weeks as they try to convince lawmakers to revive the credit. That makes now a good time to reexamine the original intent of the PTC and to ask if it has made any progress in accomplishing its goals. The policy has not fostered wind technology improvements. The PTC has only encouraged companies to install wind turbines rather than more promising energy sources. The credit was arguably a misguided policy back in 1992, but with two decades of paltry results, it is safe to say that the wind production tax credit can now officially be deemed a policy failure. FREE AppDownload
US Global Investors/Advisor PerspectivesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Oil Prices Are Expected To Trend Upwards In 2015 (US Funds) Oil prices have dropped by 35% since June, but they shouldn’t stay down there, according to Frank Holmes. He writes that oil is down by 1.2 standard deviations for a 10-year period — something that rarely happens, and suggests that a bounce back in prices is in sight.  “The theme going into 2015 is mean reversion,” says Brian Hicks, portfolio manager at US Global Investors. “Oil prices are below where they should be, and hopefully they’ll start gravitating back to the equilibrium price of between $80 and $85 a barrel.” An Ex-Advisor Stole $1 Million In A Pseudo-Ponzi Scheme To Buy Fancy Cars (Financial Planning)  Levi Lindemann was charged by the SEC for defrauding six elderly clients and taking $1 million from them over the course of four years. He was able to get away with it for so long by using "fake statements, signatures, and gains,” according to Andrew Welsch.  The SEC alleges that from 2009 to 2013, he took the money from investors and transferred the funds into his own accounts, instead of investing the money as promised. Reportedly, he used the money to buy himself cars worth approximately $100,000 and to pay off his taxes. He made "‘Ponzi-like’ payments to investors to continue his businesses, court documents show,” reports Welsch. Goldman Sachs Is Offering Clients The Chance To Invest In Uber (The Wall Street Journal) Goldman Sachs, one of Uber’s institutional investors, is offering some high-net-worth wealth management clients the chance to invest in the company, according to Justin Baer and Douglas Macmillan. Back in 2011, Goldman did something similar with Facebook. The only difference is that back then, clients were allowed to purchase equity, while with Uber they are being offered the chance to invest in convertible debt. The clients of Goldman's wealth management group must have a net worth of over $10 million to invest, according to the report. The Schorsch Empire Feud Finally Ends With A $60 Million Settlement (Investment News) Since November, RCAP and ARCP — two companies under the Schorsch empire — have been explosively feuding. After ARCP disclosed that the company made $23 accounting error, RCAP announced that they were planning on ending a major deal. But now it looks things are calming down: the companies "have resolved their disputes as part of a $60 million settlement,” reports Mason Braswell. “We believe the negotiation of a fixed-cost settlement clearly outweighs the potential expense and distraction of a drawn-out litigation process,” Michael Weil, the CEO of RCAP said about the matter.  SEC Pushes To Test Effectiveness Of Investor Disclosures (Think Advisor)  SEC Commissioner Kara Stein stated on Thursday that the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance is “spearheading a very important project examining the effectiveness of disclosures,” reports Melanie Waddell.  “We should formulate a plan to incorporate thorough investor testing into as many of our projects as possible,” Stein said, and added that the agency “should be smart about requiring disclosures that are genuinely meaningful and useful for different types of investors." This comes at a time when everyone’s anxiously awaiting SEC chairwoman Mary Jo White’s opinion on the proposed uniform fiduciary rule for brokers and advisors. FREE AppDownload
An effective cartel requires three things: discipline, a dominant market position and barriers to entry. The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries lacks all three. Its members cheat on their quotas. It supplies only 30% of the world's oil--too little to exercise control. New producers abound. That is the backdrop to OPEC's decision last month to make no attempt to bolster the oil price, sending it below $70 a barrel--a near 40% drop since June. Saudi Arabia, its most influential member, could have sent the price up single-handedly by deciding to pump less. Unlike cash-strapped oil exporters such as Venezuela, the kingdom can afford self-denial: it has savings of $900 billion. But Saudi Arabia can also weather a low price: its production costs are $5-$6 a barrel--the lowest in the world. Moreover, history suggests most of the gains from any cut in its output would go to other producers, who would sell their oil for more while increasing their market share. Saudi Arabia did try the tactic in the early 1980s, cutting its output by three-quarters from 10m b/d in 1980 to under 2.5m in 1985-6. The result was higher prices, but also a boom in investment, and then production, in places such as Britain and Norway. Trying to save OPEC with such tactics could be even more dangerous now. Keeping the price up would be good news for frackers, speeding the spread of that technology from America to other countries. Costly oil spurs thrift too, hastening the shift away from oil in transport. Every hybrid or electric car spells lost business for oil producers. Why encourage them? Cheap oil also has its consolations. Russia and Iran, two countries with which Saudi Arabia has its differences, are suffering much more. Better still, if low prices stem investment in other sources of oil, such as Canada's tar sands or America's shale, that means more demand for low-cost Saudi oil in future. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Although having a million bucks isn't as impressive as it once was, it's still nothing to sneeze at. In fact, Reuters reports that in 2009 there are 7.8 million millionaires in the United States. That's a lot of people and the odds are one or two of them are living near you. Heck, one of them might even be your neighbor. In fact, the odds are very good that it is your neighbor. But, Len, you don't know my neighbor. That guy doesn't look anything like a millionaire. Well, guess what? A millionaire who is truly financially savvy won't be easily recognizable.  1. He always spends less than he earns. In fact his mantra is, over the long run, you're better off if you strive to be anonymously rich rather than deceptively poor. 2. He knows that patience is a virtue. The odds are you won't become a millionaire overnight. If you're like him, your wealth will be accumulated gradually by diligently saving your money over multiple decades. 3. When you go to his modest three-bed two-bath house, you're going to be drinking Folgers instead of Starbucks. And if you need a lift, well, you're going to get a ride in his ten-year-old economy sedan. And if you think that makes him cheap, ask him if he cares. (He doesn't.) 4. He pays off his credit cards in full every month. He's smart enough to understand that if he can't afford to pay cash for something, then he can't afford it. 5. He realized early on that money does not buy happiness. If you're looking for nirvana, you need to focus on attaining financial freedom. REUTERS/Darren StaplesA luxury car doesn't have to be part of the deal. 6. He never forgets that financial freedom is a state of mind that comes from being debt free. Best of all, it can be attained regardless of your income level. 7. He knows that getting a second job not only increases the size of your bank account quicker but it also keeps you busy — and being busy makes it difficult to spend what you already have. 8. He understands that money is like a toddler; it is incapable of managing itself. After all, you can't expect your money to grow and mature as it should without some form of credible money management. 9. He's a big believer in paying yourself first. Paying yourself first is an essential tenet of personal finance and a great way to build your savings and instill financial discipline. 10. Although it's possible to get rich if you spend your life making a living doing something you don't enjoy, he wonders why you do. Life is too short. 11. He knows that failing to plan is the same as planning to fail. He also knows that the few millionaires that reached that milestone without a plan got there only because of dumb luck. It's not enough to simply declare that you want to be financially free. 12. When it came time to set his savings goals, he wasn't afraid to think big. Financial success demands that you have a vision that is significantly larger than you can currently deliver upon. ReutersMillionaires understand that time is an ally of the young. 13. Over time, he found out that hard work can often help make up for a lot of financial mistakes — and you will make financial mistakes. 14. He realizes that stuff happens, that's why you're a fool if you don't insure yourself against risk. Remember that the potential for bankruptcy is always just around the corner and can be triggered from multiple sources: The death of the family's key bread winner, divorce, or disability that leads to a loss of work. 15. He understands that time is an ally of the young. He was fortunate enough to begin saving in his twenties so he could take maximum advantage of the power of compounding interest on his nest egg. 16. He knows that you can't spend what you don't see. You should use automatic paycheck deductions to build up your retirement and other savings accounts. As your salary increases you can painlessly increase the size of those deductions. 17. Even though he has a job that he loves, he doesn't have to work anymore because everything he owns is paid for — and has been for years. 18. He's not impressed that you drive an over-priced luxury car and live in a McMansion that's two sizes too big for your family of four. 19. After six months of asking, he finally quit waiting for you to return his pruning shears. He broke down and bought himself a new pair last month. There's no hard feelings though; he can afford it. So that's it. Now you know what your millionaire neighbor won't tell you. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSAlan Greenspan.Friday saw a blowout jobs report. But Friday, or rather December 5, is a momentous day in the history of monetary policy.  On this day in 1996, then-Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan made his famous speech wherein he asked if "irrational exuberance" had begun to play a role in the increase of certain asset prices. Here's the key quote from Greenspan: Clearly, sustained low inflation implies less uncertainty about the future, and lower risk premiums imply higher prices of stocks and other earning assets. We can see that in the inverse relationship exhibited by price/earnings ratios and the rate of inflation in the past. But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade? And how do we factor that assessment into monetary policy? We as central bankers need not be concerned if a collapsing financial asset bubble does not threaten to impair the real economy, its production, jobs, and price stability. Indeed, the sharp stock market break of 1987 had few negative consequences for the economy. But we should not underestimate or become complacent about the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy. Thus, evaluating shifts in balance sheets generally, and in asset prices particularly, must be an integral part of the development of monetary policy. Now, it took more than three years for the Nasdaq to top out from the time Greenspan made the speech. But the phrase was made famous — or infamous, depending on how you look at it — by Yale professor Robert Shiller, who published the book "Irrational Exuberance" in 2000, predicting the collapse of the dot-com bubble.  Greenspan's speech has been much-derided as a document outlining how little many critics of the Federal Reserve believe the central bank was aware of the problems that could have been, and were, created by a significant correction in financial markets.  Earlier this year, when Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen said, "Equity valuations of smaller firms as well as social media and biotechnology firms appear to be stretched, with ratios of prices to forward earnings remaining high relative to historical norms," many wondered whether Yellen was having her own "irrational exuberance" moment.  That remains to be seen, but here's the Greenspan clip, courtesy of C-SPAN. For monetary policy and economic historians, this is essential viewing.  (via WSJ's Jason Zweig) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Prachanart ViriyaraksGet your money ready for a new year.The last few weeks of the year are always a mad rush to wrap up loose ends, often in a frantic fashion. In the spirit of the season, we thought it a good time to share a checklist of important items to consider before the calendar year ends, all related to your investments and finances. We also wanted to reiterate some key topics we've already discussed, but that are especially important to review by end-of-year. Here are some brief pieces of financial advice on several fronts that could benefit you and yours in multiple ways, and that could ultimately add to your long-term bottom line, not to mention peace of mind. This article originally appeared at Wealthfront.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload

APHoliday party dress codes are hard to decipher. There's a fine line between festive and completely inappropriate. But don't worry — we've come up with a quick guide so that you don't embarrass yourself in front of your boss. You're welcome. Stick with a navy jacket for holiday shindigs. They're classic and professional — and can be re-worn for practically any occasion. We recommend that you avoid black — it's too harsh. NordstromNordstrom Classic Fit Navy Wool BlazerNordstrom Classic Fit Navy Wool Blazer — 33% OFF Price: 295.00 $197.65  John Varvatos Star USA 'Townshend' Trim Fit Navy Wool FlazerPrice: $395.00 We recommend going for a light-blue striped shirt — which looks nice under the blazer or by itself. A plain white shirt is another safe bet — you basically can't go wrong as long as there aren't huge stains on it.  Saks Fifth AvenueIke Behar Crosby Striped Dress ShirtIke Behar Crosby Striped Dress ShirtPrice: $135.00   Eton of Sweden Slim-Fit Solid Twill Dress ShirtPrice: $240.00 For pants, you'll want to wear gray flannel.  NordstromNordstrom Classic Fit Navy Wool BlazerNordstrom Classic Fit Navy Wool Blazer — 33% OFF Price: $145.00 $97.15  Flat Front Wool Flannel TrousersPrice: $125.00 For a holiday tie, if the event is on the conservative end, a nice blue tie is the way to go. But if you're willing to go bold (and in theme), some sort of printed red tie will work. Saks Fifth AvenueBrioni Striped Silk TieBrioni Striped Silk TiePrice: $230.00 Armani Collezioni Diamond Jacquard Silk TiePrice: $160.00 If you really want to let your hair down, a bow tie is the way to go. But: stay far, far away from clip-on bow ties. Saks Fifth AvenueEton of Sweden Dot Print Silk Bow TieEton of Sweden Dot Print Silk Bow TiePrice: $95.00  Eton of Sweden Plaid Bow TiePrice: $395.00    And of course, a classic accessory — a watch. A dark strap is the best option as it'll nicely work with your darker winter wardrobe. AmazonStuhrling Prestige Men's "Kingston" Watch Stuhrling Prestige Men's "Kingston" Watch - 58% OFFPrice: $295.00 $124.00 Stuhrling Original Men's 931.03 Aviator Swiss Quartz Watch  — 68% OFF Price: $445.00 $142.10  Citizen Men's Eco-Drive Axiom Watch - 40% OFFPrice: $195.00 $117.00  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
One of the many bright spots in Friday's blowout jobs report was a strong showing for the unemployment rate among millennials. But even though young adults might be having an easier time finding a job, millennials might not be making as much as their parents did at the start of their careers. We looked at median weekly earnings data available on the Bureau of Labor's public download site for full time employees (adjusted to 2013 dollars), comparing 25-34 year old workers to all full time employees over 25: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics While neither group's median earnings have gone up since the 1980s, wages have dropped considerably for younger workers in recent years. Since 2000, median earnings have stayed flat for all adults over 25: weekly earnings for the larger group were about $824 in 2000 (in 2013 dollars), while they were about $827 in 2013. Meanwhile, young adults in 2000 made about $743 per week, which has dropped to $708 in 2013. Going back further, in the 1980s, when many millennials' parents would have been 25-34 years old, median weekly earnings for that group ranged between about $740 and $780, quite a bit higher than earnings for the present 25-34 cohort. Even though the labor market has been improving for 25-34 year olds, the jobs they are getting might not be paying as much as the jobs earlier cohorts of young adults were working. FREE AppDownload
Brookings/BISHere are the highlights from Shin's presentation.As the 2008 financial crisis gets further in the rearview mirror, what's the next threat to the global economy? That question was the subject of a presentation by Hyun Song Shin, the relatively new head economist for the Bank of International Settlements (the "central bank of central banks"), at the Brookings Institution on Thursday. You can listen to the full audio of the speech here. Shin laid out a couple of different global trends that BIS is looking at. The two big ones were: 1) the boom in lending that occurs via debt issued on the bond market versus conventional bank loans, and 2) the effect fluctuations in the dollar have on the global economy. There are two issues that Shin is looking at: First, the fact that so much of the credit growth in the economy is coming from capital markets, not necessarily from traditional bank lending (in particular, there was a lot of talk about large asset managers buying up corporate bonds). That's a shift from pre-2008 crises. The common wisdom is that asset managers are benign in the global economy. But Shin doesn't think that's true anymore. Brookings / BISThe corporate bond market is booming as other forms of lending shrink.The question is how and if that will affect the real economy in the event of a big shock to the financial system. On the one hand, Shin said, large asset managers aren't as leveraged as banks. On the other hand, clients of asset managers tend to be things like pension funds. A huge credit crunch that hits asset managers hard would be bad news for the retirement accounts of a lot of Americans. The second issue Shin discussed is how dollar-denominated debt ripples through the global economy. Dollar-denominated credit to non-US borrowers has skyrocketed over the last decade or so (even more so from outside of the US than from domestic lenders). When financial institutions outside the US deal with both debt in dollars and debt in local currency, fluctuations in the exchange rate have a big impact. Brookings / BIS When the dollar appreciates, on the other hand, things get tight for institutions lending in local currency. Shin thinks this may be a partial cause of the crises that occurred in Latin America in the 1980s and Asia in the 1990s.  Brookings / BISThe timing of financial crises seems to be tied to big moves in the dollar. On top of that, Shin says, there's a trend of buying corporate bonds with longer and longer maturities (the average is now about 12 years). This makes them more sensitive to yield changes. Once again, everything's fine now, but Shin thinks there's real risk here if a big disruption occurs in the dollar market. FREE AppDownload
Robert Arnott, chairman and CEO of Research Affiliates, understands the uncertainty involved in forecasting markets, but some things are more certain. In fact, some things are destiny. At the 2014 CFA Institute Fixed-Income Management Conference, Arnott discussed how people are vastly underestimating the impact of three things in our world that are predictable: debt, deficits, and demography. Debt and Deficits “Deficits are much, much, much bigger than anyone realizes, and total debt in the United States is vastly larger than anyone acknowledges,” Arnott said to a crowd of fixed-income managers in Huntington Beach, California. “The current reported measurement of deficit, as 3% of GDP, is pure fiction,” lamented Arnott. The US government is using the clever accounting notion of “off-balance-sheet spending,” in other words, pretending certain expenditures are not part of deficit spending. What’s included in off-balance-sheet items today? Medicare and Social Security trust funds, incremental GSE obligations, and the cost of the US presence in Afghanistan and Iraq. “The list will only grow as Congress discovers how easy it is to move expenditures off balance sheet,” said Arnott. Public debt and entitlement obligations are growing at a frightening pace. The US National Debt is reported at 100% GDP. If you add in unfunded obligations for Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs), and state and local government debt, it adds up to $108 trillion in total national debt on a GAAP basis, or 650% of GDP. (Greece’s total debt/GDP is only 180%.) The US governmenttakes in $3 trillion in taxes, but it owes $108 trillion. ”Do the math. We will not be able to honor these debts. US politics of the last decade will look benign as promises for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid are broken and renegotiated in the years ahead,” according to Arnott. Demographics Demography does not make our debt problems look any better. In 1950, the median age in the G8 was 30, and only 9% of the population was over age 65. Sixty years later, in 2010, 16% of the population was over 65 and the median age was 40. By 2030, according to United Nations (UN) forecasts, 23% of the population in the G8 will be over 65. “This is a daunting structural change and we’re just at the beginning of this trend in developed countries,” where demographic headwinds start to have a major impact, said Arnott, although Japan, an exception, is in the middle. The picture in today’s emerging markets is much different, with a median age of 30 in the BRICS, workforces at peak productivity growth, and demographic tailwinds at their backs. Life expectancy is also changing dramatically (for more, see: “What Happens When We All Live to 100?”). Arnott looked at the United States, Japan, and China, finding that the average life expectancy was 73 in 1950 and 86 in 2010 — a 13-year improvement in life expectancy over 60 years, or 2–3 months’ improvement per year, which continues today. The latest US Census suggests we may already be at levels previously expected for 2050 (living 22 years after age 65). In addition, both death rates and birth rates have fallen — accelerating the tilt toward aging populations in developed nations. Today, Arnott sees a demographic inflection point as growing retirement cohorts outnumber working cohorts. He studied the change in the working population (ages 20–65) versus the change in the population of senior citizens. In 2012, for the first time in US history, the population of senior citizens is rising more rapidly than the population of working-age people.    “Support ratios,” or the number of working age people per retiree are also deteriorating. In 1950, the support ratio in the United States was 7 to 1; today, as people are living longer, the ratio is about 4 to 1, but it is poised to move to 2.7 in the United States in 2030 — just 15 years from now — with similar declines in all the major developed countries. “This is a sea change,” said Arnott, intentionally referencing the dramatic change from Shakespeare’s The Tempest. China and India’s support ratios (7 to 1 and 10 to 1, respectively), do not decline until much later. Demographically speaking, growth could continue in those countries for some time. “We can either accept the troubling support ratios or we can work longer,” Arnott suggested, adding that “support ratios can be stabilized at 4 to 1 if we ratchet up the retirement age to 71. We’re living 15 years longer than our great-grandparents. Why should we expect to retire at the same age?” How Demography Affects GDP Growth and Market Returns  In their 2012 paper, “Demographic Changes, Financial Markets, and the Economy,” Arnott and his co-author modeled the linkages between GDP growth and market returns to demography (absent other factors). Their results found a tailwind in the United States from about the mid-1970s to 2010, because baby boomers were young and working at peak productivity levels. Starting around 2020, as baby boomers age, the tailwind becomes a headwind. The United States will have a demographic drag that troughs in about 10–15 years, sucking 1% from normal GDP growth. (For more, see: “How Demographics Affect GDP Growth around the World.”) “Brace yourself for slower economic growth,” Arnott warned. “If we demand 3% growth from our political elite, when normal GDP growth should be 1% or maybe 2%, they will create the illusion of growth with massive deficit spending and front-end load our future growth.” Notice that Japan had a 3% tailwind starting in the mid-1950s that reversed in 2000. Arnott expects it will trough with a headwind of -2.2% in 2045. The post-war Japanese economic miracle was partly a demographic miracle. CFA InstituteArnott also looked at the annual performance boost or drag to stocks and bonds attributable only to demography for the G8 and the BRIC countries. At any given equity valuation level, stocks’ performance should be biased due to demographic trends — either equity returns are higher (or lower), or the Shiller P/E goes higher (or lower). Stocks perform well when there are many individuals in the “savings cadre” (age 35–59), accumulating wealth and starting to plan for retirement. Stocks perform worse when the 70+ age cadres are growing fast and disinvesting, or when the young adult segment is growing fast and not saving. Arnott’s findings indicate that emerging markets should offer about 4% higher returns than developed economies in the years ahead, based on a more benign demographic profile alone. CFA Institute CFA Institute For bonds, Arnott found that for any given level of real yield from the early 1990s to today, demography alone suggests that bonds should experience returns higher than historical norms (i.e., positive abnormal returns). In other words, the natural real yield on bonds, as demographic profile implies, should be lower than historical norms. This means that today we are at the lowest natural real yield we will ever see on bonds in our lifetimes, and demography helps to explain why. There are so many mature workers scrambling to save for retirement that the purpose of bonds has changed. Bonds no longer act as diversifiers to stocks offering modest real returns, they have become an insurance policy if stocks crash. And like all insurance, they come with a cost: negative real rates. In 10 years, we will have much different pictures as these trends reverse. Demography matters. The good news is that prosperity is a common theme among mature societies with a lot of gray hair. “Would you rather be in a slow growth, prosperous society, or a high growth society with much less prosperity? I’ll take prosperity any day,” said Arnott. However, Arnott likes higher growth emerging markets from an investment perspective, preferring their young, productive workforces. They’re on pace to catch up with the standards of living of the developed world pretty quickly — that is, if governments don’t screw it up. If you liked this post, consider subscribing to the Enterprising Investor. All posts are the opinion of the author. As such, they should not be construed as investment advice, nor do the opinions expressed necessarily reflect the views of CFA Institute or the author’s employer. FREE AppDownload
Oil is making a comeback. On Friday morning, after the US jobs report came in way better than expected, the price of oil tumbled again, with West Texas Intermediate crude futures falling more than 2% to less than $65.50 a barrel. This was the lowest level since crude prices dropped sharply late Sunday night after the futures market opened. But in afternoon trade, WTI was making a comeback, regaining more than $1 per barrel to trade north of $66.30 on Friday afternoon. The drop in oil came after Friday's jobs report, which sparked a rally in the US dollar, and after bouncing around, also saw the major stock indexes trade higher.  In afternoon trade the Dow was up 82 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up 6 points, and the Nasdaq was up 14 points. Near 1:15 pm ET, the Dow was just 18 points away from topping 18,000 for the first time. Here's Friday's big bounce in oil. FinViz      FREE AppDownload
Neckties. Most men have a least a few, but how many of these ties are actually useful? How many of these neckties are versatile enough to wear to an interview, wedding, funeral, or business event? When you built your necktie collection, did you buy them in order of versatility, usefulness, and how they can best serve your needs? Yeah – I thought not. Don’t worry – most men don’t. The fact is men who don’t work office jobs that require ties tend to only own a few, usually a mixed bag of gifts, high school leftovers, and sporadic impulse buys. Men who do wear a tie every day tend to get them as gifts from people who don’t know what else to give, and thereby acquire a massively over-sized collection, only a fraction of which is actually useful (aka versatile). A few ties that limit your options on the rare occasion when you need a necktie, or a bunch of closet clutter you’re never going to use — neither of those sounds ideal. So a man looking at ties, whether it’s to fill out a sparse collection or trim an oversized collection, wants to focus on the timeless, wearable styles that are going to get used on a regular basis. If you’re shopping for yourself or for someone else, the focus is the same: look for ties that will get worn at least half a dozen times a year — more, for men who wear ties every day — not once a year at a specific occasion. Here, in order of usefulness, are some of the most classic and versatile neckties for men: This is the first tie a man should purchase, if he’s starting from scratch. Dark blue is the safest and most versatile, but any deep, rich color is good. Dark greens, burgundies, and for some complexions purples all work great. Steer clear of bright colors and shiny surfaces, however. You want something smooth, matte, and refined if you’re wearing a big swath of it across your chest. Stick to that nice deep blue for the first solid tie and work from there. These aren’t the most versatile ties, so there’s no reason to own a ton of them beyond the first. But one or two can come in handy, especially if you pick them out specifically to go with shirts or jackets you already own. Final note on the subject of solids: think long and hard before wearing a plain black tie unless you’re in a band, waiting tables, or marching alongside a coffin. Even the iconic Japanese salarymen are starting to move away from these. It’s a stark look that flatters almost no one, particularly when paired with a plain white shirt. When you think dress clothing, “polka dots” is probably not the first thing that springs to mind. But that’s the beauty of a dotted tie: it’s not a pattern that shows up in other menswear, meaning it’s not going to be awkwardly close to any of the patterns in your shirt or suit. (If you’re wearing polka-dotted shirts and suits, you’ve got bigger problems than a necktie can fix.) Get something with a nice, muted background color and very fine, wide-spaced dots, and you’ve got something that’ll stand up to a suit and collared shirt just fine. You wouldn’t wear it to a top-formality board meeting, maybe, but for daily office work it’s great — and it’s not clashing with anything else you’re wearing. Go easy on your collection of polka dot ties — you don’t want to be the guy that’s known for them, even if your workplace is accepting of relaxed patterns. One or two nice, dressed-up polka dot ties is probably all you need, plus a couple for fun if they’re really your thing. Don’t let the fancy French name intimidate you. “Foulard” ties are just ties with a repeating, symmetrical pattern in a gridded block array. (Even that sounds scarier than it is. It just means a repeating pattern that doesn’t change in size or spacing. If you could lay a grid over it, and have each repetition of the pattern fit into its own grid square, it’s a foulard tie.) These are sometimes referred to as “wallpaper ties,” particularly when the figure is an ornate, lobed shape with lots of curlicues reminiscent of late 19th and early 20th century wallpapers. They’re a good way to look like a bold dresser without being too gaudy. The lower the color contrast, the more restrained the tie will look. Dark blue on a lighter blue with faint gray highlights looks pretty dressy; light pink on a dark blue background is more fun and casual, and so on. Own at least one of the dressier foulard ties so that you’re not wearing solid and polka dot ties to every single business event. Beyond that, a bolder figure never hurts for social events, and if you like a particular sort of pattern go ahead and load up a few more. A man can’t go wrong owning at least two or three figure ties. Paisley is a repeating, curved design of Middle Eastern origin. The paisley figures are usually ornately bordered and filled with abstract designs, and are placed against a solid background, sometimes with smaller floral figures in between the paisley figures. This is a somewhat casual look, but it’s useful for the same reason as a polka dot pattern: you’re not echoing a pattern that exists anywhere else in the outfit, except perhaps the pocket square. (Again, if you’re wearing paisley shirts with neckties, you’ve got a lot of catching up to do with the rest of the class, here.) It’d be a stretch to call paisley ties an essential part of every wardrobe, but they’re a pretty good part of every wardrobe, and that’s close enough. Own one and you won’t regret it. Own a few more if you like them. These are essentially foulard ties with a theme: the repeated pattern is a recognizable emblem or crest. They usually have a lot of spaces between the designs, so that only a half-dozen or so (or even less) are visible at a time. The style originated with gentleman’s clubs, back in the days when the phrase meant a private dining and gathering place rather than a strip joint. (You can probably buy ties at some strip joints, but we wouldn’t recommend them for business wear.) Men who wanted to show off their membership at an exclusive club wore the club’s tie — sometimes it was even required to get into the dining room. These days, you can get a “club” tie that doesn’t denote a specific membership. Lots of sports teams offer them, and some crests are just made-up shapes that the manufacturer thinks look sporty. It’s worth owning a club tie from the dressy end of the scale for the same reason as paisley and polka dots: it’s interesting and it doesn’t clash with other patterns. The right club tie can also be a door opener in certain situations: if you’ve got a tie from a fraternal order like the Elks or the Masons, it’s not the worst thing to wear to meet-and-greet situations. You never know when you’re going to run into a brother. Again, this isn’t a required necktie, but it’s good to own at least one. British readers might find the idea of school ties more common than American readers, but they exist on both sides of the pond: colored ties with diagonal stripes, typically (although not always) in the same colors as the school’s banners, sports uniforms, etc. An interesting quirk of these: university ties slant downward from left to right. That sets them apart from regimental ties, discussed below. It’s vital to own one of these if your schooling is immediately relevant to your life: if, for example, you’re a recent graduate and the name of your school is going to open doors for you. Outside of those situations, these aren’t essential ties, but they fill in very nicely as general-purpose business ties so long as the colors aren’t too garish. No harm in owning one or two. To the untutored eye, these look just like old-fashioned school neckties. However, the diagonal stripes slant from right to left, rather than left to right, and British military men will recognize the color schemes of various regimental units. Ties designed to look like regimental ties are fine for general-purpose business wear. Actual ties of actual regiments should obviously be avoided unless you belonged to that regiment at some point in your life. Only a few people will notice or care, but those people will care very, very much. This is mostly a British tradition, although neckties do exist in the colors of the American military service branches (scarlet and gold for the Marine Corps, etc.). They can vary in quality from the dignified to the tacky, depending on how bright the colors are and how shiny the fabric is, so exercise some discretion if you want to show your service pride in business settings. A very recognizable pattern of overlaid stripes in differing colors and widths. For neckties, the tartan is often offset at an angle, so that the pattern forms diamonds instead of squares when viewed front-on. These are tough to match, and can be disastrous if there are other check-based patterns in the outfit, but they are a useful way to add pop if your outfit is otherwise made of solid colors. Hold a few in reserve for when you need to liven up a casual suit or a sports jacket/sweater sort of outfit. Don’t worry too much about traditional Scottish clan colors with these. The necktie is not traditional Scottish garb. Buy based on decorative values, rather than historical. Most dads will own at least one or two of these. Mickey Mouse, Superman, rainbow bass — any of those bright, colorful, goofy ties is a great gesture of love, but not really business wear. Save them for when you’ll be around the people that gave the gift, having fun. Otherwise don’t wear them. (Exceptions can be made — if you’re a Hollywood executive and you’ve just closed the deal on rights to a Superman movie, by all means, wear a Superman tie to the party. But for the most part, there’s no reason o pair these with anything but family fun.) Since they’re limited in use, these aren’t usually worth purchasing on your own. Given that, you may also want to think twice about giving one as a gift, but hey — if you just know the recipient is going to love that Star Wars necktie, go for it. In and out of fashion at various points, knit ties come back around so often it’s worth having a few on hand. These are larger, bulkier ties than the more common woven versions. They have a visibly bumpy texture and in some cases visible gaps in the fabric. The thickness makes for a nice, hefty knot — great for bigger guys and broader faces, but tough to pull off if you’re on the skinny side. Wear them when you want a little bit of a vintage feel, or when your outfit needs some texture to break up a flat look. Because the basic, solid-color or lightly patterned knits pair so well with sports jackets, it’s worth owning a couple in muted, versatile colors. Try to own at least one or two knit ties. Your wardrobe will thank you. Tastes differ. So do needs. Not everyone’s collection is going to look the same. But at bare minimum, every man should ideally own the following: Add it all up and you’re still talking single digits. That’s probably not enough for a man who works in a necktie every day — he’s going to want to have more from each category up above. But it’s a nice working collection for guys who may not need a tie every day, but do need to look good when they grab one. The key will always be to look deliberate, like your tie was hand-selected for the outfit it goes with. The more carefully you choose your ties (preferably with your existing wardrobe in mind), the easier it is to get that sharp-edged, hand-selected look. FREE AppDownload
 China's Communist Party has expelled former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the highest-ranking politician to be purged from the party since the days of Mao. The news was released at midnight Chinese time. He will now be arrested by China's top prosecutors, the Supreme People's Procuratorate, according to the BBC. What we're seeing is beyond a takedown — it's like getting banished. It's like getting erased. Zhou is what is known in China as a tiger — an official of the highest rank. He was also a member of the Politburo Stand Committee, the most powerful lawmaking body in China. Before now, members were considered untouchable. But President Xi Jinping swore that even "tigers" could be included in his corruption drive along with lowly "flies." Zhou was placed under house arrest in 2012 just before his retirement, but at that point no one knew how far Xi's regime would go. What we do know is that the government seized over $14 billion in assets from Zhou's friends and associates. REUTERS/Jason Lee Zhou Yongkang The investigation, Zhou Yongkang, a serious violation of the Party's political discipline, organizational discipline, confidential discipline; use of his office for people to seek illegal interests, accepting huge bribes directly or through family members; abuse help relatives, mistresses, friends, business activities to obtain huge profits, cause significant losses of state assets; disclosure of the party and state secrets; serious violations of the provisions of self-discipline, personal belongings and a large number of relatives of accepting other people; and a number of female adultery and the right color, the color of money transaction. Zhou Yongkang, the survey also found other suspected criminal clues. Zhou Yongkang has done a complete departure from the party's nature and purpose of a serious breach of party discipline, which greatly damaged the party's image, causing heavy losses to the party and the people's cause, the impact is extremely bad. Of course, it's hard to say whether Zhou, who was an oil executive before he took over China's internal security agency, was any more corrupt than any of the tigers still in power. It's also hard to say whether this corruption drive is really just Xi's way of consolidating power. It's probably both. "There is little doubt these people were engaged in remarkable amounts of corruption, and there are all sorts of unproven rumors about plots and deals among this group in the run-up up to the 2012 18th Party Congress," Bill Bishop, editor of the China newsletter Sinocism, told Business Insider this summer. "But taking down this network has also allowed Xi to gain control over the security services, and much faster than most observers expected." By July of this year the government had probed 25,000 people in this drive. You can follow along on social media, even. Every few hours The People's Daily will tweet out the pictures of a government official (usually a low-level "fly") who has been taken into custody, or is suspected of some kind of violation. It looks like this:   Female PLA major general Gao Xiaoyan investigated for bribery, 1st female general probed in anti-corruption action. pic.twitter.com/6TuiWMBFeZ   FREE AppDownload
The jobs report crushed expectations on Friday. According to the latest report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, nonfarm payrolls grew by 321,000 in November, crushing expectations for 230,000. And Wall Street's celebrating. Here are some select quotes from the notes we've seen. FREE AppDownload
Google Earthil Buco's wine cellar is said to have inspired Edgar Allan Poe's "The Cask of Amontillado"There are plenty of places to grab a bite in New York City. But for a special occasion or a private dining experience, not just any place will do. We asked the restaurant pros at The Infatuation to compile some of the best private dining rooms and chefs' tables in the city. You'll definitely want to consider these spots the next time you're planning a birthday dinner or client lunch. FREE AppDownload
We wanted to find the next big idea for an app, so we rounded up several kids between the ages of 9 and 13 and asked them to describe an app that was guaranteed to make a billion dollars.  Silicon Valley had better take notice, because these ideas are gold. Produced by Sam Rega and Caroline Moss. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
The Shanghai stock exchange is surging. It's up by an astonishing 43% in the last six months alone, and Chinese regulators are starting to express concern. So regulators are warning that people should "invest rationally, respect the market, fear the market, and bear in mind the risks present," according to Bloomberg. The original text of the comments from China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) spokesman Deng Ge is here.  Here's the absurd climb of the Shanghai stock market: Business Insider, Bloomberg Between them, Shanghai and Shenzen's stock exchanges turned over more than a trillion yuan today ($162.6 billion, £103.7 billion) for the first time ever. There's some discussion about whether that can possibly be matched with the country's fundamental economic performance: the huge economy is slowing down, and a recent report found a gargantuan $6.8 trillion of investment had been wasted in recent years. Capital Economics' John Higgins says that although China's interest rate cuts have helped to boost financial firms listed in Shanghai, he doesn't think the rally can last at its current pace:  There are substantial headwinds facing banks, property developers and industrial firms, which make up much of the Shanghai Composite. So if the recent signs of mania – such as the frenzied pace of new equity account openings – trigger a further substantial rally in the market, we would be surprised if it didn’t largely unwind further down the road. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderFinding the perfect gift for a coworker in your office Secret Santa pool can be tricky.  You have to stay under a set price limit while buying a gift for someone you may not even know. We found 25 office-appropriate gifts under $25 to accommodate every type of coworker. FREE AppDownload
(Photo by Salah Malkawi/ Getty Images) China's tax authority is cracking down on foreign investors and wealthy ChineseChina is facing tough economic times — we all know that. Now the tax authority is stepping up their game to try to bring in new revenue, which is down 1.6 percent from last year, The Wall Street Journal reported. GDP growth in China is at a five-year low, real estate is crumbling, and demand is falling across the board. But incomes are still growing, according to the Journal. Tax bureaus want in on that, so they’re starting to look beyond traditional salaried workers for revenue — chiefly at super-elite stock market and foreign direct investors, the report said. (Most Chinese workers are already taxed on a regular basis with payroll deductions, it said.) This could have harmful affects on consumer spending. China is still a country where most money is spent by the wealthy. On top of China’s local business elite, the taxman is also eyeing wealthy Chinese abroad, according to the report. Like in the U.S., Chinese policy is to tax all citizens, no matter where they live in the world. Except that they haven’t been doing a very good job of it so far. Within China, they’re also looking to hit foreign multinationals and their employees. The government may even start restricting tax-evading foreigners from leaving to the country until they’ve coughed up, the Journal reported. Not the warmest of welcomes to foreign investors. Some have already started to pack their bags and leave. Just look at Macau, the Las Vegas of China, where casino revenue is expected to fall by 25 percent this month. Fun’s over, guys. FREE AppDownload
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon told employees in a memo that his latest round of test results show no evidence of cancer in his body. "The good news is that the results came back completely clear, showing no evidence of cancer in my body," Dimon wrote in the memo.  "While the monitoring will continue for several years, the results are extremely positive and my prognosis remains excellent." Back in July, Dimon disclosed that he had treatable throat cancer located adjacent the lymph nodes on the right side of his neck. He had been undergoing chemo and radiation therapy, which he finished three months ago.   Here's the full memo:  Dear colleagues, This past summer, I let you know that I had been diagnosed with throat cancer. Having concluded my full treatment regimen a few months ago, I wanted to give you an update on my health. This week I had the thorough round of tests and scans that are normally done three months following treatment, including a CAT scan and a PET scan. The good news is that the results came back completely clear, showing no evidence of cancer in my body. While the monitoring will continue for several years, the results are extremely positive and my prognosis remains excellent. As always, and especially since my diagnosis, I followed the advice I give to others—take care of your health first—nothing is more important. Throughout this journey, I was blessed with the love and support of my family, friends and colleagues, and I received an outpouring of heartfelt warm wishes and messages from thousands of others, which meant so much to me. I’m very proud to be part of this company and it’s an inspiration to work with such an exceptional group of people. With deep gratitude and respect, Jamie FREE AppDownload
There’s one economic indicator that signaled today’s surprisingly strong jobs report. According to Pantheon Macroeconomics’ Ian Shepherdson, the nonfarm payroll data is lagging behind the NFIB survey, which collects data on small businesses, by several months. "Technical issues aside, the key point here is that the NFIB survey - the best guide to most of the economy, most of the time - has been telling us for a while that big payroll numbers were coming ... The chart shows that the surge in payroll gains is tracking the message from the NFIB survey several months ago, and is suggests that a run of 300K-ish payrolls is now a very good bet.” The Bureau of Labor statistics reported that nonfarm payrolls grew by 321,000 last month, crushing Wall Street’s expectation of 230,000. It’s the biggest month-over-month gain since January 2012. Here’s a chart he included to show that the non-farm payrolls data is tracking the NFIB survey. Shepherdson is betting that the revision to today’s data for November will be even stronger.  Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Amazon president, chairman, and CEO Jeff Bezos explains why he's OK with Amazon's not turning a profit — with a quote from Warren Buffett. Produced by Devan Joseph Follow BI Video: On Facebook   Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
 Back in October, former GLG macro fund manager Raoul Pal told Business Insider that the most important chart in the world was the long-term chart of the US dollar index.  He warned us that it was on the verge of surging, in what would be "the biggest technical break in the history of fiat currencies." Since that call, the US dollar has been on a tear, and it's surging today following the surprisingly strong US jobs report. But Pal, the founder of Real Vision Television and author of the Global Macro Investor newsletter, told Business Insider on Thursday that he thinks the "real move" for the US dollar hasn't happened yet.  "I think the most likely outcome is for a pause in the dollar rally soon," Pal said in an email. "That pause is the pause that refreshes, blows out a lot of the over-positioning before the real move starts." He expects that the move will begin in the early part of next year: "My view is that in 2015, probably in [January] or maybe [February] at the latest, the dollar is going to start its real move, which will be shocking in its velocity. It is that dollar rally that will clear break the key level in the $JPY, the Euro, the Aussie dollar, the ADXY (Asian DXY) and the RMB. I think that spills into all emerging equity markets and emerging bond markets too. Clearly this would cause the next down leg in oil and other commodities."  He continued, "The risk is for a global recession in 2015 but that is too early to give a higher probability too, although clearly most of the world is near recession or in recession anyway (thus making it very fragile to a shock)."  Pal joins DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach in flagging the activity in the dollar. Finance has noticed too. Reuters' Jamie McGeever shared the following chart today: @SaraEisen this is the chart that tells the story. One of the charts of the year: pic.twitter.com/fauMg19lw0     FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Charleston Hospitality GroupThe unemployment rate for millennials has fallen 1.3% in the last year. The US economy added 321,000 jobs in November, beating Wall Street's expectations of 230,000 gained jobs. With Friday's report, the US economy has now added more than 200,000 jobs in 10 consecutive months, the longest streak since 1995. Overall, the labor market is having its best year since 2000. And the big winners are everyone's favorite generation to rag on: millennials. In the last year, the unemployment rate for workers between the ages of 25 and 34 has fallen sharply, from 7.4% to 6.1%. The number of unemployed people in this age group has fallen from 2.51 million one year ago to 2.08 million in November 2014. And while some might quibble over who exactly is a millennial — is it people under 30, 35, or 25? — there is no doubt that the current generation of "young professionals," almost no matter how you choose to define that category, is far larger than Generation X.  The US economy is still working to repair itself even six years after the height of the financial crisis, and there are a number of economic data points that bulls can point to indicating the strength of the US economy. But the future of the economy is young workers, and so it is perhaps as encouraging as anything to see job gains accelerate among the youngest cohort. FRED        FREE AppDownload
Fifty. That's how many months in a row the US economy has had positive payroll growth. It's the longest streak on record, and the data dates back to World War II. In November, the US economy added 321,000 jobs, blowing away expectations for job gains of 230,000. The unemployment rate also held steady at 5.8%, the lowest level since summer 2008.  November was also the 10th straight month in which the US economy added at least 200,000 jobs, the longest streak since a 19-month run that ended in 1995.  As MUFG's Chris Rupkey said in a note following the report: "The economy is literally blasting off." Rupkey added: "With one month left to go, the economy in 2014 is fast enough for companies to hire 2.65 million people. It hasn’t been this fast since 1999." Just a huge year for the labor market. FRED   FREE AppDownload
joo0ey/FlickrAnd you thought Friday's jobs report was a whopper. Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson wrote in a note Thursday that "whatever you think really happened to November payrolls, you need to temper your forecast for the initial print by about 70K." Historically, the median revision between the first number released and the third for the November jobs report has been plus-71,000, he says. If that is the case here, then the real number of jobs created in the US last month was very, very close to 392,000. "[B]earing in mind the consistent tendency for hefty upward revisions to Nov data in recent years, the startling Nov print in due course likely will be even stronger," Shepherdson wrote in an email minutes ago. Here's a look at the history of revisions. Pantheon Macroeconomics   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic The eurozone is about to pick up where the UK and US started five and a half years ago and begin quantitative easing. That's according to some European Central Bank sources who talked to Bloomberg. That's a good thing if you think QE has the potential to offer an economic stimulus: Europe's growth is incredibly slow, and inflation is next to nothing. In fact, given the recent slump in oil prices, deflation now seems likely for the eurozone early in 2015. But support for the ECB to buy government bonds — which might make conditions in the eurozone easier for lenders and borrowers — is far from universal. The German newspaper Welt names Germany's Sabine Lautenschlager as one of the policymakers likely to vote against QE. That's no surprise given an extremely pessimistic speech she recently gave. But the opposition isn't just German this time: Welt says Luxembourgian Yves Mersch and Frenchman Benoit Coeuere are apparently both against government bond purchases, too. If true, that's fully half of the six-member executive board, which includes ECB president Mario Draghi, vice president Vitor Constancio, and chief economist Peter Praet. Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann, who sits on the 24-member governing council that will actually make the QE decision, is also likely to be against the purchases. It's not clear how many more members will object. The Bundesbank boss has been on the offensive Friday morning, saying the ECB's low interest rates are inappropriate for Germany, that the Bundesbank is in an uncomfortable position, and that easy policy can reduce the incentive for governments to reform.  It's hard to see this improving. Draghi confirmed during Thursday's news conference that he would not wait for everyone to agree before bringing in new easing measures (probably QE): We don't need to have unanimity. It's an important monetary policy measure. It can be designed, I believe, it can be designed to have a consensus. I'm still confident, but we have to remember that we have a mandate, and as I said before, we don't tolerate deviations from our mandate that would cause ultimately a tightening, an unwanted tightening of our monetary policy. Previous big easing measures at the ECB (interest rate cuts and smaller asset purchases) have been unanimous. That's way more important than it is for other big central banks, because it's a part of balancing the sometimes-opposed wishes and needs of a pretty diverse group of countries. So Draghi, and the rest of the ECB, have a choice: go ahead without Germany, and potentially some other council members, or wait for unanimity that might never come. If Draghi does pursue QE without a consensus, that's going to give even more weight to the ECB members who think he isn't consulting them enough and is too aloof. Internal criticism of the ECB president might become less anonymous and more forceful, undermining his credibility, which is pretty much the last thing Europe needs.  FREE AppDownload
The jobs report Friday crushed expectations. Following the report, the US dollar is rallying, as the yen and the euro are falling sharply against the dollar. In early trade Friday, the yen broke through 121 against the dollar, a seven-year low for the currency, which has lost almost 50% of its value against the dollar in the past two years.  Here's the chart. FinViz And as the dollar is rallying against the yen, the euro was also dropping sharply against the dollar, falling to below $1.23, a multiyear low for the currency. FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorThe jobs report crushed expectations, and markets are moving. Yields spiked, which means bonds are selling off. The 10-year Treasury yield jumped from 2.241% before the report to 2.327% just after its unveiling. Gold is tumbling, falling from about $1,205 an ounce to about $1,190/oz. US stock market futures aren't doing much. Dow futures are up 38 points, and S&amp;P 500 futures are up 2 points, which is basically where they were ahead of the report. Nonfarm payrolls jumped by 321,000 in November, which was much stronger than the 225,000 expected by economists. Even better, October's number was revised up to 243,000 from an earlier estimate of 214,000. Here's a look at gold. FinViz.comGold futures. Here are 10-year Treasury futures falling. FinViz.comTen-year Treasury note futures. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasThanks, Santa. That was huge.The US labor market is on fire. According to the latest report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, nonfarm payrolls grew by 321,000 in November, crushing expectations for 230,000. This is the biggest single-month gain in payrolls since January 2012.  The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.8%.  This marks the 10th straight month that the US economy saw payrolls grow by more than 200,000, the longest such streak since 1995. October's report was also revised higher, from an initial reading of 214,000 job gains to 243,000. According to the BLS' release: "In November, job growth was widespread, led by gains in professional and business services, retail trade, health care, and manufacturing." Payrolls grew by 50,000 in the retail sector in November, with healthcare adding 29,000 jobs, manufacturing adding 28,000 jobs, and professional and business services jobs growing by 86,000.  The "U-6" unemployment rate, which also includes those who are working part time for economic reasons and those marginally attached to the labor force, fell to 11.4% from 11.5%.  The labor force participation rate also held steady at 62.8%.  Wage gains were a bit better than expected, with wages growing 0.4% month-on-month, better than expected. Year-over-year, wage growth came in at 2.1%, which was in line with expectations. The average hourly wage for all private nonfarm employees was $24.66. The average weekly hours worked totaled 34.6, in line with expectations. In addition to October's upward revision, September's gains were also revised up to 271,000 from 256,000.  Here is what Wall Street was expecting for Friday's report: FREE AppDownload
ABCOn Friday morning, we get the November jobs report.  You can read my full preview for BI here. I'm swayed by Ian Shepherdson's argument that Friday's number will likely disappoint, as November has traditionally been impacted by large seasonal adjustments. But Shepherdson has also shown some what I would call "mainstream data truther-ness" of late. He's been railing against ISM's manufacturing PMI and services PMI reports, calling out their inclusion of seasonal adjustments from the financial crisis that have made the economy look better than is probably the case of late. (Which sort of shows you how low the bar is for Wall Street economists being called "data truthers" — this isn't exactly shadow inflation we're talking about.) And while Shepherdson is a good economist and a friend of BI, it makes me think about something David Rosenberg said on Barry Ritholtz's podcast a few months ago. Rosenberg basically railed against everything BI stands for in terms of covering all economic data points and finding some way to make (almost) all of them (a little bit) interesting. And Shepherdson, more than any other economist on Wall Street, has not just fast and incisive and commentary on every data point, but often interesting things to say about the data. Rosenberg's complaint is that we're all sort of playing this fruitless game of trying to guess every economic data point, of which there are just a ton every month, and what it does is unsettle investors. Maybe so. But that mindset also sort of assumes that Rosenberg's tactic of not overreacting to every, or really any, data points is the right way to do business, the only way to do business, the honest way to do business. I mean, what do people say about the truth, right? It also assumes a certain way of viewing the job of a Wall Street economist (and market watcher, generally). In that same conversation with Barry, Rosenberg talked about how he got his reputation at Merrill Lynch as being the guy the firm brought in to deal with anxious or panicked clients. Which makes sense, Rosenberg's first day on Wall Street was Black Monday. When you learn through panic like that, everything else seems like small potatoes. And when you're brought in to calm down Merrill Lynch's biggest clients, what're you gonna do, say, "BOOM!"? But the reality is that the market does care, a lot, about the monthly jobs report. And so just as any report, Friday's will be exciting. And while consensus is at +230,000, and most notes I came across this week said something to the effect of, "All signs point to a print that shows steady job gains north of 200,000," I give Ian Shepherdson props for finding what we call in the media a good angle. Seasonal adjustments are fickle, and just like anything, past returns are not an indication of future results. But I'll play that game, I buy "the seasonals," as Shepherdson calls them. The US economy and the US labor market look like they're in good enough shape, but I'll take a chance on the data quirk for November. +195,000. (This post originally appeared on my Ello page.)  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Morning, Happy NFP Day!  Street is expecting 230k, but many expecting upside, so the “Whisper” is closer to ~275k (A Beat will be explained by seasonality, while a miss will be blamed on tough November Weather).   Europe is having a strong day, as German Factory orders come in much stronger than expected, launching the DAX 1.4%, but volumes remain tepid as we away US Jobs.   Increased chatter of ECB QE has PIIGS debt jumping, helping the EU banks gain 2.3%, while German Industrials are leading gains as well.   Over in Asia, the action was in China – The Shanghai had a 6% intraday swing in record volumes on heavy retail flow.   The Nikkei gained 20bp, HK continues to lag on Protests – while Aussie lost 60bp as Miners retreated.     The US 10YY seeing some relief as flattener trades subside a bit, while the German 10YY is off 2bp as the Bundesbank slashes growth forecasts.  The $ is rallying as well, reigning most of yesterday’s losses, as the $/* breaks toward 121 as Nomura puts a Y125 target on the pair - causing a headwind for commodities.  That said, Copper is headed for its biggest weekly gain since August (China).   The Oil complex remains under pressure as Saudi widened its discount for Arab Light sales to Asia yesterday, but WTI continues to outperform Brent (USA Growth).   Gold is breaking downside of $1200/oz, so will be important to the Gold Bugs that it recovers back above, or the short could take hold.    Scheduled Catalysts today include NFP, at 8:30 - at 8:45 Fed's Mester Speaks on Financial Stability, at 10 we get factory Orders, then at 1 watch the Baker Hughes Rig Count.  At 2:45 Fed's Fischer Speaks Via Video to IMF Event, and 3pm gives us Consumer Credit.    “Commitment of Trader” data before the closing bell – and Japan’s GDP around 7pm tonight FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasUS President Barack Obama with participants during the 92nd annual National Christmas Tree Lighting on the Ellipse near the White House in Washington on Thursday.Good morning! Here are the major stories you need to hear about before markets open in the US. Get Ready For The US Jobs Report. The Department of Labor will release its November employment situation report at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimated US companies added 230,000 net nonfarm payrolls, which would be right in line with the monthly average for 2014. The unemployment rate is expected to remain unchanged at 5.8%, which is a six-year low. The Bull's Take. In a note to clients ahead of the report, Brian Jones at Societe Generale, who expects nonfarm payrolls grew by 275,000 in November, said: "Our analysis suggests that last month's readings on hiring, joblessness and wages will support the more upbeat assessment of labor-market conditions expressed by monetary policymakers following their October gathering." Jones added that while his forecast was above consensus expectations, a reading in line with his estimates would not alter his expectation that the Fed would keep interest rates at 0% to 0.25% until next June. The Bear's Take. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics expects nonfarm payrolls grew by just 180,000 in November, owing to the severe weather seen in the northern Midwestern states at the end of the month. Shepherdson expects, however, that the October report will be revised higher, and he expects that down the road, November's number will also be revised higher. Since 2009, November payroll gains have had a median upward revision of 71,000 after two months' worth of revisions. Markets Are Up A Bit. US futures are in the green, with Dow futures up 25 points and S&amp;P futures up 2 points. Europe is up, with Britain's FTSE 100 up 0.6%, France's CAC 40 up 1.2%, and Germany's DAX up 1.3%. Asia closed higher, with Japan Nikkei rising 0.2%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.7%, and the Shanghai composite up 1.3%. The ECB Is Gearing Up For Stimulus. Despite falling short of promising a more serious asset-buying program in their meeting Thursday, two senior European central bankers told Bloomberg a parcel of purchases including government debt was being prepared for next month.  German Factory Orders Bounced In October. Orders rose 2.5% from September, beating expectations for a 0.5% increase. Germany Slashes Its 2015 Growth Forecast. The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, slashed its growth forecasts for the economy for 2014, 2015, and 2016. Growth in 2015 is expected to be just 1%, half of the 2% that was previously expected. From the Bundesbank: "The German economy lost considerable momentum in the second and third quarters of 2014 and moved onto a flatter growth path. Following a brisk start to the year, which was partly fuelled by favourable weather conditions, real GDP did not grow any further in the second and third quarters after seasonal and working-day adjustment and thus failed to live up to the hopes of the June outlook." Another Saudi Price Cut Sent Brent Back Below $70. Saudi Arabia cut monthly prices for crude it sells to the US and Asia, while Iraq is set to export more oil, preventing Brent from staging a recovery after a near 13% plunge last week and sending the price back to $69.28. Shanghai's Stock Exchange Saw Volatility At A 4-Year High. Stocks on China's biggest exchange plunged from a 2.7% increase to a 3% drop Friday, the most volatile swings since 2010, according to Bloomberg. JPMorgan Held The Top Spot As Best-Performing Investment Bank In 2014 So Far. According to analytics firm Coalition, JPMorgan comes top by revenue, followed by Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Citi, and BAML in that order. FREE AppDownload
Regardless of how many times you hear the phrase "correlation does not imply causation," you can't help but get a little excited when there is data to support a strange relationship.  I decided to dive into some real data to find a few ridiculous correlations. All the maps and correlations are real. But I think it is safe to say that there's something else going on here. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Yuri GripasThanks, Santa. That was huge.The US labor market is on fire. According to the latest report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, nonfarm payrolls grew by 321,000 in November, crushing expectations for 230,000. This is the biggest single-month gain in payrolls since January 2012.  The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.8%.  This marks the 10th straight month that the US economy saw payrolls grow by more than 200,000, the longest such streak since 1995. October's report was also revised higher, from an initial reading of 214,000 job gains to 243,000. According to the BLS' release: "In November, job growth was widespread, led by gains in professional and business services, retail trade, health care, and manufacturing." Payrolls grew by 50,000 in the retail sector in November, with healthcare adding 29,000 jobs, manufacturing adding 28,000 jobs, and professional and business services jobs growing by 86,000.  The "U-6" unemployment rate, which also includes those who are working part time for economic reasons and those marginally attached to the labor force, fell to 11.4% from 11.5%.  The labor force participation rate also held steady at 62.8%.  Wage gains were a bit better than expected, with wages growing 0.4% month-on-month, better than expected. Year-over-year, wage growth came in at 2.1%, which was in line with expectations. The average hourly wage for all private nonfarm employees was $24.66. The average weekly hours worked totaled 34.6, in line with expectations. In addition to October's upward revision, September's gains were also revised up to 271,000 from 256,000.  Here is what Wall Street was expecting for Friday's report: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcelo del PozoThe major European stock indexes are all up Friday morning, following a story from Bloomberg on Thursday that suggested the European Central Bank would confirm a stimulus programme, which involves buying government bonds, in January. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: +1.39% Germany's DAX: +1.42% UK's FTSE 100: +0.81% Spain's IBEX: +1.89% Italy's FTSE MIB: +2.25% Asian markets closed up. The Nikkei in Japan closed up 0.19%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.71%, and China's Shanghai Composite closed up 1.32% after a choppy session. US stock futures are up, too: the Dow is 26 points higher ahead of the open, and the S&amp;P is up 1.5 points. Today, the last major piece of data is US nonfarm payrolls, coming at 1.30 p.m. GMT. Analysts are expecting that 232,000 new jobs were added in November, up from 214,000 in October. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Oil prices are down this morning.  The Brent was under $70 a barrel overnight, and it is currently trading at $69.17 (-0.68%). Earlier this morning, it was at $69.08.  Crude is currently trading at $66.25 (-0.84%):  Both indexes hit record lows earlier this week, with Brent oil hitting $67.72 a barrel on December. Crude oil was traded at $64.31 on the same day. Tony Nuan, a risk manager at Mitsubishi, told Reuters that on the current path, oil could go as low as $60 a barrel. "There is nothing to stop it," he said. Weaker oil prices could trigger a chain reaction that would further slow down the global economy. While OPEC's leader, Saudi Arabia, seems well-funded in cash reserves to survive the current crisis, other countries, like Venezuela and Russia, are not as prepared. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric MillerDespite positive numbers on German factory orders this morning, Europe's biggest economy appears to be slowing down pretty fast. The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, slashed its growth forecasts for the economy Friday morning for 2014, 2015, and 2016.  Growth in 2015 is expected to be just 1%, half of the 2% that was previously expected.  From the Bundesbank:  The German economy lost considerable momentum in the second and third quarters of 2014 and moved onto a flatter growth path. Following a brisk start to the year, which was partly fuelled by favourable weather conditions, real GDP did not grow any further in the second and third quarters after seasonal and working-day adjustment and thus failed to live up to the hopes of the June outlook. The run-through is pretty grim. Underlying industrial output is described as "stagnant" and the bank notes that business investment hasn't really materialised, after getting a boost at the end of 2013.  In the last quarter, German GDP grew by only 0.1%, but the powerhouse economy's politicians and monetary policymakers are still pretty much staunchly against any extra stimulus.  The Bundesbank expects 1.4% growth for 2014 versus an expected 1.9% and 1.6% growth for 2016 versus and expected 1.8%.  FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Uber is in talks to sell more than $1 billion in convertible debt, a source familiar with the matter said, soon after the U.S. taxi service said it raised $1.2 billion in its latest funding round. The new funding, which valued the firm at $40 billion, the planned debt sale and a previous $1.2 billion funding gave Uber more flexibility around the timing of an initial public offering, the source said. The debt will convert into equity at a discount of about 20 percent to 30 percent to the IPO price, the source said, adding that the discount increases after year one if Uber has not gone public. The coupon increases after year four, the source said. "We have just raised a financing round of $1.2 billion, with additional capacity remaining for strategic investments, Chief Executive Travis Kalanick said in a blog post on Thursday. Kalanick did not give details on the equity funding nor say who made the investment in the ridesharing company, which counts Goldman Sachs and Google Ventures among its existing investors. Uber filed to authorize up to $1.8 billion of new Series E preferred stock, Fortune said in report published before the CEO's blog. Kalanick said the equity funding would allow Uber to make investments, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, and help it generate over 1 million jobs in 2015. Uber was valued at $18.2 billion in June when it raised $1.2 billion from mutual funds and investors, including Fidelity Investments, Wellington Management and BlackRock. (Reporting by Abhirup Roy and Stephen Lacey; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (left, in white) looks set to win a landslide majority in elections next weekend.Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is likely to storm to another victory in the Japanese general election on Dec. 14. According to polls out Thursday and Friday, Abe is set to take about 300 of the 475 seats in Japan's Diet, the name for the lower house of the parliament. That would be more than the 294 seats he won in 2012, and would give his party and its coalition partners the super-majority it needs to override the upper house of parliament. Morgan Stanley's Robert Alan Feldman said in a note dated Nov. 21 that a "solid victory" for Abe could send TOPIX, a major index of Japanese stocks, up 28% by fall 2015.  Feldman raised his estimated probability of a same-sized or larger coalition for Abe to 60%, from a previous estimate of 25%. He's revised the chance of a major loss for the coalition down to 10%, from 20% before.  Abe called the election in November after shockingly bad GDP figures. Japan brought in a sales tax hike in April, raising the level from 5% to 8%, which had a much bigger impact than economists had expected. Abe ran on a platform of pushing back the second part of the sales tax hike, scheduled for October, for at least 18 months.  That less hawkish stance on Japan's government deficit is paired with the Bank of Japan's massive QE programme, both with the intention of boosting the economy and raising inflation to 2%. This is all pretty good news for other reforms too, according to Feldman. He says the polling "implies a much higher probability of accelerated reform, post-election... Such an outcome would increase the likelihood of Japan exiting deflation permanently." He explains: Abenomics so far has done very well in corporate governance reform, but also has done well in agricultural reform, government reform, and education reform. However, some key areas have lagged. In particular, reforms in the labour market, tax structure, and immigration will be crucial. Once the dust settles after the election, the progress in these lagging areas will be an intense focus of investor interest. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch German Chancellor Angela Merkel.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Friday. 1. Residents of the Philippines are bracing for supertyphoon Hagupit, which is expected to make landfall in the central Philippines on Saturday, bringing 3- to 4-metre-high storm surges.  2. The German central bank on Friday downgraded the country's growth forecasts for 2014, 2015, and 2016.  3. Pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong are deciding whether to switch tactics, with one student leader suggesting to block government by refusing to pay taxes and delaying rent payments.  4. NASA will on Friday make its second attempt to launch its Orion space capsule, after wind gusts and a rogue boat delayed Thursday's effort. 5. US President Barack Obama will announce on Friday his choice to replace Chuck Hagel as defence secretary. 6. Russian president Vladimir Putin in his annual national address Thursday warned Russians of hard times ahead. 7.  Australia said it would not contribute to a UN climate fund established to help vulnerable countries prepare for rising seas and other extreme weather events.  8. Malaysia Airlines, which suffered from two plane disasters this year, said its shares would be suspended from the country's stock exchange on Dec. 15.  9. The shale revolution has boosted proven reserves of US oil to its highest point — 36 billion barrels — since 1975. 10. Thailand's king Bhumibol Adulyadej, whose health has deteriorated over recent months, cancelled a public appearance at an event to mark his 87th birthday. And finally ... Japan is dealing with a french fry shortage.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters(Reuters) - Electronics retailer RadioShack Corp &lt;rsh.n&gt; will stop matching employees' retirement-fund contributions and review health benefits to help cut costs, Bloomberg reported on Thursday, citing an internal memo. RadioShack will discontinue matching for 401(k) and 1165(e) plans on Feb. 1, the memo from Chief Executive Officer Joe Magnacca said, according to Bloomberg. (http://bloom.bg/1yjFWXo) The company has been trying to turn around its business by closing unprofitable stores to cut costs. However, it has been unable to get approval from lenders and creditors to close 1,100 stores. RadioShack said earlier this week lenders refused to approve the store closures unless it paid significant fees, prepaid a substantial portion of its debt and agreed to other covenants and concessions it considered "unreasonable." RadioShack was not immediately available for comment. (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bengaluru; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Brent crude slipped below $70 a barrel on Friday and was set for a second weekly fall, with Saudi Arabia cutting prices in another indication it would maintain output in an oversupplied market. Saudi Arabia cut monthly prices for crude it sells to the United States and Asia, while Iraq is set to export more oil, preventing Brent from staging a recovery after a near 13-percent plunge last week. "We're heading for $60 for Brent. (There is) nothing to stop it," said Tony Nunan, a risk manager at Mitsubishi Corp in Tokyo. Brent crude had dropped 43 cents to $69.21 a barrel by 0223 GMT (09:23 p.m. EST). U.S. crude was down 35 cents at $66.46, on track for a 1-percent gain this week. Just a week after Saudi Arabia refused to support OPEC output cuts, the world's top exporter slashed its oil prices for Asian and U.S. buyers. "It's another sign that they want to maintain production levels," Nunan said. The battle for market share is likely to heat up next year when Iraq starts to export more oil after Baghdad reached a temporary agreement with the Kurdish regional government. Adding to supply, Libya is set to restart its largest oilfield, El Sharara, once a pipeline blockage is cleared. A colder-than-expected winter may support oil, Nunan said, although prices are likely to slide after peak-demand season ends in the first quarter next year. Analysts said in a Reuters monthly poll that prices are expected to rebound in the next two years from five-year lows this week as the market stabilizes. Brent will average $82.50 a barrel in 2015 and its premium to U.S. crude will narrow to $4.50 a barrel, the poll showed. The price plunge may put global oil and gas exploration projects worth more than $150 billion on hold next year, potentially curbing supplies by the end of the decade. But lower prices could support global economic growth by boosting consumer purchasing power in the United States, said Jade Fu, investment manager at Heartwood Investment Management in London. "We believe that the expected boost to the U.S. consumer from falling oil prices outweighs the risks to the energy sector," Fu said. "That's good news for global growth." (Reporting by Florence Tan; Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
