(Reuters) - P.F. Chang's China Bistro is investigating claims of a data breach involving credit and debit card data stolen from restaurant locations in the United States, the Asian-themed casual dining restaurant chain said on Tuesday. Stolen credit and debit card data appeared on an underground website used by criminals on Monday, according to KrebsOnSecurity.com, which covers computer security and cyber crime. Banks contacted by KrebsOnSecurity said the stolen cards had all been used at P.F. Chang's locations in the United States between March and May. (http://link.reuters.com/zyj99v) "P.F. Chang’s takes these matters very seriously and is currently investigating the situation, working with the authorities to learn more. We will provide an update as soon as we have additional information," said Anne Deanovic, a spokeswoman for P.F. Chang's, which operates 211 U.S. restaurants. The chain is owned by Centerbridge Partners, a private equity firm. Reuters could not independently verify the details in the report from KrebsOnSecurity. It may not be clear whether P.F. Chang's was the victim of a breach until the company releases information about its investigation. In some situations, companies that conduct investigations into data breaches may not be able to come to a definitive conclusion. For instance, Sears Holdings Corp had said that an investigation into a possible data breach did not reveal any conclusive information. A spokesman for Sears had said in February, "We have found no information based on our review of our systems to date indicating a breach." The stolen cards from P.F. Chang's are the first set of cards put up for sale in the form of electronic data on the underground shop since March 2014, when the website publicized the sale of cards stolen from beauty products retailer Sally Beauty Holdings Inc, according to KrebsOnSecurity. A number of high-profile retailers have been victims of data breaches. Discount retailer Target Corp reported in December that hackers had stolen data from up to 40 million credit and debit cards of shoppers who visited its stores during the first three weeks of the holiday season. In April, Target named high-profile information technology consultant Bob DeRodes as chief information officer. The company's previous CIO resigned in March, several months after the data breach. Upscale U.S. retailer Neiman Marcus reported a breach of about 1.1 million customer payment cards in January at 77 of 85 stores. In March, Sally Beauty said fewer than 25,000 credit-card records may have been taken in a data breach. Officials with the Secret Service could not immediately be reached for comment. The Secret Service is the U.S. federal law enforcement agency that typically takes the lead on investigating credit card breaches.   (Reporting by Narottam Medhora, Tanvi Mehta and Ankit Ajmera in Bangalore; Additional reporting by Jim Finkle in Boston; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Mark ChiversIt's got to be fun to be Richard Branson.  Since founding his record label in the 1970s, he's launched more than 400 businesses with the Virgin Group, exploring pretty much every industry you could imagine: airlines, hotels, mobile-phone companies, banks, and even space tourism.  With an estimated net worth of $5 billion, he's one of the wealthiest people in the world. From parties with models to daredevil world-record attempts, this British businessman always takes it to the next level.  FREE AppDownload
APFounder of Bridgewater Associates Ray DalioFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Dalio: Independent Thinking Is Crucial For Success In Financial Markets (The Wall Street Journal)  Bridgewater Associates is known for its unique and brutally transparent work culture. In an interview with the WSJ, Dalio says while at other firms people are asked to keep their thoughts to themselves, at Bridgewater they "have a right and an obligation to say I think this is terrible and explore whether or not that's true." Dalio says Bridgewater is a "bit like entering the Navy SEALs, …There's a period—usually about 18 months—of sort of adaptation to this. And some make it and some don't make it. And so we call it 'getting to the other side.'" "We describe it as: there's the upper-level you and the lower-level you. The human brain is part thoughtful man …and part animal. And you have to drag yourself. And we see the struggle as between the upper-level them and the lower-level them," he says referring to the difference between what they brain  wants and what a person's emotions struggle with. In the end though he believes this transparency is crucial to the "independent thinking" you need in financial markets so you can know quickly identify your weaknesses and address them. BlackRock Is Adding Cheap ETFs In A Bid To Win Mom And Pop Investors (Bloomberg) BlackRock is battling it out with Vanguard and Charles Schwab to win over retail investors, reports Christopher Condon at Bloomberg. BlackRock's iShares unit lowered fees on its six existing funds and launched four new funds. "We are now taking buy-and-hold investing up a level with greater choice and flexibility," Patrick Dunne, head of global markets and investments at iShares, said in a press release. Legendary Wall Streeter Bob Farrell Had A Quote That Described This Market Perfectly (Business Insider)  U.S. stocks are at all time highs but this is still an "unloved rally," according to Jeff Saut, quoted by Art Cashin, veteran NYSE trader at UBS. Saut draws on legendary Merrill Lynch strategist Bob Farrell to explain the current environment.  "Money managers are unhappy because 70% of them are lagging the S&amp;P 500 and see the end of another quarter approaching. Economists are unhappy because they do not know what to believe: this month’s forecast of a strong economy or last month’s forecast of a weak economy. Technicians are unhappy because the market refuses to correct and gets more and more extended. Foreigners are unhappy because due to their under-invested status in the U.S., they have missed the biggest double-play (a big currency move plus a big stock market move) in decades. The public is unhappy because they just plain missed out on the party after being scared into cash after the crash.  "It almost seems ungrateful for so many to be unhappy about a market that has done so well ... Unhappy people would prefer the market to correct to allow them to buy and feel happy, which is just the reason for a further rise. Frustrating the majority is the market’s primary goal." Millennials Say They Don't Have Enough To Save For Retirement (WealthManagement.com) Nearly 50% of Millennials say they don't have enough money to save for retirement now, according to a Wells Fargo Millennial Study of 1,600 people between the ages of 22 and 33. Debt is one of the big reasons they don't have enough, with 42% saying it is their biggest financial concern at the moment, reports Megan Leonhardt. Student debt is their biggest concern, followed by credit card debt. GUNDLACH: Munis Are Rich Versus U.S. Treasuries (Business Insider) During his latest webcast, Penny For Your Thoughts, Jeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds said he thinks Munis are rich right now versus U.S. Treasuries. He said he still owns the same amount of Muni's now as he did in 2010, which is to say he is neither buying nor selling municipal bonds. He said the real reason he isn't selling Munis is because taxes are going higher. Munis have largely been sold to wealthy investors because of their tax benefits. Gundlach said the real question is when they will tax muni income and he warned that "it is coming." FREE AppDownload
Parents in developed markets overwhelmingly believe their children will be worse off financially than they were, according to a recent chart from Citi.   France is the gloomiest by a wide margin, with 90% of adults saying their children will face greater hardships than they did. Israel and Australia were the least pessimistic. In the U.S., 62% said their children's fortunes will have deteriorated.   Fewer emerging market parents are as glum about their kids' future — though here the lowest "worse off" ratings are in places, like China and Russia, that barely made it out of the 20th century alive.   CIti FREE AppDownload
Prudential Douglas Elliman Real EstateWould you pay $100 million for this apartment?There have been some pricey home sales in Manhattan recently, but many of city's most expensive properties are still on the market. With the help of Zillow, we've put together a list of the most expensive homes currently for sale in New York City. These apartments feature incredible city views, swanky residential amenities, and more. These homes are listed $60 million and up. By comparison, the median asking price for homes in Manhattan in April 2014 was $1.28 million, according to StreetEasy. FREE AppDownload
DUBLIN (Reuters) - The European Commission will launch a formal investigation on Wednesday into Apple Inc's &lt;AAPL.O&gt; tax arrangements in Ireland, Irish state broadcaster RTE reported, without naming its source. The EU's competition authority said last year that it was looking into corporate tax arrangements in several member states and had requested information from Ireland. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for competition issues at the Commission, declined to comment on the RTE report. Ireland's finance ministry said it had not been informed of any investigation. Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny declined to comment on whether the Commission might be preparing to open an investigation but said he was confident of the legality of Ireland's tax system. "We believe that our legislation ... is very strong and ethically implemented and we will defend that very robustly," Kenny told journalists in Dublin. A U.S. Senate subcommittee investigation revealed last year that Apple had cut billions from its tax bill by declaring companies registered in the Irish city of Cork as not tax resident in any country. Senator Carl Levin, chairman of the subcommittee, said the Apple structure represented "the Holy Grail of tax avoidance." Apple in the United States entered into deals with the Irish subsidiaries whereby the Irish units received the rights to certain intellectual property that were subsequently licensed to other group companies, helping ensure almost no tax was reported in countries such as Britain or France. Apple's Irish arrangement helped it achieve an effective tax rate of just 3.7 percent on its non-U.S. income last year, its annual report shows – a fraction of the prevailing rates in its main overseas markets. The focus of the investigation will likely be tax regimes that are favorable to certain companies, including Apple, rather than the companies themselves. Technology companies such as Google Inc &lt;GOOGL.O&gt; and Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT.O&gt; have cut their overseas tax rates to single digits by establishing Dublin-registered subsidiaries, which they have designated as tax resident in Bermuda. An Apple representative had no comment. The company has previously said it complied with the law. "We pay all the taxes we owe - every single dollar," Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook testified to U.S. Senate committee investigators last year. Apple shares ended up 0.6 percent at $94.25 on the Nasdaq on Tuesday. Analysts say that the investigation is unlikely to have a major impact on Apple's share price. Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said investors are currently "hyper-focused" on new product speculation. "I don't think it will be a problem unless Apple did something illegal," said Munster. (Reporting by Conor Humphries; Additional reporting by Barbara Lewis in Brussels and Christina Farr in San Francisco and; Editing by Louise Heavens and David Evans) FREE AppDownload
Jane Mendillo, president and CEO of Harvard Management Company, which manages the company's more than $30 billion endowment, is stepping down at the end of the year, according to an announcement from the university.  Harvard said that during the five years ended June 30, HMC delivered an estimated annual return of 11-12%. During that period, payment from the endowment to the university totaled $11 billion. Last year, an analysis showed that from fiscal year 2009 through June 30, 2013, Harvard underperformed a portfolio weighted to 60% stocks and 40% bonds by 4.5%.  The analysis, performed by recruitment firm Charles A. Skorina &amp; Co., showed that Harvard also underperformed Ivy League peers including Yale, Cornell, and Brown.  Harvard said it has commenced a search for a successor.  These charts show the endowment's performance and growth over the last two decades. Harvard University Harvard University (h/t Dan Primack) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Jeffrey GundlachJeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds just wrapped up his latest webcast:  "Penny For Your Thoughts." The bond guru updated us on his take on the economy and markets. He focused on currency debasement, the bond market, and housing. Here are highlights from the presentation: Rise of the yuan "Currency debasement is not new," Gundlach said. There are a lot of pennies out there and they cost a lot to make, more than the value on it, Gundlach explained. He added that the dollar has lost 96% of its value since 1913, and lost a lot of purchasing power. The U.S. is close to historical norm of how long global reserve currencies have lasted. The U.S. has been a reserve current for 94 years, Spain had the longest reign at 110 years. And there's increased talk about China's yuan emerging as a potential reserve currency. He even gave Bitcoin a shoutout. Interest rates not responding to growth Gundlach pointed out a few key reasons that interest rates have fallen in 2014. First, it is because there aren't too many bonds floating around. Second, interest rates are down in part because of negative GDP growth in Q1. Consensus is for Q2 GDP forecast of 3.4%, he thinks it might be closer to 3% — Gundlach thinks the average for the first two quarters will be about 1%. Third, interest rates have also fallen because of a huge short position in the U.S. Treasury market going in to 2014. Aging, everywhere Gundlach said conditions in the labor force are terrible for 16-19 year olds, having fallen nearly 30 points in the past generation and a half. Labor force participation is falling for everyone but the old folks he said. The U.S. has a huge change in population of 65 and older as a share of total population. And the slope is very steep for the next 15 years before flattening out. Market has priced in most China risk Gundlach points out the absolute parity between U.S. and Spanish 10-year bonds. In the near-term Spain will be near or reside below the U.S. in yield considering the hand off in quantitative easing. In terms of range for the U.S. 10-year this year, Gundlach sees it going up to 2.8% and thinks it could possibly be pushed down to 2.2%. "I don't know if China is going to have a hard landing — I don't think it matters," he said. "It's crystal clear that China is underperforming expectations and that will be the operating thesis until it changes. It could easily come under 7% this year." Meanwhile, emerging market debt has been a good performer this year. Margin debt in the United States has rolled over, dropped 2 months in a row, and the stock market has gone to new highs despite this. Usually there's a high correlation — it's rare to see new highs in the stock market against background of margin debt liquidation. Gundlach said he is not negative on housing, but he doesn't think home prices will do much. He doesn't however think there is a crisis. "New home sales will be less of a support for the economy than the consensus believes," he said. Long-daters  Long-term Treasuries have been the big winner. Investment grade corporate bonds are higher because they have longer duration, and it doesn't matter what grade. Corporate bonds are up about 5%. Millennial housing risk New home sales are where they were at the depths of the recession. Those that are super bullish are hoping that first-time buyer reappear — they see a large pent up demand. But Gundlach said he doesn't think Millennials (those in the 18-34 cohort) will come back to market the same way. He thinks people in 20s and 30s have been scarred by the recession. "They don't see housing as security, they see it as risk." Highlights from the Q&amp;A: ------------ At 4:15 p.m. ET, Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds will hold a webcast. The bond guru will be updating us on his take on the economy and markets. Wall Street had been looking for bond yields to rise in 2014, but Gundlach had pointed out that they could tumble to as low as 2.5% during a Jan 14 webcast.  Last month, Gundlach said that we could be on the verge of a big bond market rally. ""If we go down [more] on Treasury yields, we will see one of the biggest short-covering scrambles of all time," he said at the time.  Today's webcast is titled "Penny For Your Thoughts." We'll have Gundlach's comments live. FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine CapitalDoubleLine Capital founder Jeff Gundlach is out with his latest presentation on the state of markets, called "Penny For Your Thoughts." The theme seems to be about currencies and their underlying values — at one point, according to BI's Mamta Badkar, who covered the presentation live, he gave a shout-out to Bitcoin. Gundlach ominously observes that the dollar is approaching the historical terminus of global reserve dominance — Spanish escudos, for instance, lasted 110 years, and the U.S. dollar is now at 94. China's Yuan is waiting in the wings... Other themes include the recent rush back into U.S. treasuries, and shifting demographics.
Reuters/ Nikola SolicAIG has announced CEO Bob Benmosche is stepping down at the end of this summer but will stay on as an adviser. The insurance giant named Peter Hancock as his successor.  Hancock joined AIG in February 2010 as Executive Vice President of Finance and Risk, according to Forbes. He'd previously served as Vice Chairman of KeyCorp.  Benmosche, who took over the firm in 2009, had a colorful tenure, which BI extensively documented. But AIG shares climbed more than 100% under his watch. Shares were down 0.5% in after-hours trading Tuesday. Here's the full release on the new boardroom:  American International Group, Inc. (NYSE:AIG) today announced that its Board of Directors has named Peter D. Hancock as President and Chief Executive Officer, AIG, effective September 1. Mr. Hancock will also join AIG’s Board of Directors, effective September 1. He currently serves as Executive Vice President, AIG, and Chief Executive Officer of AIG Property Casualty, and will succeed Robert H. Benmosche, who currently is AIG President and Chief Executive Officer. “I would like to extend my sincere gratitude and appreciation to Bob Benmosche for all that he has done at AIG” As of September 1, Mr. Benmosche is expected to resign from the AIG Board of Directors and will assume an advisory role at AIG. In that capacity, Mr. Benmosche will advise the CEO and continue to be involved in AIG’s internal leadership development programs, as well as mentor and coach AIG managers. “As AIG enters a time of great change and opportunity, we are confident that Peter Hancock is uniquely qualified to lead the company and its employees to future success,” said Robert S. Miller, Chairman of AIG’s Board of Directors. “Peter’s deep experience in financial services, including as a strong risk manager; his understanding of the AIG enterprise and the insurance business as a whole; his success in revitalizing AIG’s property casualty business; and his strong leadership and inclusive relationship skills position him perfectly to lead the company to an even more prosperous future. “AIG today is a far stronger company than it was five years ago, and with the crisis well behind us, AIG now is focused on its core mission: to help people and businesses around the world prepare for the future, recover from loss, and retire with confidence,” Mr. Miller continued. “Peter’s successful tenure at AIG, including his tireless focus on creating sustainable value via a strategy that achieves the right balance between growth, profitability, and risk has led to a shift to more high value business, better loss ratios, stronger risk management practices, and a stabilization of reserves in AIG’s property casualty segment. “It is with great confidence that the AIG Board of Directors affirms that Peter is a person in whom investors, clients, distribution partners, employees, and regulators can place great trust. Peter will continue advancing the core strategies and priorities of AIG with integrity and a profound sense of the responsibility that AIG exceed the expectations – financial, regulatory, and community – of all of our stakeholders. I, along with the rest of AIG’s Board, look forward to helping Peter chart a prosperous course for AIG’s future. “I would like to extend my sincere gratitude and appreciation to Bob Benmosche for all that he has done at AIG,” Mr. Miller said. “Under Bob’s incomparable leadership and vision, AIG has achieved remarkable, and at times, unthinkable, milestones and successes. Bob worked tirelessly to transform AIG and position it for this next chapter: fully repaying the $182 billion of government support AIG received in 2008, plus a profit of $22.7 billion, the largest turnaround in the history of corporate America; divesting non-core assets; streamlining global operations under clear reporting lines; and finding smart opportunities to grow AIG’s business. It has been my privilege to watch, firsthand, the fruition of Bob’s philosophy: When you give people the freedom to act, and they act responsibly, they’re capable of achieving amazing things.” Mr. Hancock said, “I am deeply honored to take on this responsibility as our entire organization unites around a commitment to excellence in every aspect of our work. Under Bob’s leadership, AIG has re-emerged from crisis as a pre-eminent leader in the global insurance industry. In just under five years, Bob transformed AIG’s culture into one that fosters empowerment and tenacity, reinvigorating our employees around the world and enabling them to achieve the impossible. Today, a far stronger AIG has the opportunity to extend our industry-leading positions as we continue to set new standards of quality for our customers and distribution partners worldwide. I look forward to working with our Board, our management team, and our exceptionally talented employees and distribution partners to create value for all of our stakeholders.” Mr. Hancock, 55, joined AIG in 2010 and was named Chief Executive Officer of AIG Property Casualty in March 2011, when the division was reorganized into two major global groups: Commercial and Consumer. He had previously served as Executive Vice President, Finance, Risk, and Investments, AIG. Mr. Hancock has spent his entire career in financial services, including 20 years at J.P. Morgan, where he established the Global Derivatives Group, ran the Global Fixed Income business and Global Credit portfolio, and served as the firm’s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer. He co-founded and served as President of Integrated Finance Limited, an advisory firm specializing in strategic risk management, asset management, and innovative pension solutions. He joined AIG from KeyCorp, where he was Vice Chairman, responsible for Key National Banking. Mr. Hancock is a member of the Board of the Japan Society and a member of the International Advisory Board of BritishAmerican Business. He is a William Pitt Fellow of Pembroke College, Cambridge. He was raised in Hong Kong and later attended Oxford University, where he earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in politics, philosophy, and economics. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Stocks finished mixed, but little changed, as the markets were again quiet as has been the recent trend. First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,945.92, 2.5, 0.02%S&amp;P 500: 1,950.79, -0.48, -0.02%Nasdaq: 4,338.00, 1.8, 0.04% The top stories of the day: Don't Miss: Legendary Wall Streeter Bob Farrell Had A Quote That Described This Market Perfectly » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerBurning vehicles belonging to Iraqi security forces are seen during clashes between Iraqi security forces and al Qaeda-linked Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in the northern Iraq city of Mosul, June 10, 2014. Today, Iraq declared a state of emergency following the occupation of Mosul, the largest city in Iraq's oil-rich northern region, by one of the country's nastiest terror groups. Oil markets are shrugging off the crisis: Brent contracts were down 0.4% Tuesday. Usually when supplies are threatened, the price goes up. Baghdad released a statement saying the state of emergency would not affect exports, according to TradeArabia. And while the takeover occurred in the north, much of the country's production since the end of the war has occurred in the south. However, shipments out of Kirkuk, 100 miles southeast of Mosul, have already been halted after a March bomb blast damaged a pipeline to Turkey. The IEA warned in its May 15 report that northern exports remained threatened by an unstable security situation.  Two FT commentators believe the market is inadequately pricing how ominous the Mosul take over is: While ISIS gains have no immediate implications for crude supplies, they send a worrying signal about Iraq's exports: http://t.co/8JRBn6ygwK . @Ed_Crooks Very true Ed -- could impact not only Iraq proper exports, but also nascent #oil exports from @KurdistanRegion area IEAIt's quite possible they could starting falling more, soon. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jae C. HongUnited Launch Alliance, a Boeing-Lockheed Martin joint venture, is hitting back against Elon Musk's rocket company, SpaceX, in the middle of a nasty dispute between the two companies. That dispute arises from a lawsuit SpaceX filed against the Air Force over its decision to award a long-term contract to launch national security-related satellites to ULA. The Air Force awarded this lucrative contract without entertaining bids from competitors like SpaceX, the lawsuit alleges. The legal fight got uglier after Musk implied that ULA bribed an Air Force official to give it a no-bid contract. Boeing and Lockheed have hardly remained passive amid these accusations.  Shifting the terms of debate. On Tuesday, Houston Chronicle science reporter Eric Berger tweeted a graphic that ULA was distributing at a Boeing showcase in Florida. At Boeing event in Florida @ulalaunch handing out smack talk scorecards downing @SpaceX. pic.twitter.com/Jc8SgLhxWE ULA and its parent companies have had a far greater number of successful launches to their name than SpaceX. A graphic like this takes the focus off of technology and cost and shifts it to industry experience — effectively holding SpaceX's startup ethos against it. The legislative fix. At Ars Technica, John Timmer argued that a recent provision in a NASA funding bill enables Congress to regulate aerospace startups like SpaceX out of competition for government contracts: Richard Shelby (R-AL) has added a small clause that would require all the competing companies to engage in a specific form of cost tracking. Doing so is far more easily dictated than done, based on this description of the accounting methods. Boeing, as a regular government contractor, already has a system in place for tracking costs in a compatible manner. The [other] companies, however, do not and would have to face the costs of adding it. [Eric] Berger also suggests that the new requirement might force the entire contracting process to be repeated. This regulation deals with a highly technical issue that falls outside the attention or even the understanding of most of the general public. It also presents a significant potential obstacle to aerospace newcomers. This kind of legislation favors established companies without attracting much in the way of public criticism. The Ars Technica article noted that Shelby's home state of Alabama is home to a large Boeing facility. That aerospace giant may have some influence over lawmakers like him, as it spent nearly $15 million on lobbying in 2013. A certification process that doesn't favor newcomers. The government has certified ULA to carry its payloads, but SpaceX is still in the early stages of the certification process. The head of Lockheed Martin's space division approached the issue in these stark terms during an interview with the Financial Times today, saying, "The government has a certification process that I think everybody ought to adhere to.”  But certification isn't quite this straightforward. The Air Force has only ever certified one company to launch its military and spy satellites: ULA. As Keith Cowing, a former NASA astrobiologist and blogger for NASA Watch explained to Business Insider, this very limited experience stacks the certification process against potential newcomers. "ULA has been launching rockets the traditional way since forever and that's the basis on which the Air Force and NASA builds their accreditation," Cowing said. "If someone comes along with a new or possibly better way of launching rockets you have an immediate conflict because the old way of doing things is how the new way is going to be evaluated." The aerospace giants are stressing their pedigree and experience, while using the legislative process to their advantage. At the same time, SpaceX is attempting to drastically change the government's approach to industry newcomers.  It's a battle that's being fought in the legislative, legal, and public relations arenas. It's also a fight that doesn't seem likely to end anytime soon.  FREE AppDownload
Most men don’t get too excited about their birthday; we’re aware — every single day — of the fact that we’re getting older. Not only do we not expect presents, we don’t want any. The same is true for Christmas — a day spent selflessly ensuring that our partners and offspring have magical memories and all of the material things they desire. But Father’s Day is our day, and ours alone — a day to honor ourselves without feeling too guilty about it. It’s also a chance to receive all of the things we tend not to buy for ourselves. Here are ten perfect gifts for Father’s Day: There are plenty of reasons why we drink, and they’re all good ones. Besides the obvious visual attraction, this spherical shape has the smallest surface area relative to its mass – perfect for those of us who don’t dilute our drinks. Throw in a bottle of Pappy 23 and some Baccarat Harcourt Tumblers. Now that every Dad in the world knows about Beats By Dre, it’s time to buy him some earphones that are actually decent … before he takes matters into his own hands and comes home looking like Drake. These tactful Shure earphones deliver an unparalleled listening experience. A wine decanter generally serves three purposes: to remove any sediment, to aerate the wine in order to enhance the aroma and flavor, and to look like a horse’s ass. Not only does the Riedel Horn Decanter do all of those things with style, it’s also a functioning horn — which sounds absurd … until the first time you try it three bottles deep. Either way, it’s stunning to look at. Here’s our chance to be kids again, limited only by our imaginations. This ready-to-fly, beginner-friendly drone also comes with GPS, Wi-Fi, and a 1080p video camera. Because there’s a YouTube star in all of us. Young. Old.Strong. Weak. Man. Woman. Drunk. Drunker. It doesn’t matter; croquet is the perfect summertime game for everyone. It’s also one of the few times Darwin doesn’t salivate upon hearing someone say, “Hold my drink and watch this.” Jaques of London invented the game, and simply put, there is no finer croquet set. A great book can be the perfect gift. After all, reading allows you to borrow someone else’s brain. Skip Piketty; that’s like assigning homework, and there are plenty of cliff notes on the subject if Dad needs some dinner party talking points. There are many great books out there, but Oprah’s* #1 Book for Dad is now available for pre-order. It won’t ship in time for Father’s Day, but if you email me a copy of the receipt and a contact number, I’ll personally call your Dad and tell him a few offensive jokes. *Janet “Oprah” Thompson lives in Quincy, MA. She is a voracious reader. These Japanese knives are hand-forged by Teruyasu Fujiwara, using traditional samurai sword making techniques that have been passed down through his family for generations. Because not even Tom Cruise could ruin The Last Samurai for us. Poker chips are a clichéd staple of nearly every gift guide for a “real man,” and are sold everywhere from Wal-Mart to Dunhill. But, try taking it to the next level with some personalized, casino-grade clay chips from the same people that make them for the real casinos. Asprey Black tie affairs are one of the few occasions where it’s acceptable for a man to wear any kind of excessive bling. These Asprey studs aren’t cheap, but they’ll definitely set him apart from the wait staff. If his black tie events end the way mine do, just make to get them insured. Tobias Wong Ours is not to reason why; ‘tis but to poop gold… Yes, to literally sh*t gold. Gwyneth Paltrow takes three of these every morning with her Activia.   FREE AppDownload
Remember 2010, when everyone was arguing about whether governments hit by the Great Recession should be cutting their way back to health? Here's a chart that shows the cutters were probably wrong. The Center for Economic And Policy Research's Ben Wolcott has calculated the magnitude of countries' attempts to balance their books through austerity, versus ones that took a less severe approach. "...If the pain caucus predictions were correct, we would expect to see a strong positive correlation between changes in the structural balance and employment rate," he writes. "In this worldview, as countries like Greece and Spain cut their budgets in order to qualify for international support, increased confidence in financial markets would return them to full employment quickly." That didn't happen. The X-axis below shows the extent to which countries tried to achieve greater structural (i.e. non-cyclical) fiscal "balance" through spending cuts and tax increases. The Y-axis shows employment. Nearly every country that kept government spending mostly the same, or even increased it, in the throes of the Great Recession now has higher rates of employment four years on. Those who attempted to convince the market of its fiscal discipline do not. Wolcott/CEPRWolcott: This image very crisply suggests what Keynesians have been arguing in more nuanced ways for four years, namely that many countries cut fiscal spending too soon, prolonging the negative impacts of the Great Recession for workers. Wolcott goes on to note how this phenomenon has played out in Japan: No country has a debt level anywhere near Japan’s which is now approaching 250 percent of GDP. Nonetheless the country’s new Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, pushed through a vigorous stimulus program that began to take effect early in 2013. The economy responded as would be predicted by textbook Keynesian economics, growth accelerated, the inflation rate increased modestly, and the employment to population ratio rose by 1.7 percentage points, the equivalent of 4 million new jobs in the United States. No one is suggesting fiscal discipline is never called for. But this chart shows that it's a really bad idea to go for it when everything is collapsing. (Via Delong) FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesRecent market discussion has centered on volatility, or a lack thereof.  Amid this calm, however, stocks have pushed back to record highs. But there is a market force at play that we've talked about before, but is worth keeping in mind when the market seems to just keep grinding higher. It's not the Fed. It's stock buybacks.  Share buybacks involve companies purchasing shares of their own stock, creating fewer shares available for public ownership, which in theory should make the price of the outstanding shares go up. In a recent note, Charlie Brown, Managing Director at Intercontinental Exchange, notes the impact recent buybacks have had on the market:  Last year, companies in the S&amp;P 500 bought back some $475 billion of their own stock. For the 1st quarter of this year companies purchased an additional $160 billion. Estimates for the balance of the year are close to $350 billion. Combined this with the flurry of dividend activity/increases and you have a significant amount of all the profits of the S&amp;P 500 companies going back into the hands of shareholders. Half the reason this market has not seen any significant pull backs is because corporations are buying any dips and have plenty of cash on hand to continue to do so. We shall see if it continues. In the last few weeks, the Dow, S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq have enjoyed somewhat stealthy rallies that have left many scratching their heads. The S&amp;P 500 is up 4% since May 21. The Nasdaq is also up 5.7% over the same period. If you're ever wondering who keeps buying stocks, don't forget about the companies themselves. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sheng Li Back in May China announced a targeted reserve requirement ratio (RRR) cut to support economic growth. We got details on this cut on Monday.    But to think that an RRR cut can help boost growth may be expecting too much of both the cut and monetary policy in general, writes UBS' Wang Tao.  Moreover, lack of credit growth hasn't been the biggest challenge for Chinese companies. Financing problems among Chinese corporates stem from the fact that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and private companies lose out to state owned enterprises (SOEs), local government investment platforms, and property related projects. Instead, the biggest problem facing China's corporate sector is "the lack of investment intention or access," writes Wang. "For many companies, the bigger problem now is excess capacity, especially in heavy industry and construction related sectors," writes Wang. Excess capacity — in which demand for products is less than potential supply — continues to be one of China's biggest problems. And, China's credit-fueled investment boom was a major contributor to its excess capacity problem in the first place. "For these companies that face excess capacity, low profit margins and weak future prospect, cheaper and easier credit can help them survive better but will unlikely stimulate further investment, nor should the government want to," writes Wang. "For many other companies especially those in the private sector and services industries, entrance barrier is the key issue, which requires faster reforms to breakdown such barriers." Bottomline: It's time for more structural reforms to do more work than monetary policy. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeGoogle just paid $500 million for Skybox Imaging, a company that provides the world's first commercially available, daily HD video satellite system. The U.S. company's vision is to "leverage timely satellite data to provide insight into daily global activity." Satellite footage from Skybox Imaging's SkySat-1 micro-satellite shows that the technology is as mesmerizing as the implications are powerful.YouTube"Businesses can, for the first time, monitor a network of globally distributed assets with full-motion snapshots without needing to deploy an aircraft or field team," John Clark of SkyBox explained the system in a March blog post. "The movement captured in these short video windows, up to 90 seconds in length, yields unique insights that improve operational decisions.   Digital cartographers are figuring out ways to use the new source of geospatial data, but simply being able to watch part of the world several times a day from space is profound. What the insights are, and who benefits from it, has not been seen yet. No one outside the military has ever been able to access data like this: Theoretically, one could follow individual people from space. Nevertheless, the potential in industries like agriculture, airports, asset monitoring, security, supply chain management, and nuclear plants is vast. There are huge implications for finance, too: One can just imagine how a hedge fund could leverage this data. The technology is cutting edge. The company asked: “What’s the smallest box I can fit something of real commercial value into?” SkyboxSkySat-1 is arguably the highest performance micro-satellite ever built. The challenge is that space assets are traditionally extremely valuable, extremely expensive, and extremely risky.  So the next technological frontier for quality imaging from space involves systems that can both capture data of high enough quality (resolution) to show economic activity and be cost-effective enough to deploy in large numbers (timeliness). And Skybox thinks they've nailed it given that the circutiry of the SkySat is about the size of a phone book and consumes less power than a 100w light bulb: Skybox On November 21, Skybox launched SkySat-1 into orbit:  Skybox is currently taking off as it sells its full-motion video and imagery systems and build SkyNode ground station in various countries. The company is now planning to build a constellation of 24 satellites that can cover almost the entire expanse of the Earth.  Welcome to the future. FREE AppDownload
The iPhone is the best smartphone you can buy right now. It's extremely user-friendly, and we'd be lost without it. While the iPhone is already chock-full of useful apps and games, it's also packed with a bunch of hidden features that can make life with your smartphone a whole lot easier. Here are ten things you didn't know you could do with your iPhone. Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Paul EvansYou may not know this boys — and if you don't consider this your lucky day — but everyone is looking at your shoes. Your boss is looking at your shoes, your clients are looking at your shoes, and that girl is without question looking at your shoes. Unfortunately a lot of men's shoes at a decent price point are uninspiring, heartlessly put together pieces of leather meant singularly for foot protection. You should want more than that. There are alternatives to this situation. Here is one. Among certain circles of fashion conscious gentlemen, a company called Paul Evans is absolutely exploding. Founders Ben Earley and Evan Fript planned it that way. "The ideal shoe is stylish, comfortable and represents incredible value," Fript told Business Insider. "Our direct to consumer model adds the convenience factor. We do free shipping and free returns. Our competitors are missing all four of those ingredients: style, comfort, value and convenience. There are some great brands out there that make beautiful shoes, but not one brand is doing what we are doing at our price point. Period the end." Think: Warby Parker of shoes. The brand, which launched last August, is dedicated to ensuring high quality, Italian made product for the discerning eye at a lower price point than your average Ferragamo (Think: $300-$400 versus $550 to $700). Paul EvansThe Martin, $399 from Paul Evans Spring/Summer '14 "If [guys] aren't wearing stylish footwear the entire outfit looks ridiculous..." said Fript. "There really isn't an excuse anymore. " Fript and Earley, both in their late 20s, met while studying at Tulane. After that, they both went into finance. That's when they started noticing, by and large, how tired the average guy's shoe game was (and is). They knew that if they were going improve the situation for all of us (the guys, their girlfriends, society), they were going to have the make the experience convenient and efficient. Now Paul Evans is pulling in six figures of revenue, adding new shoe styles, and talking about an expansion into women's shoes. Fript is dedicated to the business full time, while Earley juggles it along with his work on Wall Street — no easy task. And if all goes well, it's one that Earley can forgo. "[In five years] We'll be dominating the menswear industry of course," said Fript, adding, "The question is, what does your outfit say about you? What kind of message are you sending? For us, and our customers, that message is power, intelligence and decisiveness." Get your message straight. Paul EvansThe Chaplin, $399 from Paul Evans Spring/Summer '14   FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThis week, the government of the United Arab Emirates announced that that it was introducing compulsory military service for its male citizens. Major energy reserves, real estate, finance, air travel, Western support, and the country's ability to maintain internal calm in an unstable part of the world have turned the UAE into one of the Middle East's emerging powers. Now the country, which has a population of slightly over 1 million citizens spread over seven semi-autonomous city states, is attempting to rapidly upgrade its military capabilities.  And not just through the draft. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, the UAE was the world's ninth-largest arms importer for the period between 2008 and 2012, ahead of Saudi Arabia and Turkey. In 2013 alone, the UAE imported 14 Black Hawk helicopters from the U.S., 72 Nyala armored personnel carriers from South Africa, 6 corvettes from France, and 1,000 surface-to-air missiles from Russia. A country with barely a million citizens is building a world-class arsenal and now wants the personnel to operate it. This reveals the UAE's ambitions — as well as its leadership's mounting doubts about the future of the country and the region in general.  The Persian Gulf monarchies haven't been immune from regional turmoil. Protests have gripped Kuwait and Saudi Arabia since the outbreak of the Arab uprisings in late 2010, while it took a multinational military intervention from the other Gulf kingdoms to quash a popular uprising in Bahrain. Iraq and Syria are in turmoil, and a terror group too radical for Al Qaeda now controls more territory than the government of Lebanon. Iran looms just across the Persian Gulf. It's natural for the government of a rising power like the UAE to think about its future vulnerability. But there's another likely reason for this buildup. Emirati citizens are only 19% of the UAE's overall population of 5.6 million and are greatly outnumbered in their own country. Over the past year, there have been two mass trials of Emiratis accused of having Muslim Brotherhood ties. The Emirati monarchs are anxious about potential triggers for internal collapse, and view rapid militarization as one way out of a host of current and future dilemmas. That sort of thinking has a mixed record in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia is a major arms importer and still faces internal instability, as well as a succession controversy that raises the possibility of crippling political drift. In Egypt, the government of Hosni Mubarak was the world's second-largest recipient of U.S. military aid. Today, the country is arguably less stable than it's been in its entire modern history.  The UAE is trying to arm its way out of its future problems. But it might take a few decades before it's clear whether the strategy pays off for the country's ruling families. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Marty LederhandlerU.S. stocks are at all-time highs. But Jeff Saut — cited by Art Cashin, the veteran NYSE trader at UBS — calls this an "unloved rally." To explain the dynamic, Saut draws on legendary Merrill Lynch strategist Bob Farrell, who said the following in 1989 (via Cashin). It's all about how everyone is unhappy: economists, money managers, and technical analysts. Money managers are unhappy because 70% of them are lagging the S&amp;P 500 and see the end of another quarter approaching. Economists are unhappy because they do not know what to believe: this month’s forecast of a strong economy or last month’s forecast of a weak economy. Technicians are unhappy because the market refuses to correct and gets more and more extended. Foreigners are unhappy because due to their underinvested status in the U.S., they have missed the biggest double-play (a big currency move plus a big stock market move) in decades. The public is unhappy because they just plain missed out on the party after being scared into cash after the crash. It almost seems ungrateful for so many to be unhappy about a market that has done so well ... Unhappy people would prefer the market to correct to allow them to buy and feel happy, which is just the reason for a further rise. Frustrating the majority is the market’s primary goal. What's it going to take, folks? FREE AppDownload
Richard Rhee / FlickrRadioShack reported disappointing earnings earlier today. After another disappointing quarter, it seems more likely the company could choose to file for bankruptcy protection. A major problem for the company is closing stores, which it hasn't been able do as quickly or as broadly as it would like. On May 8, RadioShack disclosed in a regulatory filing that its lenders blocked plans, announced in March, to close 1,100 stores. According to its latest quarterly filing with the SEC, RadioShack currently operates 4,250 retail stores in the U.S.  On its conference call today, the company said under its revised store closure plan, it would instead close 200 stores per year over the next three years.  A May 13 report from Bloomberg highlighted that in rejecting RadioShack's store closure plans, the company's lenders and vendors have forced the company to burn through cash, potentially forcing it into seeking bankruptcy protection.  Today's earnings report revealed the extent of the burn rate: cash and equivalents holdings totaled $61.8 million as of May 3, compared with $109.6 million on February 1 and $179.8 million at the start of the year. On its earnings conference call, the company said lenders have been supportive of its turnaround efforts, "regardless of what is written in the press." With shares of the company down nearly 8% following the report, it seems unlikely today's report made investors feel any better about RadioShack's prospects. (via Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge SilvaStocks are modestly lower in another quiet day on Wall Street. The Dow is down 8 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 1 point, and the Nasdaq is down less than 1 point. The VIX, however, is off yesterday's lows at 0.9%. The biggest story of the day is RadioShack, which is currently down 8% after reporting a wider than expected quarterly loss.  On the economic data front, its been another quiet day. The NFIB's small business confidence index came in at 96.6 for May, the highest reading since 2007.  The BLS's Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary, or JOLTS report, showed that job openings surged to 4,455,000 in April, beating expectations for 4,050,000. Also in corporate news, Allergan rejected the latest takeover offer from Valeant Pharmaceuticals and activist investor Bill Ackman.  Last night, PayPal President David Marcus announced he would step down to join Facebook's mobile-messaging products team.  FREE AppDownload
Job Openings vs. Wages The above chart is a chart that should warm the hearts of every worker in America. The red line shows the percentage of jobs that are unfilled. The green line is the year over year change wages of the average worker. As you can see, the red line is starting to surge (indicating more demand for labor, and a harder time among workers trying to find work). Historically this translates into wage gains, and for obvious reasons: If you have job openings piling up, you're going to have to increase wages to fill them. So if you're a worker, you should be glad: Your bargaining power is on the rise. Of course, this latest bit of evidence is just one piece of a larger mosaic indicating that higher wages for workers are on the way. Just this morning, a survey from the National Federation Of Independent Business provided evidence for coming wage gains. As you can see in the thin dark line here, the number of companies with plans to raise wages has hit its highest level since the crisis. NFIB Elsewhere the survey provided evidence that "Labor Quality" was growing as a problem for companies, which also speaks to the need for companies to increase wages. But what's good news for workers may not be good for the capital class. Accelerating wages is what could cause the Fed to get nervous, and begin tapping on the breaks, slamming stocks. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mike BlakeOne Senate Democratic leader is amping up warnings about a looming congressional disaster — the Highway Trust Fund, a transportation and infrastructure fund financed by gasoline taxes, is set to run out by the end of the summer. Sen. Patty Murray warned on the Senate floor Tuesday of the potential calamity and offered possible solutions — the elimination of what she called "wasteful" tax loopholes. "The construction industry was particularly hard hit by the economic downturn. Allowing the Highway Trust Fund to reach critically low levels would be another blow to an industry that’s already seen more than its fair share of job loss and uncertainty," Murray said on the Senate floor. "For all of these reasons, Congress needs to act to avoid a potential construction shutdown this summer." The Obama administration has warned that 700,000 jobs and tens of thousands of projects are tied to the Highway Trust Fund's uncertain future. Gasoline taxes are no longer enough to finance the fund — and lawmakers do not want to raise gas taxes in an election year.  House Republicans are considering a proposal that would replenish the fund by scaling back U.S. Postal Service deliveries on Saturdays. But Murray rejected that solution. "I believe that’s the wrong way to go. There are better ways to address both Postal Service reform and the Highway Trust Fund shortfall," she said. Here are Murray's full remarks, as prepared for delivery: “States across the country are working on transportation projects to repair bridges and relieve traffic on the nation’s roads and highways.  “Kentucky, for example, has started widening Interstate 65 between Bowling Green and Elizabethtown. “Local officials there say it’s an important project to ease traffic and to help ambulances and fire trucks get to the scene of emergencies more quickly. “But earlier this year, Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear said that project might be at risk because of a shortfall in the Highway Trust Fund. “M. President, a crisis in the Highway Trust Fund could jeopardize thousands of important transportation projects around the country if Congress doesn’t act. “So today, I’m once again calling on my colleagues to work together to avert a crisis in the Highway Trust Fund. And, I’ll call attention to specific, wasteful tax loopholes that Congress could eliminate to shore up the trust fund – loopholes that both Democrats and Republicans have, in the past, said we should close. “M. President, there can be no question the Highway Trust Fund is facing a revenue problem. “The Department of Transportation has been warning for months that it expects the trust fund to reach critically low levels as soon as this summer. If that happens, the Department might have to delay reimbursements to states. “The crisis is no longer a hypothetical. It has already caused states to plan for a construction shutdown if Congress doesn’t act. “In Georgia, more than 70 transportation projects could be delayed indefinitely, according to state officials there. “In North Carolina, an engineer for the state’s Department of Transportation said: if the trust fund runs dry, ‘that essentially stops our construction program.’ “And this crisis could have a serious impact on construction jobs. “If states aren’t able to enter into new construction contracts, as many as 700,000 jobs could be at risk, according to the Department of Transportation.  “M. President, the construction industry was particularly hard hit by the economic downturn. Allowing the Highway Trust Fund to reach critically low levels would be another blow to an industry that’s already seen more than its fair share of job loss and uncertainty.  “For all of these reasons, Congress needs to act to avoid a potential construction shutdown this summer. “In the past few weeks, I’ve been encouraged that members on both sides of the aisle agree we need to replenish the Highway Trust Fund with revenue.  “Allowing the trust fund to run dry is not an option. Putting construction jobs at risk is not an option. Failing to make much-needed investments in our roads and bridges is not an option. “House Republicans have offered a proposal to cut mail delivery down to a modified five-day delivery system, to temporarily fund the Highway Trust Fund. “But, I believe that’s the wrong way to go. There are better ways to address both Postal Service reform and the Highway Trust Fund shortfall. “But I do think there is an opportunity to solve this looming crisis in a way that should have bipartisan support. “Our tax code is riddled with wasteful tax loopholes that benefit the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations. And many of these are loopholes that both Democrats and Republicans have proposed closing.  “For example, Republican Congressman Dave Camp, who chairs the House Ways and Means Committee, Senator Reed of Rhode Island, and Senator Levin of Michigan,  have all proposed eliminating the so-called “stock option” loophole. “Right now, corporations claim enormous tax breaks by compensating their executives in stock options, instead of regular paychecks. That’s so the corporation can skirt a tax rule that limits deductible cash compensation to $1 million per year for each of a handful of corporate officers. “Closing that loophole alone would save as much as $50 billion over ten years. “Another loophole allows some wealthy business owners to mischaracterize their income as business profits, instead of a salary, to avoid paying their fair share of payroll taxes. “Putting a stop to that unfair practice – as both Chairman Camp and Democrats have proposed – could save more than $15 billion over the next ten years. “These are just two wasteful and unfair tax loopholes that both Democrats and Republicans have proposed closing. But the list of loopholes goes on and on. “And we can use the revenue generated by closing just a few of them to avoid an unnecessary crisis, shore up the Highway Trust Fund, and make the critical investments we need in our roads and bridges across the country. “M. President, I know for many people around the country, this looming Highway Trust Fund crisis is all too familiar. For them, it’s yet another example of Congress lurching from crisis to crisis. “Just last week, the director of the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department said he reminds people that just last year, Congress shut down the entire federal government. That’s how he knows there’s a real threat that Congress will shut down investments in our roads and bridges. “So states like Arkansas aren’t taking any chances.  State officials there recently delayed 10 projects. And they said they might have to delay even more work if Congress doesn’t act. “M. President, states deserve more certainty in the Highway Trust Fund. Commuters are counting on transportation projects to ease traffic congestion. And construction workers are counting on jobs to repair roads and bridges. “Let’s build on the common ground that Democrats and Republicans share to replenish the Highway Trust Fund.  Let’s show commuters, businesses, workers, and states that Congress can come together to resolve this crisis. Let’s work together and prevent a construction shutdown this summer. “Thank you, M. President. I yield the floor.” FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThis was supposed to be a good year for the greenback. Back in January, the U.S. dollar appeared poised to strengthen on the back of an improving economy. But here we are in June, and things haven’t quite turned out that way. The U.S. economy contracted for the first time in three years last quarter, shrinking 1 percent. In the meantime, the dollar fell to its lowest level against the euro since 2011, hitting $1.39 on March 18 and hovering nearby ever since. “The market has lost confidence in the dollar’s ability to rally,” says Sean Shepley, head of Credit Suisse’s global macro product strategy.  Can it be a strong finisher in 2014? Credit Suisse says yes, but is more selective with its recommendations for where to position dollar longs and sees two important conditions for the dollar to perform. The first, and most elementary, is that GDP growth must accelerate significantly in the second half of the year. And there’s hope on that front, as the economy is already showing signs of life after the frigid first quarter, as U.S. manufacturing activity picked up in May. The Institute for Supply Management reported that its index of national factory activity increased to 55.4 last month from 54.9 in April. Construction spending also rose in April, posting its highest level since 2009 amid an increase in government-funded projects.  There’s more. A rapidly growing services sector and increased spending on non-durables should help drive GDP growth of 2 percent for the year, according to Credit Suisse. The U.S. also stands to benefit from stronger global growth, which is forecast to accelerate to 4 percent in the second half of the year from 2.5 percent in the first half.  Growth alone won’t be enough to strengthen the currency, however. The second prerequisite for a rally, says Credit Suisse, is that investors start to have greater confidence that the Federal Reserve will begin to raise interest rates in 2015. On that front, things aren’t working in the dollar’s favor. Investors have actually moved in the opposite direction, lowering their expectations for a Federal Reserve hike as concerns spread about growth. Accordingly, the yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury fell to 2.44 percent last week, its lowest level in almost a year. While yields regained some lost ground this week—the 10-year rose to 2.58 percent on June 3—they’re a long way from the 3 percent mark that Credit Suisse forecasts for the end of the second quarter.  “Yields have fallen well below Credit Suisse’s fundamentally-based estimates of value,” Shepley says. “In part, this has been encouraged by the emphasis policy-makers have put on there being less upside for interest rates in this cycle than seen historically. But it also seems that investors seeking to protect their portfolios against the risk of a shock from the Fed have created a short base in the market. Short covering appears to have been one of the powerful factors driving yields down through the spring.”  Still, yields should rise once investors start seeing consistently solid economic data in the U.S. In fact, Credit Suisse forecasts the U.S. 10-year yield to rise to 3.65 percent by the end of this year, and the 5-year yield to increase to 2.8 percent from 1.62 percent on June 3. The analysts also believe that the market is likely to shift its expectations for the Fed’s first rate hike (from 0 to 0.5%) from November 2015 to the second quarter.  The release of May’s manufacturing data last week helped push the currency to the highest level against the euro in nearly two months, as the market anticipated a rate cut announced by the European Central Bank on June 5. Looser ECB monetary policy, says Credit Suisse, will help the dollar strengthen to $1.28 within the next year. FREE AppDownload
Job openings trounced expectations, coming in at 4,455,000 for April. Consensus was for 4,050,000. Prior was revised upward to 4,166,000. The hiring rate was unchanged at 3.4%, as was the separations rate at 3.3%. Here's the chart: Haver Analytics This is one of Janet Yellen's favorite indicators, and should serve as more evidence that the labor market is improving. And here's the table. Construction job openings were down both month-on-month and year-on-year, though this was likely attributable to the bad winter. Leisure and hospitality job openings were up, as well government job openings.  BLS Full release » FREE AppDownload
It was really only a matter of time. The Wall Street Journal reports that the SEC is going to look into some of Wall Street's biggest dark pools — opaque, private exchanges that investors use to trade more covertly. Basically, the Feds want to know if the exchanges are treating every investor and every trade equally — not giving preference to high speed traders. And yes, you can trace this back to the hullabaloo surrounding Michael Lewis' new book, 'Flash Boys.' On Thursday, SEC head Mary Jo White announced that her agency would be looking into a bunch of different parts of the modern day trading. But at that point she wasn't terribly specific. Now, thanks to the WSJ's story, we know that regulators will, at the very least, be looking into Barclays' dark pool, LX. It's the second largest pool after Credit Suisse's pool, Crossfinder. FINRA just started tracking the volume of trades going into these pools on a weekly basis to get a better idea of how much of U.S. trading is flowing into these exchanges. Turns out, it's about 40% of all trading. Neither Barclays nor any other major dark pool operator included in this probe has been accused of any wrongdoing, but you can go ahead and call this a small victory for Goldman Sachs. The bank has been open about its willingness to shut down its own (smaller and less successful) dark pool, Sigma X, for the sake of transparency and safety on a larger scale.  Over the last few months, Goldman has voiced concern about this issue not only for its clients — the investors that trade in these pools — but also because of the technical issues that have plagued exchanges for the last few years. Last August this got personal when a glitch in Goldman's own software sent erroneous quotes into the market and cost the bank $100 million. And it doesn't lose $100 million.  Next week, the The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations will hold a hearing on all of this called 'Conflicts of Interest, Investor Loss of Confidence, and High Speed Trading in U.S. Stock Markets.' That should pretty much give you an idea of how it's going to sound to HFT firms and dark pool operators — not great. FREE AppDownload
Richie Rich/flickrRadioShack shares are tumbling after the company reported another disappointing quarter.  The company announced that sales fell 14% from a year ago. RadioShack is in the process of closing 1,100 underperforming stores. Just last year, RadioShack announced it had remodeled a handful of stores and had a new strategy.  But a new strategy isn't enough to fix RadioShack's problems, Warren Shoulberg wrote in a column on The Robin Report in December.  His column helps shed light on why sales fell 19% last quarter.  "It’s a store that has been passed by, with a format, merchandise mix and physical presence that no longer registers with the American consuming public," writes Shoulberg, who is the editorial director for several business publications. "There just aren’t enough batteries in the world to recharge Radio Shack." He highlighted some of RadioShack's worst problems:  FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider   This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;       Business Insider is looking for a creative, hardworking Marketing Manager to join our growing team. You’ll play a central role in supporting user acquisition and promotion activities for all of Business Insider’s products – the website, events and subscription business. Business Insider is a dynamic company reaching the new generation of business leaders. We are a well-funded startup at the forefront of digital media. Our site is one of the fastest growing business news sites with more than 45 million unique monthly users. BI events (including our flagship conference, IGNITION) bring together the top senior executives and entrepreneurs in publishing and technology.  BI Intelligence, our subscription research service, provides leaders in-depth reports, charts, and data so they can make smarter business decisions.  Job OverviewThe Marketing Manager is responsible for developing and executing creative and strategic marketing programs for Business Insider brands. She or he will develop and execute communications plans targeted to consumers; write and execute promotional efforts for marketing campaigns – articles on the site, advertising copy, developing content and messaging – and partner with the design team on execution. Other responsibilities include using market research and competitive analysis to maintain pulse on changing habits/needs/trends in the business, for both consumers and competitive digital publishers; create, allocate and manage marketing spend by monitoring ROI and managing outside partners; and manage digital programs that drive traffic to our products – PPC, display ads, social ads, email, conversation optimization. If this role is for you, here are some of the traits you possess: The role offers a unique chance to immerse in marketing, research and business journalism with a dynamic, entrepreneurial team. The ideal candidate has at least 4 years of marketing experience. Please apply here. Thanks in advance. FREE AppDownload
BP has deployed a drone to scour its oil field in Alaska's Prudhoe Bay. According to the LATimes, it's the first time a commercial drone has been launched in compliance with FAA regulations. The Puma, manufactured by Monrovia, California-based AeroVironment, has been running sorties since Sunday, creating 3-D maps of the infrastructure that dots BP's holdings on Alaska's North Slope. It takes off after being thrown into the air, and was originally designed for military purposes. Here's a Puma launch in GIF form:  AeroVironment comments reported by the Wall Street Journal indicate it may still take awhile for large-scale commercial fleets to come online. AeroVironment spokesman Steve Gitlin said it took about a year and considerable monetary investment to get FAA approval. "If that's what it takes to prove the commercial viability, then it's something we're committed to doing," he said. Congress has mandated the FAA come up with revised drone regulations by September 2015. The agency said in a release that BP's use of drones is "another important step toward broader commercial use of unmanned aircraft." AeroVironment shares are up 20% YTD. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe Stanley Cup finals are this week. Many folks on Wall Street have been lucky enough to get some of those highly-coveted tickets to watch the LA Kings and New York Rangers at Madison Square Garden. Hockey is a popular way for firms to entertain clients. It's also a sport played by many on the Street. We tracked down a bunch of former professional hockey players and college stars who are now working on Wall Street as traders, financial advisers, hedge funders and bankers.  We've included our round up of some of the best ice hockey players in the financial services industry in the slides that follow.  (Note: These names are not in any particular order).   If we're missing any big names, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com with your nomination.  Please include a photo as well as some career highlights.  FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Botox maker Allergan Inc &lt;AGN.N&gt; on Tuesday rejected a sweetened $53 billion takeover offer from Valeant Pharmaceuticals International &lt;VRX.TO&gt; and activist investor William Ackman, reiterating that it undervalues the company and is too risky for shareholders. Valeant and Pershing Square Capital Management made a joint bid for the company on April 22 that Allergan also had declined, saying that its plans to slash spending would cost the company growth. It has so far refused to enter deal discussions. Ackman, who runs Pershing and has almost a 10 percent stake in Allergan, and Valeant on May 28 raised their joint offer and when investors were displeased and sold shares, added even more cash to it on May 30. "We do not believe your latest proposal offers sufficient or certain value to warrant discussions between Allergan and Valeant," Allergan Chief Executive Officer David Pyott said in a letter to Valeant CEO Michael Pearson. FREE AppDownload
The latest NFIB Small Business Optimism survey shows rising confidence in the future. But underneath the hood there are some interesting stories happening. One we want to highlight — because it's so important to the market and the Fed — is what survey respondents are saying about wages. The first chart shows that planned compensation increases (the thin lined) have hit their highest level since the crisis. We're much closer to all-time highs on this level than lows. NFIB The next chart asks respondents what their #1 problem is right now. This is good chart, because it shows how the pressures facing businesses ebb and wane over time. There are two things to notice. One is that the number of businesses that say "sales" is their biggest problem has come down dramatically. The other thing, which we highlight in the red circle is that the number of businesses citing "labor quality" as being a problem is on the rise. In other words, businesses are having a harder and harder time finding workers., which tells you something about the state of the labor market. NFIB Bottom line: Plans to increase compensation is rising and quality labor is getting harder to come buy. So far, official measures of wage inflation have been fairly time (though up over the last year). Evidence is mounting that another leg up is coming. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren Buffett says Berkshire Hathaway plans to double its spending on solar and wind. "We've poured billions into [the utility businesses] and will continue to do so," Buffett said at the Edison Electric Institute's annual utilities conference in Las Vegas, according to SNL's Glen Boshart. Buffett added that renewables "may not make you rich, it can help you stay rich. And we've stayed rich." "The math is making sense for us" and therefore "we will be happy to deploy a lot more money" in the electric utility sector, Buffett explained. Here's how Bloomberg's Noah Buhayar and Jim Polson reported Buffett's remarks: Warren Buffett briefly lost track of how many billions of dollars his Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is spending to build wind and solar power in the U.S. That didn’t stop him from vowing to double the outlay. Describing the company’s increasing investment in renewable energy at the Edison Electric Institute’s annual convention in Las Vegas yesterday, Buffett had to rely on a deputy, Greg Abel, to remind him just how much they’d committed: $15 billion. Without missing a beat, Buffett responded: “There’s another $15 billion ready to go, as far as I’m concerned.” “We’re going to keep doing that as far as the eye can see,” Buffett added. “We’ll just keep moving.” Last year, Berkshire's MidAmerican Energy purchased the largest set of solar arrays in the world, an industrial facility near Bakersfield, California. Abel said the firm can use the tax credits it gets from renewables investments to offset profit at its other businesses. The credits are set to expire in 2016.  FREE AppDownload
The NFIB's small business confidence index came in at 96.6 for May — the highest reading since 2007. That also beat expectations for 95.8. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson says this index is more important than payrolls, and sees this jump to the as a major shift. "At last, small businesses are on the move. We have been waiting for four years for a clean break to the upside, and it's finally here. The rise in the headline largely reflects a 9-point jump in economic expectations and a 5-point rise in sales expectations, but several other components rose too."  Here's his chart: Pantheon Macro NFIB chief economist Bill Dunkelberg was more subdued in his reading of the data, noting that four components most closely related to GDP and employment growth — job openings, job creation plans, inventory and capital spending plans — collectively fell 1 point in May.  "...The entire gain in optimism was driven by soft components such as expectations about sales and business conditions,” Dunkelberg said in a statement. “With prices being raised more frequently in response to rising labor and higher energy costs it is clear that small businesses are unwilling to invest in an uncertain future." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsRadioShack shares were down as much as 21% in premarket trading after the electronics retailer reported a wider than expected quarterly loss. The company posted a net loss of $98.3 million, or $0.97 a share. Analysts were looking for a loss of $0.52 per share. Revenue fell 13% from a year ago to $736.7 million and on a same-store basis, sales fell 14%, which the company said was driven by traffic declines and poor sales in its mobile business. Analysts were expecting revenue of $767.5 million. The electronics retailer said it ended the quarter with total liquidity of $423.7 million, including $61.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $361.9 million available under a credit agreement.   "Overall, our first quarter performance was challenged by an industry-wide decline in consumer electronics and a soft mobility market which impacted traffic trends throughout the quarter," chief executive Joseph Magnacca said in a statement.  Magnacca added that the company has taken steps to cut costs, including lowering its corporate head count and reducing discretionary expenses. These charts show RadioShack's performance over the last year and the last decade.  It's not pretty. Google Finance Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Here's a really easy setup for displaying data in Excel. The key is to create dynamic named ranges. Watch the video to see how to do it in a few easy steps. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
SonySony Computer Entertainment said a PlayStation TV home entertainment system will debut in North America and Europe by the end of this year. The small, stand-alone PS TV box will be priced at $99 and 99 euros in Europe. A bundle containing a wireless video game style controller, a memory card, and a "LEGO: The Movie" video game from Warner Brothers Interactive Entertainment will sell for $140. PS TV is designed as a platform for games, films, television shows. music, and even original programming streamed from the Internet or PlayStation consoles. The first PS TV original series, titled "Power" and based on a graphic novel of the same name, is in production and casting is underway, writer Brian Michael Bendis said at a Sony press briefing on the eve of the Tuesday opening of the E3 video game show. The story revolves around two homicide detectives who specialize in investigating suspicious deaths of people with super powers. "If a super hero falls dead from the sky or a notorious super villain is found dead in a gutter, that is their case," Bendis said. "It is also about what a world with super heroes might really look like; how it would affect our culture." PS TV will synch with a Sony online store for digital content, provided they are members of the PlayStation Network. The system has proven popular since it was released in Japan and other parts of Asian in November as PlayStation Vita TV, according to Sony. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabian Bimmer People take a sunbath in their beach chairs at a beach in Travemuende by the Baltic Sea on June 9, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Time-Vice. Time Warner is in talks to invest in Vice Media at a $2 billion valuation, Sky News reports. PayPal Exodus. Two top execs have announced they're leaving the payments processing firm — one for Facebook, one for Eventbrite.  GoDaddy IPO. GoDaddy filed for a $100 million IPO, and announced its executive chairman Bob Parsons was stepping down.  UK Is Booming. UK industrial production rose for the third straight month in April, the FT said. On an annualized basis, industrial output was up 3%. NFIB. At 7:30 we get the latest small business confidence index from the National Federation of Independent Businesses. BI's Joe Weisenthal is up with a preview: "The wage question is one of the most important questions right now in the economy. If wages are gathering steam, it will put pressure on the Fed to tighten policy sooner rather than later." Chinese Consumer Prices. Chinese consumer prices climbed 2.5% year-over-year in May. This modestly beat expectations for a 2.4% rise and compares with a 1.8% rise in April. JOLTS and Trade. Job openings and labor turnover get released at 10 a.m. Consensus is for job openings to climb to 4,025,000 from 4,014,000. We also get wholesale trade data at this hour. MetLife Share Buyback. MetLife is executing a $1 billion share buyback, its first repurchase since 2008. Dark Pools. The SEC is investigating a private trading venues, concerned they may not be operating fairly, the Wall Street Journal reports. Markets. U.S. futures are lower. Chinese stocks were higher. European stocks were lower.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/sunshinecity The hottest topic in the market is ... boredom. Seriously, very little is happening in markets, so that's what people are talking about. This was the title of a recent Morgan Stanley research report: Morgan StanleyA separate Morgan Stanley economist wrote this weekend: "[t]he in-crowd tells me that boring is the new cool." And to quantify the boredom, people are pointing to the VIX, which is an index that attempts to measure volatility in the market by looking at options activity.  As you can see, it's basically at all-time lows. FRED So what's going on? One popular notion is that the central banks have "crushed" volatility, by keeping their hands aggressively on the market. In a note to clients last night, BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) argues that's not really the right way to think about it. He posts this chart comparing the VIX to a measure of financial conditions. Greenhaus writes: We spent last night weighting in on vol and won’t do so tonight other than to again advance the below chart. Volatility has nicely tracked out the increase and decrease in financial conditions. People like to say something like “the Fed is crushing vol” but an equivalent statement might be “the fed is improving financial conditions and by extension, volatility has been reduced.” Doesn’t sound as dramatic though. BTIG So basically, financial conditions are improving nicely (something we've seen via other credit indicators) and as such volatility is going down. There's another point, which is key, which is that the VIX itself is a limited measure. Bloomberg's Matt Levine has a great column pointing out a few things, one of which is that the VIX is just a one-month measure of expected volatility, so if you expect volatility to surge in say, six months (which is the kind of time frame several Wall Street economists are pointing to) then the VIX captures nothing. Bigger picture though is that the measure basically mirrors past realized volatility. So if we just had a very quiet month, then traders are likely to forecast a quiet month ahead. Anyway, the whole post is useful. Big picture, though: Markets are quiet (not just stocks — all big markets), and it seems that financial conditions are in some of their best shape in a while, and that's depressing volatility. FREE AppDownload
Ukraine governmentOleksandr Klymenko, Ukraine's former minister of revenue and dutiesKIEV, Ukraine (AP) — On paper, the Ukrainian trading firm known as Mistral dealt in management consulting and research, doing millions of dollars' worth of deals before going bust after Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych was chased out of office earlier this year. But when police recently tried to visit Mistral's Kiev office at No. 12 Saperne Pole Street, they found a huge hole in the ground, the foundation of an apartment complex to be completed next year. There was no trace of Mistral, whose name refers to a type of wind. A receptionist at No. 5 on that street said there used to be a wine warehouse at the site, but it was cleared when construction began in 2011. Apartment numbers now jump from 9 to 22. Officials tasked with cleaning the country's corruption-scarred tax system say the company didn't merely enter the wrong address. They say Mistral may never have existed in the first place — one of scores or even hundreds of phantom firms suspected of squeezing a total of 130 billion hryvnias ($11 billion) from Kiev's coffers over the past three years. The country's total tax revenue amounted to 210 billion hryvnias ($17.8 billion) in 2013. Some 30 investigations are now underway, and a few companies have been raided, but the country's top tax official contends his predecessors were part of the fraud, which is why many phantom firms acted with impunity. "They didn't care about the police, the security services. Nobody was checking," Deputy Tax Minister Ihor Bilous told The Associated Press in an interview at his Kiev office last month. "That's why this cancer ... spread over the whole country." Outside experts support Bilous' claims, and documents reviewed by the AP — including tax records, a list of alleged phantom companies drawn up by a Ukrainian anti-corruption group, and data from the business intelligence website Arachnys — echo his description of a wide-ranging scheme. Bilous' assertions are "very hard not to agree with," said Anna Derevyanko, the director of the Kiev-based European Business Association. "Basically whatever field you are touching, it was corrupt in the territory of Ukraine." Tax fraud has long been a problem here, and reforming the country's revenue system is a key challenge faced by the newly elected administration of Petro Poroshenko, who was sworn in Saturday as Ukrainian president. For now, Ukraine's budget is being held together with the help of a $17 billion IMF loan package; Bilous says he's proposing a series of changes to the country's parliament in a bid to put the country on a firmer financial footing. The success of those reforms may hinge on whether the country can exorcise its phantom firms, fake companies which have long been used by legitimate businesses to reduce their tax bills. According to officials and insiders, here's how it worked: A business pretended to buy goods or services from the phantom firm but, instead of delivering on the deal, the fake company secretly returned the money in cash, reducing the real company's tax liability in return for a cut of the money. Some 1,700 legitimate businesses were in on the scam, according to the ministry, which flushed them out by identifying 100 to 120 phantom companies and tracking who was at the other end of their deals. Getting in on the scam slashed tax bills dramatically. One home appliance importer used phantom partners to whittle its tax obligations down to $85,000 a month, according to ministry figures. Once it dropped the tactic, its payments jumped tenfold. Those behind the phantom firms stood to make huge amounts of money; one tax document reviewed by AP showed that a company purporting to be a Kiev-based trading firm drew in $190,000 in sales per month — with only a single employee on a monthly salary of just $110. A businessman with nearly two decades' experience in Ukraine estimated that $300,000 he owed in tax was instead split between his companies and the various phantom firms he dealt with over the years. In an interview, he complained that Ukrainian taxes were so high and the rules so erratically enforced that he had to work with phantoms just to stay afloat. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he feared prosecution. The corruption began at the top, said Bilous. He accused his predecessor, Yanukovych ally Oleksandr Klymenko, of organizing the previously ad hoc fraud into a nationwide system, organized "like a pyramid" with legitimate firms at the bottom funneling money through their phantom partners until it reached Klymenko and his associates, who either ran the phantom firms through proxies or took a cut of their proceeds. Klymenko denied his successor's allegations. "These are groundless accusations," he said in an interview over Skype, saying that he'd improved the tax agency by, for example, implementing a new IT system. But then there was the secret chamber. Across the atrium from Bilous' office, spokeswoman Yaryna Klyuchkovska showed off a steel, soundproof vault where she said Klymenko and his colleagues worked out how to divide the illicit cash. The vault was equipped with a white-noise generator to beat eavesdroppers and furnished with clear plastic tables and chairs so those haggling over their spoils could see there were no listening devices attached to the furniture, she said. Klymenko did not return emails about the vault, but using transparent furniture to beat surveillance "is straight out of the old-school, Eastern Bloc, counterintelligence playbook," said Vince Houghton, the historian and curator of the International Spy Museum in Washington, D.C. He said East Germany's intelligence service used to keep transparent furniture in a vault at its embassy in Rome — a sure sign of concern over eavesdropping. "If it's in a secure, soundproof vault I can't see any other reason for it to be there," he said. The system that ran from the vault kicked the corruption into overdrive, Bilous said. In 2013 alone, he said phantom firms helped intercept between $3.4 billion and $5 billion meant for the state, figures derived from an analysis of phantom firms' reported sales. Klymenko, who said those estimates were "made up," spoke to the AP from an undisclosed location, having left Ukraine in a hurry following Yanukovuch's departure. Surveillance video taken from a Ukrainian airport shows Klymenko and the country's chief prosecutor scuffling with guards who tried to detain them and overturning a metal detector gate as they try to reach their plane. Klymenko left behind a set of crocodile-skin armchairs which, together with other luxuries, carry echoes of the extravagance of the Yanukovych mansion that protesters overran in February. Klyuchkovska said the armchairs were slated for auction. Despite Bilous' actions, skeptics say the new government is not doing enough to end fraud. Outside the tax ministry, drum-banging, bell-clanging protesters from the Anti-Raider League of Entrepreneurs, an anti-corruption group, accused Bilous of not doing enough, alleging that crooked officials from the previous administration had merely been shuffled around.Bilous "has not changed anything," said the league's director, Andrei Semedidko. "How are we going to build a new country when the faces are the old ones?" A blacklist of phantom firms provided by the group listed 11 of them based in just one of Ukraine's 25 regions, including Crimea, which is also claimed by Russia, and he estimated the true number of phantom firms at around 1,200. In the past five weeks authorities say they have shut at least 30 phony firms across the country, often raiding empty offices filled with bogus paperwork, fake corporate letterhead, and bundles of cash. But there have been no mass firings at the tax ministry. Bilous said he was doing what he could in the face of entrenched corruption, saying tax evasion had been a problem "for the last 23 years, and it's not easy to close it down." But he acknowledged he's dealing with a crisis. "I call it a national security problem," he said, "because if we continue like this, the budget deficit will basically kill us, in a year or two years' time." ___ Associated Press producer Theodora Tongas, photographer Sergei Chuzavkov, videographer Eldar Emric and Valeriy Kulyk contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
It's a quiet week for the economy. After last week's whirlwind, there's decidedly less data coming out over the next few days. But today we get a survey from the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) that you should get excited about. Small businesses, who the NFIB surveys, have not been very happy during this recovery, and have generally railed against regulation and so forth. And overall they remain pessimistic. But in recent months, some important trends have been taking place in the survey. We want to spotlight two charts from last month's survey (.pdf). This first chart shows what respondents answer when they're asked about their "single most important problem." As you can see, it used to be "sales" during the pit of the recession. Now that's plunged, and increasingly a problem is labor quality (meaning it's harder and harder for companies to find good workers). Taxes are a perennially high complaint. NFIB The other really interesting chart looks at wages. As you can see, planned wage increases have been rising quite sharply lately. NFIB The wage question is one of the most important questions right now in the economy. If wages are gathering steam, it will put pressure on the Fed to tighten policy sooner rather than later. So far, official measures show very little wage pressure, but other indicators such as this one suggest it's in the pipeline. Today's survey comes out at 7:30. Get excited. It will reveal some interesting trends in the economy. We'll be watching. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man looks at an electronic board outside a brokerage in TokyoTOKYO, June 10 (Reuters) - Asia stocks rose to three-year highs on Tuesday on optimism over global growth prospects and a record run on Wall Street, which helped lift Treasury yields and the dollar. Monetary easing by the European Central Bank last week also has whetted the appetite for riskier assets globally, with an upbeat U.S. nonfarm payrolls report on Friday giving further impetus to investors. On Wall Street overnight the S&amp;P 500 .SPX ended at a fourth straight record closing high and the Dow .DJI at its third. Spreadbetters expected the European equities to take a breather from their recent advances, forecasting Britain's FTSE .FTSE to open as much as 0.3 percent lower, Germany's DAX .GDAXI down 0.2 percent and France's CAC .FCHI almost flat. There was muted market reaction to Chinese inflation data released earlier in the day, as it remained well within the governments' comfort zone, giving room for the government to launch fresh stimulus measures if needed to support the economy. China's consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in May from a year earlier while producer prices fell 1.4 percent. ECONCN "No surprises again from May inflation data. Producer prices stabilised whereas consumer inflation continues to be driven by food prices. The core measure is unchanged, pointing to muted inflationary pressure," said Andy Ji, senior Asian currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Singapore. "The set of numbers has no implication on monetary or exchange rate policies, in our view." Recent global manufacturing data have largely highlighted improving economic conditions, with China's exports also showing a bounce in May. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan .MIAPJ0000PUS was up 0.3 percent after touching 493.54, its highest since June 2011. Australian shares .AXJO rose 0.1 percent. Tokyo's Nikkei .N225 bucked the trend and lost 0.7 percent as profit taking kicked in after it advanced to a three-month high on Monday. "The week ahead is likely to be a quiet one for emerging market asset prices as the focus shifts to the World Cup," strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman wrote in a note to clients. "Still, central banks continue to occupy the centre stage after Mexico's surprise cut and Brazil's extension of its forex intervention program last week. Many are looking for the Korean central bank to step up its forex interventions as USD/KRW breaks below the key 1020 level," they said. The South Korean won KRW= strengthened to below 1020 to hit a near six-year peak against the dollar, supported by persistent inflows into the stock market, although participants were wary of official intervention. The dollar continued to benefit from rising U.S. Treasury yields. The dollar index .DXY, which measures the greenback's strength against a basket of key currencies, held steady after rising 0.2 percent on Monday. The dollar stood little changed at 102.35 yen JPY=. The euro was also flat at $1.3587 EUR= after shedding nearly 0.4 percent on Monday. The Australian dollar hovered near a six-month high against the euro as yield hungry investors piled into carry trades. The euro slipped as far as to A$1.4508 EURAUD=R, within striking distance of a six-month low of A$1.4508 struck last week. In commodities, copper steadied after worries about a Chinese probe into metals financing pushed prices to one-month lows in the previous session. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange CMCU3 rose 0.1 percent to $6,680 a tonne from the previous session when it dropped to $6,636 a tonne, its weakest since early May. Brent crude LCOc1 gained 12 cents to $110.11 a barrel, building on the previous session's sharp 1.3 percent rise made on strong U.S. jobs and improved Chinese export data.   (Additional reporting by the China economics team in Beijing; Editing by Shri Navaratnam &amp; Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Hagainativ/Wikimedia CommonsGood morning, and welcome to another day in the world of low volatility. Today markets are actually in the red. Not much, mind you, but they're slightly down across the board. US futures are off over 0.1%. Japan actually fell 0.85%. Germany is down about 0.1%. See, we told you these aren't huge moves or anything. Today in the US we get the latest look at small business optimism, which should be interesting. FREE AppDownload
