Business InsiderThis is it: the most important charts in the world. We asked dozens of our favorite analysts, economists, strategists, and portfolio managers on Wall Street and around the world to send us their most important charts. And the picture these charts paint about the state of investing around the world is fascinating. Some themes that arise are continued questions about the housing and credit markets in China, volatility — or the lack thereof — in global markets, and how we can get a sense of what happens when the Fed makes its next move. But three themes don’t adequately capture the array of topics covered in this collection.
REUTERS/Jason LeeOn Tuesday, China announced that Zhou Yongkang is being investigated for corruption.  Zhou is a former member of the Politburo Standing Committee (PSC) and former security chief. This has been the biggest takedown of a Chinese official in thirty years, according to Bill Bishop, author of Sinocism. But Bank of America's Ting Lu thinks Zhou could be the most senior politician to be investigated for corruption since the Communist Party came to power 1949. Moreover, the 4th plenary session of the 18th CPC Central Committee which will be held in October, will make "ruling the country by law" its main theme.  The third plenum last year, disappointed markets a bit when it was revealed that the anti-graft campaign would be Beijing's top priority, according to Bank of America's Ting Lu.  "With some high profile arrests under its belt, we believe the focus of the new government can start to shift from the anti-graft campaign to real institutional reforms, which are badly needed for China’s long-term economic health," he writes. "...We are especially encouraged by the fact that it is the first time that the CPC has listed rule of law as the key theme of the CPC Central Committee meeting." Here are the three reasons all of this is a positive for sentiment on China: 1. "It implies that the new government led by Mr.Xi has made significant progress in power consolidation, which could be positive for the Chinese economy and financial markets."2. "It reignites hope for badly needed reforms."3. "In the near term, it should mean the new government can finally focus on economic matters." In the near-term, China's corruption crackdown has weighed on growth. But after getting off to a shaky start this year, China's GDP grew 7.5% in the second quarter, as growth again became Beijing's top priority. Ting argues that China's new leadership has demonstrated they have the political will to achieve their vision for "market-oriented reforms," and this is good for the economy in the long run. FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here’s what’s happening… 1. Twitter crushes it. The social network that faced some serious questions about whether its growth and revenue had stalled has just delivered a market-confounding earnings report. The stock was up almost 30% in after-hours trading at one point, after beating expectations on EPS and revenue. Importantly, it had 271 million monthly active users (MAUs), versus expectations of 267 million monthly active users, which is a 24% year-over-year jump in usage, and a 6% increase on a quarterly basis. Basically, the big concern about Twitter – that it had reached a plateau in its growth and could be facing a relevance problem – has been allayed for now. CEO Dick Costolo attributes the growth to product enhancements over the influence of the World Cup. 2. Barack Obama has announced tougher sanctions on Russia, with three of the five biggest banks in the country now cut off from US capital markets. The language was withering. “This is a choice that Russia, and President Putin in particular, has made,” the US president said, adding it “didn’t have to be this way.” Overnight, the EU also announced its first sanctions against the Russians. 3. To the markets, and the main US bourses shed around half a point in overnight trade, with early gains lost on the news of the new sanctions against Russia. We’re getting to the business end of the week, with US Q2 GDP and the FOMC meeting coming tonight ahead of the US jobs report on Friday. The GDP number is the subject of a wild range of guesses – the average expectation is for a very solid 3% but Deutsche Bank is calling for a stonking 4.2%. ASX futures are dead flat as we head towards the open. 4. China’s anti-corruption drive is picking up pace, with Zhou Yongkang, a former member of the Politburo Standing Committee, under investigation for a “serious disciplinary violation”. Sinocism author Bill Bishop tells Business Insider we haven’t seen someone of Zhou’s standing being targeted for three decades. 5. Small business collapses in Australia are costing tens of thousands of jobs a year, according to a report on insolvency in the modern economy. The report, by Jones Partners, uses indicative data from ASIC to conclude layoffs in major corporates came at the cost of some 6,250 jobs while smaller companies were responsible for more than 74,000 job losses; while 85% of corporate insolvencies had assets of less than $100,000 and 43% had liabilities of less than $250,000. It’s something to think about with the unemployment rate now at 6% and Treasury forecasting a rise to 6.25% next year. 6. Australia’s most expensive property could well be the three-storey penthouse that will sit atop James Packer’s Barangaroo casino development in Sydney. There’s speculation it might be worth more than $100 million, which would mean on its own it would cover the licence fee Packer has had to pay the state government for the project. 7. How to win Millionaire. Melbourne law student Khaled El-Katateny walked away with $100,000 on Monday, claiming he didn’t know any of the answers. Here’s his secret: “I didn’t play the game — I played the man,” he said. “If you look at it, you see me working Eddie McGuire. I’m reading every single subtle thing about his face. I was reading the audience behind him too. That’s telling me the answer.” 8. There’s another taxi disruptor. It’s called RideSurfing, and is now operating in Sydney. The basic concept is they have a troupe of drivers – regular punters with their cars – approved through an interview process. When you want to get from A to B, you call for your ride and the drivers bid against each other for the job. Alex Heber has the details here. 9. England nearly has more Commonwealth Games gold than Australia. But we’re still on top and finally, the Aussies have cracked the ton, with a bunch more swimming golds and a fine day on the shooting range pushing us to 101. But the biggest news of the night was swim champ Cate Campbell banning herself from social media. She’s been overwhelmed with support and it’s been making her teary. Nawww. 10. Before she was famous, Ke$ha broke into Prince’s house. She told the story to Jimmy Fallon, explaining how she “cruised up in my dead grandpa’s car” before sneaking in under the fence. “And then I go up in the elevator and I come out, and I’m on the phone with my mum saying, ‘I think I may get arrested,’ and then I walk out, and there’s Prince playing the guitar, with a beanie on, and I almost pooped my pants. He just kind of looked at me funny. He gave me a look like, ‘Who the hell are you?’ and I waved around my CD, I put it on the table, and then I ran away.” Amazing. Bonus item: Here’s what the numbers on your credit card really mean. And don’t forget – you can’t sign for a credit card bill from this Friday. It’s PIN only. It’ll be mild chaos for a couple of weeks in restaurants. Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It’s looking increasingly likely that Argentina will default on some of its bonds. How could that happen and what happens next? Here's what we know: Argentina has defaulted before. After Argentina defaulted in 2001, it told its creditors: "We’ll give you 30 cents on the dollar: take it or leave it." Back then, 93 percent of those creditors took it and 7 percent left it. A tiny percentage of those holdouts  — who, incidentally, were not the original lenders, but rather funds that had purchased the distressed debt from the original creditors — sued. They claimed they hadn't agreed to anything, telling Argentina that the terms of the contract (a term called “parity”) say 'if you pay those other guys, you have to pay us. And you have to pay us the whole amount on the dollar.' They won. Argentina now has to pay. An Argentine default won’t cause a domino effect. Just like with people, for one country to catch another country’s economic bug, it has to be exposed to it.   Stephen Kaplan, assistant professor of political science at George Washington University explains: “In Argentina’s case, they’ve been shut out of global capital markets for quite some time.” It could still make things difficult for other countries trying to get out of debt. There’s no such thing as bankruptcy court in the world of sovereign debt. So there’s not an orderly system when countries can’t pay up. Many countries had been working on the assumption that if they got most of their creditors to say it's OK to be paid back less than they were owed, then the matter would be settled and they could move on.  What the Argentine case means is that unless it’s spelled out in the contract, that assumption doesn’t work, and a minority creditor can squelch a deal.   “It says to all investors, 'instead of settling after a country is facing financial crisis... hold out and [don't] allow a debt restructuring to take place,'” says Eric LeCompte, executive director of Jubilee USA, a religious group that promotes international financial reform. Argentina is damned if it defaults... Argentina has been trying hard recently to get back into the good graces of the international financial community and a default would dash those efforts. As Henry Weisburg, a partner at law firm Shearman &amp; Sterling who specializes in cross-border financial disputes, says “they have a large number of different kinds of bonds and instruments out there and virtually all of them are going to have cross default provisions.” That means if the country defaults on one piece of debt, it defaults on another piece of debt, and those creditors can call in their loans. That results in a difficulty when Argentina wants to find money for financing trade and “in certain circumstances even commercial borrowers in Argentina will have a hard time raising money.” Lawyers for Argentina have suggested defaulting would allow them to restructure their debt in Europe or Argentina, and avoid the laws in the U.S. that made restructuring difficult in this situation.    ...but it's also damned if it doesn’t.  Argentina’s fear is that if it pays these creditors, it will encourage all the other holdout creditors to sue as well.  “The UN Conference on Trade and Development noted that if Argentina paid these holdout creditors in full, it would essentially leave them open to another $135 billion in liabilities,” says LeCompte. “The entire Argentine reserve is less than $30 billion at this point.” FREE AppDownload
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Aggressive Selling Of Risky Assets Suggests That Investor Fatigue Is Setting In (BlackRock Blog)  80% of companies that have reported earnings have beat profit estimates, and 69% have beat sales estimates, writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. Yet risky assets like U.S. stocks and high yield bonds have seen some selling. "This seems to be a sign of investor fatigue setting in," he writes. Investors pulled $4.2 billion from global exchange traded products, with U.S. large caps losing $6.8 billion. Meanwhile, $4 billion has exited high yield mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs). Koesterich thinks the selling in high yield is "more surprising."  "High yield is often thought of as the most “equity-like” segment of the bond market. Good news on the earnings front and a strengthening economy usually translate into support for high yield bonds. In addition, default rates on high yield bonds are low." He argues that this is surprising consider the interest rate environment has been "remarkably stable" and that inflation has been low. New Survey Finds That 74% Of Advisors Feel The Need To Justify Fees (FA Mag)  74% of advisors think they need to justify their fees to clients, according to a new quarterly survey of 150 advisors from Russell Investments. 65% want more resources to help them communicate more realistic return expectations to clients, writes Kathy Lynch at FA Mag. "Advisors surveyed said that the top two client-initiated conversations were about market volatility (54 percent) and their concerns about government policy (53 percent)," writes Lynch summarizing its findings. "Those were followed by global events (35 percent) and their fear about running out of money in retirement (34 percent)." 'Diversification Works When You Need It To' (Business Insider) "One of the unsung benefits of a diversified portfolio is a quicker recovery after a major negative market event," Joshua Brown and Michael Batnick at Ritholtz Wealth Management told Business Insider. "Below is the S&amp;P 500 since January 1st 2007 against our 'Diversified Portfolio,' which includes the S&amp;P 500, plus a 30% allocation to foreign stocks (EAFE index) and a 40% fixed income weighting (via the Barclays Aggregate Bond index). As you can see, the diversified portfolio regained its peak value 14 months before a portfolio consisting of just US stocks would have. Volatility was substantially lower, as was the maximum drawdown. Diversification works, especially when you really need it to." Business Insider5 Strategies To Consider For A Rising Rate Environment (Franklin Templeton)  When it comes to interest rates, it's a question of when they will rise, not if, write the folks at Franklin Templeton. They suggest five strategist to consider for a rising rate environment. 1. "Consider credit-oriented sectors — Non-investment grade credit sectors, such as high yield corporate bonds and bank loans generally have been less correlated to interest rates than they have been to the overall economic outlook and corporate earnings."2. "Keep it short — Short-duration bonds typically have lower sensitivity to interest rate changes than their longer-duration cousins."3. "Go global — A global or internationally focused fixed income fund can potentially capitalize on differing business cycles and economic conditions around the world and may therefore be less impacted by rate changes in the U.S."4. "Take stock — Hybrid strategies (funds that invest in both stocks and bonds) can capitalize on both the growth potential of equities when rates are rising due to economic growth and the income offered by bonds."5. "Stay flexible — Multi-sector fixed income funds have the flexibility to invest across various sectors of the fixed income market, and fund managers typically shift the fund’s allocation over time to take advantage of different investment opportunities." Byron Wien Makes The Case For Another Huge Rally In Stocks (Business Insider) In his latest market commentary, Byron Wein explains why he thinks the S&amp;P 500 could rise to 2300. "One of the problems limiting investor enthusiasm may be valuation," he writes. "If the S&amp;P 500 earns $115 in 2014, it is selling at 17.1x earnings. Market peaks have occurred historically at 25x–30x times earnings. On that basis, the market is fairly valued but not exceedingly expensive." "The average trailing 12-month price-earnings ratio when the inflation rate is 0%–4% is 17... If the economy grows at a rate of 3% real during the remainder of the year and inflation is 2%, then nominal growth should be 5%. With productivity increases continuing and share buybacks, the S&amp;P 500 should be able to show improvement of 7% over the $108 in operating earnings of 2013 and that would put us at $115. With considerable cash on corporate balance sheets, share buybacks should continue. Therefore, if earnings reach my target and the S&amp;P 500 sells at 20x, we could reach 2300, which is 17% above the present level or more than 20% above the index price at the start of 2014." FREE AppDownload
Carlos Barria/ReutersChinese consumers have retailers' undivided attention.  Companies like Procter &amp; Gamble and Unilever have ambushed Chinese customers with tailored assortments like green tea-flavored toothpaste. Consumer brands like Victoria's Secret, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, and Old Navy are aggressively building stores in mainland China.  And J. Crew recently ignited controversy by releasing a size 000 pant for petite Asian shoppers. J. Crew's latest move reveals a trend that "can be difficult for Americans to grasp,"  writes Amy Merrick at The New Yorker. "As the U.S. has become a less attractive place to open stores, retail isn’t solely about their needs anymore." "There's no doubt that companies across the spectrum, from Walmart to Louis Vuitton, are working to address the exploding middle-class of consumers that China represents," Doug Stephens, founder of industry website Retail Prophet and author of "The Retail Revival: Re-Imagining Business for the New Age of Consumerism" told Business Insider. Yepoka Yeebo / Business InsiderWhile retail growth in China has slowed from peak levels, the country is still a much more attractive place to open stores, Stephens said.  China's retail market expands by 18% every year, according to The Atlantic.  "As consumers in developed nations are de-leveraging of credit and de-cluttering their lives of material assets, Chinese consumers are doing precisely the opposite," Stephens said. "They are hungry for what they see as being the trappings of the middle-class lifestyle." China is also attractive to luxury companies, as the country is set to pass the U.S. in millionaires. Merrick notes that fashion powerhouse Chanel seated several Chinese style icons in the front row of its runway show.  And Chinese models Liu Wen and Ming Xi have been prominently featured in campaigns for Victoria's Secret, Dior, Lanvin, and Diane von Furstenberg. Daniel Goodman for Business Insider Demographics also play a role in China's appeal.  America's aging population is unattractive to retailers, who would rather invest in countries filled with young consumers who can become lifelong customers, Stephens said.  China's growing middle class offers the perfect opportunity for American retailers who cater to the struggling poor and middle class.  Wal-Mart plans to open 100 additional Chinese stores in the near future as sales in the U.S. continue to fall. FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressCurb market. Broad St., N.Y.On July 31, 1914, the New York Stock Exchange closed its doors for the longest period in exchange history. It stayed closed until Nov. 28, 1914, when bonds began trading again. Stock trading re-opened Dec. 15, 1914, but shares were not allowed to trade below closing prices of July 30, 1914. By April 1, 1915, all trading was re-established without price limits. Most would dismiss the closing as a natural response to the beginning of World War I. But no war before or after (including the Civil War), or even the devastating attack on the World Trade Center less than one-half mile from the NYSE in 2001, has shuttered the exchange for more than 10 days in its 222-year history. I will discuss why it was necessary to close the exchange and what lessons we can draw from the events of 100 years ago. There is abundant historical significance to this story, and Henry George Stebbins Noble, president of the New York Stock Exchange from 1914 to 1919, chronicled it artfully in a 1915 book called The New York Stock Exchange in the Crisis of 1914. It is a story of disparate and even competing parties including bankers, brokers, other exchanges and clearing firms that steadfastly remained loyal to the New York Stock Exchange. Even the press cooperated in the closing by refraining from printing articles overly critical of the financial markets and by agreeing not to publish off-market prices in an attempt to calm and bolster the financial markets and forestall a run. Noble recounted: “The fundamental reason for closing the Exchange was that America, when the war broke out, was in debt to Europe, and that Europe was sure to enforce the immediate payment of that debt in order to put herself in funds to prosecute this greatest of all wars…There was to be an unexpected run on Uncle Sam’s Bank and the Stock Exchange was the paying teller’s window through which the money was to be drawn out, so the window was closed to gain time.” What Noble omitted is any reference to government interference, coercion or even influence on the closing or re-opening of the NYSE. In contrast to Noble’s version, a solid case can be built that Washington’s influence, particularly due to Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo, was substantial. This was persuasively argued by New York University professor William Silber, in his book When Washington Shut Down Wall Street: The Great Financial Crisis of 1914 and the Origins of America's Monetary Supremacy. Silber recently called the exchange closing “the longest circuit breaker in American financial history.” War aside, the beginning of the century to 1914 was the worst extended period for stock returns in the 20th century, besides the fateful years to come during the Depression. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was already faltering even before the rumblings that led to war. The DJIA was down almost 20% from Jan. 2, 1913, through July 30, 1914, though most of the drop occurred in the last week. One lesson: It is less disruptive to shut down the exchange in a bad market than in a good market, because of lowered expectations. Further, because of resulting heavy short interest, the stock market would have a built-in stabilizer, as short positions would later have to be covered. “It were well if ill-informed people who deprecate short selling would note this fact,” Noble commented. Important themes emerged during this period including globalization, the ascendancy of New York as the capital market of the world, the role of the press, the weakness and durability of paper trading and the exchange itself and the long history of ignorance and resentment of the stock market. For those of us who think of the “globalization” of markets as being a recent innovation, consider that upon the declaration of war on July 28, 1914, and in the days to follow, most major bourses closed in concert: Montreal, Toronto, Madrid, Vienna, Budapest, Brussels, Antwerp, Berlin, Rome, St. Petersburg, Paris and throughout South America. London, the world financial center, closed on July 31, 1914. Such was the global interconnectivity of interests and property 100 years ago. In the U.S., “Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Columbus, Detroit, Indianapolis, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, San Francisco and Washington, all voted to close along with the NYSE.” If the NYSE had not closed, it would have been “the only market in which a world panic could vent itself.” A key vulnerability in the U.S. was the threat that, as Silber wrote, “foreigners owned more than $4 billion U.S. railroad stocks and bonds at the outbreak of the Great War, with $3 billion of that in British hands. These securities were liquid assets and could be sold quickly on the NYSE. Under the gold standard, foreign investors could then use their cash proceeds to acquire the precious metal from the American banking system.” They could next ship it all back to London. The Bank of England had just experienced a run on gold and lost $52.5 million. It would be eager to refill its vaults. Further, “fear that the United States would abandon the gold standard pushed the value of the dollar to unprecedented depths on world markets. The magnitude of the problem forced America to defend itself.” Closing the NYSE was one of those defenses. Add to this the complication that Europe settled trades every two weeks while the U.S. settled trades daily. The backlog of unknown sells from Europe could have been overwhelming. Why was gold important? Gold was the world currency up to World War I. Later, the pound sterling would replace gold. Still later, the dollar would assume its place. In an email interview, Dr. Silber wrote me, “McAdoo needed to keep gold in the country to insure a healthy opening of the Federal Reserve system.” The Federal Reserve grew out of the panic of 1907 with the charge to create reserve or elastic currency to attempt to avoid bank runs. The Federal Reserve is not entirely dependent on its precious metals store, as the U.S. Treasury was at the time. Therefore, its lending power became nearly instantly infinite. Its backing was now a nation, instead of only a nation’s treasure. Silber concluded in his book: “In January 1915 the New York capital market replaced London as money lender to the world.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamad TorokmanTOKYO (Reuters) - On the second anniversary of a scheme aimed at boosting Japan's renewable energy after the Fukushima crisis, its powerful industry ministry is taking steps critics say will choke off solar investment and pave the way for a return to nuclear power. Japan's ambitious plans for solar in the past two years -- if they were to come on stream -- could allow the country to surpass Germany as the world's biggest consumer of solar power. But the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) has cut tariffs for solar power by a fifth in the two years and has imposed time limits on installations, arguing solar costs have fallen and projects are running late, with only 13 percent of approved projects actually installed and operating. Solar industry participants say METI's actions mean it does not make commercial sense to invest in the renewables sector. "I really can't understand what METI is up to. It certainly appears they are trying to kill or at least severely curtail solar development," said Seth Sulkin, President &amp; CEO of Pacifica Capital K.K., a Tokyo-based solar power and commercial real estate developer. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has abandoned the previous ruling party's nuclear free policy and is now at the forefront of calls to restart the country's 48 nuclear power plants shut after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear crisis. METI officials say the solar sector needs reforming, and industry participants accept mistakes have been made since 2012. "The new measures were not implemented to discourage solar, rather they were implemented to make the system fairer," said a METI official. "There have been declines in costs of building solar projects since the FIT (feed-in-tariff) system started, and the cost declines have been reflected in the price, while the internal rate of return has not been changed," the official added. Feed in tariffs are guaranteed prices paid for the electricity supplied by solar to attract investment. PLANS FOR MEGA SOLAR Japan has registered almost 66 gigawatts of planned solar power under the renewable energy program, nominally equal to about 66 nuclear reactors. But only 8.7 gigawatts of solar power has been connected to the grid, according to the latest figures to March 31 provided by METI. If Japan succeeds in bringing on stream its total approved solar capacity it would be almost double that of Germany, the world's biggest user of solar power with installed capacity of 35.7 gigawatts at the end of 2013. "Japanese policymakers didn't expect this kind of explosive introduction of PVs (photovoltaics or solar panels) and that combined with a lack of knowledge of cost, structures and how PVs work, led to mistakes being made," said Mika Ohbayashi, a director at the Japan Renewable Energy Foundation. Solar projects have been hampered by a lack of qualified technicians, delays in approvals, land titles issues and some operators have sat on approved projects waiting for equipment costs to fall and sell off projects, say industry participants. "The prices for solar were set too high, then since there was no breakdown by size, nearly everything has been mega solar," said Hisahi Kajiyama, of the Fujitsu Research Institute, who advised former prime minister Naoto Kan on renewable energy. "The initial set up of the system was naive." When Japan introduced its new renewable energy policy in July 2012, under which utilities must buy electricity generated from renewable sources such as wind, solar or geothermal, its feed-in-tariff rates were among the highest in the world. METI has since cut its feed-in price to 32 yen per kilowatt-hour (kwh) in the fiscal year starting April for projects 10 kwh or more, down from 36 yen in the year ending in March and lower from the 40 yen in the first year of the incentive program. And a panel of outside experts appointed by METI to evaluate the system are planning to recommend capping the amount of payouts for electricity bought, local media have reported. "I don't know of any developers that can make the numbers work at 32 yen," said Sulkin, arguing that installation costs were not falling, as stated by METI, with solar panel prices actually rising due to a weaker yen. If the total amount of approved renewable energy capacity, 68.6 gigawatts, was all brought online it would lead to an annual increase in costs of 1.9 trillion yen ($18.66 billion), says the Central Research Institute of the Electric Power Industry, which is run by Japan's regional power monopolies. Some in the solar sector dismiss the cost estimate, saying Japan will never build all 68.6 gigawatts of renewable energy. "METI is working to regain the power and credibility it lost after March 11 with polices like these that marginalize renewables in order to emphasize industry-friendly energy sources, like nuclear," said Tetsunari Iida, executive director of Japan's Institute for Sustainable Energy Policies. ($1 = 101.8000 Japanese Yen)   (Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
Oracle CEO Larry Ellison has been awarded 3 million stock options this year, down from the 7 million shares he's been awarded each of the past seven years, the Financial Times reports. It marks a victory for shareholders and shareholders rights who have used "say on pay" votes the past two years to express disapproval to Oracle's board over Ellison's pay package. Ellison received the biggest pay package of any American CEO last year, making $76.9 million, according to the Wall Street Journal. Charles Elson, professor of corporate governance at the University of Delaware, tells the Financial Times that Oracle's decision to cut his options is significant, especially since it comes during a time when the stock is up 25%. "He has so much stock in the company, pay for him is irrelevant at this point — it became irrelevant a long time ago, except as a scorecard," Elson tells FT. Oracle has also cut option awards to other top executives. The decision comes at a time when top American CEOs are making an average of 300 times more than their average employee. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNEW YORK (Reuters) - With some of Wall Street's more volatile names set to report in the next couple of days, traders who bet on big swings in shares are hoping to see moves more like Facebook than Netflix. Netflix, along with Gilead Sciences &lt;GILD.O&gt; and several other stocks famous for their sharp gyrations, were unusually calm following their latest quarterly reports. However, Amazon.com and Facebook have had big days after their reports, heightening expectations for upcoming releases from Tesla Motors Inc &lt;TSLA.O&gt; and Expedia Inc &lt;EXPE.O&gt;. For volatility investors, the direction of the move is not important, just the magnitude. Traders use an option strategy known as a straddle - buying a bullish call option and a bearish put option at the same strike price - in a bet that a stock will move by a certain amount. Even if a stock rises, the trader can lose money if it moves less than implied by the combined cost of the put and call options. On average, the realized stock change on earnings is about 1.5 percent lower than expected, according to derivatives strategists at Credit Suisse in New York. "Many of the companies that are typically volatile have had in-line numbers, which wouldn’t result in a materially volatile stocks afterwards," said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners in Palm Beach, Florida. Expedia and Tesla are both due to report results on Thursday. Over the past eight quarters, both have averaged a move of about 15 percent following results, according to Thomson Reuters data. Based on where they traded on Monday, investors expect a move of 9.4 percent for Expedia and 7.8 percent for Tesla. Investors trading options in 3D Systems Corp &lt;DDD.N&gt;, scheduled to report on Wednesday, are looking for an 11 percent move in shares, compared with the eight-quarter median of 6 percent, according to Goldman Sachs.  VOLATILITY SUCCESSES Recent days have seen more volatility among individual names. Amazon.com Inc &lt;AMZN.O&gt; on Friday tumbled almost 10 percent following results, while both Facebook Inc &lt;FB.O&gt; and Chipotle Mexican Grill &lt;CMG.N&gt; soared to records. Amazon lost more than $34 on the day after reporting results. The options market had priced in a $22 move. Facebook shares rose as much as $5.45, beyond the $4.92 move estimated by the options market, said Adam Sarhan, chief executive of Sarhan Capital in New York. Still, moves like these have been the exception this season, in an environment where the CBOE Volatility index &lt;.VIX&gt; is less than 13, well below its historical average of 20. Netflix Inc &lt;NFLX.O&gt; fell 5 percent in the week after its results, less than a third of its nearly 19 percent average move over the past eight quarters. "One might expect a little more volatility to the downside, which we haven’t seen," said Peter Cecchini, managing director and chief market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald in New York. "We could be in a calm before the storm, there’s a lot of complacency." Google Inc &lt;GOOGL.O&gt; rose 2.5 percent in the week after its results, less than half the 5.5 percent average over the past eight quarters. F5 Networks Inc &lt;FFIV.O&gt; rose 1.7 percent, below its 7.85 percent average. Gilead Sciences averaged a one-day move of 2.85 percent in the last six quarters; this time out, it gained just 1.1 percent. Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt; rose 4.8 percent in the seven sessions following earnings, according to Thomson Reuters data, below the 6.4 percent average over the past eight quarters. "Last quarter the people who played an Apple straddle really got rewarded," said Dennis Dick, proprietary trader at Bright Trading LLC in Las Vegas. Apple gained 11.4 percent in the week after results. "This time they bid it up too much, and those people got beat up." Sarhan said that selling volatility in high-growth names can still be dangerous, even in a quiet market. "You’re going into a situation where you know these names have had big moves in the past," he said.   (Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
jasonlam/FlickrOne of NYC's most famous speakeasies is inside this hot dog joint.New Yorkers have a history of drinking in speakeasies dating back to the Prohibition. These days, a new breed of speakeasy has cropped up around the city, featuring old-timey touches like hidden entrances, tin ceilings, and cocktails made with classic ingredients. Here are some of New York's best speakeasies, from 67 Orange Street in Harlem to the new Featherweight in Bushwick. Did we forget your favorite speakeasy in NYC? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
Steve JurvetsonMorgan Stanley auto analyst Adam Jonas has established himself as a Tesla bull. In May he said all electric vehicles were on life support save those of the Palo Alto-based automaker. Then in June, he recounted how a BMW engineer had told him Tesla had "reinvigorated the spirit of automobile innovation." Today, he again makes the case that Tesla is the only automaker you should care about. But first he summarizes the state of the industry, which has seen — on the surface at least — impressive sales growth in 2014. But Jonas isn't buying it. "The US auto cycle has clearly moved from a 'need to buy,' to an 'I just want to buy' type of consumer mindset," he writes. "Forgive our contrarian instincts if this alignment of factors makes us want to head in the opposite direction." Why is this problematic? Jonas has previously written that while dealers are banking more deals, they're doing so on overly generous terms. Today he reiterates this: The 2 most unsettling (and underreported) trends in the US cycle include extended loan maturities and inflated residual values. The resulting low monthly payments create the image of affordability, enabling the purchase of bigger, higher priced cars. The monthly data shows rising ATPs, suggesting improved pricing, when precisely the opposite is occurring. Consumers buy cars like they buy houses - lower payment, bigger car. There is a dark side to all this. He also argues that traditional automakers have become heavily dependent on growth in China, where there is a heavy risk of getting undercut on prices. And many are now finding themselves in a spending "arms race" that will see capex climb inexorably, putting pressure on those who invest efficiently.  As a result, he likes none of the big automakers. Who does he like? Tesla, obviously. But also, companies that are going to lead the driverless-car revolution: The race for autonomous cars creates some of the most exciting supplier investment opportunities and pair trades in a generation. The logical conclusion of connected vehicles is a future that liberates human beings from the boredom, the burden and the dangers of driving. We see great amounts of wealth being created and unevenly redistributed across the supply base as the role of software engulfs the value of the vehicle. [Delphi] (MS Best Idea), [TRW Automotive] and [BorgWarner] are our key secular picks. We see [Tesla] both as an autonomous hegemony-setter and the only car manufacturer with meaningful upside. [Magna International] (top pick) and [Lear] offer more cyclical upside with optimization of cap structure. Tesla reports earnings on Thursday.  FREE AppDownload
Twitter reported its earnings Tuesday, exceeding Wall Street’s expectations with $312 million in revenue — up 124% year-over-year — on $0.02 earnings per share. It exceeded predictions of 267 million monthly active users with 271 MAUs, and timeline views are at their highest ever. According to Twitter’s data charted for us for Business Insider Intelligence, Twitter Timeline views in the most recent quarter were 173 billion — a jump from last quarter’s 157 billion views, and an even bigger jump from the year-ago quarter’s 151 billion views. As you can see, the company has been growing rather quickly over the past few quarters — Twitter CEO Dick Costolo argues the positive changes are related to changes in the company’s products, not necessarily the boost in traffic from this summer’s World Cup in Brazil. Business Insider Intelligence   FREE AppDownload
In Business Insider's latest Most Important Charts In The World feature, Gerard Minack of Minack Advisors alerted us to the following chart, which shows how much corporate debt has ballooned since the financial crisis. "One 'success' of Fed Policy has been to encourage an increase in corporate leverage," said Minack. Business InsiderMinack cautions that in the next economic downturn, companies could find their debt burdens overwhelming, the way that households found themselves in trouble in 2007-08. Companies, however, have not slowed their pace of issuing debt, however, with investment-grade corporate bond issuance currently at $375.5 billion year-to-date, up 7% from a year ago. This chart from Dealogic shows that companies are issuing debt at a torrid pace, more than offsetting the amount of debt coming due next year. Dealogic Even without a recession or economic downturn, the bill on these debt loads is quickly coming due. Dealogic notes that in 2015, $273.6 billion of investment-grade corporate bonds are due to mature, with 30% of this total due in the first quarter. And the amount of debt coming due is only set to increase in 2016 and 2017, with $310.2 billion and $341 billion worth of debt set to mature in those years, respectively. And this is the good stuff. According to market commentary from Frost Investment Advisors, data from Dealogic shows that corporate bonds rated "junk" have totaled $210.8 billion year-to-date, the highest level for the first half of a year since 2000. And in his latest weekly commentary, John Hussman of Hussman Funds cautioned on the quantity of this debt, writing that, "the major risk to economic stability is not that the stock market is overvalued, but that so much low-quality debt has been issued." Yesterday we highlighted, this chart from Dave Lutz at JonesTrading showing the recent divergence in the S&amp;P 500 and high-yield bonds. Most market headlines come from the stock market and economic data, but the bond market and the debt held by U.S. companies cannot be forgotten. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTwitter shares are up a mind-boggling 28% in the wake of its earnings announcement. This is no joke for a company with a massive $22 billion market cap. The company's Q2 financial results beat expectations across the board. Revenue surged to $312 million, beating expectations for $283.9 million. Monthly active users jumped to 271 million, beating expectations for 267 million. And amid all this, the company squeezed out an adjusted profit of $0.02 per share. Analysts were looking for a $0.01 loss. Twitter closed at $38.59 today after rallying 1.7% during the U.S. trading session. Currently, shares are hovering at around $49. But the stock is far from its all-time high of $74.73, which is saw in December. Here's the after-hours action via MarketWatch.com. MarketWatch FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Erik De CastroPolice take up positions behind anti-riot shields as protesters try to remove a police barricade while Philippine President Benigno Aquino delivers his fifth State of the Nation Address (SONA) during the joint session of the 16th Congress at the House of Representatives of the Philippines in Quezon city, Metro Manila.Stocks closed the session mixed, but little changed, as some economic data reported this morning came in mixed, another wave of corporate earnings were reported, and the U.S. and EU announced sanctions against Russian companies. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The Conference Board's consumer confidence index for July rose to 90.9 from 85.2 in June, the index's highest reading since October 2007. Economists were expected the index to come in at 85.4. Along with the report, the Conference Board's Lynn Franco said, "Strong job growth helped boost consumers’ assessment of current conditions, while brighter short-term outlooks for the economy and jobs, and to a lesser extent personal income, drove the gain in expectations. Recent improvements in consumer confidence, in particular expectations, suggest the recent strengthening in growth is likely to continue into the second half of this year." 2. On the housing front, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index fell 0.3% month-over-month in May, missing economists' expectations for a 0.3% gain. This was the index's first month-over-month decline since January 2012. On a year-over-year basis, prices rose 9.3%, also shy of the 9.9% that was expected. "The slowdown in price appears to be indicative of the weakening in housing activity more generally, particularly after the very slow start to the spring selling season," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. 3. Both the European Union, and later the U.S., announced round of economic sanctions against Russia, with the EU's sanctions marking the first action by the economic bloc against its eastern neighbor. The EU's sanctions included imposing sanctions on Russia's banking, technology, and arms sectors. The U.S.'s latest sanctions also targeted the same areas. BI's Brett LoGiurato has the full rundown here.   4. A number of major companies announced corporate earnings today, including shipping giant UPS, which saw shares fall more than 3% after its quarterly profit, and full-year earnings outlook, came in below expectations. Pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Merck also reported earnings, with both companies reporting bottom-line profits that topped estimates on sales that declined over the prior year.  5. Earnings are expected to continue rolling after the market close, with Twitter expected to headline. Analysts are looking for Twitter to lost $0.01 per share and book revenue of $283.07 million.  6. Windstream Holdings and Frontier Communications were the S&amp;P 500's biggest gainers after Windstream announced that it received a favorable ruling from the IRS to spin-off its fiber and copper network assets into a real estate investment trust, or REIT. Following the news, Timothy Horan, an analyst at Oppenheimer, said the announcement is positive for the whole communication infrastructure sector. Shares of Windstream gained nearly 14%, while Frontier gained 11%.  7. Investors and market watchers are turning their attention to a busy day for economic data tomorrow, with the initial read on Q2 GDP expected at 8:30 am ET, and the results from the Federal Reserve's latest Federal Open Market Committee meeting expected at 2:00 pm ET.  Don't Miss: Corporate America Is Borrowing Like Crazy » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque Red light reflected from the carpet illuminates Russian President Vladimir Putin as he passes U.S. President Barack Obama at a group photo for the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings in Benouville June 6, 2014.President Barack Obama on Tuesday announced a new round of what he called "major," punishing sanctions on Russia and President Vladimir Putin for the country's continued involvement in destabilizing the crisis in Ukraine and supporting pro-Russian separatists in the country's eastern regions. "Today is a reminder that the United States means what it says," Obama said during a press conference from the South Lawn of the White House. Right before Obama spoke, the Treasury Department unveiled the new sanctions. They target Russia's energy, arms, and finance sectors. Obama said the sanctions would have an "even bigger bite" than anything previously unveiled, and they come in coordination with the E.U.  Taken together, they constitute the most extensive sanctions by the U.S. and E.U. on Russia since the end of the Cold War — though Obama said during his press conference that the West and Russia have not entered into "a new Cold War." Among the targets of the new measures include the Bank of Moscow, the fifth-largest bank in Russia; the Russian Agricultural Bank, the fourth-largest; and VTB Bank, the second-largest. The sanctions prohibit U.S. citizens or companies from providing new financing to the three major Russian financial institutions, thereby cutting off their access to U.S. capital markets. Along with sanctions announced two weeks ago, the U.S. has now targeted five of the six largest state-owned banks in Russia. The new sanctions also hit United Shipbuilding Corp., the Russian-state owned defense technology firm. The U.S. government is also prohibiting exports of energy-related parts to Russia. The Commerce Department said it would deny export licenses "if products are destined for deep water oil exploration and production" or Arctic oil. "This is a choice that Russia, and President Putin in particular, has made," Obama said, adding that it "didn't have to be this way." "Today, Russia is once again isolating itself from the international community, setting back decades of genuine process." Obama's statement came hours after the E.U. agreed to impose broad economic sanctions on Russia for the first time — measures that include targeting Russian oil companies, banks, and defense firms.  APSenior administration officials said the measures on the banks had the potential to expose a significant "vulnerability" for Russia. One official, for example, said VTB holds 80% of its debt in U.S. dollars. Russian Agricultural Bank holds 90% of its debt in dollars, and Bank of Moscow holds all of its debt in dollars.  The White House had announced on Monday that Obama and five European leaders had agreed on the need to impose a fresh round of sanctions, as Russia continues to escalate its involvement in Ukraine. Tensions between the West and Russia have reached their most feverish point since the Cold War. Tensions heightened in the aftermath of the shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over rebel-held territory on July 17 by what Western countries say was a Russian-supplied missile. The crash killed all 298 passengers and crew on board. The White House on Monday emphasized the coordination among the leaders, something that has been a sticking point between the U.S. and E.U. throughout the Ukrainian crisis. The E.U. has been more reluctant to impose sanctions because of there's a better chance of a "boomerang effect" on their economies. The U.S. and its allies have charged Russia with continuing to support the separatists by flowing weapons across the border, including rocket launchers, artillery pieces, tanks, and armored vehicles. Russia has continued to deny it is supporting the rebels. But in a somewhat extraordinary public rebuff, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Sunday told Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov he didn't accept his denial that weapons from Russia were helping to fuel the conflict. These will be the first sanctions leveled on Russia since July 16, the day before the downing of MH17. Those U.S. sanctions targeted targeted a series of large banks and energy and defense firms. "Russia finds itself today more isolated than at any point since the end of the Cold War," a senior U.S. official told reporters on Tuesday. The U.S. has also accused Russia of violating a key nuclear-missile treaty. Late Monday night, U.S. officials said violated the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty by testing a prohibited ground-launched cruise missile. They said Obama sent Putin a letter urging immediate bilateral talks on the issue. This post has been continuously updated. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen Lam Tesla announced this month that it was planning to build an electric car for the mass consumer. The Model 3 will arrive in 2017, following the much-anticipated Model X crossover, which is due to hit the streets next year. The $35,000 Model 3 will be the cheapest vehicle yet to emerge from Tesla's Fremont, California, factory. But its success won't be automatic. Here are three things the Model 3 must deliver to succeed.  Battery Range, Battery Range, Battery Range Every conversation about electric cars seems to begin and end with battery range. The Model 3 is no exception.   "The current electric car market is flush with $35,000 cars, and they all have identical range specs of 60-90 miles," says Karl Brauer, senior market analyst for Kelley Blue Book (KBB). "If the Tesla Model 3 can't significantly increase that range, it will sell about as well as the others — which isn't very well." The current market leader for electric cars is Tesla's own Model S. But at the Model 3's expected price point, the Nissan Leaf that reigns supreme. However, with just over 22,000 units sold in 2013 and only 12,000 units sold so far this year, the Leaf isn't going to make the internal-combustion engine vanish any time soon.  NissanNissan Leaf.Tesla doesn't want to sell 20,000 or 30,000 Model 3s each year — it wants to sell hundreds of thousands of them. To meet those lofty expectations, it must overcome the consumer's range anxiety and liberate the electric car from its never-ending search for a charging stations, executive market analyst for KBB Jack R. Nerad told Business Insider. "If you can't get it to drive for an overnight trip without recharging, it's just not going to work for a lot of people."  Exactly how much range a mass-market electric should have is debated. Something in the ballpark of 60 to 90 miles is obviously not enough. Tesla's Model S P85, with 265 miles of range, deals with the anxiety issue but is expensive at nearly $80,000. However, a middle ground of 180 to 200 miles may allow the Model 3 to have the "versatility and usability" that Nerad believes the car needs to capture the minds — and wallets — of consumers. Reduced Charge Times Model 3's potential buyers differ significantly from those customers currently lining up to reserve the Model S. Model S buyers are tech-savvy early adopters; potential Model 3 buyers aren't. Early adopters will tolerate the quirks of their new toys, including extended recharging times. People who are used to a quick stop at the pump in order to drive another 300 miles are not likely to be as patient. "A minimum of 30 minutes to charge your car is too long," Nerad said. "Most people are barely willing to spend five minutes at the gas station."  Youtube/Mark WooldridgeTesla Model S battery swap.One solution is Tesla's battery swap program that, for $60 to $80, can swap out a car's drained batter for a fully charged one in 90 seconds. However, the program is still in its infancy, and it's unclear whether Tesla can implement it on a large enough scale. Before Tesla, fellow tech startup Better Place offered its own battery-swap service that failed to gain traction, ending with the company's liquidation in 2013. Must Remain Affordable In addition to a pleasant user experience, Tesla must deliver the Model 3 on time and at the announced $35,000 price point. One of the Model 3's assumed competitive advantages is the perception that you'll be getting a Tesla for the price of a Leaf. If the cost of the Model 3 creeps up, it starts to look like a downsized Model S.  The main challenge for an affordable Model 3 is the potential cost of its battery packs. However, that's where the company's new gigafactories would come into play, John Voelcker, senior editor for Green Car Reports, told CNET. According to Voelcker, without the new gigafactories, not only would Tesla struggle to hit the $35,000 price point, it would not even be able to come close to making enough batteries for the Model 3 to hit production targets.   FREE AppDownload
If the world wakes up on Wednesday and Argentina has not come to agreement over how it will pay a group of hedge fund managers — known collectively as NML Capital — over $1.3 billion in debt, the country will be in "default." But what does that mean for investors? Most immediately, it means that anyone holding the same debt as NML — bonds maturing in 2033 — can ask for acceleration of payment which could cost the Republic about $29 billion in claims, according to Bloomberg. We're talking about bondholders who, unlike NML, took a haircut on Argentine debt when they had the chance back in 2005 and 2010 — exchange bondholders. NML refused to take a haircut, which is why Argentina refused to pay them up until the Supreme Court left them no other option this June. Now Argentina refuses to negotiate with NML unless a stay is put on a payment to all bondholders due Wednesday, but Judge Thomas Griesa has so far denied Argentina the stay. So default is highly likely unless some 11th-hour agreement is reached. "Exchange bondholders can file suit for the full amount of indebtedness once the country goes into default," said Washington Legal Foundation chief counsel Rich Samp. "My understanding also is that there are other bonds other than the exchange bonds that have acceleration clauses." In other words, exchange bondholders can tell Argentina they want their roughly $29 billion immediately. Like, right now. Worse yet, that total is basically everything the Republic has sitting in its Central Bank. Argentina would argue that it's not in default because the money it owes exchange bondholders is sitting in a Bank of New York Mellon branch in Buenos Aires, waiting to be sent to them. Unfortunately, sending that money violates Judge Thomas Griesa's ruling that the country cannot pay some bondholders and not others. So when the Republic tried to send it out earlier this month, the judge ordered that it be sent back. In its defense, Argentina would say it's the Judge, in this case, who is depriving exchange bondholders of their returns. "As a matter of optics, it's better for Argentina if it can say the money is with Bank of New York Mellon," said Samp. But it doesn't actually matter. Argentina's bond agreement says that investors are not paid until they have the money in their hot hands. It doesn't matter if the cash is out of the Republic's bank account. What's weird about all this is that Argentina has been arguing that it doesn't want to pay NML because that payment would trigger something called the RUFO Clause — the Rights Under Future Offerings clause. Basically, RUFO states that if Argentina voluntarily gives some bondholders better terms, every bondholder has a right to those terms. The RUFO payout, if triggered, would cost about $15 billion, and Argentina has been adamant about the fact that $15 billion is too much. So why risk having to pay out $29 billion if an acceleration clause can be triggered with default? Besides: "I don't think there is really any good faith argument that the RUFO clause could be invoked by exchange bondholders," said Samp. "I don't think it is realistic to say that any payments at this point would be deemed voluntary within the meaning of the RUFO clause." As for what would happen in Argentina immediately, it's hard to say. This default isn't like its last one in 2001. The country isn't defaulting because it's broke — as it was then — so it can keep the economy going for a while. That said, studies show that going in to default can drive down a country's growth by 1% to 2% and drive up interest rates by 4 points in the first year. Argentina's economy is already weak after a currency devaluation earlier this year and persistently high inflation — the second-highest in South America after Venezuela — so this isn't exactly the best time to put the country's economy under more stress. But is there ever really a good time to default? FREE AppDownload
Getty / Ethan MillerTwitter CEO Dick Costolo.For the first time as a public company, Twitter has delivered an earnings report that investors absolutely love.  It delivered earnings per share of $0.02 on $312 million in revenue, which is up 124% year over year. Both of those soundly smashed expectations. Its revenue guidance for the current quarter was well ahead of expectations as well. But Twitter has always done pretty well against revenue expectations. Where it has struggled is with usage statistics. This quarter, Twitter finally beat analysts' expectations. It had 271 million monthly active users (MAUs) versus expectations of 267 million monthly active users. That's a 24% year-over-year jump in usage, and a 6% increase on a quarterly basis.  The combination of better-than-expected revenue, EPS, and monthly usage has sent the stock to the moon. In after-hours trading the stock was up over 35% at one point.  This is a great report from Twitter, and it's hard to find much to be negative about. However, if you want to pooh-pooh the numbers you could say this is all about the World Cup, which boosted usage.  On the earnings call, though, CEO Dick Costolo repeatedly emphasized that Twitter's monthly active user number was a reflection of changes to the product, not the World Cup. He said the World Cup drove engagement, but not usage. If you really have your heart set on being negative, you might want to point out that this is all about expectations. Facebook, which has 1.3 billion users, added 41 million users last quarter. Twitter, with just 271 million users, added 16 million users. Also, as Peter Kafka at Re/code points out, last quarter, monthly active users were up 25% on a year-over-year basis and everyone was negatively freaking out. This quarter, monthly active users were up 24%, and everyone is positively freaking out. Here are the key numbers versus expectations: Here's a chart from BI Intelligence on user numbers: BIIAnd here's another one on timeline views: BIIWe're updating this post as we go, so hit refresh for the latest, or just click here. FREE AppDownload
 For one startup CEO, finding a niche is the key to success in both business and hiring. Tim Weingarten is a cofounder and CEO of The Hunt, which lets users post pictures of items they want to purchase but can't find and receive help from its online community. In an interview with Skiddy von Stade, founder of finance career site OneWire, Weingarten said he looks for hires who are both experts in their fields and good culture fits for the company. "What you really need is someone who is not only an expert in their field, say they're an amazing Objective C engineer. Objective C is the language you use for iOS, for iPhone applications. Maybe they're an amazing engineer, but beyond being amazing in their field, do they fit in with the team? And really that means do they fit in with the culture of the company," Weingarten said. He also said he looks for someone who is willing to take a risk working for a startup, who values equity in the company as much as salary, and who is a self-starter, who is individually driven. Weingarten believes specialization is one thing that's made The Hunt successful. With a 96 percent female user base, he said the goal of a community-driven website is to make the audience feel like they belong. "My view as an entrepreneur is that a big mistake you can make is trying to go too horizontal, too broad, too fast to be all things to all people," he said. "That usually ends up being a mistake, especially with these community driven sites and these huge user-driven generated content sites ... The best approach is to build, go deep and narrow, and really own a particular demographic segment and vertical of the economy." The Hunt launched in 2013, and has raised over $16 million in funding from investors, including celebrity investors Tyra Banks and Ashton Kutcher. You can see more Open Door interviews with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade by subscribing to the series here. FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, a federal judge ordered U.S. Marshals to seize any barrels offloaded from a tanker carrying oil originating from Kurdistan, after the Iraqi government successfully sued to halt the shipment, FuelFix's Rhiannon Meyers reports. Baghdad said the crude had bypassed the state-owned oil company, which claims the right to broker all oil produced inside Iraq, Meyers says. Judge Nancy Johnson of the Southern District of Texas ruled the Iraqi government has the right to contract with the U.S. Marshals Service to take custody of any barrels that come within her court's jurisdiction, which runs nine miles into the Gulf.  It is not known who the buyer is. The shipment is worth more than $100 million according to Reuters. So now the ship, the United Kalavryta, is drifting in a donut-esque formation in the Gulf of Mexico as it awaits its fate. Here's a live look at its last known coordinated from Marine Traffic. Thanks to @PCDunham for pointing this out. Marine Traffic And here's the zoomed out view. Marine Traffic FREE AppDownload
Have you ever gotten on the scale first thing in the morning and realized you weighed less than the night before? It happens all the time; here's the science behind it. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
On Tuesday Chinese state media announced that Zhou Yongkang, one of China's most powerful politicians, was being investigated for suspected "serious disciplinary violation."  Zhou is a former member of the Politburo Standing Committee (PSC) and former security chief. This is the first time that someone of Zhou's political stature has been taken down in 30 years. Reuters has put together a great graphic on Zhou's inner circle many of whom are being investigated themselves. Four, Li Chuncheng, Hua Bangsong,Liu Han, and his son Zhou Bin have already been arrested or are charged. Li Dongsheng, Jiang Jiemin, and Wang Yongchun are three other powerful allies that we should keep an eye on. Reuters FREE AppDownload
IRS data can tell us quite a bit about the division of income in the United States. Looking at income from interest and dividends might also bring out some insight into where people are saving and investing. The IRS has detailed statistics on income tax returns aggregated at the county level available on their website. The statistics include the total number of returns filed in each county, the number of returns with various types of income, and the total amounts of different types of income. Here's the percentage of 2012 tax returns from each county that listed taxable interest. Some examples of taxable interest provided by the IRS include "interest on bank accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, and deposited insurance dividends." In the map, counties are divided into deciles, or ten equally sized groups: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from IRS There are some pretty noticeable regional divides here. The Northeast and Great Plains states have a large number of residents earning interest on savings, as do parts of Florida, the West Coast, and central Texas. Meanwhile, the poorer parts of the South and Southwest, especially Southern and Western Texas, have very few people reporting interest on their tax returns. This could indicate low saving rates in these areas: people who aren't putting money away in things like interest accruing bank accounts or money market accounts will not report taxable interest income. Here is the percentage of returns with ordinary dividend income: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from IRS The geographic pattern for income from dividend payments from corporate stock is largely similar to the pattern for interest income, with Alaska as a pretty big exception. One factor in why so many Alaskan households are filing returns with dividend income might be the Alaska Permanent Fund, a sovereign wealth fund set up by the state to distribute part of Alaska's oil wealth to its citizens. Fund dividends are taxed by the IRS as ordinary dividends, so Alaskans claiming their payout will need to report this income on their tax returns. Here's a closeup of the New York City area. Manhattan and the more affluent suburban counties in the Hudson Valley and Long Island, home to many people holding investments in stock, are in the top decile, while the outer boroughs and parts of New Jersey have many fewer returns listing dividend income: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from IRS
REUTERS/Francois Lenoir(L-R) Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron, France's President Francois Hollande and Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel attend a "Last Post" ceremony at the Menin Gate in Ypres, June 26, 2014, to commemorate the centenary of the start of World War I. The knock to confidence from harsher European sanctions on Russia could spoil the euro zone's budding economic recovery even if it shrugs off the fallout on trade. Following months of hesitation, the European Union sealed a deal on Tuesday to impose the first broad economic sanctions on Russia - its third-biggest trading partner – following the downing of a Malaysian airliner over territory controlled by pro-Moscow rebels in eastern Ukraine. The measures will shut state-owned Russian banks out of European capital markets and target the defence sector and sensitive technologies, including oil, but exclude the vital gas sector, on which Europe is heavily dependent. The sanctions mark a fundamental change in how Europe deals with Russia, one which carries risks not just for Moscow but for Europe itself. "The impact on trade is relatively small. The far bigger risk is a knock to overall economic confidence," said Gregor Eder, an economist with Allianz, one of the world's largest fund investors. "A spiral of sanctions together with the loss of overall confidence could be enough to bring the already fragile economic recovery in Europe to a halt," Eder said. Previously, EU leaders were reluctant to impose sweeping sanctions on Russia, and with good economic reason. Not only does Moscow supply about a third of the EU's gas needs, trade ties in other areas between Russia and Europe run deep. German energy giant E.ON, for instance, has invested 6 billion euros since 2007 in Russia while chemicals firm BASF has a joint venture with Gazprom. In France, defence group Thales owns a stake in a company that sells warships to Moscow, while Franco-German aerospace group Airbus and its suppliers depend on Russia for titanium to make heavy-duty plane parts such as landing gears. The trade ties help explain why German business confidence fell to its lowest level in nine months in July, with respondents blaming the Ukraine crisis. The EU has already imposed narrow sanctions since Russia backed rebels fighting Kiev's forces in east Ukraine. A list of people, including allies of Russian President Vladimir Putin, are subject to asset freezes and travel bans. These limited measures have already discouraged business - euro zone exports to Russia were down 13 percent between January and April and foreign investment in Russia has dropped sharply. Still, exports from the euro zone to Russia account for less than 5 percent of the bloc's total and economists believe Europe could cope with lower Russia trade. But the blow to confidence and knock-on effect on investment could be more serious. "The German and European economies are already experiencing negative effects from the conflict with Russia. The biggest risk to Europe, however, stems from the enormous uncertainty that the conflict has caused," said Marcel Fratzscher, head of Berlin-based DIW economic research institute. "Companies do not know if they can still sell their products to Russia in three months' time or a year. Banks are uncertain whether loans will be paid back. It is unclear for energy users and consumers what will happen with oil and gas prices."  The uncertainty comes at a bad time for the 18 countries in the euro zone, whose economy is already in the doldrums. The currency area is expected to have eked out barely any economic growth in the second quarter of the year, with the Bundesbank forecasting that even the mighty German economy flatlined. Policymakers' biggest hypothetical concern is about the potential for gas supplies to be interrupted, requiring countries to seek more expensive supplies from elsewhere - which could depress spending in other areas even further. Given the financial cost to Russia of turning off the taps, industry experts say that may be unlikely. U.S. and EU sanctions have avoided targeting Russian gas export monopoly Gazprom. But there are other ways Russia could fight back, short of switching off the gas. "Russia will retaliate," said David Gordon of Eurasia research group, predicting that Moscow could erect informal barriers such as stricter health and safety rules to make it harder for foreigners to do business in Russia. Eder of Allianz fears worse. "How would Russia react if European banks were not allowed to grant credit to Russian companies?" he said. "There could even be the threat of confiscation of productions sites in Russia from European companies." Any counterstrike from Moscow to sanctions would fall heaviest on European countries with the deepest trading ties. The Netherlands, which bore roughly two thirds of the casualties when the Malaysia Airlines flight was downed over Ukraine, is among those that could lose most. The Dutch economy, which shrank 1.4 percent in the first quarter of 2014, depends on its port of Rotterdam, the single largest destination for Russian exports last year, receiving shipments of oil that is then dispatched across the EU. The Netherlands also needs to safeguard its own energy supply from countries including Russia after earthquakes forced it to cut output from one of its most important gas fields. Other euro zone countries depend on Russia to buy particular goods and services, even if in most cases it is not a top overall export market. Italy exported 12.7 billion euros to Russia last year, while France, at more than 10 billion euros, was not far behind. Austria, which has long had close energy and financial ties to Moscow, exported 4.6 billion euros. The largest repercussions may be felt from potential restrictions on Russian banks' freedom to refinance themselves in Europe. This would hit Russia's two biggest banks, Sberbank and VTB Bank, whose Austrian arms were recently taken under the watch of the European Central Bank. Any retaliation by Moscow could affect European banks active in Russia, such as Italy's UniCredit, Austria's Raiffeisen or France's Societe Generale. For some small European countries that offer off shore financial services, flows of funds from Russia have been disproportionately large. Russian individuals moved more than $33 billion into tiny Cyprus, Ireland and Luxembourg last year, according to data from the Bank of Russia. European banks, meanwhile have lent tens of billions to Russian industry and would suffer if they were not repaid. Russian companies, individuals and banks have borrowed more than $650 billion, according to the Bank of Russia, much of which analysts believe is owed to European banks. For now, however, it appears that European politicians believe that sending a political signal to the Kremlin is worth the economic cost. "These sanctions are harder than anything we have ever had before," said James Nixey of British think tank Chatham House. "It will hurt a little bit but it's a down payment on the future security of Europe. It's a question of Western credibility." (Additional reporting Martin Santa in Brussels, Anthony Deutsch in Amsterdam, Sabine Wollrab in Frankfurt, Alexander Winning in Moscow and Gernot Heller in Berlin; Writing by Annika Breidthardt; Editing by Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
American families have gone backwards. In a paper for the Russell Sage Foundation released last month, three University of Michigan researchers show over the past decade, that the median wealth level, defined as the value of assets minus debts, for an American family has declined 36% to $56,335.  We first saw the paper on WonkBlog.  "Through at least 2013, there are very few signs of significant recovery from the losses in wealth experienced by American families during the Great Recession," they write. Here's the trio's table. They use data from UMich's Panel Study of Income Dynamics, which tracks 5,000 representative families. Wealth levels declined for everyone but those above the 90th percentile.  Russell Sage Foundation/Stanford The new median wealth level is also significantly below where it was three decades ago. Russell Sage Foundation/Stanford While the recent housing crash played a role in this decline, it wasn't the only factor. Even with the bull market in stocks, the median wealth level for assets not held in real estate declined about 30% between 2007 and 2013. Somehow though, the wealthiest families managed to avoid this fate: non-real-estate asset values climbed 13% for the 95th percentile. The authors suggest the average family has been forced to dig into every wealth source they can to make ends meet, and that this phenomenon has room to run.  "It is possible that the very slow recovery from the Great Recession will continue to generate increased wealth inequality in the coming years as those hardest hit may still be drawing down the few assets they have left to cover current consumption and the housing market continues to grow at a modest pace." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueRussian President Vladimir Putin talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the International 70th D-Day Commemoration Ceremony in Ouistreham on June 6.The European Union agreed for the first time on Tuesday to impose broad sanctions against Russian oil companies, banks and defense firms, by far the strongest international action yet over Moscow's support for rebels in eastern Ukraine. The United States could announce new measures of its own "as soon as today", the White House said. The measures mark the start of a new phase in the biggest confrontation between Moscow and the West since the Cold War, which worsened dramatically after the downing of Malaysian flight MH17 over rebel-held territory on July 17 by what Western countries say was a Russian-supplied missile. Diplomats said ambassadors from the 28-member European bloc agreed to restrictions on trade of equipment for the oil and defense sectors, and "dual use" technology with both defense and civilian purposes. Russia's state run banks would be barred from raising funds in European capital markets. The measures would be reviewed in three months. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who had been reluctant to step up sanctions before the crash because of her country's trade links with Russia, said the latest EU measures were "unavoidable". Previously Europe had imposed sanctions only on individuals and organizations accused of direct involvement in threatening Ukraine, and had shied away from wider "sectoral sanctions" designed to damage its biggest energy supplier. The new measures have been coordinated with Washington in the hope that Russian President Vladimir Putin will back down from a months-long campaign to seize territory and disrupt Ukraine, whose pro-Moscow leader was toppled in February. But Putin has shown no sign of backing down. Indeed, despite the international condemnation following the downing of the airliner, Western countries say the Kremlin has stepped up support for separatists by sending them more heavy weaponry. Moscow denies it is arming the rebels, protestations that are ridiculed in the West. On the ground on Tuesday, intense fighting between government troops and pro-Russian rebels killed dozens of civilians, soldiers and rebels over the past 24 hours, as Kiev pressed on with an offensive to defeat the Moscow-backed revolt. Shells hit the center of Donetsk, a city with a pre-war population of nearly a million people where residents fear they will be trapped on a battlefield between advancing Ukrainian troops and Russian-backed rebels who have vowed to make a stand. Ukrainian forces have been pushing rebel units back toward their two main urban strongholds of Donetsk and Luhansk and have sought to encircle them in several places. The government says its forces have retaken several villages in the rolling countryside near where the airliner crashed, killing all 298 passengers, most of them Dutch. In Donetsk, the body of a dead man lay in rubble behind a badly damaged 10-storey residential building close to the city center, hit by shelling. Rebels at the scene placed body parts on a nylon sheet and carried it on a stretcher to a green van. "There, that's their 'separatists'. That's their 'rebel commander'," said a distressed woman in her 60s, gesturing toward the body. "They are killing neighbors. They are killing people, ordinary people." Another middle-aged woman, who gave her name as Katarina, charged out of the building next door carrying two bags. "No more! I cannot live in this death row any more!" she said. "I am leaving! I don't know where!" Donetsk officials said two people were killed in the shelling of the city. REUTERSMunicipal officials said up to 17 people, including children, were killed in fighting on Monday evening in the town of Horlivka, a rebel stronghold north of Donetsk that saw fierce battles between the rival forces in the last few days. In the city of Luhansk, officials said five civilians were killed when shelling hit a retirement home. "The enemy is throwing everything it has into the battle to complete encirclement of the DNR," Igor Strelkov, a Muscovite rebel commander, told journalists in Donetsk on Monday evening, referring to the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic". A rebel source in Donetsk said reinforcements including military equipment and fighters had arrived across the border from Russia. Reuters was not able to confirm that independently. A spokesman for Ukraine's Security Council, Andriy Lysenko, blamed Russia for shelling a Ukrainian border crossing point and military positions from across the border to help the rebels. Moscow has also accused Ukraine of firing across the frontier. Washington says the airliner was almost certainly shot down accidentally by rebels using a Russian missile. Leaders of the United States and major European powers agreed in a teleconference on Monday to impose sanctions on Russia's banking, technology and arms sectors. Winning support from the EU for sanctions was the trickier task, because the European bloc does more than 10 times as much trade with Russia as the United States does and its 28 member states must agree unanimously on any measures. To mitigate the impact on Europe's own economy, the new sanctions will not affect previous contracts, which means France will be allowed to go ahead with delivery of a naval helicopter carrier it has already sold to Russia.Russia's oil industry has been targeted but its natural gas, which powers European industry and lights its cities, has been spared. Russia is the world's biggest exporter of natural gas and second biggest exporter of oil. Still, some European countries and companies will face real pain. British energy giant BP, the biggest foreign investor in Russia with a near 20 percent stake in Russia's biggest oil company Rosneft, complained its business could be hurt. London's financial services hub could face disproportionate harm from measures against Russian banks. German manufacturing firms could lose customers. European banks and other creditors that are owed money by Russians may face a greater risk that clients will have trouble refinancing or repaying their loans. "These sanctions are harder than anything we have ever had before," said James Nixey of British think tank Chatham House. "It will hurt a little bit but it's a down payment on the future security of Europe. It's a question of Western credibility." Meanwhile on the ground, fighting has only intensified since the air crash, with Ukrainian government forces trying to press on with an offensive that saw them push rebels out of their bastion of Slaviansk at the start of the month. Rebels who retreated from Slaviansk to Donetsk say they will make a stand inside the city. Fighting has also intensified in towns and villages near the border, where the government aims to block rebel reinforcements and arms shipments from Russia. Ukraine military spokesman Lysenko said 10 Ukrainian soldiers were killed over the last 24 hours. Rebel commander Strelkov said his side had lost 30 fighters killed and wounded. Plans to open a humanitarian corridor in Luhansk to allow residents to flee the fighting failed. The United Nations says more than 100,000 people have already fled the east so far. Violence in the region also frustrated international experts' efforts to access the plane crash site for a third day. ADutch police mission said it abandoned plans to travel there on Tuesday because of fighting along the route. Fighting has impeded recovery of some of the remains from flight MH17 and made it impossible to reach the site to investigate the cause of the crash. Kiev and the rebels accuse each other of fighting in the area to keep inspectors away. Rebels accused the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe of serving U.S. and Ukrainian interests and threatened to ban the security and rights group from the crash site. (Additional reporting by Natalia Zinets and Gabriela Baczynska in Kiev, Barbara Lewis, Julia Fioretti and Tom Koerkemeier in Brussels and Anthony Deutsch in Amsterdam; Writing by Peter Graff; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
Getting an internship with a large Wall Street firm is notoriously difficult. This year, Morgan Stanley accepted only 1.1% of applicants for its summer internship program. Similarly, Goldman Sachs only took about 2% of applicants in 2013. These are even lower acceptance rates than the nation's most exclusive universities. So if you're a student coming from a "non-target school," (not top tier school) you're going to have your work cut out for you. Wall Street's bulge bracket banks are known for recruiting from the most elite universities, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and other Ivy League schools. However, some of the biggest names in finance came from unexpected backgrounds. Alexey Loganchuk is the founder of Upgrade Capital, an organization that aims to change the way firms recruit new employees. Loganchuk told us about a couple ways to differentiate yourself, based on what he's seen. Here's how to give yourself an edge, regardless of your education. 1. Form relationships with any connections you have. No matter where you went to school, chances are you'll find some alumni who went into finance. Find those connections, and build them into strong and lasting relationships. This doesn't mean just sending them an email every now and then, but being on a personal, first-name basis. Go beyond just networking. One of the most valuable assets you can have is someone in the industry who is pulling for you. Loganchuk encouraged students to reach out to financial firms to learn more or create those contacts. Financial firms are usually very willing to send representatives to speak with students. Even if you are not from a target school, don't be afraid to call up some of these firms and show your interest. This also applies if you want to turn an internship into a full-time job. Having someone who sponsors and mentors you will help not only in grabbing a position, but for your future career advancements as well. "In general, it's an uphill battle for anyone," Loganchuk said. "In the end, it really comes down for everybody to making personal connections." 2. Practice for the job you want to have. Learn as much as you can on your own, and read everything you can about markets and investing. This should come from an intrinsic appetite for knowledge and figuring out how the market works. The legendary investor Bruce Kovner went from being a taxi driver to a hedge fund associate after proving he had read more financial works than those interviewing him. "The best student investors I've met so far, it's kind of absurd, they literally have read 50+ books on investing," Loganchuk said. "This one kid that placed into J.P. Morgan read 35 books just last summer."  3. Determine and cultivate a specific skill set. Figure out where you best fit into the industry, what skills you need, and then work on developing that set of skills. Loganchuk said many beneficial relationships with industry insiders come from demonstrating value in a unique way.  He said students have the tendency to treat internships like classwork, and focus on only following instructions. Then, they end up shooting themselves in the foot, by doing exactly what made them successful in school. "When you're dealing with the trading floor and investments, these people aren't your professors. They don't want to sit there all day and teach you, and spoon-feed you information," he said. "This might sound very simple, but it's something which the overall majority of interns fail at." 4. Focus on the way you present yourself to firms. Financial firms are also looking for someone who has intellectual humility, who can accept criticism and work through it, Loganchuk said. However, another part of success is knowing when to keep calm after a loss. Loganchuk said one intern he knew through Upgrade Capital lost a fair amount of money on a trade because of sudden geopolitical events. The student went around the entire floor apologizing, "basically being a bit of a wreck." "You're not helping yourself if you're actively presenting yourself as having failed in some way," he said.  Learn to walk the line between accepting bad trades and arrogance. 5. Get involved with firms and portfolio managers early. Loganchuk said one action students can take is emailing portfolio managers to ask for feedback. If you have an investing idea that's relevant to a certain firm, send the portfolio manager your work. "If the work is solid, a fair percent of the time the PM responds," he said. "And you can do this regardless of where you go to school." "Now, if your email reads @princeton.edu or @umissouri.edu, that might make a small difference," Loganchuk said. "But it's not as huge as people might think. Especially at smaller firms. Larger firms, from what I've seen, can be much more stubborn, much more elitist." Good luck out there. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGreat Plains, NebraskaLand buying can make or break a home builder or developer. Land can be so illiquid that the CEO of Toll has a plaque in his office reminding him that:      "You can buy more land in an afternoon than you can get rid of in a lifetime." Investing in land carries significantly more volatility than nearly all other real estate asset classes. As a general rule, a 1% change in home values results in a 3% change in finished lot values because almost all of the change is attributable to a change in the value of the land rather than the structure. Investing in raw land carries an even greater level of volatility and price swings. From 2000 to 2006, finished lot values in good locations climbed an average of 162%. Once the housing bubble burst, average values declined 46% from peak to the trough in 2009 and still need to climb another 21% to return to the peak of 8 years ago. Lots in mediocre locations fell even more in value. John Burns Real Estate ConsultingSome markets experienced significantly more volatility than the national average, and some experienced much less. The most volatile market during the past cycle experienced a 339% increase in lot values from 2000 to the peak, followed by a 62% decline. The least volatile market we track only experienced a 47% increase, followed by a relatively modest 14% decline.  Historically, California and Southwest markets experience notably greater swings in finished lot prices, with soaring values to the peak and nose-dive losses to the trough. Texas and Southeastern markets have been more insulated from the boom/bust cycle, with markets such as Austin and Charlotte experiencing more measured finished lot value increases and declines.  Our consulting team specializes in helping executives make great land buying decisions. While valuing the land under current conditions is important, assessing the risk is even more important. For more information about our lot value index or consulting services, contact me or any of our team members. FREE AppDownload
PSA Peugeot CitroenIn 2013, French automaker Citroen sold 3,500 DS luxury vehicles in China. That made it practically a rounding error in the Chinese luxury car market. But what a difference a year makes. According to Chinese news outlet Gasgoo, Citroen DS deliveries have risen to 10,400 in just the first half of 2014 — a substantial increase and a sign that the carmaker's goal of selling 200,000 DS vehicles by 2017 isn't so farfetched. Citroen — or rather its parent company, PSA Peugeot Citroen — is, like all Western car companies, partnered in joint ventures with Chinese carmakers to build vehicles in the Middle Kingdom. At the moment, the luxury DS brand trails market leaders Audi and BMW by a wide margin. In fact, Citroen DS is dead last. Gasgoo But the brand's rapid progress over a relatively short period of time is worth keeping an eye on. Meanwhile, check out this stylish video of DS production in China:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneStocks are higher, but off their best levels from early in the session. The Dow is up 28 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 2 points, and the Nasdaq is up 15 points. Earlier today, we got mixed economic data, with consumer confidence jumping to a 7-year high in July, while home prices fell more than expected.  The Conference Board's consumer confidence index for July jumped to 90.9 from 85.2 in June, marking the index's best reading since October 2007. Economists were expecting the report to climb to 85.4.  In contrast, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller U.S. home price index showed home prices fell 0.3% from last month, missing economists' expectations for a 0.3% gain. "Housing has been turning in mixed economic numbers in the last few months. Prices and sales of existing homes have shown improvement while construction and sales of new homes continue to lag. At the same time, the broader economy and especially employment are showing larger improvements and substantial gains," said S&amp;P's David Blitzer. Also on the economic data front, market participants are now focused on tomorrow morning's initial reading of Q2 GDP, and tomorrow afternoon's expected results of the Federal Reserve's latest Federal Open Market Committee meeting.  It was another busy morning for corporate earnings. Healthcare giants Pfizer and Merck both reported earnings per share that beat expectations, while both companies saw sales slip.  Shipping giant UPS reported earnings per share that missed expectations while also trimming its full-year earnings forecast. The company reported that U.S. domestic daily packaged volume climbed 7.4% while international shipments jumped 9.1%.  Windstream Holdings shares are surging, up more than 11% after the company this morning announced plans to spin-off its fiber and copper network assets into a real estate investment trust, or REIT. Windstream peer Frontier Communications was also up more than 11% and CenturyLink was up better than 3% following the announcement.  It's also a big day for many professionals in the financial world, as results of the Levels I and II CFA exam were released, with 42% of June test-takers passing the Level I exam and 46% of tex-takers passing the Level II exam.  Shares of chicken chain El Pollo Loco are down 11%, the stock's first drop after two days of massive gains after its public debut on July 25, and in his Monday morning note, market guru Dennis Gartman said the IPO, and and subsequent rally, smelled like a market top.  FREE AppDownload
Bar any last minute heroics from a delegation meeting with negotiators in New York City, Argentina is set to default tomorrow. Ironically, it will default on debt dating back to its last default in 2001. As this happens, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Economy Minister Axel Kicillof are in Caracas, Venezuela, attending a meeting of MercoSur — a body of South American countries including Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela (naturally). Unfortunately — because they had to deal with Argentina nearing its July 30th payment deadline — Kiciloff and Fernandez missed last night's big party. It was late Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez's 60th birthday. They did however, arrive in time for a bash thrown by Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff. For years the country has been battling with a group of hedge funds led by Elliott Management's Paul Singer, and known as NML Capital. NML refused to take haircut on bonds it purchased after Argentina's last collapse unlike over 90% of bondholders. Since then, Argentina has said that it will not pay these holdouts (commonly called "vultures" in the country), but earlier this summer The Supreme Court effectively struck down that argument. Now Argentina has until Wednesday to pay up, according to a New York Judge. A delegation has been sent from the country to try to convince the Court to instate a stay on all payment to bondholders — Argentina's condition for negotiating — but so far it's been unsuccessful. We can only imagine the President is very, very stressed out in Venezuela. FREE AppDownload
AP 15 Central Park West continues to dominate as New York's priciest condo.CityRealty is out with its quarterly ranking of the most expensive condominium buildings in New York City, and billionaire fortress 15 Central Park West has once again taken the top spot. The building, home to a long list of bankers, celebrities, and titans of business, including Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein and Sting, has held the top spot for a full year, with the average apartment there selling for $6,288 per-square-foot, and the highest-selling unit this quarter going for $8,556 per-square-foot, according to CityRealty. A former aide to the world's wealthiest man, Carlos Slim, just sold a pair of apartments there for $29 million, according to The New York Observer. And earlier this year, a penthouse there sold for $48 million, making it the priciest sale of Q2. Overall, CityRealty found a sharp increase in the price of luxury condos in New York City over the past year. During Q2, 204 apartments were sold in the 100 buildings that make up the company's index, at an average price of $2,333. That's a 22% increase from the same quarter in 2013. Below, the top 20 condo buildings in New York City, according to CityRealty: CityRealty       FREE AppDownload
Back in March, bond guru Jeffrey Gundlach was warning that margin debt, which reflects the dollar volume of securities investors have purchased through borrowed money, was in "the scary zone." At the time, NYSE margin debt surged to $465 billion. After dipping for a few month, margin debt is back on the rise. As of June, NYSE margin debt is just short of those all-time highs. For longtime market observer Dennis Gartman, this means the stock market is ripe for a correction.    "...since ’09 margin debt has risen from $200 billion to nearly $475 billion as of two months ago and historically margin debt actually begins to weaken from its highest levels before stock prices begin to turn downward," he writes. "If the highs were made a few months ago in margin debt, the market is more vulnerable now than it was, if history is prologue to the future. Although past performance by mutual and hedge fund managers is not, according to the SEC, indicative of future performance, when it comes to margin debt the past truly is a guide to the future."  Doug Short, who published the data to which Gartman refers, is a bit more sanguine. He notes that the data are already several weeks old when published, so we can't say for sure whether we're seeing a major shift in margin debt.  Some also believe margin debt levels are a more benign coincident indicator whose recent movements are merely reflecting the increasing presence of hedge funds. For his part, Gundlach said it may actually be difficult to tell whether the surge is a cause or effect of the broader market rally. But it's clearly something investors are watching closely. Advisor Perspective, Doug Short FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeZhou YongkangZhou Yongkang, one of China's most powerful politicians is officially being investigated for suspected "serious disciplinary violation."  In the scope of Xi Jinping's corruption crackdown aimed at tigers (high ranking officials) and flies (low ranking officials), Xi has snared himself a tiger.  71-year old Zhou is a former member of the Politburo Standing Committee (PSC) — the most important decision making body in the Chinese Communist Party. Zhou rose through the ranks from China's oilfields. He began as a technician at the Daqing oilfield in Heilongjiang and eventually became head of the Liaohe oil sector, reports Keith Zhai at South China Morning Post. In 1996, he became head of China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). From Zhai: Most of Zhou’s top aides from the oil sector days have also been detained, including Li Hualin, CNPC’s vice-general manager and Zhou’s former personal secretary . Zhou’s family members are also under investigation for alleged unlawful deals involving the CNPC, including Zhou’s eldest son Zhou Bin, daughter-in-law Huang Wan, his brother Zhou Yuanqing, sister-in-law Zhou Lingying and her son Zhou Feng. Jiang Jiemin, former CNPC head and another Zhou protégé, was questioned by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, the party’s anti-graft watchdog, in 2012 for paying to silence families of victims involved in a car crash in Beijing that claimed the life of the only son of Ling Jihua, the former top aide to former president Hu Jintao. Jiang was later expelled from the party and remains under investigation. Millions of dollars illegally transferred from CNPC’s company account raised suspicions that Zhou’s camp has forged an alliance with Ling, who was a rising power in the party but now holds only a symbolic post after the deadly car crash involving a luxury Ferrari. Zhou came under the scanner in May of 2012, when his ties with Bo Xilai landed him in trouble. Back then Communist Party members wrote to then president Hu Jintao asking for the dismissal of Zhou. They alleged that he was part of a movement to revive a Maoist movement in China. Someone of Zhou's political stature hasn't been taken down in 30 years, Bill Bishop, author of Sinocism, told Business Insider. It ends the notion that once you've made it to the PSC you have immunity, Bishop said. Zhou's takedown, of course, fits nicely into Xi's move to consolidate power. "There is little doubt these people were engaged in remarkable amounts of corruption, and there are all sorts of unproven rumors about plots and deals among this group in the runup up to the 2012 18th Party Congress," Bishop said. "But taking down this network has also allowed Xi to gain control over the security services, and much faster than most observers expected. "Given the interests affected by this corruption crackdown, it is vital for Xi to have under his control the elements of hard power that can keep grumbling and complaining about the campaign from spiraling into much more serious and viable resistance. My understanding is that by Q3 of 2013 he had successfully consolidated control over this system." It isn't immediately clear what form of sentence Zhou might receive, but he is expected to be handed over to the judicial system next. But this will send a clear message that no one, including officials in China's giant state owned enterprises (SOEs), is immune. Bishop argues that this is bullish for the economy, because Xi's consolidation of political power helps him to push on corruption and economic reform*. Xi does however face an interesting problem now. If he goes after too many former PSC members it will shake faith in the system. "It's very embarrassing for the party," Bishop said. But if he stops at just one, it could end up just looking like a power struggle. This may only be the beginning of the story. Note:* The article was corrected to reflect that Bishop meant Xi's consolidation of power could bring economic reform. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Lucy Nicholson Hartford Financial Services Group fired one of its vice presidents last week after he made comments about Herbalife — one of the insurer's clients — a person familiar with the matter tells Business Insider. William Kelly Jr. was quoted in a short Wall Street Journal article last Tuesday saying that he had "never gotten comfortable with the business model" and that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman was successful in "creating more doubts about how Herbalife makes money."   Kelly gave the quotes to the Journal at hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's latest presentation slamming the company.  The next day he was fired, the source said. Kelly had been with The Hartford since 2009, his LinkedIn page shows. We reached out to The Hartford multiple times. They declined our request for comment, referring us to a statement in the comments section of the Journal.  "In the above article, Mr. Kelly was speaking on his own behalf, not on behalf of The Hartford," Shannon Lapierre, the head of Hartford's corporate communications, wrote in the comments section at 8:09 a.m. on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
WikipediaEighty-three thousand Pentagon employees and contractors are tax deadbeats, to the collective tune of  $730 million. And, roughly a quarter of them had top-secret security clearance, an internal government audit shows. It’s yet another reason the U.S. security clearance system is under scrutiny after high-profile former employees such as Edward Snowden started to reveal classified information.  “Federal laws do not prohibit an individual with unpaid federal taxes from holding a security clearance, but delinquent tax debt poses a potential vulnerability,” the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report says. “Because these clearances may allow personnel to access classified information that, through unauthorized disclosure, can in some cases cause exceptionally grave damage to the U.S. national security, investigators and adjudicators are to thoroughly assess applicants and their eligibility,” it says. The report cites data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that shows roughly 40 percent of these workers had a repayment plan to pay back their debt, and a quarter of them were eligible for a top-secret clearance level. The U.S. security-clearance system has attracted a great deal of scrutiny thanks to the actions of Edward Snowden, the National Security Agency contractor who leaked thousands of secret documents, and most recently explained to the public how NSA workers treated sensitive photos and other information. “Giving security clearances to individuals who fail to follow the law is unwise and risky,” said Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) said on Monday to The Hill. “It is vital that the administration and Congress work diligently to eliminate potential threats that compromise the integrity of the federal workforce and the privileged information they safeguard,” he added. As of October 2013 more than 5.1 million federal employees and contractors held or were eligible for a security clearance, according to the GAO.  FREE AppDownload
Flick/danielmorrisMany young Wall Streeters were freaking out Tuesday morning because the CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) Level I and II results were coming out.  The CFA Institute said they would send the results at 9 a.m. ET. The CFA Institute's website was down when we last checked.    For the June test-takers, 42% passed Level I and 46% passed Level 2, the CFA Institute tweeted. That's a higher pass rate than usual, but most folks still failed.  Consisting of three levels, the CFA program is considered to be the hardest series of exams in finance. Fewer than 20% of candidates pass all three tests on the first attempt. The average CFA candidate takes four years to complete the program.   The average test-taker also spends about six months preparing, putting in about 20 hours a week to study the exam materials. For those who passed, you can see they're really excited. Congrats guys!  Stick a fork in level 1! Level 2 here I come! #cfaresults #cfa Passing level 1 got me like: #cfaresults http://t.co/m13ls5Pjfb Through! Cleared cfa level 1! #cfaresults Cleared #CFALevel2..!A step closer to my #Aim, 2.5 months of #HardWork paid off @CFAprogram.. Feeling so #Relieved..! #CFAresults #Happy Looks like I'll actually have to use my remaining 15 days holidays for actual holidays now #cfaresults #cfalevel1 AWWWWWWWWWWWWWW YEAAAAHHHHHHHHH, pregnancy test came back negative #CFA #cfaresults My favourite binomial tree. Good luck tomorrow to all #CFA warriors. pic.twitter.com/Fn2pmhzv0k I’ve spent the last hour having minor heart attacks with every email notification. Please just send me my #CFA results. FREE AppDownload
Associated PressDiscount stores are slowly dying.  Yesterday, Dollar Tree announced it would buy Family Dollar, a chain that is in the process of closing hundreds of stores and firing workers.  Other discount stores have been struggling as well, writes Heidi Moore at The Guardian. Fashion discounter Loehmann's filed for bankruptcy, while Wal-Mart's sales have declined for the past five quarters.  "There’s just not enough money deployed by American families to keep all the discount chains in business," Moore writes.  Dollar stores saw their heyday during the recession, when middle-class shoppers came to buy smaller, cheaper packages of household necessities like toilet paper.  While middle-class shoppers have enjoyed economic recovery, America's poorest consumers have not, write Paul Ziobro and Shelly Banjo at The Wall Street Journal.  Money spent by households earning less than $30,000 has been flat since 2008, WSJ reports, citing the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Total income for that group fell 1% between 2004 and 2012.  The merger of Dollar Tree and Family Dollar could further crunch Wal-Mart, according to WSJ. With 13,000 stores between them, the new dollar store will be in a better position to negotiate lower prices from suppliers. This could challenge Wal-Mart, which is already more expensive than dollar chains.  But it's possible that no amount of discounting will win back these struggling shoppers.  "A cash-strapped consumer can’t keep buying forever, no matter how low prices go," Moore writes.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstZillow and Trulia went and got married over the weekend. The idea of their becoming a brokerage is another topic, and they would be swinging for the fences there – it’s probably not going to happen, at least not in the short term. But their marriage does set up the Big Showdown: Consumers, Top Producers, and Transparency                      vs. NAR, Big RE Corporations, Low-Producing Realtors and the Status Quo The Big Showdown has been brewing for years, and Zillow/Trulia will have to pick a lane. They are trying to sell the marriage as a mutual benefit for all, but it’s not. One side wins, and one side loses. The fight centers around educating the consumer. The Status Quo (the cabal) likes to keep consumers in the dark. Zillow/Trulia slipped in when no one was looking and grabbed our listings, produced a better website with more information, and went on a spending spree of TV advertising over the last couple of years. They provided better transparency of our listings than realtors were willing to provide themselves, and based on results, the consumers dig it. But having the listings out in the open isn’t enough to dismantle the cabal. The RE Cabal, defined: The group of entities that thrives on low-producing realtors. The National Association of Realtors and local associations collect the same dues whether an agent sells a house or not. The big corporate franchisors enjoy more-favorable commission splits from new, inexperienced, and lower-producing agents, and if they hire them by the thousands, they can make a good living. The top producers demand 80% or 90% (or more) of their commissions, and even though their volume is higher, the small percentages and lack of control doesn’t sit well with the corporate bosses. What happens now? Zillow has already been forming partnerships with the bigger brokerages; here is an example from last month: http://investors.zillow.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=856350 SEATTLE, June 24, 2014 /PRNewswire/ — Zillow, Inc. (NASDAQ: Z), the leading real estate and home-related marketplace, and Douglas Elliman Real Estate, one of the largest real estate brokerages in the nation and New York City’s largest residential brokerage, today announced they have entered into a new strategic marketing partnership. Other big corporate franchisors will most likely plead with Zillow for a similar ‘strategic partnership.’ If Zillow takes their money, won’t it be indebted to the Status Quo? The Status Quo hopes so, because it will slow down or stop Zillow from continuing to expose the transparency needed to break the cabal. If Zillow takes the high road and is beholden to no one, then it would be free to educate the consumer on the intimate details of buying and selling homes. The Status Quo doesn’t want that – they prefer it to be mysterious so consumers end up with the agents on bad commission splits. Literally, the Status Quo prefers you to be served by those who are least qualified to help you. More transparency would include agent-ranking and demonstrations on why consumers should work with a top-producing agent. You pay the same or similar commission rate, you deserve to get the best help available. This article originally appeared at BubbleInfo.com.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachShares in fire-roasted chicken chain El Pollo Loco have climbed 43% since its market debut Friday. BI's Hayley Peterson has explained why some investors believe Loco, based out of Costa Mesa, California, could be the next Chipotle: It's same-store sales growth rate actually surpassed that of the burrito chain, and customers appreciate their large portion sizes.  But Tuesday, shares were down 13%. In his note Monday morning, market guru Dennis Gartman says this smells like a top.  We are even concerned about the fact that the names of new offerings are looking “toppish” to us: Is the market really healthy when an IPO with the name EL Pollo Loco... the Crazy Chicken... is a blow-out success and trades to a swift premium immediately? Is this the sign of a market climbing a wall of worry, or is this the sign of a market already high upon the wall and tottering? We think the answer is rather obvious.  FREE AppDownload
Real Men Real StyleSummer dressing can come with its own set of challenges. For one, there’s the matter of options. Besides your standard t-shirts and polos, what else is out there that makes you look good, feel great, fits you well, and also shows that you care about how you look and want to present a professional appearance? Besides that, you also want this item of clothing to be casual enough, while still allowing you to look clean and feel great. If you ask me, for this tall order, the best option that you have is the summer shirt! The perfect casual summer shirt is what we’ll be talking about today, and I’ll give you a breakdown of important shopping tips to remember when picking one out. However, before we really dive into that, I want to reiterate that for this post, we will be talking about the ideal casual shirt, and not the dress shirt. The truth is, not many men actually know the difference between the two. The main thing to remember for this first tip is that casual shirts are supposed to fit differently compared to dress shirts. When shopping for a casual summer shirt, you’ll want to start by looking for something with a looser, more relaxed fit. Specifically, look for something that has an extra inch in the waist and the chest, and about a half an inch extra in the shoulder area. The reason for the looser fit is that you really don’t want to have any “hot spots”. The “hot spots” that I am referring to are areas in a tight shirt that may be prone to irritation and sweat, especially in the summer time. Trust me when I say that you do not want to be sporting this look, as hot spots will never look good. In addition, do remember that you will probably not be wearing a jacket over your casual shirt, as the summer weather may not permit you to. Therefore, there is no way to hide or cover any hot spots that may develop, or a general bad fit of a shirt. This is why you need to fit a casual shirt that sits well on your shoulders, and doesn’t have excess fabric in the chest area. If you find that your summer shirt of choice does tend to have these flaws, you definitely want to take it to a tailor to have it adjusted. Having a shirt with a looser fit is not the only thing that can prevent hot spots. Fabric choice also plays a part. So, how can you tell if a fabric is light and breathable? Besides the obvious, which is feeling the fabric, you can also try to put the fabric of a shirt against your mouth and attempt to breathe through it. If you have trouble pushing air out through the fabric, then it is most probably not breathable. When shopping for a casual summer shirt, I advise you to pick out two to three different shirts and perform this “breath test”. This is a really easy and quick way that you can use to determine which shirt is most breathable, and have air move through it quite easily. Another quick tip closely related to this is to never assume that a lightweight fabric is automatically breathable. Take note that there are lightweight fabrics that have very tight weaves, like twill. Air doesn’t easily move through twill, despite it being lightweight. Wearing a shirt that doesn’t “breathe” could present a lot of problems during the summer time. You can pretty much count on this shirt functioning like a plastic bag, which if you’re not familiar with, will definitely make you start sweating profusely. Again, this is something that you do NOT want, so definitely make sure that you pick out a fabric that’s both lightweight AND breathable. If you’re not too familiar about weaves, I invite you to check out another blog post that I put up dedicated to weaves. That should cover the basics and provide you with a general idea on the differences and nuances between different fabric weaves. If you’re still not sure if a fabric is light or breathable despite conducting the “breath test”, then there is another way to figure out if it would make for a good summer shirt. Hold the fabric up against the sun or a light and check to see if you can see little holes within the weave. If you do, then that is good indication that a fabric will breathe well. Should you want to narrow it down to specific fabrics, here are my personal recommendations; Chambray is my top choice, followed by End-on-end. You can even take a gander at some cotton choices, provided their weaves are light and breathable. Also, it is worth mentioning that I’ve actually found some good options in the athletic wear department for fabrics that wick away sweat. When picking out shirts here, be careful that you don’t choose something that looks too sporty, as you may not be able to use this for your original purpose. There are certain styles that give off a more casual feel to any shirt. A great example of this is pockets. A shirt with two pockets up front is a detail that was actually borrowed from the military. There was a time when these pockets were actually put to use, to place different things in, which may have helped to contribute to their casual feel. Generally, pockets found in shirts, be it on the chest area, or even on the sleeves, denote a casual look, so they are perfect for casual summer shirts. Epaulets are another shirt details that have come out of the military. Used to place rank and even awards in, epaulets served a genuine function. Recent trends though have allowed epaulets to be used in a more casual setting, so I also encourage looking for shirts with epaulet details, provided that they lay well. Another perk to wearing an shirt with epaulets is that they can actually help to beef up the shoulders, and for men with larger mid-sections, epaulets can actually help to draw attention away from the problem area. The third style detail that is worth paying attention to in a casual summer shirt is in its sleeves and cuffs. Before buying a shirt, find out if the sleeves are actually meant to by rolled in. Never assume that all shirts are made like this as shirts with French cuffs, for example, are NOT made to be rolled up. Generally speaking, shirts with softer cuffs, as well as those that have a button up the sleeve, along with a little strap, are meant to be rolled up, and are ideal for warm weather dressing. Now, just because your shirt comes with a button and a strap doesn’t automatically mean that you have to use these little details. My advice on the matter is this: If you have toned and muscular arms, then you can definitely use this strap, but if you don’t want your arms to appear small and puny, then don’t use them and simply roll your shirts, stopping right below the elbow. While a shirt’s length is supposed to fall under the category of fit, I though that it was important to discuss this at length, which is why it separated here. Summer shirts are meant to be worn untucked so every man must make sure that his casual shirts do not end up too long. A shirt is too long when it fully covers your backside. In addition, if your shirt is covering all of your crotch area, then it is probably too long. In saying this, you definitely do not want your shirts too be too short either. A simple way to determine if it is too short is to raise your arms with the said shirt on. If your midsection ends up exposed, then your shirt is too short. Longer shirts can actually be taken to a tailor to be readjusted. So do consider doing this if you’ve found a shirt that is perfect in every way, except the length. My last tip for your summer casual shirt has to do with the collar. Even if you are wearing a casual shirt, it is still important to make sure that the collar looks good, lays well, and isn’t too sloppy. Button placement will also determine if a shirt will look good or not. For casual shirts, it is perfectly acceptable for the top two buttons to be left unbuttoned. Some men may prefer to have one extra button unbuttoned, and this is acceptable too, just as long as your shirt doesn’t expose too much of your chest. While button placement can be adjusted, I want to point out that this is necessarily not an easy job, and that it may be better for a qualified seamstress to do it.  This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Amit DaveShares of Windstream Holdings were up more than 22% after the company announced plans to spin-off some telecommunications into a real estate investment trust, or REIT. The company also announced that it has received a private letter ruling from the IRS, "relating to certain tax matters regarding the tax-free nature of the spinoff and the qualification of the spunoff entity's assets as real property for REIT purposes." A real estate investment trust invests in real estate and trades on a public exchange, like a stock, and generates income through rent collection and investment in additional properties or mortgages. REITs typically pay a considerable dividend, as REITs are required to pay out at least 90% of their taxable income in the form of dividends.  Windstream said the REIT will own the company's existing fiber and copper network and other fixed real estate assets. The tax-free spin-off will also lower the company's debt by $3.2 billion and increase cash flow. The deal, which is being cheered by Windstream investors, could also serve as a blueprint for other companies in the telecommunication space. In a note to clients following the announcement, Oppenheimer analyst Timothy Horan said the announcement is "very positive" for the entire ecosystem of communication infrastructure companies, notably CenturyLink and Frontier.  Horan added that though there are high regulatory barriers to clear, this deal will be a "game changer" for the value of non-REIT infrastructure stocks, which Horan said are now, "20% or so undervalued across the board." Horan noted that the REIT structure should allow Windstream to avoid $200 million per year in potential tax payments.  On Twitter,CNBC's David Faber said that in addition to CenturyLink and Frontier Communications, Windstream's deal could pave the way for Verizon, AT&amp;T, and Comcast to do the same with their network assets.  Following the news, CenturyLink shares were up nearly 8% while shares of Frontier Communications were higher by more than 15%.  FREE AppDownload
ASSOCIATED PRESSBased on reports that have emerged over the past few weeks, it looks like California is back in the running as a location for Tesla's Gigfactory — a massive facility that will build the advanced lithium-ion batteries needed to get the electric carmaker to the next level. Nevada, Texas, New Mexico — these were the states that appeared to be in a better position to become the Gigafactory's home than California. But there's been some chatter about Elon Musk and his company potentially taking over an old U.S. Navy facility near San Francisco. And now, according to the Los Angeles Times' Marc Lifsher, the Northern California city of Stockton could also be a candidate. It's "shaping up as a leading in-state contender," Lifsher wrote. The arrival of a $5-billion new-economy manufacturing hub, along with its projected 6,000-plus jobs, would be just what the doctor ordered for Stockton. The city, about an hour's drive northeast of Tesla's Fremont, Calif. assembly line, went bankrupt in 2012.Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesStockton, Calif., on June 27, newspaper reads "Bankrupt!" after members of city council voted 6-1 to adopt a spending plan for operating under Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection.Its reign as the largest city in U.S. history to go bust didn't last long — Detroit topped Stockton in 2013. The housing downturn and unsustainable municipal debt were to blame for Stockton's woes (some observers also blamed pension obligations and unions). The city of 300,000 still hasn't emerged from Chapter 9 (the muni version of Chapter 11), but it's expected to later this year. Some prominent Californians weren't thrilled when it seemed that the state had lost its shot at the Gigafactory. And Stockton's troubles were emblematic of how rough the financial crisis was for the state. But if Tesla ultimately locates its battery factory there, a lot of residents might decide that the city's luck has finally turned. A deal that Tesla reportedly just signed with Panasonic to partner for the Gigafactory indicates that the facility, which will supply Tesla with enough batteries to power 500,000 vehicles, is on track to become a reality.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Juan MedinaConsumer confidence spiked in July. The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence jumped to 90.9 from 85.2 in June. This smashed expectations for an increase to just 85.4. “Consumer confidence increased for the third consecutive month and is now at its highest level since October 2007 (95.2)," said the Conference Board's Lynn Franco. "Strong job growth helped boost consumers’ assessment of current conditions, while brighter short-term outlooks for the economy and jobs, and to a lesser extent personal income, drove the gain in expectations. Recent improvements in consumer confidence, in particular expectations, suggest the recent strengthening in growth is likely to continue into the second half of this year.” Here's some more color regarding consumers' assessment of current conditions and expectations from the Conference Board: Consumers’ assessment of current conditions improved in July. Those claiming business conditions are “good” edged down to 22.7 percent from 23.4 percent, while those stating business conditions are “bad” was virtually unchanged at 22.7 percent. Consumers’ appraisal of the job market was more favorable. Those saying jobs are “plentiful” increased to 15.9 percent from 14.6 percent, while those claiming jobs are “hard to get” remained unchanged at 30.7 percent. Consumers’ expectations were more optimistic in July. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 20.2 percent from 18.4 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen held steady at 11.5 percent. Consumers were more positive about the outlook for the labor market. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead increased to 19.1 percent from 16.3 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs declined to 16.4 percent from 18.4 percent. Slightly more consumers expect their incomes to grow, 17.3 percent in July versus 16.7 percent in June, while those expecting a drop in their incomes declined to 11.0 percent from 11.4 percent.  All of this is in line with economists' expectation for a spring/summer snapback in economic activity since the chilly winter. "Layoffs are falling and bank lending is accelerating — two powerful statistical indicators of the economy's building momentum heading into H2 14," said UBS's Maury Harris, who sees "three-handled" real GDP growth from now through 2015. "The major expected behavioral drivers continue to be pent-up demand and lagged positive credit impacts from earlier QE. From the Fed's perspective, housing is a downside risk, although we believe recently tepid mortgage applications and new home sales should pick up with better job creation and related household formation." Meanwhile, the stock market is extending its low volatility rally. Currently trading at around 1,985, the S&amp;P 500 isn't far from it's all-time intraday high of 1,991. "Global growth is improving mildly, lowflation is here to stay, central banks remain accommodative, equity markets and the US dollar are grinding higher, and bond yields are going nowhere for now," said Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovRussian President Vladimir Putin (left) at a wreath-laying ceremony to mark the Defender of the Fatherland Day at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier by the Kremlin walls in central Moscow on Feb. 23."The Malaysia Airlines disaster seems to have put Putin in a zugzwang, the German chess term beloved by Russian political scientists that signifies a situation in which any move will weaken a player's position," Alec Luhn of Foreign Policy writes. Russian-backed separatists are suspected of shooting down Malaysia Flight MH17 on July 17, killing all 298 people on board. Moscow has continued supporting the rebels, many of whom are Russian, since the incident. Luhn explains that Putin currently faces two unappealing choices: continue backing pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine with weapons and training, thereby incurring biting sanctions from the West, or back down after investing so much political capital (at home and internationally) in the idea of re-establishing Novorussia in eastern Ukraine. "He needs to make a choice between the idea of a national Russian Spring, protecting our countrymen, reuniting the Russian world that's been fragmented, and Russia's geopolitical strategic interests," Fyodor Lukyanov, chairman of the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy, told FP. Timothy Heritage of Reuters notes that Putin may have already crossed the point of no-return after the former KGB lieutenant colonel blamed MH17 "on his pro-Western protagonists in Kiev and signaled no change in his stance, leaving Russia facing the threat of much tougher international sanctions and economic and political isolation." In any case, Moscow's men on the ground are struggling. Ukrainian troops have recently retaken a lot of territory from the separatists, suggesting that Moscow would have to make a decision to fully back the separatists or even invade with the estimated 15,000 Russian troops stationed at the border. (Some of those troops have been firing grad rockets into Ukraine.) REUTERS Luhn notes that the Russian media has convinced much of the Russian population that backing the separatists is the way to go. "We shouldn't depend on Putin's vacillation," Alexander Dugin, a philosophy professor who has called on Russia to seize Ukraine, wrote on his Facebook page last week. "He vacillates, but the Russian people do not. He drags out the decision, but the Russian people have already made it. Novorossiya will exist." That remains to be seen, and depends on whether the Russian leader continues to double down or backs off. "No matter which way he moves, Putin can only lose," Luhn concludes. But in life, as in chess, a move must be made.  FREE AppDownload
Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesThe internet holds the key to learning anything these days, including tips and tricks for the modern man who wants to stay a cut above the rest. Unfortunately, just searching "gentleman" isn't going to get you very far. You need to know where to look to get solid information. So we've compiled a list of websites that every gentleman should bookmark and use, including the web versions of men's magazines, style blogs, and e-commerce sites. We guarantee these sites will are going to make your life easier and make you look more polished. FREE AppDownload
Excel pivot tables are incredible tools that allow you to analyze large data sets many different ways in seconds. Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidByron WienIn his most recent market commentary, Wall Street legend Byron Wien lays out a sensible, reasonable case that the S&amp;P 500 could climb to 2300. That's 17% higher from current levels. The main ingredients for Wien's calculation: 3% economic growth, 7% earnings growth, and continued stock buybacks. From Wien's latest post on Blackstone's blog: "One of the problems limiting investor enthusiasm may be valuation. If the S&amp;P 500 earns $115 in 2014, it is selling at 17.1x earnings. Market peaks have occurred historically at 25x–30x times earnings. On that basis, the market is fairly valued but not exceedingly expensive. The average trailing 12-month price-earnings ratio when the inflation rate is 0%–4% is 17... If the economy grows at a rate of 3% real during the remainder of the year and inflation is 2%, then nominal growth should be 5%. With productivity increases continuing and share buybacks, the S&amp;P 500 should be able to show improvement of 7% over the $108 in operating earnings of 2013 and that would put us at $115. With considerable cash on corporate balance sheets, share buybacks should continue. Therefore, if earnings reach my target and the S&amp;P 500 sells at 20x, we could reach 2300, which is 17% above the present level or more than 20% above the index price at the start of 2014." Wien also writes that, "Very few investors see that as a possibility because the market did so well in 2012 and 2013 and strong previous performance breeds caution about the future," but says that just because the market performed well one year doesn't mean it won't the next. In fact, Wien notes that when the S&amp;P 500 has gained 25% in a year, it has been positive the following year each time has happened since 1990. Overall, Wien's primary concern for the market is a negative impact from geopolitical turmoil, saying that any of the situations in Ukraine, Israel and the Middle East flaring up further could pressure oil prices or challenge the "present world order" and unsettle financial markets. But citing a recent Bloomberg poll that indicates 61% of respondents were worried about a market bubble, or thought the market was currently in one, Wien says this is an encouraging contrary indicator.  Wien says that of course, the market cannot go up forever, but writes: "I see neither a recession nor a bear market in sight even thought we are five years into the economic and market recovery. Let's hope geopolitical turbulence doesn't upset that outlook." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghA model of a shark is seen in the roof of a house in Oxford October 26, 2013.Home prices unexpectedly fell by 0.3% month-over-month in May, missing economists' expectations for a 0.3% gain. This is according to the latest S&amp;P/Case-Shiller report on U.S. home prices. Bloomberg reports this is the first month-over-month drop since January 2012. On a year-over-year basis, prices were up 9.3%, which was also below the 9.9% gain expected. "Home prices rose at their slowest pace since February of last year," said S&amp;P's David Blitzer. "Housing has been turning in mixed economic numbers in the last few months. Prices and sales of existing homes have shown improvement while construction and sales of new homes continue to lag. At the same time, the broader economy and especially employment are showing larger improvements and substantial gains.” "The slowdown in price appears to be indicative of the weakening in housing activity more generally, particularly after the very slow start to the spring selling season," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "However, while we are not particularly alarmed by the surprising drop in home prices, this report adds to a growing list of housing indicators that are beginning to point in the wrong direction, which could be a early warning signal that all may not be well in this crucial segment of the economy." Here's a breakdown of month-over-month change by city: S&P Here's a year-over-year breakdown: S&P FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rafael MarchanteA man has his shoes shined near an office of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in Lisbon June 20, 2014. Banco Espirito Santo, the troubled Portuguese bank that last month roiled international markets after reports the bank's parent company said it would miss debt payments, is expected to report its largest-ever banking loss tomorrow, according to a report from Bloomberg.  Bloomberg's John Glover and Joao Lima, citing Portuguese-language publication Expresso, said the bank is set to report a loss of €3 billion, or around $4 billion. Rich Kleinbauer at RMK Research and Markets notes that this loss would be 15 times the company's original estimate.  Citing John Raymond, an analyst at CreditSights, Bloomberg said a loss of €3 billion would more than consume the €2.1 billion capital cushion the company holds. Banco Espirito Santo is scheduled to report results for the first half of 2014 tomorrow after the market close. In just the last month, shares of Banco Espirito Santo trading in Lisbon have fallen more than 40%.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John Sommers IIUnited Parcel Service employee Ramona Cranmer works to sort packages at the UPS Worldport All Points International Hub during the peak delivery day in Louisville, Kentucky, December 17, 2013.UPS just reported its Q2 financial results, and the numbers look a bit light. Earnings came in at $1.21 per share, which was below analysts' estimates for $1.25. Management cut is full year earnings guidance to $4.90 to $5.00 from a previous range of $5.05 to $5.30. This is worse than the $5.09 expected by analysts. UPS shares are down 2.7% in premarket trading. Because UPS is a global provider of package delivery, it's considered a decent indicator of economic activity. On that front, things don't look too bad. U.S. domestic daily package volume climbed 7.4% while international export shipments jumped 9.1%. "The strong revenue growth this quarter is evidence that our portfolio resonates with customers, with more choosing UPS as their logistics provider," said CEO Scott Davis. Q2 revenue increased by 5.6% to $14.26 billion, which was higher than the $14.10 billion expected. Management is blaming is blaming the profit shortfall on higher costs, which they argue will pay for itself in the future. "The company announced plans to increase 2014 operating expense for capacity and peak related projects to a total of $175 million," the company said. "[W]e are making investments in new capabilities and network capacity to ensure we meet customer expectations," said CFO Kurt Kuehn. "These initiatives will increase operating expense this year, but will provide financial benefits for years to come." Last winter, UPS missed some Christmas package deliveries due to low lack of capacity. Hopefully, that won't happen this yea. FREE AppDownload
Radio Free EuropeThe European Union is expected to agree on new sanctions targeting Russia's financial, energy, and defense sectors at a meeting in Brussels. Ambassadors from all the EU states are expected on July 29 to impose new measures that include restrictions on Russian banks accessing European markets, curbs on dealings with the energy sector, and an embargo on weapons and dual-use goods. EU sources say the bloc is also planning to add the names of eight more individuals and three entities to the sanctions list for their alleged role in the Ukrainian crisis. The names are expected to be made public on July 30, when they are published in the EU's official record. The U.S. daily "The Wall Street Journal" reported on July 28 that the new sanctions would limit the operational ability of major Russian banks, including Sberbank and VTB Bank. The newspaper said the measures were part of a plan to increase pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin, whom the United States and the European Union accuse of providing training, personnel, and weapons to pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. Russia has denied supplying weapons to the rebels. Calls for the EU to impose new sanctions have been fuelled by the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 on July 17. The West accuses separatists of shooting down the passenger jet and blames Russia for supplying the rebels with equipment able to do so. Russia and the rebels blame Ukrainian government forces for the attack on the airliner. Last weekend, the EU added another 15 individuals and 18 entities to its growing sanctions list targeting Russians linked to the separatist uprising in eastern Ukraine. The International Monetary Fund last week cut its 2014 global growth forecast to 3.4 percent from 3.7 percent, in part because of the Ukraine crisis, and warned that sanctions against Russia would hurt Europe. Those economies "that have very active and direct trade links with Russia, particularly in Eastern and Central Europe and Central Asia," would be worst affected, it said. In 2013, EU-Russia trade was worth 336 billion euros ($451 billion), with Moscow running a trade surplus of nearly 87 billion euros. With reporting from AFP, "The Wall Street Journal," and BBC. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeZhou Yongkang, then China's public security minister, attends the opening ceremony of the 17th Party Congress at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Oct. 15, 2007.China has begun an investigation into former domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang, one of the most powerful politicians of the last decade, on suspicion of corruption, state media said on Tuesday in what could be one of the country's worst scandals. The ruling Communist Party has decided to probe Zhou for suspected "serious disciplinary violations," the official Xinhua news agency said in a brief dispatch, using the usual euphemism for corruption. The investigation will be conducted by the party's graft watchdog, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, and the decision was made in line with the party's constitution and anti-corruption regulations, Xinhua added, without giving details. Zhou, 71, is the most senior Chinese politician to be ensnared in a graft scandal since the Communist Party swept to power in 1949. Reuters reported in early December that Zhou had been placed under virtual house arrest while the party investigated corruption accusations against him. Zhou was a member of the party's Politburo Standing Committee — China's apex of power — and held the immensely powerful post of security tsar until he retired in 2012. During his five-year tenure as security chief, Zhou oversaw the police force, civilian intelligence apparatus, paramilitary police, judges, and prosecutors. Government spending on domestic security exceeded the defense budget. But Zhou became too powerful, and that position was downgraded during a sweeping leadership reshuffle in 2012. Zhou was implicated in rumors in 2012 that he hesitated in moving against one-time contender for top leadership Bo Xilai, who fell in a divisive scandal following accusations that his wife murdered a British businessman. President Xi Jinping has made fighting deeply ingrained graft a central theme of his new administration, and he has promised to take down "tigers" — or senior officials — as well as those of lower rank who are implicated in corruption. In ordering the investigation, Xi has broken with an unwritten understanding that members of the Standing Committee will not be investigated after retirement. Zhou could not be reached for comment. It is not clear if he has a lawyer.  (Reporting by Beijing newsroom; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dinuka LiyanawatteGood morning! Here's what you need to know. Xi Cracks Down. The Chinese Communist Party has announced a corruption probe into the most high-ranking official to date, looking into unspecified charges against former security chief Zhou Yongkang. From the NYT's Chris Buckley: "Charges against Mr. Zhou could well center on the fortunes made by members of his family, often in sectors once under his sway. An investigation by The New York Times showed that Mr. Zhou’s son, a sister-in-law and his son’s mother-in-law held assets worth some $1 billion, much of it in the oil and gas sector that was Mr. Zhou’s political fiefdom, where he could shape decisions and promotions."   Russia In Violation Of Missile Treaty. The U.S. declared Russia had transgressed a Reagan-era arms treaty by illicitly testing a cruise missile in the past few years. It's not exactly clear what the consequences of the violation will be. U.S. President Barack Obama "has determined that the United States will not retaliate against the Russians by violating the treaty and deploying its own prohibited medium-range system, officials said," The New York Times' Michael Gordon reported. "So the responses might include deploying sea- and air-launched cruise missiles, which would be an allowable under the accord." Goldman: Consumer Spending Trends Are Plateauing. In a new note tweeted by CNBC's Carl Quintanilla, the bank downgrades Wal-Mart to neutral, saying consumers are shying away from everything-store types like the Bentonville-based giant, and Target, in favor of e-commerce. Goldman also says: "We expect consumer spending trends to plateau at or near current levels as our discretionary cash flow measure essentially holds its recent clip." Morgan Stanley Wage Hike. Bloomberg reports Morgan Stanley is raising junior bankers' salaries 25% to improve working conditions. They've also introduced time-management guidelines. "Morgan Stanley’s move is intended to aid younger employees with their cash flow amid higher bonus deferrals since the financial crisis, said one of the people," Michael Moore and Leslie Picker write. "The salary increases won’t necessarily mean a similar jump in bonuses. Wall Street firms have been cutting hours for junior bankers as they seek to prevent defections to rivals such as private-equity funds. Investment banks including Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America Corp. have sought to improve working conditions for junior employees by encouraging them to take time off on weekends." BP Falls. Shares were down 1.2% pre-market after the British oil giant's profit climbed year-over-year but off from the prior quarter. They also warned they could yet be affected by sanctions against Russia. They own a 19.75% stake in Rosneft. Second-quarter profits hit $3.64 billion versus a $3.42 billion forecast. Merck, Pfizer Climb. The drug giants were up 1% after topping earnings forecasts. Merck's adjusted earnings came in at $0.85/share versus $0.81/share expected, and revenue hit $10.93 billion versus $10.59 billion expected. Pfizer came in at $0.58/share versus $0.57 expected on revenues of $12.77 billion versus a $12.47 billion forecast.  Aetna Surges. The insurance provider was up 5% pre-market after reporting record revenues that topped forecasts and announcing record membership. Receipts came in at $14.49 billion.   Data. At 9 a.m. we get the latest Case-Shiller home price index reading. Consensus is for a month-over-month gain of 0.4%. Then at 10 a.m. we get Conference Board Consumer Confidence — expectations are for a reading of 85.5, up from 85.2 prior.  Earnings. Before the bell: Aetna, BP, Deutsche Bank, Honda, Merck, New York Times, Pfizer, UBS, UPS, and Wynn. After: AmEx, Buffalo Wild Wings, Marriott, and Twitter. Markets. Stocks are up around the world. European markets are up with Britain's FTSE, France's CAC, and Germany's DAX each up 0.3%. Japan's Nikkei gained 0.5%. U.S. futures are marginally higher. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets up are around the world. Stocks are nicely in the green halfway through the European trading session. Britain's FTSE is up 0.3%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.3% Germany's DAX is up 0.3%. There isn't much going on in Europe. Banking behemoths UBS and Deutsche Bank both announced quarter financial results that were stronger than expected. However, both booked hundreds of millions of dollars worth of charges in anticipation of future legal costs. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.5% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng gained 0.8%. During Asia's trading session, we saw some cracks in the Japanese economy. The unemployment rate unexpectedly ticked up to 3.7% in June; economists were forecasting 3.5%. Retail sales during the period fell 0.6%; economists were expecting a 0.5% decline. "Abenomics is stuttering, as the consumption tax increase bites and real incomes are eroded by rising prices," said Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. "Abenomics" is the ambitious three-part economic experiment Japan embarked on a year and a half ago. Intended to stimulate economic growth and inflation, Abenomics includes aggressive monetary and fiscal policy. However, a recent consumption tax hike intended to offset some of the costs of Abenomics is taking its toll. In the U.S., Dow futures are up 35 points and S&amp;P futures are up 3 points. FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgOne of London's most recognizable landmarks, the Gherkin, has been put up for sale and is expected to be snapped up by an overseas buyer. The 40-story City of London skyscraper was put into receivership in April, and the agents appointed to sell it are hoping for offers in the region of £600m to £650m. Savills and Deloitte Real Estate have been jointly instructed to sell the 505,000 square foot (46,900 square meter) office building, which was designed by Lord Foster and opened in 2004. The two firms said marketing of the Gherkin – including an advertising campaign and a dedicated website – was about to begin, "with interest expected to come from all corners of the globe." Built at St Mary Axe on the site of the Baltic Exchange shipping market, which was badly damaged by an IRA bomb attack in 1992, the Gherkin quickly became a London landmark, featuring in TV programs and films. Perhaps its most prominent role came in the 2006 erotic thriller Basic Instinct 2, in which the building doubled up as the office of a criminal psychiatrist. The building currently has about 20 tenants, including the insurer Swiss Re, which originally owned the building, and is also used as a wedding venue. Stephen Down, head of central London investment at Savills, said several parties had already registered their interest, and he added that he anticipated they would be looking to close the deal by the end of September or the beginning of October. He said the building had been well looked after: "It's in very good order." Potential buyers could include a sovereign wealth fund from the Middle East or Asia, or perhaps a large pension fund or private equity house. Deloitte, which was appointed to take control of the tower, previously said that the Gherkin's co-owners – a Mayfair-based investment bank and a German property investor, IVG Immobilien – had run into problems related to currency issues, rather than any difficulties with the wider property market. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThere are numerous measures of corporate profits. The National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA), which cover GDP, also include profits data on a pre-tax and after-tax basis. The NIPA data also show profits as reported to the IRS and on a cash flow basis, i.e., from “current production.” Of course, both tend to follow the trend in nominal GDP. Since 1960, profits and GDP have fluctuated around a long-term uptrend line growing at a 7% compounded annual rate. S&amp;P 500 earnings tend to fluctuate between long-term growth uptrend lines of 5% and 7%. That’s especially the case for actual four-quarter trailing earnings on both a reported and operating basis. Forward earnings tends to fluctuate around the 7% trend line. During 2009 and 2010, it rebounded back to this uptrend line following a steep drop in 2008. Since early 2011, it has been tracking the 7% uptrend line closely. In recent weeks, it’s been showing signs of faster growth. As long as the economy continues to grow, forward earnings should continue to provide a good tailwind for the stock market. S&amp;P 500 forward earnings tends to be a good leading indicator of actual operating earnings over the coming year when the economy is growing. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Earnings Tuesday. (1) Earnings are still growing. (2) Another setup for positive earnings surprises. (3) All measures of profits on uptrends. (4) The magic long-term growth number is 7%. (5) Earnings providing tailwind for stock market. (6) Revenue estimates rising for S&amp;P 500. (7) Broad-based upturn in revenues and earnings for the 10 sectors. (8) IT outperforming, while consumer sectors underperforming so far this year. (9) Financials are cheap. (10) Still recommending overweighting in Financials, Health Care, Industrials, and IT sectors. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannSwiss bank UBS CEO Sergio ErmottiZURICH (Reuters) - UBS booked a 254 million Swiss franc ($280.79 million) charge in the second quarter mainly to settle claims it helped wealthy Germans to dodge taxes, the latest in a string of lawsuits that have targeted its private banking business. The Zurich-based lender's offices in Germany were searched last year as part of an investigation of 750 cases involving foundations, a probe sparked by a CD with details of UBS clients that was purchased by the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). UBS, which faces a separate probe in Germany and similar probes in Belgium and France, said it aims to have all of its German clients come clean by year-end, from more than 95 percent currently. "The future outflow of resources in respect of such matters cannot be determined with certainty based on currently available information, and accordingly may ultimately prove to be substantially greater (or may be less) than the provision that we have recognized," the bank wrote in its second-quarter report. The bank on Tuesday reported a quarterly net profit of 792 million Swiss francs from 690 million francs a year earlier, when results were marred by an $885 million settlement with the U.S. housing regulator over the mis-selling of mortgage-backed bonds. The result beat expectations in an analyst poll conducted by Reuters, which averaged 774 million francs. The settlement comes less than a week after a 15-month French inquiry into UBS escalated, with the bank put under formal investigation on allegations it laundered the proceeds of tax evasion. UBS was also ordered to stump up a 1.1 billion euro ($1.48 billion) guarantee payment, which it called "unprecedented and unwarranted" and will appeal.     Switzerland effectively ended Swiss banking secrecy in May by agreeing to join other countries in sharing tax information once the method of sharing is established as an international standard.     Meanwhile, Swiss banks have spent years attempting to clear their accounts of undeclared accounts under massive international crackdowns on tax evaders in Switzerland.     The legal problems overshadow a nearly two-year-old overhaul to shrink UBS' investment bank, abandoning riskier activities in its bond trading arm to focus on its more stable private bank.          The ultimate goal of its restructuring drive is bigger dividends. UBS aims to return at least half of its profits to shareholders if it can maintain capital - which stands at 13.5 percent under new global rules - at or above current levels through to the end of 2014 and achieve a ratio of 10 percent when applying its own stress tests.     Profit at its private bank plunged 43 percent on the cost of the German settlement, and a key margin on assets also edged lower.         The unit, which is measured by its ability to win fresh funds from new and existing clients, took in 10.7 billion francs in net new money.      In its outlook, the bank said global and fiscal tensions as well as a summer lull would weigh on market conditions, but didn't elaborate.         The tax probes are only one of UBS' legal worries: it is among a handful of large banks that global regulators are investigating over alleged rigging in the $5 trillion-a-day foreign currency market. In March, UBS said it had widened an internal probe of forex to include precious metals trading.     In the U.S., authorities are probing UBS for criminal fraud after a former broker in Puerto Rico allegedly directed clients to improperly borrow money to buy mutual funds that later plunged, Reuters reported last month.     The Swiss bank was fined $780 million for helping wealthy U.S. citizens avoid taxes in 2009.     As of Monday, shares in UBS had fallen by almost 2 percent so far in 2014, outperforming cross-town rival Credit Suisse, which was down 6.7 percent on the year, but lagging a 1.1 percent rise in an index of European banks.      Credit Suisse last week posted its biggest loss since the financial crisis in 2008, the result of a 1.6 billion franc fine from U.S. authorities for helping its clients evade taxes.     Smaller competitor Julius Baer posted a higher-than-expected rise in first-half profit.    ($1 = 0.9043 Swiss Francs) ($1 = 0.7447 Euros)(This version of the story corrects the currency for German settlement to Swiss francs, from euros, in headline and first paragraph.)              (Reporting by Katharina Bart and Joshua Franklin) FREE AppDownload
Chris Jackson/Getty ImagesBusiness Insider is expanding in the U.K.! We're opening a newsroom in London this summer, with a focus on finance, tech, and politics. We are hiring at all levels, from an editor-in-chief to editors, reporters, and paid interns. Successful candidates will get a rare opportunity to be the founding BI U.K. employees tasked with building an exciting new brand from the ground up. Business Insider is the largest business news publication in the U.S. and Australia, as measured by monthly unique visitors. Nearly 50 million people read BI every month globally, which means we're bigger than The Wall Street Journal. Our U.S. company was founded five years ago with four employees; we now employ over 170 people, with about 80 people in the newsroom. We are looking for candidates who read Business Insider regularly, understand our tone and style, and LOVE our content. This is not a traditional journalism job where you will file only two stories a week. We pride ourselves on our mix of original reporting, smart aggregation, and analysis to produce digital stories in a variety of ways: through text, photos, audio, video, charts, GIFs, and social media embeds. We’re looking for editors and reporters who are ambitious, smart, funny, and fast, and who consume huge amounts of digital media. You should be comfortable working on multiple stories per day and building your own audience and personal brand through social media. Please get in touch with Jim Edwards [jedwards@businessinsider.com] if you are interested in applying for a position at Business Insider U.K. Send a link to your CV on LinkedIn, links to five clips and no more than five sentences describing why we should hire you. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA trader points up at a display on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Aetna Inc &lt;AET.N&gt;, the third-largest U.S. health insurer, said on Tuesday that its second-quarter profit rose, helped by the acquisition of Medicare and Medicaid provider Coventry last year. Aetna reported net income of $549 million, or $1.52 per share, up from $536 million, or $1.49 per share, a year earlier. Based on its second quarter, the company raised its 2014 earnings outlook to a range of $6.45 to $6.60 per share from $6.35 to $6.55.   (Reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukCars wait in line at a fuel station of British oil company BP in St. Petersburg, October 18, 2012.LONDON (Reuters) - Oil and gas producer BP reported a sharp rise in second quarter profits on Tuesday but warned that further Western sanctions on Russia could harm its business there and its relationship with Russian state oil company Rosneft. BP said that to date, the sanctions had not had a significant effect on its business in Russia, where it makes about a third of its crude oil output, but that could change. "If further international sanctions are imposed on Rosneft or new sanctions are imposed on Russia or other Russian individuals or entities, this could have a material adverse impact on our relationship with and investment in Rosneft, our business and strategic objectives in Russia and our financial position and results of operations," it said. BP, by far the largest foreign investor in Russia through its 19.75 percent stake in Russian state oil company Rosneft, has repeatedly said it will stand by its investments in Russia since Moscow's intervention in Ukraine, where pro-Russian rebels are fighting government forces in the east of the country. But things could get harder as the European Union weighs a new set of punitive measures against Moscow in response to the downing of a Malaysian airliner in eastern Ukraine. Additional sanctions could include financial restrictions and a ban on exports to Russia of equipment for use by oil and gas producers. BP is not the first to make such a warning. Last week French oil services firm Technip cut margin targets for its onshore/offshore unit for this year and next, citing the possible impact of sanctions on Russia, which it said could interrupt income flows from Yamal LNG in Siberia. For the second quarter, BP said underlying replacement cost profit rose to $3.6 billion, up 36 percent from a year earlier, beating analysts' forecast of $3.49 billion.  Its share of profits from Rosneft topped $1 billion in the quarter, nearly five times higher than a year earlier as a result of "favorable foreign exchange effects" with the Russian rouble. It also received an annual dividend of $690 million from Rosneft in the last two weeks. "This was another successful quarter, delivering both operational progress and robust cash flow," said BP chief executive Bob Dudley, who also sits on the Rosneft board. BP shares were up 0.5 percent at 499.3 pence at 0800 GMT in a flat European oil and gas sector.              HIGHER-MARGIN OUTPUT The robust results were underpinned by good production performance from new and recently started higher-margin upstream projects, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as increased processing of heavy crude oil by the newly modernized refinery at Whiting, Indiana, in the United States. "The company's core competency operating offshore again came to the forefront with production being especially strong in the Gulf of Mexico. Higher crude prices also helped against pretty low market expectations," said Brian Youngberg, senior energy analyst at Saint Louis, Missouri-based investment firm, Edward Jones, which maintained its 'hold' rating on BP shares. Overall, second-quarter production fell 3 percent to 3.1 million barrels of oil equivalent a day. BP's upstream segment reported $4.7 billion underlying pre-tax replacement cost profit, compared with $4.3 billion a year earlier and $4.4 billion in the first quarter of 2014. Total operating cashflow for the first half of 2014 was $16.1 billion, placing it in line with its goal of reaching around $30 billion in cash flow this year. BP maintained its quarterly dividend of 9.75 cents per share. BP has also increased its divestments as part of a sector-wide drive to reduce spending and contain rising costs with the recent sale of its Hugoton gas assets in Texas for $390 million. It has sold $3.4 billion worth of assets since 2013 out of a planned two-year total of $10 billion divestments, in addition to around $40 billion worth of assets already sold to help pay for the Deepwater Horizon spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. Like most of its peers, including Royal Dutch Shell, BP is under heavy pressure from shareholders to boost dividends and tighten its budgets as soaring costs in the oil and gas industry and relatively stable oil prices crimp profitability.              (Additional reporting by Karen Rebelo in Bangalore; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGoldman Sachs sign is seen above floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in the Manhattan borough of New YorkNEW YORK/SYDNEY/LONDON (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc's metals warehousing unit is exploring its first foray into China, and privately held C Steinweg has expanded capacity there, sources said, as a financing scandal in a major Chinese port fuels a scramble for market share. The alleged scam - in which a Chinese trading firm is suspected by local authorities of fraudulently using a single cargo of metal as collateral for multiple loans - has shaken the confidence of banks and merchants in Western metals storage firms that rely on local agents to oversee warehouse operations. It has intensified a battle between new entrants and entrenched rivals in the multi-billion dollar business of securely storing the world's commodities in China, the world's biggest producer and user of base metals. As Goldman ponders a possible move into China, Western warehousing companies already operating there, including Glencore Plc unit Pacorini Metals and Trafigura-owned Impala [TRAFGF.UL], are scrambling to defend their turf. They are looking at ditching local agents in favor of setting up their own domestic operations to oversee warehousing assets directly, seven sources who work for warehousing companies or use them to store their metal said. Detroit-based Metro International Trade Services, a major warehousing company that Goldman bought in 2010, is looking at setting up shop in Shanghai and other bonded locations in the country, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters. "Western banks and other types of financiers want an alternative to what's already there," the source said.   A spokesman for Goldman declined to comment. The possible move comes at a critical time for the bank. It is looking to sell Metro amid pressure from U.S. regulators and lawmakers, who are concerned about Wall Street banks' involvement in the physical commodities market. The investigation by police in the Chinese port city of Qingdao centers on a private metals trading firm, Decheng Mining, and its related companies that allegedly used fake warehouse receipts for about 340,000 tonnes of copper, aluminum and alumina, the key ingredient for making aluminum. Western banks including Standard Chartered, Citigroup Inc, Standard Bank Group, and merchants including Mercuria have disclosed exposure amounting to almost $1 billion. Following the revelations, banks and traders with metal in Qingdao and elsewhere in China have raced to check the metal actually exists, move it into depots considered more secure and protect themselves from potential losses, sources said. With banks facing hefty losses and financing terms in China tightening, it's not clear if these steps by the warehousing industry to repair the damage will be enough to restore confidence in the long term. "This (scandal) is changing the nature of the warehousing business significantly. Using third parties is not a viable model anymore," said a source at a major merchant that has metal stored in China. Steinweg, a 167-year-old Rotterdam-based firm, is looking to expand its vast footprint in China by leasing more sheds in Qingdao, as well as Shanghai and other locations in China, two sources familiar with the move told Reuters. Unlike some rivals, Steinweg carved out a niche in the burgeoning China market by operating and controlling its own depots, rather than using local agents, sources have said. The company leases storage space, often located in free-trade-zones in ports, and has its own staff to monitor the stock itself. More than 100,000 tonnes of copper has already flowed into its sheds from rivals' depots since the scandal broke, one of the sources said. That is equivalent to about one-fifth of all the copper stockpiles estimated to be held in bonded storage in Shanghai, and nearly as much as the London Metal Exchange's global inventories. The company declined to comment on the expansion. It operates in 11 locations in China, according to its website. Goldman's Metro unit would likely copy the Steinweg business model of running and controlling its own sheds if it decides to make a move into China, sources say. For now, Steinweg's model appears to have paid off as skittish banks and merchants pressure warehouse operators to prove there is no chance of their stockpiles getting mixed up with other customers' metal. Other warehouse companies are scrambling to catch up. They include CWT Commodities owned by CWT Ltd, Pacorini Metals, Impala, Henry Bath owned by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, and GKE Corp, which is a unit of Louis Dreyfus Corp [LOUDR.UL]. Sources familiar with their plans said they were either stopping using local firms and hiring their own staff to run their sheds or were considering doing so. JPMorgan is in the process of selling its physical commodities business, including the warehousing unit, to Mercuria. The companies all declined to comment. (Additional reporting by Polly Yam in Hong Kong, editing by Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos of Deutsche Bank AG are seen in TokyoFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank's plan to become "the last man standing" in investment banking in Europe is working, the bank said on Tuesday, reporting a 16 percent year-on-year increase in quarterly pretax income. But the specter of costly litigation and settlements cast a shadow over results, with the bank booking 470 million euros ($631 million) in litigation-related quarterly charges and topping up reserves for future litigation by 22 percent to 2.2 billion euros. Deutsche Bank faces an array of investigations that ranges from allegations of manipulating the Libor benchmark rate to unfairly favoring some investors in so-called dark pools and has already paid more than 5 billion euros over the past two years in settlements and fines. In a new development, Deutsche Bank said it had received requests for information from regulators related to high frequency trading, and that it had been named as a defendant in class action complaints alleging violations of U.S. securities laws related to high frequency trading. With the threat of fines and settlement costs looming, as well as European banking stress tests year, Germany's largest lender raised 8.5 billion euros in June to strengthen its balance sheet. Deutsche Bank has come under heavy fire from U.S. authorities in recent weeks, with regulators slamming the bank for shoddy financial reporting, weak technology and inadequate auditing and oversight, which it is addressing in part by hiring 500 U.S. staff. "There is significant uncertainty as to the timing and size of potential impacts. Accordingly, actual litigation costs for the balance of fiscal year 2014 are unpredictable," Deutsche Bank said in a presentation. TRADING MOTOR Investment banking earnings contributed the lion's share of pretax income of 917 million euros as revenue from Deutsche Bank's important debt trading operations held steady, in sharp contrast with the downturn suffered by its U.S.-based rivals. Investment banks faced a grim second quarter for revenue, hit by subdued client activity, low interest rates and by shrinking and restructuring of their businesses. Deutsche Bank posted 1.8 billion euros in net revenue in its debt trading operations, part of its investment bank, while rivals saw a 9 percent decline on average in the quarter. "For me, the pleasant surprise was debt sales and trading, and the costs line," said Bankhaus Lampe analyst Neil Smith. "Sales and trading were better than I expected, at flat year-on-year, compared with the negative 10-15 (percent) we've seen with some banks year-on-year." Deutsche Bank shares have fallen around 20 percent so far this year versus a 1 percent rise for the STOXX index of European banks. On Tuesday they fell 1.4 percent in early trading compared with a flat performance in the index. Deutsche Bank's common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio rose to 11.5 percent at the end of the quarter following the 8.5 billion euro capital hike in June, which the bank was forced to do as the cost of fines, litigation and restructuring eroded results. Deutsche Bank had been expected to post pretax profit of 590 million euros, according to the average result of a Reuters poll where the 10 sample estimates spanned a wide range from a 694 million euro loss to a 1.1 billion gain. (1 US dollar = 0.7445 euro)   (Reporting by Thomas Atkins and Arno Schuetze; Additional reporting by Jonathan Gould; Editing by Maria Sheahan and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tommy TrenchardMedical staff working with Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF) prepares to bring food to patients kept in an isolation area at the MSF Ebola treatment center in Kailahun on July 20.Good morning! Here's what people will be taking about on Tuesday.  1. The Obama administration on Monday accused Russia of testing a ground-launched missile, a violation of the 1987 nuclear treaty signed by Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev toward the end of the Cold War. The New York Times reports that "prospects for resolving the violation [are] uncertain at best." 2. The United States and Europe agreed to escalate sanctions against Russia for its continued involvement in Ukraine. The new measures will hit Russia's financial, military, and energy sectors. 3. Liberia has closed most of its border crossings in an effort to contain the worst outbreak ever of Ebola in West Africa. Lagos, the largest city in Nigeria, shut down a hospital and placed its airports on "red alert" after a Liberian man who arrived in the city by plane died from the highly contagious virus.   4. After three weeks of fighting in Gaza, Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned that the country should prepare for a long war against Hamas. The Israeli military said the worst is yet to come in phone messages to Gaza militants, according to The Australian. On Tuesday, the Israeli military hit a fuel tank at the Gaza's strip's only power plant, forcing the facility to shut down.  5. A judge cleared the way on Monday for the $2 billion sale of the Los Angeles Clippers, despite objections from the team's co-owner Donald Sterling, who was barred for life from the National Basketball Association for racist remarks. Sterling's estranged wife, Shelly Sterling, was given authority to sell the team to former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer. 6. A federal court has ruled that Virgina's ban on gay marriage is unconstitutional. The Los Angeles Times reports that "same-sex marriage is legal in 19 states and the District of Columbia, and every remaining state ban faces a court challenge." 7. The Federal Aviation Administration has proposed a $12 million fine against Southwest Airlines for flouting safety regulations related to repairs on several of the airline's Boeing 737 jets, The New York Times reports. The airline has 30 days to respond to the government fine, The Times said.  8. Panasonic reportedly plans to invest up to $5 billion in electric automaker Tesla's first lithium-ion battery plant, or Gigafactory. The deal was first reported by Japan's Nikkei.  9. A new study from the Urban Institute shows that more than one-third of Americans are delinquent on debt, meaning a person's bills are so overdue that his or her account has been turned over to collections.  10. The Australian weather agency said that the threat of a strong El Nino event this spring is less likely than originally predicted. The El Nino phenomenon occurs every two to seven years when Pacific ocean temperatures are warmer than normal.  And finally... A North Korean summer camp is opening its doors to foreigners for the first time, the Associated Press reports. The camp, complete with water slides, volleyball courts, and giant statues of the country's past leaders, is a place where kids spend "eight days cooking, swimming, boating, and mingling with their North Korean peers," the AP said.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past a homeless man in Buenos Aires'financial districtBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Factory owner Norberto Garcia was poised to launch a series of new toys this year after grafting hard for the past decade to rebuild his business following Argentina's 2001-2002 economic crash and debt default. Instead, he's hunkering down for a possible second default this Thursday, cutting investment plans and scaling back his targets. "We had plans to launch 11 new products. Now we are going to release just three," Garcia, 70, told Reuters inside a cavernous warehouse piled high with boxes of dolls, balls and plastic rabbits. "We would rather keep the money to support the company's structure as it is." Rather than sink 2.8 million pesos ($342,200) into expanding production lines, he plans to cap the investment at 1.8 million pesos. Garcia's wait-and-see attitude is typical of other businesses who anticipate a slowdown in sales in a country grappling with a surging inflation rate but are convinced any economic downturn will be moderate. While unsettling, the debt crisis today is a far cry from the turmoil of Argentina's $100 billion default in 2002, and Garcia is optimistic things will ultimately improve. "What we lived through in 2001 was catastrophic. The anguish was terrible, we didn't know what to do," said Garcia, whose Turby Toy SA had to shut down its machines, offload most staff and sell real estate at knockdown prices to weather the storm. Desperate to halt a massive run on the banks and a collapse of the financial system, the authorities froze bank accounts and devalued the peso. More than two dozen people were killed in bloody protests. Argentina's record default sent shockwaves through global capital markets and millions of Argentines lost their jobs as the economy collapsed. Garcia says that he shut himself in his bedroom for three days, dejected, until his wife kicked him out of the room. "I can't measure how much we lost in pesos. What we lost was the dream," Garcia said. Time is running out for Argentina to pay "holdout" investors suing Latin America's No. 3 economy for full payment on their bonds, or reach a deal that buys more time to avert a default. Argentina said on Monday that officials would travel to New York for last-gasp negotiations on Tuesday but experts increasingly believe the government in Buenos Aires may calculate that a default would be cheaper than settling. The latter, it argues, would risk legal claims from holders of exchanged bonds that could cost hundreds of billions of dollars. How much pain a new default would inflict depends on how quickly Argentina could extricate itself from the mess. "The possibility of default, the exchange rate and inflation, it's like a bomb," said Miguel Rizzo, director of an import company that supplies Argentina's leading utility firms. But the executive said he had limited means to counter the risks. Rizzo was stockpiling what he could, in particular cables, as an insurance against a possible devaluation of the peso, but tough restrictions cap how much he can bring into the country. Capital controls also make it difficult to buy dollars to hedge his risk. The threat of a default combined with an ailing peso means foreign suppliers are increasingly worried Argentine firms will fail to make payments and as a result they are imposing very difficult terms. "All big deals are being canceled because of this default that may happen," Rizzo said. Tough-talking President Cristina Fernandez calls the holdout investors she is battling "vultures". She has not flinched in public from her stance that they agree to the large writedowns accepted by more than 90 percent of creditors in 2005 and 2010. If Argentina defaults this Thursday it will be over a matter of principle. This time around, the government is still solvent. It was not the case in 2001-2002. For months, protesters fought street battles with anti-riot police, turning downtown Buenos Aires' retail and financial zones into a battleground with police firing rubber bullets from the backs of motor bikes. Banks were boarded up as desperate Argentines fought to rescue their savings. President Fernando De la Rua quit and fled the palace by helicopter to escape the baying mob. After the default, the government devalued the peso and seized U.S. dollars held in commercial bank accounts, exchanging them for pesos. Rizzo watched helplessly as the firm's dollar holdings evaporated overnight. "We lost almost everything," Rizzo said. Today, the only sign of protest is a smattering of posters on the odd street corner. They set vultures against the U.S. flag running slogans like "Buitres contra Patria" or "Vultures versus Fatherland." Instead, the most common heard complaint is sky-rocketing consumer prices. Weary Argentines are swift to point out that the grains-led economy lurches from one crisis to another more or less every 10 years. One of the world's highest inflation rates, fueled by a dearth of hard currency in the economy and a steep decline in the peso, has eroded the purchasing power of Argentines. Private economists estimate the inflation rate could hit 40 percent this year. That, more than the threat of default, is changing spending patterns. "I have cut out unnecessary spending," said 47-year-old accountant Carlos Panero. "I don't travel to the beach on weekends and I try to buy non-perishable goods." While some Argentines are grabbing deals offered in superstores and stashing their purchases wherever possible, including their car trunks, there is no panic buying. Nor is there a scramble to get money out of banks. Panero was lucky in 2001. His distrust for banks meant he hid his dollars elsewhere, clung onto his savings and was able to buy an apartment after the prices of property in dollar terms fell sharply. Like others, Panero is resigned to Argentina having to muddle through even longer without access to global debt markets if Fernandez and the holdouts dig their heels in. "This will mean less investment, fewer jobs, fewer dollars coming into the country, so the government may tighten further capital and import controls," said the father of two. Even so, there are signs the populist Fernandez could get a ratings bounce. A poll published last week by Poliarquia Consultores showed 47 percent of Argentines believed Fernandez's government was dealing with the holdouts in a "positive" way, compared with 38 percent a month earlier. Only one in four considered the crisis was being handled in a "negative" way. Fernandez' leftist rhetoric may be striking a chord with those Argentines who benefit from generous government subsidies and social welfare payments. Argentina's economy rebounded after the 2002 crisis, driven by lucrative agricultural commodity exports and printing of new money to help spur domestic consumption. But demand for shrinks surged too. "It was a traumatic situation, 2001," said practicing psychologist Cristina Gartland. "Now the situation is different. People are more confident because they have jobs, the poor have social plans, workers have more rights. In therapy, patients may talk about the economy, but their focus is on their personal lives."($1 = 8.1825 Argentine Pesos) (Reporting by Eliana Raszewski and Richard Lough; Editing by Simon Gardner and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
