FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJon Corzine's son Jeffrey, 31, took his own life, according to a family spokesman. Earlier today, Page Six broke the story that former N.J. Governor and MF Global CEO Jon Corzine's son had died. He had most recently been working as a drug counselor in California. His body was found in a Mexico City hotel. Here is the full statement emailed to BI from a spokesman for the Corzine family: The Corzine family expresses its sincere appreciation for the kind thoughts and expressions of sympathy they have received from friends and many others.  The family is planning a small, private memorial service, and they ask that people respect their privacy during this difficult time as they mourn the loss of Jeffrey. The sad fact is that Jeffrey Corzine had been suffering from severe depression for several years and recently had been receiving treatment for what is a very painful and debilitating physical and mental ailment.  On Tuesday morning, he succumbed to his disease and made the tragic decision to take his own life.  Among many things, the Corzine family hopes Jeffrey will be remembered for his dedication to helping others overcome their struggles with depression and addiction, something to which he had been devoted for the past ten years. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTemple of Bliss, a Buddhist temple in Harbin.During the National People's Congress, China's policymakers announced that it would target 7.5% GDP growth target for 2014. This is down from 7.7% growth in 2013, and the recent data shows that the economy is clearly off to a slower start to the year. Before we launch into the data, it's important to remember that part of the slowdown is intended by China's policymakers as they try to clamp down on lax lending standards and rebalance the economy toward domestic demand driven growth. But it isn't clear just how much control they are able to exercise over this slowdown. Here's a look at the recent slowdown in charts. First, we got the disappointing manufacturing PMI data. The official number fell to an eight-month low of 50.2 in February, while the unofficial HSBC number reflected contraction, falling to a seven-month low of 48.5. What was striking was the broad based-nature of the decline with most of the sub-indices of the PMI report falling last month. Societe GeneraleExports plunged by 18.1% in February. Many economists blamed the Lunar New Year holiday and the higher base created from over-invoicing last year for the stunning decline. Adjusted for this "fake" trade data, exports were nevertheless up a modest 5% in the Jan-Feb period. Looking at Feb alone, if we excluded exports to Hong Kong "so as to adjust for the over-invoicing problem last year, export growth would still have been a meager 2.4%," Societe Generale's Wei Yao said. Standard Chartered Consumer and producer price inflation cooled in February. Consumer prices declined to 2.0%, from 2.5% in January. Meanwhile, producer prices were -2% in February from -1.6% the previous month. Cooling CPI gives the central bank room to easy policy. But producer prices have been down for two years now, and this is raising concerns about deflation. Societe Generale New bank loans fell to 645 billion yuan in February missing expectations and falling from 1.32 trillion yuan the previous month. Total social financing also missed expectations, falling to 939 billion yuan from 2.58 trillion yuan the previous month. Some economists do expect this data to pick up going forward. But Societe Generale's Wei Yao notes that so far the credit slowdown was "mostly responding to higher interbank rates, as intended by the PBoC." Here on out Yao expects it to be from "regulatory tightening of the Document 107," which is intended to clamp down on shadow banking. BAMLIndustrial production growth slowed to 8.6% in the Jan-Feb period, from 9.7% in December, the lowest reading since April 2009. BAMLYear-to-date fixed asset investment (FAI) growth slowed to 17.9% in the Jan-Feb period, down from 19.6% in December. The real drag came from production capacity and manufacturing investment. BAMLRetail sales slowed to 11.8% growth in the Jan-Feb period, from 13.6% in December. This has largely been attributed to crackdown on corruption and some argue that many consumers now shop online and that isn't reflected in the data. Mamta Badkar/Business InsiderProperty sales slowed in the Jan-Feb period as well. New home sales in floor-space terms were up 1.2% in the Jan-Feb period, down from 7.2% in Q4 2013. And in value terms were down 5%, from 13.1% in Q4 2013. New home starts growth were down 29.6% on the year. Property sales are often considered a key gauge for China's commodity demand. UBS And of course copper prices fell to four-year lows on concerns of both a Chinese economic slowdown and about fears over China's copper-backed loans. Remember, a credit crunch sends money market rates higher. And at times like this, copper imports rise because companies use copper as collateral to obtain loans. Goldman Sachs (via Trach Research) Bank of America's proprietary leading economic activity pulse (LEAP) index slowed to 4.2% in February. This is down from 6% the previous month, and 10% in December. BAML cut its 2014 growth forecast to 7.2% from 7.6%. Bank of America Merrill Lynch This chart from Jeff Gundlach takes a longer view and shows the declining consensus GDP forecasts on China. Gundlach expects forecasts for 2014 to continue falling. DoubleLine Funds "With this set of weak readings in Jan-Feb, the room for data to be worse in March and coming months could be limited. Based on some high-frequency data like daily steel production, we have seen some improvement in activity from late February and we expect a turnaround in March data," writes Bank of America's Ting Lu. But he's part of the group of economists that have started downgrading their GDP forecasts. Societe Generale's Wei Yao isn't quite as optimistic and writes that this is just "the start of China's weak data season." FREE AppDownload
Asian markets are in the red on Friday.  This follows on the back of a sell-off in the U.S. and disappointing data from China confirmed fears of an economic slowdown. This prompted many economists to cut their China GDP forecasts. Mounting tensions between Ukraine and Russia also weighed on the markets.  "Investors are unwinding their long positions in the Nikkei and short positions in the yen," Kyoya Okazawa at BNP Paribas told Reuters. This five-day chart shows Friday's stunning sell-off: YahooFinance FREE AppDownload
In December, I wrote about a dozen exciting business books that debut this year. In the past three months, readers have asked what’s coming next. After reading a series of gems, and hearing the buzz about others, here are the spring and summer arrivals that I’m eagerly awaiting: 1. A More Beautiful Question by Warren Berger (March 4) Most people believe that great leaders, innovators, entrepreneurs, and activists are distinguished by their ability to give compelling answers. This profound book shatters that assumption, showing that the more vital skill is asking the right questions. Berger, a journalist, explains how innovative companies like Google, Netflix, IDEO, and Airbnb have nurtured a culture of inquiry, and what parents and teachers can do to ignite curiosity in children instead of stifling it. He also poses many fascinating questions, including this one: what if companies had mission questions rather than mission statements? This is a book everyone ought to read—without question. 2. The Promise of a Pencil by Adam Braun (March 18) He had an Ivy League degree and a coveted consulting job at Bain, but something was missing from Adam Braun’s life. At age 24, with $25, he started a non-profit. Fast-forward five years, and Pencils of Promise has built more than 200 schools worldwide. Braun’s journey is a playbook for aspiring social entrepreneurs, offering a vision for uniting business and philanthropy around a “for-purpose” mission powered by social media. 3. Flash Boys by Michael Lewis (March 31) The revered author who brought us Moneyball, Liar’s Poker, The Big Short, and The Blind Side has turned his sights back on Wall Street. Details are being closely guarded, but it’s safe to predict that it will be an electrifying read that no gambler would bet against. 4. The Purpose Economy by Aaron Hurst (April 2) This book captures a tectonic shift in the global economy that has local consequences for all of us. Hurst, a pioneer and visionary leader in social innovation, makes a case that meaning makes the world go ‘round. 5. Creativity, Inc. by Ed Catmull and Amy Wallace (April 8) How do individuals and organizations produce extraordinarily novel ideas, and keep doing it over time? For the first time, Academy Award winner Catmull-- the co-founder and president of Pixar-- teams up with journalist Walker to take us behind the scenes of the creative process that gave rise to hits like Toy Story and Finding Nemo, and revitalized Disney Animation to bring us Tangled and Frozen. There's no one on the planet who knows more about what blocks innovation and how to unleash it, and I can't wait to read this book. 6. Essentialism by Greg McKeown (April 15) This bookholds the keys to solving one of the great puzzles of life: how can we do less but accomplish more? It’s a timely read for anyone who feels overcommitted, overloaded, or overworked—in other words, everyone. It has already changed the way that I think about my own priorities, and if more leaders embraced his philosophy, our jobs and our lives would be less stressful and more productive. I’d say more, but that would violate the discipline of the essentialist. 7. Speaker, Leader, Champion by Jeremey Donovan and Ryan Avery (April 18) It’s one thing to appreciate a powerful speech. It’s another thing to design and deliver that speech yourself. This engaging, actionable readdemystifies what makes a presentation extraordinary. The authors know their stuff: Donovan is a marketing executive for a billion-dollar company who conquered public speaking anxiety to become a talented orator, and Avery is an Emmy-winning journalist and the 2012 World Champion of Public Speaking—the youngest ever, at the ripe old age of 25. 8. Cubed by Nikil Saval (April 22) It’s billed as a secret history of the workplace, unraveling why our offices look the way they do and how so many people came to work in cubicles. This is the first book by Naval, the editor of a literary magazine. Although there are plenty of reasons to take a look, one in particular caught my eye: it promises to illuminate the forces that set the stage for Dilbert andThe Office. 9. The Key by Lynda Gratton (June 6) Can companies solve some of the world’s most vexing problems? Gratton, an authority on leadership and professor at London Business School, offers a new approach to leadership competencies and development. She examines how leaders can build organizational structures and cultures that support broader communities, yielding a fresh understanding of how to scale impact and innovate for good. 10. Supersurvivors by David Feldman and Lee Kravetz (June 24) In the wake of tragedy, instead of being broken, some people bounce back to their former glory. We call this resilience, and we think of it as the ideal response to adversity. But it’s not. From the forefront of psychological science, counseling experts Feldman and Kravetz reveal how some people actually bounce forward: they emerge from illnesses, accidents, and traumas better than they were before. With extraordinary stories of people whose suffering opened the door to success, coupled with the latest evidence on post-traumatic growth, this is a rare book that both enlightens and inspires. I couldn’t put it down—it’s a blockbuster that leaders, parents, doctors, teachers, students, coaches, and caregivers need to read. I have only one complaint: it’s a tragedy that readers have to wait until the summer. 11. The Alliance by Reid Hoffman, Ben Casnocha, and Chris Yeh (July 8) In a world dominated by mobility rather than lifetime employment, leaders and employees are struggling with questions of commitment and loyalty. This book presents a framework for a new talent pact, one that allows employees to develop their skills and careers while making meaningful contributions to their employers. The authors bring a wealth of experience to bear on the topic, ranging from founding and chairing LinkedIn to writing multiple bestselling books to advising and investing in dozens of successful startups. I expect this book to have a transformational impact on how leaders and managers approach talent, and how we navigate about our relationships with our employers. If I could rewrite my December list, I would add a quartet of terrific books that launched in the past two months: 12. The Second Machine Age by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee (January 20) This book was the talk of the 2014 World Economic Forum in Davos. A pair of MIT thought leaders explain how digital technologies are fueling exponential growth that will change fields as diverse as medicine, retail, and transportation—and what it means for education, collaboration, and policy. 13. Mindwise by Nicholas Epley (February 11) Do you think you’re pretty good at knowing what others are thinking, feeling, craving, and planning? Think again. This intriguing book from a prolific social psychologist at the University of Chicago covers why we fail at mind reading and lie detection, and how to improve. 14. The Up Side of Down by Megan McArdle (February 11) There's a forgotten secret to success: failure. This gracefully written, carefully researched book offers a critical message. In a world that’s obsessed with perfection, journalist McArdle shows that our accomplishments depend on whether we can make mistakes and learn from them. 15. Young Money by Kevin Roose (February 18) Follow eight entry-level investment bankers for three years, and you’ll see a whole new side of Wall Street. Roose, a journalist who left Brown to spend a semester at America’s largest Christian fundamentalist university for his previous book, deftly narrates the hazing, burnout, bonuses, and addictions of the financial sector. Along with being entertaining and startling, it’s sparking serious dialogue and helping to pave the way for change on Wall Street. *** Adam Grant is a Wharton professor and the author of Give and Take, a New York Times bestseller that was named one of the best books of 2013 by Amazon, Apple, the Financial Times, and the Wall Street Journal. It comes out in paperback this month. Follow him here by clicking the yellow FOLLOW above and on Twitter @AdamMGrant This article originally appeared at LinkedIn.  Copyright 2014. Follow LinkedIn on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDovi Frances sold the record-breaking life insurance policy.A "well-known" U.S. billionaire has purchased the most expensive single-life-insurance policy in the world, according to Guinness World Records.  The life insurance policy the billionaire purchased is valued at $201 million.  Guinness World Records didn't reveal the billionaire's identity, but they did provide a couple clues. The billionaire lives in Silicon Valley and they're "actively known in the technology space." (That still doesn't really narrow it down.) The record-breaking life insurance policy was sold by Dovi Frances, a managing partner of Santa Barbara-based SG LLC — a firm that advises high-net-worth clients on their complex financial needs. Putting together the policy required more than two dozen insurance companies, he said in a statement. "Bringing this transaction together required negotiating concurrently with over two dozen insurance companies and complex underwriting requests from each insurance company." The previous record holding life insurance policy was $100 million. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAugustus. The reign of Augustus initiated an era of relative peace known as the Pax Romana (The Roman Peace).Below is an interview we did for our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter with Sebastien Galy, a senior forex strategist at Société Générale, on some of the big stories affecting global markets. BUSINESS INSIDER: Is there a single most important exchange rate to be watching right now in terms of gauging the prospects for the global economy? SEBASTIEN GALY: The Australian dollar is a good proxy for the Chinese slowdown as Australia provides much of China's base metals. It rose sharply with the rapid rise of Asia since 2002, and has since 2013 come under significant pressure as it adjusts to the new normal of weaker growth in Asia. BI: The People's Bank of China has been moving to shake investors out of carry trades designed to make money on a rising renminbi. Are there any other key markets where the fate of the carry trade should be watched closely? SG: Concerns that the internal carry trade may come undone and fears about the future may create some demand for gold, especially given geopolitical stress — both in Asia and Eurasia. BI: The February nonfarm payrolls report revealed signs of acceleration in wage growth. Meanwhile, food prices are surging. Are markets properly priced, in your view, for rising inflation? SG: The cyclical improvement in the U.S. matters far more than a seasonal effect on food. Tightness in the labour market will eventually start to surprise in 2015, while international competition and a stronger U.S. dollar versus emerging markets will constrain wage gains. BI: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? SG: Any way to hedge against a rapid if temporary correction in equities. Currencies as usual offer a cheap way to hedge against such a correction. This can be done with a variety of currencies, from the Japanese yen to the Australian and Canadian dollars. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? SG: The steady deterioration of Pax Americana. As rebalancing of the global economy is happening so slowly, the pain of this adjustment is felt unevenly, and is leading to political consequences one or two years down the road. Editor's note: This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Wednesday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox each morning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Mdzinarishvili An armed man patrols at the airport in Simferopol, Crimea February 28, 2014. A group of armed men in military uniforms have seized the main regional airport in Simferopol, Crimea, Interfax news agency said early on Friday. FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Reasons Investors Aren't Freaking Out About Ukraine (iShares Blog)  Ukraine related market concerns didn't last too long but that doesn't mean the events there don't matter to markets, writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. There are two reasons that markets shirked off tensions in Ukraine. 1. "Significant liquidity from the Federal Reserve (Fed), along with the Bank of Japan, has suppressed market volatility in much of  the developed world."    Koesterich points out that volatility has been low since 2012. 2. Since the financial crisis, most volatility has been tied to economic policy in Europe and the U.S. as compared to geopolitics.  Koesterich thinks it would take a "significant escalation in violence," or a clear impact on markets for investors to start panicking about Ukraine. "However, with the Fed set to continue tapering, volatility may revert back to a more normal range," writes Koesterich. "For a sign of when this may happen: watch the bond guys." Five Reasons Concerns About Retiring Baby Boomers Causing A Bust In Stock Market Returns Are Overblown (Vanguard) It is often argued that as baby boomers retire stock prices will be pushed down. But Vanguard points to five reasons these concerns are overblown.  1. Baby boomers aren't going to retire at the same time. "The baby boomer generation spans nearly 20 years, so any stock sales should be gradual."2. "Boomers' share of stock market is similar to prior generations. No equity downturn has been linked to historical retirement transitions."3. "Boomers' wealth is highly concentrated. Close to 90% of equities are concentrated among the richest 10% of the generation. Wealthier investors won't need to sell for short-term needs."4. More foreign investors have stepped into the U.S. stock market. Any selling pressure by boomers is likely to be dampened by the growing base of global investors."5. "There is no significant relationship between proportion of U.S. retirees and stock returns." Two Brokers, Advisory Firm, And Others Charged In $80 Million Annuity Scam (SEC)  The SEC has charged Michael A. Horowitz, Moshe Marc Cohen, an advisory firm, and others in a "variable annuities scheme to profit from the imminent deaths of terminally ill patients in nursing homes and hospice care," according to a press release. A variable annuity, is an insurance contract in which the insurance company makes periodic payments and which also has a death benefit. It is also tax-deferred.  The SEC alleges that Horowitz found a way to exploit these benefits. The regulator alleges that Horowitz recruited others to obtain information about terminally ill patients in southern California and Chicago and "sold variable annuities contracts with death benefit and bonus credit features to wealthy investors," expecting that these patients would die soon. "He designated the patients as annuitants whose death would trigger a benefit payout.  Horowitz marketed these annuities as opportunities for investors to reap short-term investment gains.  When the annuitants died, the investors collected death benefit payouts," according to the press release.  The SEC is still pursuing charges against Horowitz and Cohen but received $4.5 million in settlements from others involved. Darla Mercado at Investment News put the scam at $80 million. Hedge Fund Clients Offer A Huge Opportunity For Advisors (The Wall Street Journal)  Spence Whitman, managing director at Stephens Inc's Charoltte branch lists top portfolio manager and founders at hedge funds among his clients. Whitman thinks there's a tremendous opportunity for advisors with such clients. 80% of their net worth is typically invested in the hedge fund and its the remainder that advisors target.  "We think we can add value on short-term municipal bonds, precious metals, and other asset classes that they don't use on a daily basis," he writes in a new WSJ column. "With this money they are looking for some kind of absolute return without a lot of risk. We want to be able to hit the button and get the money back in three days. We don't purchase real estate or alternative investments, just the most liquid of securities." Whitman does warn though that these clients have certain restrictions imposed on them by their funds. This Chart Shows How Much More Wall Street Made Last Year Than All Of America's 1 Million Minimum Wage Workers (Business Insider) New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli's latest report showed that securities industry workers in New York City earned $27 billion in bonuses in 2013. That was more than the $16 billion, the total earnings of all the full-time minimum wage workers in the U.S. combined. The securities industry had 165,200 workers in New York city, which compares to the 1.08 million full-time minimum wage workers in all of America last year. NCES.ed.gov FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee, JPMorgan Chase's chief U.S. equity strategist, is leaving the firm, reports Bloomberg's Hugh Son. Lee is popular for his generally bullish calls on the stock market. With a 2,075 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500, Lee is the most bullish strategist followed by Business Insider. While often the target of the market's naysayers, Lee has nevertheless been on the right side of the bull market since it began back in 2009. Lee actually appeared on CNBC's Squawk Box earlier today, reiterating his bullish call and answering questions about the bubble-like characteristics of the market. "These are things we can't ignore," Lee told CNBC. "You don't want to have a market that becomes speculatively frothy. The most important thing for us [are] the signs of a recession. ... Really we should focus on the fact that we're in a bull market." According to CNBC's Kate Kelly, Lee will be taking time off and he has no immediate plans for what he'll do next. FREE AppDownload
You’ve probably read that applications to MBA programs have been trending down in recent years. So you might think it’s slightly easier to get into a ranked business school. Forget it. A new analysis of application volume and acceptance rates at the top 50 U.S. business schools shows that at the vast majority of MBA programs, applications are up and acceptance rates are predictably down. This past year it was tougher to get into a highly ranked business school than it was the year before. In fact, the more ambitious your target schools were, the more likely it was that you faced more competition than you would have if you applied in 2012. Eight of the top ten schools were harder to get into in 2013 than in 2012. The only Top 10 exceptions–and the increase in the acceptance rate for these two exceptions was so small as to be inconsequential–were Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of Business and UC-Berkeley’s Haas School. At Tuck, the admit rate climbed ever so slightly to 20.8% from 20.4%, while at Haas, the acceptance rate inched higher to 14.3% from 13.8%. At the University of Chicago’s Booth School, MIT Sloan, and Columbia Business School, acceptance rates fell significantly. Booth went to 21.0%, from 23.0%; MIT to 13.1%, from 15.6%, and Columbia to 18.1% from 20.8%. Some of the biggest changes, however, occurred outside the Top 10. The University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business, for example, saw its acceptance rate fall to 33.7% from 40.6% in 2012. The latter number was something of an aberration for Ross caused when the school decided to shut down its co-signer loan program for international students. Ross decided to admit more candidates to offset the expected decline in offers from prospective students who decided not to go to Michigan because of the loan issue. The schools with the lowest acceptance rates? Stanford, where 93 out of every 100 applicants gets dinged; Harvard, which turns down 89 of every 100 candidates; MIT Sloan, which rejects 87 of every 100; Berkeley, which says ‘no’ to 86 out of 100 candidates; NYU Stern, which turns away 84 of every 100, and Columbia Business School, which passed on 82 out of every 100 prospects. The trend is obvious: MBA candidates love to study on the West or the East Coasts, in the San Francisco Bay Area, Boston, or New York City. It doesn’t hurt that all these schools are among the very best in the world. All told, 30 of the Top 50 schools reported lower admit rates, while 20 had increases, generally just a fraction or two above what they had reported in 2012. There was no major falloff at any of the Top 50 schools–at least not discernible by examining year-over-year data. When it came to application volume, the same story held true. The vast majority of Top 50 schools–33 full-time MBA programs–reported receiving more applications in 2013 than they had in 2012. Generally, the highest ranked schools did better. Nine out of the Top 10 MBA programs reported application increases, with the only exception being Duke University’s Fuqua School. But even at Duke the decrease was inconsequential: 3,150 applications in 2013 versus 3,161 applications in 2012–a difference of only 11 applicants. The more highly ranked MBA programs also reported the largest single increases: Chicago Booth was up 10.6% in a single year, Northwestern Kellogg was up 9.9%, while MIT Sloan saw a 9.6% jump in applications. To see the acceptance rates and application numbers for all Top 50 schools, check out PoetsandQuants.com: Acceptance Rates At The Top 50 U.S. Business Schools This article originally appeared at LinkedIn.  Copyright 2014. Follow LinkedIn on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Big Wall Street bonuses are heading back towards all-time highs after plummeting during the financial crisis, but household incomes are not. The New York State Comptroller's office recently released estimates for 2013 bonuses for securities industry employees in New York City. The report also includes data on Wall Street bonuses going back to 1985. We compared those bonuses to median household income, with both series adjusted for inflation: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz There are a couple big things in this chart. Average Wall Street bonuses have exploded, reaching a height of nearly $218,000 in 2006 — seven times larger than the average bonus of $29,800 in 1985. After the 2008 crash, bonuses were halved, but in the last couple years they have started to recover. This also shows the extreme volatility of Wall Street bonuses. The Comptroller's Office data shows how one year, bonuses might fall 20% and then jump 50% the next year. Meanwhile, real household income has not moved around nearly as much, staying in the neighborhood of about $50,000 to $56,000 2012 dollars. Zeroing in on the recent data shows how dramatically households were hit in the crash, without any of the recovery seen on the street: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Household income fell from a post-crash peak of about $55,600 to about $51,000 in 2012 — an 8% drop — declining in each year from 2008 to 2012. FREE AppDownload
muramatsub/FlickrThe kitchen at Per SeThree-star Michelin restaurant Per Se's recent "grade pending" rating shocked the restaurant community. After racking up enough points to earn it a "C" from the Department of Health (DOH), many called for New York City's restaurant rating system to be revamped, and not for the first time. To put Per Se's "C" grade in perspective, that would mean the well-regarded restaurant had to rack up 28 or more violation points (it actually earned 42). Restaurants with a "B" rating have 14 to 27 violation points, and "A"s are typically between 0 and 13 health code violation points. A "violation point" is not the same thing as a violation. A public heath hazard (like not keeping food at the right temperature) will earn a restaurant a minimum of seven points. A critical violation (like serving unwashed raw food) carries a minimum of five points, and general violations, for small things like not properly sanitizing cooking utensils, usually receive at least two points. The purpose of the grades — to help diners make informed choices and create an incentive for restaurants to stay clean — do seem to be working. In the 18 months after their implementation in July 2010, salmonella rates fell 14%, and many customers say they take a restaurant's grade into account before eating there. But there are three major reasons why health inspections are flawed and need to be fixed. A restaurant's grade is not wholly based on the quality of its food and the cleanliness of its kitchen. There are hundreds of points that can be taken away from a restaurant for issues like having a "non-food contact surface improperly constructed" (huh?) to "food not labeled in accordance with HACCP plan." More importantly, how strictly these specific rules are enforced (or noticed) on any given inspection varies by each individual health inspector. muramatsub/FlickrInside the kitchen at Per Se.Per Se employees were shocked to learn they had been knocked down 42 points. Speaking with CNN, one employee said, "It seems very strange that something would change that drastically [from the last inspection]." In all likelihood, not much had changed. It may have just been a more vigorous inspector visiting Per Se than the one who had overseen its last inspection. Different health inspectors notice different things, and with hundreds of points at stake, it's not difficult to find enough violations (arbitrary or not) to knock a pristine restaurant down a few pegs. As Grub Street's Hugh Merwin points out: It's difficult to glean...what's really "wrong" in Per Se's kitchen. Someone was eating or smoking or drinking or possibly chewing tobacco somewhere in the kitchen? Was it the presence of a drink, or a drink without a lid that was the issue? Were the kitchen towels soiled, or were they just not being stored in sanitizing solution? Undercooked or under-refrigerated food is the number one violation NYC restaurants typically receive. In the past, officials have claimed this as "a serious issue," linked to cases of salmonella and hospitalizations for food-borne illnesses. But the temperatures enforced by the DOH do not account for all types of food. Certain French foods  — such as certain soft cheeses or terrine, a type of pâté — are meant to be served closer to room temperature for optimal flavor and texture. But going by DOH guidelines, this could cost a restaurant 7 points — just 5 points away from a "B" grade." Does a restaurant follow the rules, or do they try to skirt the guidelines to please customers? levork/FlickrDucks hanging in a window in New York's Chinatown.A similar problem occurred in Chinatown back when the grades went into effect. Neighborhood restaurants were continually cited for hanging ducks in the windows at the "wrong" temperature. The routine was always the same: DOH officials would test the meat and determine it was below 140 degrees, the cooks would refuse to raise the temperature, saying it would dry out the meat, and the ducks would be thrown out, writes Eveline Chao at Open City Magazine. In 2011, the rules changed once a study showed that cooking and preparing the ducks this way was perfectly safe. Chinatown, however, continues to be disproportionally affected by the grading system, as are ethnic restaurants including Indian, Korean, Latin American, and African eateries. According to a Huffington Post analysis, 30% of these restaurants received "B" or "C" ratings. That number only gets worse for Pakistani cuisine (54% below an "A") and Bangladeshi food (58% of restaurants scored below an "A"). It should be also noted that the Health Department FAQ sheets are only in English, Spanish, Korean, and Chinese. Traditional Japanese sushi restaurants, where chefs commonly use their bare hands to prepare fish, are also susceptible. At a city council meeting in March 2012, a sushi restaurant owner described a health department inspection that led the inspector "to dump a slab of 'maguro' tuna costing about $10,000 (about 800,000 yen) into the garbage can and cover it with bleach," according to to The Asahi Shimbun. Chefs across the city are being forced to choose between their culture, their customers, and their "A" rating. Revenues generated from restaurant fines climbed from $31.2 million in 2008 to $45.6 million in 2011, just as the average number of annual restaurant inspections has risen from 1.4 in 2009 to 3.8 in 2013. As Josh Grukin wrote for CNN's Eatocracy blog: If one of the city’s stated objectives behind the grades is to provide an incentive for restaurants to clean it up, then the strategy has failed...However, if this is simply a new way to raise more revenue at the expense of one of the city’s premier industries, then the city is doing very well indeed. @sinderelly/TwitterOne New York restaurant tried to hide its "B" grade as "Sunday Brunch."84% of the city's restaurants currently have an "A" rating, but that does not mean they earned it immediately. A recent analysis published by City and State found that while most restaurants ultimately receive an “A,” most of the inspections generated an average “B” grade. It was only after requesting re-inspections from the DOH that restaurants boosted their scores to a coveted “A.” In the meantime, they must pay hefty fines for their violations: an "A" rated restaurant can pay up to $800 annually, "B" graded eateries typically pay between $2,800-$4,200 in fines and additional inspections, and a restaurant with a "C" will pay a staggering $6,000-10,000 per year, according to Open City Magazine. This hurts smaller mom and pop restaurants that may not be able to afford the cost of the fines, the loss in customers from their lower grade, or the necessary architectural adjustments — such as a new bathroom or a new work station — that may be necessary to transform their establishment into an "A" rated restaurant. Ultimately, Per Se will not be hurt by its current "grade pending" (or the $5,000 it owes the DOH) as it waits to battle its violations in the Oath Tribunal. Customers will continue to visit the restaurant, and trust its reputation. But for other restaurants in the city, these grades and fines will continue to penalize smaller, ethnic restaurants on an arbitrary basis, and are in need of a major overhaul. FREE AppDownload
The EPA has lifted the ban on BP's ability to bid for federal contracts, Bloomberg reports.  The ban has been in place since Nov. 2012, the result of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon blowout in the Gulf of Mexico, in which 11 people were killed. BP pled to manslaughter charges and paid a $4.5 billion fine. The contracts, many with the Defense Department, have been worth billions in the past. The company will now again be able to operate in the Gulf.  BP is still virtually at war with the state of Lousiana over how much the firm must pay in broader damages to state residents. It could face up to $18 billion in claims. Shares are up nearly 1% in after-hours trading, following declines of 1.3% during the trading day.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Pew Research Center This chart comes from a new study by Pew Research Center on religious beliefs and morality. "The survey also finds that publics in richer nations tend to place less emphasis on the need to believe in God to have good values than people in poorer countries do," says Pew. "Two countries, however, stand out as clear exceptions to this pattern: the U.S. and China. Americans are much more likely than their economic counterparts to say belief in God is essential to morality, while the Chinese are much less likely to do so." Read more here: Worldwide, Many See Belief in God as Essential to Morality » FREE AppDownload
An investor alert from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) titled "Bitcoin: More Than A Bit Risky" paints the currency as a shady and troubled speculative vehicle ultimately doomed to fail. For example: Bitcoin use is limited to businesses and individuals that are willing to accept bitcoins. If no one accepts bitcoins, bitcoins will become worthless ... Platforms that buy and sell bitcoins can be hacked, and some have failed ... Unlike US banks and credit unions that provide certain guarantees of safety to depositors, there are no such safeguards provided to digital wallets ... In part because of the anonymity Bitcoin offers, it has been used in illegal activity, including drug dealing, money laundering and other forms of illegal commerce. This is just a small portion of the alert, but FINRA's stance is clear: avoid Bitcoin. This is basically what one would expect it to say — Bitcoin is still very volatile and the currency is still in its nascent phases. Brett Stapper of Falcon Global Capital has composed an open letter to FINRA in response, hoping to clarify some confusing issues. He writes: FINRA: My name is Brett Stapper and I am the co-founder and Director of Falcon Global Capital, a new Regulation D private investment fund which trades exclusively in the Bitcoin markets. I was very pleased to read your report issued yesterday advising investors to be cautious when investing in bitcoin. While Bitcoin is a new and exciting market, it has been subject to massive fraud in the past and that will certainly be the case for the future, as with any industry. It is important for investors to understand the difference between Bitcoin the technology, bitcoin the currency, and, Bitcoin companies. Bitcoin is a technology that bitcoin the currency is built on. Bitcoin companies simply operate within this set of protocols. Just like the internet isn’t to blame when a website is fraudulent, it is not fair or logical to blame Bitcoin the technology or bitcoin the currency when a private company operates unethically. Now, more than ever it is important for investors to remain cautious when investing in Bitcoin or Bitcoin related companies. It is also the time for Bitcoin companies to step up and separate themselves from the companies with fraudulent intentions. This can be done by simply educating consumers and potential users with what to watch for. Our company, as well as many others, are taking great steps in order to do this. I was hoping for the opportunity to provide consumers a list of questions they should ask prior to investing or using any Bitcoin companies or services. A sample of this list, could be as follows. 1. Where is the company based? 2. Are they a legally registered corporation? 3. Do they allow clients to see their Bitcoin wallet holdings? ( With the Bitcoin network, it is possible to view the actual balance of a Bitcoin account. Many companies are now displaying this to customers. Instead of logging onto a website and being told you have 10 bitcoins, you can view it on the Blockchain and see for yourself) 4. If it is an investment company, are they registered with the SEC? (This can be searched on the Sec.gov website) 5. Do they have 3rd party auditors in place? 6. Does the company list who the owners and executive staff or just simply ‘contact us’ page? 7. Does the company store the Bitcoins in a ‘Hot Wallet’ or ‘Cold Wallet’ (Hot wallets which are held online are much more susceptible to theft.) 8. What security measures are in place with account security and withdrawals? 9. Do they contract reputable 3rd party auditors to review accounts? 10. Do they open-source the non-private parts of their codebase? 11. Do they write any cryptography or just implement it? Do they do implement it in standard or custom ways? At Falcon Global, We have taken the necessary measures to be as transparent as possible. Our Bitcoin wallet address will be available to publicly display our holdings, we have our Regulation D fund submitted with the SEC and are listed on their website, and, we have a globally recognised auditor which will be auditing our accounts on an annual basis. These are just three of the many steps we have taken in order to separate ourselves from the others and we hope that many other Bitcoin companies will do the same. While slightly off topic, I would like point out it was recently estimated that over $500 million in Bitcoin has been stolen since 2010. While this is a shockingly and disappointingly high amount, it’s important to point out that annually in the US, merchants lose over 190 billion dollars per year due to fraud mainly in the form of chargebacks and identify theft. Consumers, lose almost 5 billion. In December of 2013, 40 million credit card numbers were stolen from major retailer Target. With how Bitcoin works, this would not be possible. Payments are simply made from one user to the other (consumers or merchant) without the need to provide this information and have it held by a 3rd party (Target in this case). If those 40 million had paid target with a system like Bitcoin, this would have never occurred. Bitcoin is one of the most exciting and innovative inventions we have seen in since the internet. It’s technology can truly revolutionize many industries that have long needed to be updated. The only way this can ever happen is if responsible steps are taken by companies, consumers, and, most importantly the regulators. We live in a world of fraud, and the only way to beat it is with education and prevention. I would like to offer my services to FINRA in creating a report which can outline detailed steps that consumers can take in order to avoid fraud in Bitcoin. While doing this alone might be difficult as personally, I still have much to learn about Bitcoin, the Bitcoin community stands very strong together and I am confident we could quickly assemble a team of Bitcoin experts to assist. I would be more than happy to help in any way possible to make this happen. Stapper has made similar points before. If Gmail goes down, we don't panic at "The End Of Email." Similarly, when Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy, it shouldn't signal the "end" of Bitcoin. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ William Thomas CainJon Corzine accompanied by son JeffJeffrey "Jeff" Corzine, the son of former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine who ran Goldman Sachs and later MF Global, has died, the New York Post reports. He was 31. The cause of death isn't known at this time, the report said.  “Mr. Corzine is obviously devastated by this tragic loss. We ask that all respect his family’s privacy during this very difficult time," a spokesperson for Corzine said in a statement.  In 2007, Corzine was nearly killed in a car accident on the Garden State Parkway. Jeff was seen accompanying his father throughout his recovery.  Jeff was the youngest of Corzine's three children. He's survived by his two older siblings — Jennifer and Josh. Corzine divorced Jeff's mother, Joanne, in 2003.  According to the Post, Jeff worked as a drug counselor in California. He was also a talented photographer and apparently a talented poker player, too. In 2012, Jeff won Warren Buffett's annual private NetJet's poker tournament in Las Vegas.  Jeff studied at NYU, his Facebook page shows. He attended Pomfret School in Connecticut.  Getty Images Getty Images AP Images Reuters/ Tim Shaffer FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's has rejected activist investor Daniel Loeb's nominations to its board, Bloomberg News reports. Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, nominated himself and two others—Harry J. Wilson and Olivier Rez.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiTrading resumed with a flourish in the S&P 500 pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, October 26, 1998.Stocks had a pretty nice sell-off today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
    Many men wear cologne in the workplace or out on the town, but they often don't know how to wear it. How much to put on? And, where do you put it? We went to visit the experts at Bloomingdale's in Manhattan to get some answers. FREE AppDownload
Global markets have taken a sharp turn lower after starting on a positive note this morning. The S&amp;P 500 index is down 1.3%, trading at 1844 — 2.1% below the all-time high set last Friday. U.S. Treasuries are rallying hard, sending the yield on the 10-year note to 2.65%, eight basis points below Wednesday's closing levels. "The ignition of the Russia/Ukraine situation has created the bid," said Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets, in an emailed note to clients shortly after noon. "Massive short covering in the last hour after yesterday's real money buying." The release of mixed February U.S. retail sales data at 8:30 AM ET this morning caused Treasuries to drop briefly, sending yields slightly higher. The U.S. dollar strengthened a bit against the euro and the Japanese yen as well. However, these moves were completely erased two hours later, and the dollar is now down 1.1% against the yen, trading around ¥101.60. European indices closed deep in the red across the board. The German DAX took the worst of it, falling 1.9%. Peripheral government bond yields in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Greece are rising. Russia's MICEX equity index closed down 2%, and yields on local-currency government debt rose in Thursday trading. The Russian ruble is losing ground against the dollar. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
NCES.ed.gov New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli released his annual report on securities industry compensation in new York City Wednesday and the results show just how large the divide is between Wall Street and Main Street. Based on DiNapoli's findings, securities industry workers in New York City earned more in bonuses last year than the total earnings of all the full-time minimum wage workers in the United States combined. The graph above shows just how much bigger Wall Street's bonus pile was than minimum wage earnings.  According to DiNapoli, the bonus pool for Wall Street workers was $27 billion in 2013. DiNapoli said, as of December of last year, the securities industry employed 165,200 workers in New York City. That's 12.6% fewer workers than there were before the 2008 financial crisis. On average, DiNapoli said Wall Streeters in New York City earned a bonus of $164,530 last year. This was the highest average bonus since the crisis and the third highest on record.  Sarah Anderson, the director of the Institute for Policy Studies' Global Economy Project, subsequently pointed out this $27 billion bonus pool paid to securities industry workers in New York City in 2013 was larger than the total amount earned by all of the country's 1,085,000 full-time minimum wage workers last year. In fact, Business Insider's calculations show the Wall Street bonus pool was approximately 65% larger than the total earnings of America's full-time minimum-wage workers in 2013. Assuming each of those full-time minimum-wage earners worked a standard 40-hour week, the total amount they were paid was $16.3618 billion. That's more than $10.6 billion less than DiNapoli said was in the Wall Street bonus pool just for workers inside the five boroughs. DiNapoli said average data on Wall Street salaries in 2013 is not yet available. However, the average salary including bonuses paid to securities industry workers in New York City in 2012 was $360,700. DiNapoli noted this was 5.2 times greater than the average salary paid to the rest of New York State's private sector workers in 2012, which was $69,200.  DiNapoli's bonus estimates included cash bonuses for the current year as well as deferred compensation from prior years. He noted bonuses now include a larger share of deferred compensation as a result of compensation reforms enacted following the financial crisis.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe Financial Times is reporting that Barclays is planning cuts thousands of investment banking jobs.  According to the FT, the cuts will come as part of an overhaul of the firm's investment bank. The FT is calling it a "radical overhaul." That plan is expected to be revealed before the summer, the report said.  Barclays and its investors recently clashed over the decision to increase bonus pay for its bankers. Barclays' CEO Antony Jenkins, who did not accept a bonus for last year, explained to the Telegraph last week that they increased the bonus pay in a move to retain talent. He said if they didn't the bank would face a "death spiral" as employees and clients would go elsewhere.  Read the full report at the FT » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
btckeychainDespite its well-publicized troubles, including volatile and plunging currency values, the trendy new form of payment known as Bitcoin has a growing allure for many businesses, both online and in the real world. The cool factor as well as the cash factor – the absence of transaction fees – are the main reasons for a move into what the casual observer might consider a risky form of money. Two recent Bitcoin exchange failures and the death of a Bitcoin CEO have thrown a pall over Bitcoin in the minds of many. In particular, new businesses whose profit margins are often razor-thin in their debut years are thrilled at having an option to avoid the 3 percent fees they must pay to credit card companies, on average. And if they can be seen riding the hottest new pop culture wave while they do it, so much the better. “We are trying to be innovators,” says David Daneshgar, co-founder of the Los Angeles-based Bloom Nation, a new online floral business that connects buyers directly with the local florists who will deliver the arrangements. “We want to be progressive and change the way people buy flowers, and using Bitcoin is part of that change,” he adds. Tapping into the Bitcoin community has had some surprise benefits, Mr. Daneshgar says. “If you follow the discussion threads on the online Bitcoin forums, you see how supportive they are of businesses that accept Bitcoin,” he says. He and his partner saw that almost immediately after adopting Bitcoin into their payment options, visitors to their website who actually bought flowers nearly doubled. Bitcoin shoppers “come to the site already prepared to buy because they want to support us,” he says, in contrast with many who are just comparison shopping. “It’s a perfect fit for us,” he says, adding with a laugh, “Who knew Bitcoin users were such romantics?” The commercial embrace of this new payment option is documented in a January report from PricewaterhouseCoopers entitled, “Digital Disruptor, How Bitcoin Is Driving Innovation in Entertainment, Media and Communications.” The survey of 1,000 online shoppers found a 42 percent consumer awareness of the new method. Further, according to the report, consumers are “highly interested in using Bitcoins to download/stream TV shows, movies or music (38 percent) and purchase TV shows, movies or sporting event tickets (39 percent), as well as Internet services (39 percent).” OverstockPayment options on the Overstock.com website.It’s not just small businesses entering the fray. The retail website Overstock.com recently began accepting the digital currency and is currently taking in about $30,000 per day using Bitcoin – about 1 percent of its roughly $3.6 million daily sales, according to TechCrunch. TechCrunch, which is devoted to analyzing start-up technology, estimates that Overstock will push that number to six figures by the 2014 holidays.  In addition, some A-level venture capitalists are funding a number of companies that will raise the level of the game, says Campbell Harvey, a professor of international finance at Duke University in Durham, N.C., who teaches a course in cryptocurrency. Netscape founder and now tech venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, for instance, helped launch Coinbase this past year, with a $25 million round of funding from his VC firm, Andreessen Horowitz, infusing the Bitcoin marketplace with larger resources for developing security protocols, among other goals.    Bitcoin is still a young technology, Professor Harvey says in an e-mail, adding that it has the potential “to be massively disruptive” to the world of payments. As with any young technology, he adds, “there will be some growing pains.” An unregulated currency also appeals to those who say there is too much government involvement in private business, says New Orleans entrepreneur David Crais, co-founder of the New Orleans chapter of Health 2.0, a consortium that helps medical professionals run their businesses. Across the Deep South, where the tea party has strong roots, there is a growing acceptance of Bitcoin “as a way to get the Federal Reserve out of banking,” he says. Many of the doctors he advises across the region who have had a growing number of uninsured cash patients are turning to Bitcoin. It’s not so much a desire to do anything that is a benefit to their own business, he says; rather, “it’s really about being supportive of what Bitcoin can do for their libertarian ideas.” Of course, fundamental to any enthusiasm from businesses is their ability to convert the highly volatile Bitcoin almost immediately into traditional cash. In the case of Bloom Nation, that would mean dollars. “We don’t store the Bitcoin,” Daneshgar says. Bloom Nation uses the exchange company BitPay to make the currency conversion, virtually instantaneously. San Diego firm Robo3DPrinter has been accepting Bitcoin for some three months, though so far has made very few sales with the currency. “We accept bitcoins because it is on the cutting edge right now in technology,” says CEO Braydon Moreno. The fact that it is an intangible virtual currency being accepted by the public as a way to barter and trade goods “without sustaining hefty fees on either side is just very fresh and exciting to us,” he adds. It is old school in its ideals and simplicity, Mr. Moreno says, “but new school in its sophistication,” using technology for trading. For the time being, Moreno says, his firm does not convert Bitcoin immediately to dollars, preferring to store them in online wallets.  The recent failure of MtGox, the largest Bitcoin exchange, did worry him. “If we moved into a much higher volume of sales, we’d probably be exchanging the Bitcoin every day just to make sure we don’t lose value,” he says. FREE AppDownload
AP The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobby in the United States, will oppose President Barack Obama's plans to strengthen overtime pay protections for millions of workers. Obama is set to sign an executive order Thursday directing the Labor Department to raise the threshold for workers covered by overtime protections. The White House said it would affect millions of workers, mostly of low and middle income. In a statement provided to Business Insider, the Chamber's executive director of Labor Law Policy, Marc Freedman, said the proposed rule changes would add a burden to job creation — much like Obama's goal to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10. "Changing the rules for overtime eligibility will, just like increasing the minimum wage, make employees more expensive and will force employers to look for ways to cover these increased costs," Freedman said. "Similar to minimum wage, these changes in overtime rules will fall most harshly on small and medium sized businesses, who are already trying to figure out the impact of Obamacare on them.  We understand that the administration is looking for ways to put more money in people's pockets, but the only way to do this is to grow the economy and create more jobs. Adding more burdens to employers will not accomplish that goal." The Obama administration's argument was laid out Thursday by Betsey Stevenson, a member of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. Stevenson described the 40-hour work week as outdated and noted current regulations keep employees who work 50-60 hours from being paid overtime. One current Labor Department exemption gives companies leeway to prevent overtime pay for workers they deem "executive, administrative, and professional."  Obama's order will change the weekly salary level at which that exemption kicks in,. Current regulations prevent employers from denying time-and-a-half overtime pay to any salaried worker earning less than $455 per week — a level set in 2004. The White House argued that has failed to keep up with the pace of inflation. "There are 3.1 million people who, if the threshold had kept up just with inflation, would automatically be covered by overtime provisions," Stevenson said Wednesday at the White House's daily press briefing. "What we’re going to be doing is, in the weeks and months to come, looking deeply at this problem and making sure that the overtime provisions are working as well as they should in today’s economy." "The president believes that if you’re making $25,000 a year and you’re working 60 hours a week, you should be getting paid for the extra hours you work," she added. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Mike Windle/Getty ImagesDisney's top woman Anne Sweeney announced Tuesday she will leave the company in January after 18 years to follow her dream of becoming a TV director.  While Hollywood was surprised, there's skepticism as to whether there's more to her departure. As Disney Media Network's co-chair and president of Disney/ABC Television Group, Sweeney oversaw both ABC Studios, Disney networks, ABC Family, and the company's stake in Hulu and A&amp;E. The announcement came soon after a report that the Mouse House was in talks to purchase YouTube content producer Maker Studios for $500 million. While Sweeney's combined divisions made $11.9 billion last year, according to The Hollywood Reporter, ABC has fallen to fourth place in the ratings among the big networks. Kirsten Acuna / Business Insider While ABC's "Good Morning America" celebrated beating NBC's "Today" show for 52 consecutive weeks last year, overall the network doesn't have a lot of break out hits right now. "Marvel: Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.," a direct parallel to Marvel's superhero "Avengers" franchise was expected to be a huge win for the network. Despite bringing in 17 million viewers for its premiere, the campy adaptation focusing on a group of secret agents as opposed to superheroes dipped in ratings. After 13 episodes, the series is sitting at under 10 million viewers. After four cancellations this season ("The Assets," "Back in the Game," "Lucky 7," and "Betrayal,") it is currently tied with NBC for the most-axed shows of the 2013-2014 season. Right now, ABC's most popular series are "Modern Family" (avg of 10.2 million viewers) "Shark Tank" (7.2 million), "Dancing with the Stars" (13.7 million), "Scandal" (9 million), and the aging "Grey's Anatomy" (8.7 million) with slowing ratings year after year. That's minuscule when you look at CBS' most-watched shows "The Big Bang Theory" and "NCIS," which receive an average of 18 million and 19 million viewers, respectively.  A look at Nielsen's top primetime TV series of 2013 shows reality series "Dancing with the Stars" has been the most popular series for the network. Nielsen Below are the ABC's five top-rated scripted series right now: Nielsen via TVseriesfinale  Compare those with the ratings for the top five scripted series on CBS, FOX, and NBC. CBS destroys the other networks. Nielsen via TVSeriesFinale Nielsen via TVSeriesFinale Nielsen via TVSeriesFinale The one gem the network currently has is new series "Resurrection," built on the mystery of loved ones returning from the dead years later.  The show received 13.9 million viewers Sunday — ABC's highest ratings since 2009 — on a night where Fox premiered "Cosmos," HBO aired the season finale of "True Detective," and AMC was showing "The Walking Dead." ABC/Bob MahoneyHowever, a good premiere doesn't mean instant success for "Resurrection." ABC has tried dabbling in similar mystery shows while trying to capture the essence of its popular mystery "Lost" which was a popular staple for six seasons. Though shows "V" and "Flashforward" — also with appearances from former "Lost" cast members — debuted to strong starts, ratings tanked when both show's larger plots were revealed. Wikicommons US viewers of "Flashforward" Wikicommons Disney CEO Bob Iger hinted to The Hollywood Reporter that the network could use an influx of more content. "We’d love a few more hits at ABC," said Iger. "There are shows that we’re really proud of, led by 'Scandal,' for instance. And other shows that have come out of the blue like 'Shark Tank.' We have some hits. We’re due."  Whoever takes Sweeney's place will have quite the task on hand. FREE AppDownload
The take away is that as the weather returns to a greater semblance of normalcy, the US economy should be expected to return to trend. Since mid-2009, the US has grown at an average quarterly annualized pace of 2.4%. We acknowledge that there are other factors slowing the world's largest economy in Q1. These include slower inventory growth (after a surge in H2 13), the end of the tax break for new capital investment, and the end of the emergency jobless benefits (direct impact on 1.7 mln Americans), but weather also took a toll. Separately, the US reported a larger than expected decline in weekly initial jobless claims. At 315k, they stand at their lowest level since last November. Continuing claims fell for the third consecutive week. It is also important to note that more reports are coming in better than expected. This represents a change in the pattern seen in January and most of February. This suggests that the market has adjusted its expectations and now appreciates the magnitude of the economic slowdown. The component of retail sales that is used for GDP calculations excludes auto, gasoline and building materials. This measure rose 0.3% after a revised 0.6% decline in January. We also note that February is often the worst or second worst month for retail sales in a given year. The US also reported stronger than expected import prices. The 0.9% increase in February was nearly twice what the consensus expected and the January series was revised to show a 0.4% increase rather than 0.1%. There are some upside risks then to Friday's producer price report that was expected to have risen by 0.2%. Petroleum prices were up 4.4% on the month, and this may point to a wider trade deficit. Capital goods prices were off 0.2%. Imported goods from China rose 0.2% but were still off 0.4% year-over-year. Imports from Japan slipped 0.1% and were 3.2% lower than a year ago. Goods from the EU cost 0.1% more in February and were up 0.7% from a year ago. US export prices rose 0.6% after rising 0.2% in January. On a year-over-year basis, the price of US exports has fallen 1.3%. The FOMC meets next week. There is little doubt that it will continue on the path upon which Bernanke Fed put it. The bar to changing the measured tapering is high. While maintaining the course in the coming months, the FOMC's emphasis will be to reassure household; business and investor concerns that rates will remain low for an extended period.  Triangulating among surveys and various market pricing, the first rate hike is not expected until late Q3 or Q4 2015.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
ReutersSeattle bucked a national trend of declining illicit sex revenue with local spending rising from $50 million in 2003 to $112 million in 2007, according to a report from the Urban Institute. At the same time, the city has seen a big shift in prostitution solicitation from the street to the Internet — both in response to a police crackdown and as part of a shift that is happening around the country. In the words of on Seattle law enforcement official interviewed in the report: "I think that because of the Internet, it's just really exploded. And because it is just hitting now, I mean my wife would never go to Backpage or anything like that, so to her, she would have never known that this went on had she not been married to me, unless you are the hobbyist or the exploiter or the young girl involved in it. And then when people hear about Backpage or Craigslist, people are shocked. I’m like, 'Really you’re shocked?!' I mean, you can buy anything on the Internet!" Cities around the country have seen a spike in Internet-based prostitution because of websites like Backpage and Craigslist, partly because the Internet provides some perceived advantages over street prostitution. Prostitutes tend to make more money online, and pimps believe it's safer to post ads online than to put their girls out on the street. While most street prostitutes have drug problems and work for pimps, more women in Seattle appear to be placing independent ads online to postitute themselves, the report found. The Internet, however, can be a double-edged sword for sex workers, as cops can scour websites like Backpage and Craigslist to root out illegal activity with relatively little manpower. As to why Seattle's underground sex economy is outperforming, a federal law enforcement officer pointed to the local economy: "[T]hey used to say, as Boeing goes, Seattle goes. Boeing’s making record orders. Microsoft’s doing pretty damn well. Costco’s doing very well. Amazon’s doing well. So as a whole, there's a lot of, pretty much all the major Seattle-based companies, those are doing [well]. They will have people who are making good money that are getting paid.” Atlanta's sex economy is also booming. FREE AppDownload
Via FlickrIvy Club, an exclusive eating club at Princeton University, is reportedly part of the 21 Club secret society.A mysterious Princeton University secret society that allegedly forces members to drink 21 beers in 42 minutes is making campus news after members reportedly trashed one of the school's eating clubs this weekend, The Daily Princetonian reports. Called the "21 Club," the secret society reportedly gathers together the heaviest drinkers on campus — 21 juniors and 21 seniors — for at least one annual drinking contest. In a 2009 profile of the group titled "An Elusive Institution," The Princetonian reported that "incoming members participate in a drinking contest in which they consume 21 beers, one every other minute for 42 minutes." Members reportedly represent four of Princeton's oldest and most elite eating clubs — five students each from Cottage Club, Cap and Gown Club, Ivy Club, and Tiger Inn — as well as one independent member. "Most of these people [who receive bids] go out multiple times a week and are completely blacked out, so they're chosen for a reason," one 21 Club member told The Princetonian. This year, the contest was reportedly held at Tiger Inn. However, the space was so badly wrecked — The Princetonian reports that "21 Club members were allegedly 'throwing the place apart' and 'throwing up everywhere'" — that most of Tiger Inn's student leadership has resigned their positions. The Princetonian described the 21 Club's annual drinking contest in depth in their 2009 profile, speaking with "Matthew," an anonymous student member: The members assemble at one of the eating clubs on the morning of the contest, Matthew said, adding that each club provides one or two kegs. "It's a scary thing … We're all sitting there with a big dumpster in the middle, and the older brothers are behind you feeding you beers, and you have to [drink one] every [other] minute, no stopping, and people are yelling at you," Matthew explained. Even before the contest begins, the juniors must each drink seven social beers in addition to the 21 they will later consume. "Keeping it down is not the point," Matthew said, adding that there was a certain sense of apprehension among the new members. "There were only five people per club, and we finished a keg, like, a half-hour in," Matthew said. "They had to go and get another one. That was my first realization: I was, like, 'Oh, sh*t.'" According to Matthew, the eating club of the first person to vomit has to host the contest the following year, an unfortunate responsibility due to the amount of members puking. As The Princetonian reports, "By the end of the contest, Matthew said he had consumed between 30 and 35 beers in just more than an hour. He added that most members puke '20 to 30 times.'" Read more about 21 Club at The Daily Princetonian &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterAn armed man, believed to be a Russian serviceman, stands guard outside an Ukrainian military base in the village of Perevalnoye near the Crimean city of Simferopol March 9, 2014. Shots were fired in Crimea to warn off an unarmed international team of monitors and at a Ukrainian observation plane, as the standoff between occupying Russian forces and besieged Ukrainian troops intensified. Tensions in Ukraine have produced extreme volatility across the spectrum of commodities. Wheat prices have seen the greatest surge, up 6% in the past seven days and 24% since hitting a low in January. Ukraine is the sixth-largest wheat exporter in the world. Corn, of which Ukraine is the world's third-largest exporter, is up 10% over the past 30 days. “Grain traders are still focusing their attention on developments in Crimea,” Carsten Fritsch, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a note, per Bloomberg. “In the event of a yes vote, shipment problems could be the result.” Via Morgan Stanley, here's a chart showing how much heft the region has in the grains trade: Morgan Stanley Meanwhile, the International Air Transport Association predicted higher oil prices in 2014 could blow a $3 billion hole in profits. The agency revised its forecast up to $108 a barrel, $3.50 higher than its previous projection. London-traded Brent has traded as high as $111 this month, though it has since come down to $108. "Recent tensions, including in the Ukraine, have sparked an upward trend," the agency said in a statement, adding, "While a resolution of the situation in the Ukraine is still far from clear, the rise in oil prices is being felt across the industry." Finally, nickel and palladium prices could soar if the U.S. and Europe decide to impose sanctions on Russia, according to TD Securities' Bart Melek. The form of these sanctions matter a great deal to the palladium and nickel markets, as Russia accounts for 42% and 11%, respectively, of global supply. Sanctions could result in the disappearance of a large source of currently needed market supply and that certainly helped to attract investors to both metals last week.  Palladium is up 6.2% over the past 30 days. The Crimea is holding a referendum on whether to separate from Ukraine, although the territory's parliament, which was recently occupied by pro-Russian forces, has already issued a declaration of independence. FREE AppDownload
Paul Tudor Jones in "Trader"If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you, If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, But make allowance for their doubting too; -Rudyard Kipling’s “If” Tom DeMark has been absolutely lambasted since he first proposed his 1929 analog a few months ago. It suggests stocks might be following a similar pattern today as they did back then, ultimately headed for a crash. Even many market watchers I deeply respect have turned the study into a joke on social media. To these folks I’d just like to point them in the direction of Paul Tudor Jones II, one of the most successful hedge fund managers in history. Anyone who has read the original “Market Wizards” should be familiar with his story. It begins, “October 1987 was a devastating month for most investors as the world stock markets witnessed a collapse that rivaled 1929. That same month, the Tudor Futures Fund, managed by Paul Tudor Jones, registered an incredible 62 percent return.” How did he do it? How did he manage to profit so handily from an event nobody saw coming? Jones answers, “our analog model to 1929 had the collapse perfectly nailed. [Paul Jones' analog model, developed by his research director, Peter Borish, super-imposed the 1980s market over the 1920s market. The two markets demonstrated a remarkable degree of correlation. This model was a key tool in Jones' stock index trading during 1987.]” The 1929 analog was the “key” that helped him predict and prepare for the crash. Trader via The Felder Report The documentary, “Trader,” also verifies this account. It was filmed in the months leading up to the 1987 crash. There are many scenes in the film in which Jones and Borish discuss the analog and how it provides the foundation for their daily trading. “At times like this, what gives these two confidence is a theory that says the stock market moves in cycles, in patterns, and Paul and Peter subscribe to the Elliott Wave Theory which says to them what happened 49 years ago, in the late 1920s, is happening again now.” Sadly, Mr. Jones has removed the film from circulation. His reason for doing so is anyone’s guess but witnessing the ridicule that DeMark has suffered recently I can’t blame him. Jones and DeMark are two of the men I respect most in this business. I believe that one of the main reasons behind their success is their ability to, ‘keep their heads and have faith in their own convictions when all about them are losing theirs and doubting them.’ To me, this latest 1929 analog is still valid until the Dow Industrials make a new high. Until then, I’ll take the ridicule as a contrarian sign that Tom is onto something. FREE AppDownload
Russia has been all over the news lately – from the Sochi Winter Olympics to the tension in Crimea, but how well do you really know this country? Impress everyone around the water cooler with these incredible facts, compiled by Markets reporter Mamta Badkar. Produced by Sam Rega. Research by Mamta Badkar. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartAn analyst looks at code in the malware lab of a cyber security defense lab at the Idaho National Laboratory in Idaho Falls, Idaho.Bloomberg Businessweek has come out with a big cover story on the Target data hack, which revealed odd references to Ukraine in the malware code used for the attack. The magazine's reporting revealed Target probably could have prevented the hack if it paid attention to security alerts about malware that hackers installed on the company's system. Another interesting tidbit from the story: One of the passwords in the malware code was Crysis1089, an apparent reference to mass protests in Ukraine in October 1989. There were also other potential references to Ukraine embedded in the code. From Businessweek: The guts of the malware code provided some intriguing leads. One of the passwords was Crysis1089. That happens to be the nickname of an Xbox gamer. (His rank on the Xbox Live global leaderboard as of March 10: 11,450,001.) It also appears to be a reference to the October 1989 date of mass protests that preceded Ukrainian independence and the dissolution of the Soviet Union. There was another name embedded in the exfiltration code: Rescator. The alias, a reference to a pirate in the 1967 French film Indomptable Angélique, belongs to a prolific Ukrainian trafficker in stolen credit card numbers. Rescator operates several online card number sites—cheapdumps.org and Lampeduza.la, to name two—that use the country domains of Laos, Somalia, and the former Soviet Union, among others. Rescator isn’t the only reseller pushing the stolen Target data, but according to Krebs and several other security investigators, he’s the most active, apparently operating with impunity out of the Black Sea port of Odessa. It's unclear whether the hacker Rescator was actually involved in the Target data breach. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotAndreas Antonopoulos is Chief Security Officer of Blockchain.info.The Bitcoin community was nearly unanimous in expressing its displeasure at the controversial Newsweek story purporting to out "Satoshi Nakamoto," the anonymous person who coded and created the famous digital currency. The common critique is that it doesn't matter who's behind Bitcoin, that the technology is so transformative for how money moves around the world that the genie's already out of the proverbial bottle. The identity of the creator has nothing to do with a Bitcoiner's current task at hand — to educate people on Bitcoin and figure out new ways to apply it. Whoever dreamed up Bitcoin certainly seems to want nothing to do with mainstream attention, and that's okay. There are plenty of public-facing people in the Bitcoin world more than happy to play cryptocurrency advocate. Let's skip the speculation over who Satoshi is and instead look to people who are happy to talk about Bitcoin and its implications. FREE AppDownload
Crimea residents are queuing up around the block to withdraw funds as Buzzfeed's Max Seddon reports the territory's new authority plans to appropriate Ukrainian bank branches' assets "for the use of the Crimean budget special fund."   The head of Ukraine's central bank said moving cash in the Crimea has become difficult, according to the Toronto Globe and Mail's Paul Waldie. Seddon says at least one bank is limiting withdrawals to as little as $33, or 320 Ukrainian hryvnia. Here's a photo from ABC's Alexander Marquardt, who says people are not panicking despite the long lines: More long lines at Simferopol branch of #Ukraine's biggest bank, Oshad. #Crimea pic.twitter.com/hkvEzuyiis <U+041A><U+0435><U+0440><U+0447>. <U+0427><U+0435><U+0440><U+0433><U+0438> <U+0432> <U+0431><U+0430><U+043D><U+043A><U+043E><U+043C><U+0430><U+0442><U+0438>, <U+0437><U+043E><U+043A><U+0440><U+0435><U+043C><U+0430> <U+041F><U+0440><U+0438><U+0432><U+0430><U+0442><U+0431><U+0430><U+043D><U+043A><U+0443>.<U+0410> <U+0411><U+0430><U+043D><U+043A> <U+041F><U+0456><U+0432><U+0434><U+0435><U+043D><U+043D><U+0438><U+0439> <U+043E><U+0431><U+043C><U+0435><U+0436><U+0438><U+0432> <U+0437><U+043D><U+044F><U+0442><U+0442><U+044F> <U+0433><U+043E><U+0442><U+0456><U+0432><U+043A><U+0438> <U+0443> 500 <U+0433><U+0440><U+043D> <U+0432> <U+0434><U+0435><U+043D><U+044C> (<U+0444><U+043E><U+0442><U+043E> <U+0406>.<U+0421><U+0435><U+0434><U+043E><U+0432><U+0430>) pic.twitter.com/xviER8qril FREE AppDownload
Lam Yik Fei/Getty ImagesBitcoin has been blowing up the news lately, mostly with bad press stemming from Mt. Gox’s recent collapse. If you’re a business owner who is considering accepting the digital currency, this may be causing heart palpitations. Despite the temporary market unrest, there are huge opportunities for merchants to benefit from accepting bitcoin — I’ve outlined a few below. Credit card fees usually run around 2-3%, which can make a considerable dent in the profits of businesses operating on low margins. With bitcoin, you can pay substantially lower fees (~ 1%) without needing a huge volume of transactions as leverage with the credit card company. And that’s only if you transfer your money back into local currency — if you keep in bitcoin, you can essentially avoid fees altogether. It’s true that as your business scales, you can negotiate lower fees from existing CC companies. But let’s be honest: if you’re an entrepreneur, do you really want to spend your time haggling over a fraction of a percent with a rep in a call center on the other side of the planet? Don’t think so. There’s nothing quaint about it. You’re trying to build a company, and this isn’t a Moroccan spice market. If you’re using a service like PayPal, you’re generally being charged a fixed rate of $0.30 per transaction, plus a percentage transaction fee based on volume. Bitcoin enables peer to peer (or individual to merchant) transactions at a very small scale, making micropayments much more viable than they previously had been, and transactions can be completed for less than half of the cost. Let’s take a simple example in which you have a business with an annual revenue of 1M. Your credit card processor currently charges you 2% per transaction, or $20,000. If you switch to a bitcoin payment processor, say Coinbase or Bitpay, you can get very close to 1%. You just cut your bill in half, and saved $10,000 by essentially doing nothing. I can think of a lot of things I’d like to do with $10,000, and giving it to a credit card company isn’t one of them. If you’re in need of inspiration, here’s a list of particularly fantastic things you can buy for 10k (personally, I think it’s a toss up between the hobbit home and the water thrusting jet bike). There’s no question that bitcoin has been volatile. It still is, and it would be shocking if it weren’t — very few big ideas reach maturity in a span as short as five years. Personally, I view dips in price as opportunities to buy more, but if the possibility that your money could be worth half as much tomorrow keeps you up at night, that’s understandable. The delightful thing is that you needn’t actually hold any of the bitcoin you receive as payment. Most merchants who currently accept it set prices in their local currency and get paid in their local currency. Voilà! Bitcoin operates as the “payment rails” — it’s the medium through which the transaction takes place, but you don’t have to expose yourself to any exchange risk. Bitcoin transactions allow you to expand your markets to basically anywhere, so long as you’re willing to ship there (if you’re selling a physical product. You can accept payments from anywhere. Since there’s no intermediary bank, you don’t have to deal with waiting for ~3 days for the transaction to complete. You can also avoid transfer limits and outrageous fees. As they currently stand, international transactions are a hassle, and there’s a great deal of room for bitcoin to help streamline the process (Timothy Lee of the Washington post wrote a good piece on this). Chargebacks are quite a headache, and dealing with them can sap a considerable amount of time and energy that could be better spent growing your business. Bitcoin transactions are irreversible, which means that you needn’t worry about chargebacks. It’s still early enough in Bitcoin’s adoption that there are press stories to be written about “the first xxx” to accept bitcoin in a given city or town. Free press — Why not? This shouldn’t be your main rationale for taking bitcoin, but it’s something of an added bonus; leverage the exposure to expand your customer base. These shoppers are also likely to be new customers who may be trying your product or service just because they can pay for it with bitcoin, and that’s your chance to hook them in via a great experience. Bitcoin isn’t hard to deal with, and it’s only going to get easier. Please don’t buy into the argument that bitcoin is some complicated, mysterious thing and because you don’t fully understand it, you can’t use it. I would posit that if you polled 1,000 college-educated Americans and asked them to describe in detail how a phone, TV, or refrigerator works, the majority wouldn’t be able to do so. I certainly encourage everyone to become educated on bitcoin before taking the plunge, but a deep technical understanding of cryptographic hashing or how the blockchain works is not necessary. There are a number of companies that are already making it quite easy for you to accept bitcoin. Two that I have used personally, and therefore feel comfortable recommending, are Shopify and Coinbase. If you use Shopify as a platform for your ecommerce sales, integration is a breeze. You can add it just as simply as you would Paypal or Visa. Coinbase is also super simple to integrate, and offers a solid degree of customization. As an added perk, merchants the first $1,000,000 in transactions free of charge. There is a myth in circulation that people tend to save bitcoin as an investment or a form of speculation rather than spending it, but there’s increasing evidence that it’s actually being used as a transactional currency. This is not surprising, because as the number of merchants accepting it grows, people have more opportunities to spend it, which then leads more businesses to accept it, and so on. The bottom lefthand section of the infographic below shows an enormous increase in the number of people who spend bitcoin shortly after acquiring it. People are willing to spend bitcoins <U+200A>—<U+200A> you might as well encourage them to do so at your business. The number of companies offering B2B services build on the Bitcoin protocol is still fairly small, but there’s already a solid core of reputable, safe ones to choose from. As the network effect widens and more people start accepting bitcoin, you’ll be increasingly able to benefit from the new currency, and even today there’s very little downside and a lot of upside to accepting Bitcoin. And after all, don’t you want to go buy that water thrusting jet bike? This article originally appeared at Arianna's Bitcoin Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
(1) I much prefer the CRB raw industrials spot price index, which includes copper and 12 other commodities. Not surprisingly, the price of copper is highly correlated with the CRB index. However, the two have diverged over the past year, with copper down 18% since the start of 2013 while the CRB index barely changed. And it hasn’t dropped along with copper in recent days. That’s encouraging. (2) On the other hand, the recent drop in the price of copper is yet another signal of trouble for emerging markets. Previously, I’ve noted that the CRB index is highly correlated with the Emerging Markets MSCI. Well, the price of copper is even more highly correlated with the EM MSCI. (3) The same can be said for the China MSCI: The price of copper is also highly correlated with this index. Indeed, much of the recent weakness in the copper price is attributable to mounting signs of a slowdown in China, particularly the 24% plunge in the country’s exports during February. As I noted yesterday, much of that drop is likely an aberration related to the Lunar New Year. In addition, copper has often been used as collateral for borrowing money in China. The authorities seem to be clamping down on that practice, which might also explain why copper has been weaker than the CRB index over the past year. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Not So Hot. (1) Agreeable meetings in California. (2) Disagreeable world economy. (3) 1990s all over again? (4) High-Tech Revolution remains US-centric. (5) Stay Home vs. Go Global. (6) Professor Copper is turning bearish. (7) CRB commodity index is holding up. (8) OECD leading indicators still upbeat about US, Europe, and Japan. Downbeat on BRICs. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Businessweek has published a damning cover story on the massive Target hack that compromised the credit and debit card data of 40 million customers last year. Hackers stole the information stored on the magnetic strip on the backs of credit and debit cards, using malware installed in the company's security and payments systems from Nov. 27 to Dec. 15. Bloomberg Businessweek says that six weeks before the hack, Target paid $1.6 million to install a malware detection tool on its systems, which was monitored around the clock by security specialists in Bangalore. When hackers installed malware to extract compromised data on Nov. 30, the security specialists sent an urgent alert to Target's security team in Minneapolis, according to Bloomberg Businessweek. When hackers installed more malware and began extracting data on Dec. 2, Target reportedly received another alert. Yet Target apparently did nothing. Moreover, it reportedly ignored alerts from another antivirus system, and also reportedly had declined to use an option that would have automatically deleted malware as soon as it was detected. The retailer later told Congress that it did not figure out what happened until after the U.S. Department of Justice notified the company about the hack on Dec. 12. In other words, Target was warned that hackers were removing credit card numbers from Target's system and for 12 days straight the company did nothing about it. Target gave this statement to Bloomberg Businessweek: Target was certified as meeting the standard for the payment card industry (PCI) in September 2013. Nonetheless, we suffered a data breach. As a result, we are conducting an end-to-end review of our people, processes and technology to understand our opportunities to improve data security and are committed to learning from this experience. While we are still in the midst of an ongoing investigation, we have already taken significant steps, including beginning the overhaul of our information security structure and the acceleration of our transition to chip-enabled cards. However, as the investigation is not complete, we don’t believe it’s constructive to engage in speculation without the benefit of the final analysis. These kinds of hacks are not new. In 2012, 63 Barnes &amp; Noble stores suffered a data breach in which customer information was stolen. In 2007, discount retailer TJ Maxx learned thieves used its stores' wireless networks to access systems at its headquarters where card data was stored. And hackers installed malware on the internal systems of credit card processor Heartland Payment Systems in 2009 to steal data from 130 million cards. FREE AppDownload
Foursquare/ Charis T. Apollo Global Management, the private equity giant run by billionaire Leon Black, is said to be considering a bid for Dave &amp; Buster's, Bloomberg News' Cristina Alesci and Leslie Patton report.  Dave &amp; Buster's restaurants feature arcade games and alcoholic beverages. Apollo already owns Chuck E. Cheese, a pizza and entertainment restaurant that caters to kids.  The owner of Dave &amp; Buster's wants $1 billion for the restaurant chain, the report said citing unnamed sources familiar.  FREE AppDownload
New Yorkers have been tweeting, instagraming and posting countless photos of a gleaming blue megayacht docked off midtown Manhattan. It's called "Serene." At a staggering 436-feet, with five levels, several swimming pools, two helicopter pads and soaring chrome exhaust pipes at the top, it nearly outshines the Intrepid Museum next door. (Its best amenities are inside: the "underwater viewing room," an indoor climbing wall, children's playroom and cabins for 24 guests and 52 crew, according to the yacht builder.) Anyone doing a quick Google search learns that the owner of Serene is Yuri Scheffler, the vodka-and-spirits magnate behind the Stolichnaya brand. And with the turmoil in Ukraine and Russia, many have also speculated that Serene's sudden presence is a sign of the worried oligarchs—the Putin-connected, Russian super rich who now face a financial backlash from the West for Russia's actions. (Read more: Putin on the Ritz? Russian said to have billions)  But they would be wrong. Scheffler is no Putin oligarch. And he has a surprising perspective on Ukraine. In an email interview, Scheffler said he is in New York on business—hence the boat. Although Scheffler's company, SPI Group, started in Russia, it's now based in Luxembourg. Scheffler is now a British citizen who spends much of his time abroad and hasn't been to Russia in 12 years. (Read more: Every oligarch for himself: Crazy days in Ukraine) Scheffler has publicly battled President Vladimir Putin for years as the Russian government tried to seize the company and "renationalize" its assets. The government even issued a warrant for Scheffler's arrest in 2003 after he refused to hand over the company. So when asked about his views on Ukraine, Scheffler was highly critical of Russia's government.  "If Russia were a democratic country as the USA, with a proper legal system, and Crimea had asked it for help to defend itself from a hostile neighbor, then this would be OK," he wrote in the email. "In the current situation, this is terrible when a country captures a neighbor's territory. I feel sorry for Crimean people ... there are no laws in Russia. There is only one law in Russia, and it's called 'Putin.' Only one justice, called 'Putin'.'' (Read more: My other Lamborghini is a yacht) For Scheffler and his boat, the U.S.—and its rule of law—have truly been a safe harbor. Especially now.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Plug PowerPlug Power shares are going bonkers after the fuel cell machine distributor reported revenues of $8 million versus $5.9 million in the same quarter last year.  That beat the lone estimate from  Cowen, which also just put together a registered offering for the firm, of $7.4 million, according to Marketwatch.  Plug Power also narrowed adjusted losses to $0.08 a share compared with $0.25 a share last year. That was in-line with Cowen's estimate. Plug Power said orders for the 2014 fiscal year have already exceeded $60 million.  Shares were up nearly 22%. Ballard, which supplies Plug Power with the fuel cells themselves, was up nearly 11%. FuelCell Energy, which makes power generation units for locations and institutions out of fuel cells, was up 5%. "I firmly believe that this continuing momentum will carry on throughout 2014, and that orders for this year will total more than $150 million – almost four times our total for 2013," CEO Andy Marsh said in a statement. "We also are on track to achieve our goal of EBITDAS break even by Q3 2014." There remains debate about what is driving demand for Plug Power's machines, the majority of which comprise fork lifts and other vehicles used in warehouses. While some analysts say cheaper natural gas has pulled down the cost of hydrogen (gas is simply a hydrocarbon), Citron Research, an online equity analysis group, says it is merely being fueled by government incentives for renewable resources including fuel cells. Those credits expire in 2016. FREE AppDownload
APEarlier this week, shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac cratered on the announcement that Senate Banking Committee leaders had reached a bipartisan deal to replace the government-sponsored mortgage giants with a new entity. The two stocks — whose dividends go to the Treasury Department and not shareholders — had been a favorite of many hedge fund managers betting that eventually shareholders would win out in court before the government could pass an overhaul. Investors in Fannie and Freddie may be pleased to read this assessment from Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips. He argues that, while the issue is indeed moving forward, reform will not be enacted this year. The key reason, Phillips writes, is that Congress really has no deadline here. Today's members of Congress only really act if they are up against the clock. From the note: There is no hard deadline for action. The main obstacle to reform in the near term is simply that there is no action-forcing event. Almost every major piece of legislation enacted since control of Congress became divided in 2011 has been motivated by a deadline. Since the Treasury's capital agreement with the GSEs is open-ended--and the GSEs are profitable in any case--there is no obvious event that will force Congress to intervene. One potential catalyst for legislative action would be a final ruling on lawsuits brought by GSE shareholders regarding the Treasury's handling of the GSEs over the last few years. A ruling that restored the GSE's ability to retain profits--and eventually repurchase the Treasury's stake in the companies--might prompt Congress to act, but the outlook and timing for any such decision is very unclear. "So while we expect to hear much more about GSE reform over the next few months, we would be surprised to see reform legislation reach the President's desk this year," he concludes. "That said, over the longer term we believe GSE reform has a reasonable chance of enactment." FREE AppDownload
This is one tool you must use in Excel. There is no need to download data to a text file and then import it into your spreadsheet.  With the "Text to Columns" tool you can organize your data right in Excel. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
PiAnyone who remembers middle school geometry knows at least a little bit about Pi, the ratio that allows us to compute the circumference, area, and volume of round things. March 14, or 3/14, is recognized by math geeks as Pi day. That happens every year. But as UBS's Art Cashin notes, next year's Pi day will be a once-in-a-century Pi day. "At 9:26:53 a.m., they can write 3/14/15; 9:26:53, which you should also recall are the first ten digits of Pi in perfect order," said Cashin. We can't wait.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
TBIThe Department of Labor just released its latest weekly tally of initial unemployment insurance claims, and the numbers are encouraging. Claims fell to 315,000 from 324,000 a week ago. Economists estimates claims would ticked up to 330,000. The 4-week moving average fell to 330,500 from 336,750 last week. "Claims data have been volatile dating back to last fall, as factors such as computer system upgrades, seasonal adjustments related to moving holidays, and severe weather all potentially complicated the interpretation of the previously steady downward trend," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. "That being said, the 4wma has settled in around where it was last summer before these factors came into play, suggesting that it may be stabilizing. Continuing claims slipped to 2.855 million from 2.903 million. "The gradual improvement in continuing claims is consistent with recently increased consumer optimism about the state of the labor market, suggesting that more unemployed workers are gradually becoming gainfully employed," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg. FREE AppDownload
Joshua Lott/Getty ImagesFebruary U.S. retail sales data are out. Total sales rose 0.3% from the previous month in February, above expectations for a 0.2% advance. January retail sales growth was revised down to -0.6% from -0.4%. Excluding autos, sales were up 0.3%, above expectations for a 0.1% gain. January ex-autos sales growth was revised down to -0.3% from 0%. Excluding both autos and gasoline, sales were up 0.3%, above expectations for a 0.2% rise. January ex-autos and gas sales growth was revised down to -0.5% from -0.2%. The retail sales control group, a figure that feeds into the calculation of GDP, rose 0.3%, above expectations for a 0.2% gain. Growth in the January control group figure was revised down to -0.6% from -0.3%. "Spending was adjusted lower in every category except for electronics," says Michelle Gerard, chief economist at RBS. "Thus, the performance in February was better, but from a much weaker base than we had thought. We do not think these data will change anyone's views on the state of the consumer. The question is, with the weather beginning to improve, how much of a pickup will be seen in March? Walmart's CFO did indicate at an investor conference last week that sales had improved since mid-February and that the company has had 'very good sales' in recent weeks." The dollar is strengthening against the euro and the yen in the wake of the release, and U.S. Treasury yields are heading higher. Equity futures are unchanged. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA Shell logo is seen at a petrol station in London January 31, 2013.Britain’s most valuable company Royal Dutch Shell plans to cut its upstream spending in America by a fifth and reorganize its operations into smaller “performance units” in its first major shake up since Ben van Beurden took over as chief executive officer at the beginning of the year. In terms of upstream operations in the Americas "Shell is shrinking this portfolio and cost base, with 2014 spending to be reduced by 20 pc compared to 2013, and redirecting onshore investment to the lowest cost gas acreage with the best integration potential, and into on-going exploration in liquids-rich shales,” the company said. Shell is reshaping its business after the company surprised the market at the beginning of the year with a profits warning and revealed a 48pc drop in fourth-quarter earnings to $2.9bn, its worst three-month period for five years. “With sharper accountability in the company, this approach will target growth investment more effectively, focus on areas of the business where performance improvement is most required, and drive asset sales from non-strategic positions,” said van Beurden. The new organizational changes are part of a drive to cut capital spending at the Anglo-Dutch energy giant to $37bn this year, from $46bn in 2013 and prune its portfolio with about $15bn of asset sales. The Telegraph revealed last month that Shell had place three of its ageing operating platforms in the North Sea up for sale after it had raised $2.14bn from the sale of assets in Brazil and offshore Australia. More disposals are expected. “This approach is driving hard choices on today’s asset base, new opportunities, and disposals plans, where we have recently announced exits from Australia and Italy downstream, Wheatstone LNG in Australia, and US gas-to-liquids,” said van Beurden. Transforming its US business will be a key challenge for Shell, which is yet to benefit from the revolution in Shale oil and gas after its main prospect failed to deliver returns. The company is currently selling a 700,000 acre area across Texas and Kansas following a re-evaluation of its US shale assets last year. “I am determined that, by focusing sharply on our three key priorities – better financial performance, in particular in our Upstream Americas and Downstream businesses, enhanced capital efficiency, and continuing strong project delivery, we will continue to grow our cash flow and improve our returns,” said van Beurden. The company also plans to focus on “future opportunities” in some of the world’s richest resource basins in East Africa, Iraq and Kazakhstan after earnings from exploration and production activities last year were impacted “factors such as losses in North America and the security situation in Nigeria.”  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Businessweek has published a cover story  that slams Target for not doing enough to prevent the massive hack of customer data. The hack affected 40 million people who shopped at Target between Black Friday and Dec. 15. Hackers stole the information that's stored on the magnetic strip on the backs of credit and debit cards. They pulled it off by installing malware in the company's security and payments system. Bloomberg's cover story says the hack wasn't "particularly inventive" and that Target was warned about the malware by its security specialists in Bangalore. The company reportedly chose not to act on the warning. Here's the cover, which is interactive within the story: Twitter/@BW The story is pretty damning. From Businessweek: Bloomberg Businessweek spoke to more than 10 former Target employees familiar with the company’s data security operation, as well as eight people with specific knowledge of the hack and its aftermath, including former employees, security researchers, and law enforcement officials. The story they tell is of an alert system, installed to protect the bond between retailer and customer, that worked beautifully. But then, Target stood by as 40 million credit card numbers—and 70 million addresses, phone numbers, and other pieces of personal information—gushed out of its mainframes. Target gave this statement to Businessweek: "Target was certified as meeting the standard for the payment card industry (PCI) in September 2013. Nonetheless, we suffered a data breach. As a result, we are conducting an end-to-end review of our people, processes and technology to understand our opportunities to improve data security and are committed to learning from this experience. While we are still in the midst of an ongoing investigation, we have already taken significant steps, including beginning the overhaul of our information security structure and the acceleration of our transition to chip-enabled cards. However, as the investigation is not complete, we don’t believe it’s constructive to engage in speculation without the benefit of the final analysis." The whole story has great art, which makes the criticism that much more biting: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerEarlier today, China released a slew of weaker-than expected February economic data. Growth in industrial production (+8.6%), retail sales (+11.8%), and fixed asset investment (+17.9) all disappointed. This comes on top of Saturday's stunning trade report that showed China's exports plunged by 18.1%. Seeing enough, Wall Street's economists have begun slashing their forecasts for GDP growth. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu just lowered his full-year GDP growth forecast to 7.2% from 7.6%. "Markets have been quite negative on the Chinese economy in the past months, and will likely respond negatively to today’s weak activity data," warned Lu. Ahead of today's data, the consensus on Wall Street was for 7.5% growth, which was in line with the 7.5% growth goal set by Chinese policymakers earlier this month. Most economists agree that 7.5% is a very lofty goal considering Beijing's efforts to reign in loose credit standards and clamp down on corruption. "New leaders are now facing a critical test: whether they can stabilise the economy, without significantly compromising the progress of lowering debt risks," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao. "We think that they will try to send clear easing signals but continue to refrain from any big stimulus program. Cutting the required reserve ratio is an option, but it is more a gesture than for real impact." "Q1 GDP growth falling below 7.5% is now pretty much certain and something barely above 7% looks quite likely," added Yao. Earlier today, China Premier Li Keqiang was asked about that 7.5% target. "Li skillfully dodged a question on how far Beijing would let economic growth slip before it steps in with policy measures to support activity," reported Reuters' Adam Rose. "Instead, he repeated the government's line that job creation takes precedence over growth." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Umit BektasAn anti-government protester wearing a Guy Fawkes mask gestures behind a barricade that they set on fire during a demonstration in Ankara March 12, 2014. Riot police clashed with demonstrators in several Turkish cities for a second day on Wednesday as mourners buried a teenager wounded in protests last summer, unrest which a defiant Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan cast as a plot against the state. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. More weak China data. Three Chinese economic data releases on Thursday provided more signs of a slowdown in the world's third-largest economy. Fixed asset investment in the year through February rose 17.9% from the same period a year earlier, slowing from January's 19.6% year-over-year growth rate and missing consensus estimates for a 19.4% rise. Industrial production in the year through February rose 8.6% from the same period a year earlier, slowing from January's 9.7% year-over-year growth rate and missing consensus estimates for a 9.5% rise. Finally, retail sales in the year through February rose 11.8% from the same period a year earlier, marking an unexpected slowdown from January's 13.1% year-over-year growth rate and missing consensus estimates for a 13.5% rise. U.S. retail sales in focus. The first big economic data release of the week in the United States is February retail sales data, due out at 8:30 AM ET. The consensus forecast of market economists predicts total sales rose 0.2% in February from the previous month after falling 0.4% in January. Excluding autos, sales are expected to have risen 0.1% in February after remaining unchanged in January. Excluding both autos and gasoline, sales are expected to have advanced 0.1% in February following January's 0.2% decline. RBNZ hikes. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand elected to hike its benchmark policy interest rates by 25 basis points to 2.75%, becoming the first of the central banks in advanced economies to hike rates in the post-crisis era. "The Bank retained language suggesting that New Zealand dollar remains undervalued and Governor Wheeler later reiterated that further appreciation would be a concern," says Todd Elmer, a currency strategist at Citi. "However, the changes to underlying policy limit the degree to which the verbal intervention should be viewed as credible. Since the steps the RBNZ has taken actually increase the ‘intrinsic’ attractiveness of the New Zealand dollar, and have done so well ahead of the turn in the interest rate cycle by other major global central banks, it should come as no surprise that the market has largely ignored the currency comments." Good Australia employment numbers. The change in the number of employed Australians more than tripled estimates in February as 47,300 workers were hired to new jobs, above estimates for a 15,000 rise and January's 18,000 gain. The unemployment rate remained unchanged at 6.0%, as the labor force participation rate unexpectedly rose to 64.8% from 64.6%. Japanese investors shed foreign assets. In the week ended March 7, Japanese investors sold ¥618.5 billion of foreign bonds after unloading ¥759 billion in the previous week, and sold ¥92.2 billion of foreign stocks, up from ¥5.4 billion a week earlier. Foreign investors were sellers of Japanese bonds to the tune of ¥267.1 billion (down from sales of ¥320.6 billion in the previous week), while foreign investors bought ¥383.8 billion of Japanese stocks after selling ¥4.1 billion the week before. Japanese machine orders surge. Japanese machine orders rose 13.4% in in January from the previous month after falling 15.7% in December. Economists had predicted a much smaller, 7.1% advance. The January data brought the year-over-year growth rate in machine orders to 23.6% from 6.7% — handily surpassing expectations for a rise to 18.9%. Markets are quiet. S&amp;P 500 futures are in the green and U.S. Treasury futures are in the red this morning, marking a reversal of the risk-off sentiment that has gripped markets in recent days. The dollar is weaker against both the euro and the yen. Asian indices turned in a mixed performance overnight, and Europe is following suit — London and France are down slightly while Germany, Italy, and Spain are higher. Weekly jobless claims. In addition to retail sales data, weekly U.S. jobless claims figures are also released at 8:30 AM. Economists predict 330,000 people filed new unemployment insurance claims in the week ended March 7, up from 323,000 the week before. Continuing claims are expected to have ticked down to 2.903 million in the week ended February 28 from 2.907 million in the previous week. Second-tier data. U.S. import and export price data round out the trio of 8:30 AM economic data releases. Economists predict import prices rose 0.5% in January from the previous month, accelerating from December's 0.1% advance. Export prices are expected to have risen 0.2% in January, matching December's pace. Out at 10 AM are January business inventories data, which are expected to reveal that inventories rose 0.4% from the previous month after advancing 0.5% in December. Last auction this week. The U.S. Treasury will auction $13 billion of 30-year notes this afternoon at 1 PM ET. Yesterday's auction of 10-year notes was met with robust demand. "The current valuation of the 30-year does not look cheap — either outright or on the curve," say Nomura interest rate strategists. "In addition, any flight-to-quality flows from recent political tensions and China concerns may draw investors away from the long end and into the belly of the curve. However, we still expect a decent bond auction as the bullish momentum around the 10-year auction and any further short covering ahead of next week's Fed meeting could lead to outperformance." FREE AppDownload
One day before the President of Ukraine and the constitutional order of the country were toppled, Georhii Rudko, the chairman of the Ukrainian State Commission for Natural Resources, gave a notable presentation on the future for the oil and gas resources of Ukraine. According to his February 20 presentation, the western regions of Ukraine can contribute little to the future energy supply of the country and aren’t worth fresh investment. That, he said, is because the area is already “ the most long-exploited in Ukraine and the smallest by potential resources and reserves.” In the eastern regions, by contrast, Rudko said considerable reserves of oil and gas remain to be developed if there is fresh money. The area “is the largest in Ukraine by potential resources and reserves. It has 205 fields, 121 of them are being developed (gas – 64, gas condensate – 72, oil – 53). The degree of the initial potential resources realization – 57%.” Rudko presentation, page 14 Both west and east have potential value for unconventional gas production; that’s shale or coal-bed methane gas released by hydraulic fracturing and other methods. The estimated resource was plotted by Rudko on the map like this: Rudko presentation, page 23 But the time required for development, Rudko conceded, is long, the cost high, and the outcome much more uncertain than his recommendation. That is for oil and gas drillers and foreign investors to concentrate on what he calls the “Southern Oil and Gas Region”. On Rudko’s map, the region’s energy riches have already been plotted in the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea. They lie to the north of Kerch; west of Simferopol; and south of Sevastopol. In short, they lie on the seabed within 200 nautical miles of the Crimean shore line. Rudko presentation, page 17 Until now, that is part of the exclusive economic zone of Ukraine, according to the international Law of the Sea. But if Crimea formally votes on March 16 to give up its autonomous republic status in Ukraine and join the Russian Federation, and if the Russian parliament and President Vladimir Putin formally accept, these resources are no longer Ukrainian. They become Russian. The potential, Rudko said, is enormous. The Crimean offshore areas already identified, he said, represent “a third of the undiscovered natural gas resources [of Ukraine] and a fifth of the undiscovered oil resources…including: oil and condensate – 1148 million tons and gas – 3831 billion m3. The development degree of resource potential of the shelf – up to 5%. The most prospective for the search of significant deposits is the deep part of the Black Sea. Its potential recoverable resources reach more than 1000 million tons of coal equivalent (54% of the total Black Sea resources).” On this map, prepared by Ukraine’s state gas company NaftoGaz, there are four deepwater license areas south and south of Crimea, which have already been delineated by Rudko’s natural resources commission. Since 2006 all four – Skifska, Foroska, Prykerchinska, and Tavriya (to use their Ukrainian names) — have been formally offered for bidding by interested investors and oil and gas explorers. NaftoGaz of Ukraine Despite earnest efforts by several governments in Kiev, including the recent Energy Minister, Eduard Stavitsky (December 2012-February 2014), there has been no bidding interest for Foroska or Tavriya. On January 30 Stavitsky announced that the government would be trying again soon. “‘There will be contests on two areas of the Black Sea – Foros and Tavriya. We are in talks with major investors to develop the shallow shelf,’ he added.” Stavitsky has been ousted from his ministry and replaced by Yury Prodan who held the energy portfolio from 2007 to 2010. Stavitsky is not the sanctions listissued by the European Union on March 5. The most important of the four Crimean offshore blocks is Skifska. When Stavitsky announced a tender for the Skifska field, it was reported to hold 200 to 250 billion cubic metres of gas reserves, with an annual production estimate of five billion cubic metres a year. The field starts about 50 kilometres southwest of Sevastopol, and runs up to the Romanian sea border. There it adjoins the Romanian Neptun Deep block, in which ExxonMobil has a 50% working interest. In early 2012, Exxon announced that at a well called Domino-1, about 170 kilometres from the Romanian coast, it had “encountered gas”, according to Exxon’s 2012 Financial and Operating Review, issuedat the start of 2013. “Appraisal activities are progressing with additional drilling anticipated to commence in 2013.” According to ExxonMobil and Ukrainian government announcements, between June and August of 2012, bids for Skifska were collected and assessed. LUKoil of Russia competed against a consortium of ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, OMV Pet rom of Romania, and the Ukrainian state-owned entity, Nadra Ukrainy. The Russian bid was rejected, and ExxonMobil (with a 40% operating stake) was the winner. The ExxonMobil reports have said no more than “we are working with our co-venturers and the Ukrainian government to finalize the Production Sharing Agreement. But almost two years later, no agreement has been signed. A source close to the company says the promised payment for Skifska, a signing bonus of $325 million, won’t be paid until there is a production sharing agreement. The reason that hasn’t been signed is that Exxon and the Ukrainian government have so far been unable to agree on production, investment, tax and royalty terms. The negotiations have continued over the past twelve months, but no money has been spent drilling at sea. The only data available to Exxon so far were provided by Stavitsky and Rudko during the bidding process. Officially, according to an Exxon spokesman, “we remain interested in the block.” Unofficially, Exxon has halted its negotiations with the Ukrainians “due to the political situation, but is pressing ahead with several Russian projects, including in Russian waters close to the Crimean Peninsula.” This was told to New York analysts last week, and reported in Dallas on March 5. According to the report, ExxonMobil senior vice president Andy Swiger conceded the company has bigger fish to fry in the Russian Arctic than off the Crimean shore. According to Swiger, the Crimean block “has active oil seeps and that drilling would begin in 2015.” According to ExxonMobil chairman and chief executive, Rex Tillerson: “In terms of our view of country risk, geopolitical risk, other than things like sanctions, we don’t see any new challenges out of the current situation [in Russia].” The second of the Crimean offshore blocks to have been awarded for development is next to Skifska to the east and known as Prykerchinska (Prikerchinskaya in Russian). At the time the block was put up for bidding it was estimated to hold more than 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent. The Ukrainian government award was made in April 2006, when the president was Victor Yushchenko. The winner, a junior oil explorer from Texas named Gene Van Dyke, defeated ExxonMobil, Shell, a Turkish company, and another Texan junior, the Hunt Oil Company. Van Dyke’s geography places the Prykerchinska block “in the Kerch area”, on the northeast of the peninsula. Vanco, Van Dyke’s company at the time, claimed that Prykerchenska was “the country’s first deepwater license opportunity… The event made Vanco the first company to be awarded a Production Sharing Agreement by Ukraine for its portion of the Black Sea.” Only the production sharing agreement, which was signed in October 2007, was reversed and then subject to an arbitration proceeding in Stockholm in 2010. According to Vanco’s version, it was not until after Victor Yanukovich became president in 2011 that the government in Kiev agreed to reinstate the Prykerchenska licence and production sharing agreement. The original terms of Van Dyke’s deal provided for Vanco to pay all field development costs and then receive 80% of all production income until costs will have been recovered. From then on the split in income would be 60% for Vanco, 40% for the Ukrainian government. It isn’t known whether the terms settled with Yanukovich in 2012 were the same. Nor have Vanco and Van Dyke responded to requests for clarification of the project at the moment. Van Dyke says on his company website that in 2010 he sold “a controlling interest in Vanco Exploration to Lukoil, retaining a substantial interest. Van Dyke Energy Company maintains that interest through PanAtlantic Energy Group.” He then appears to have restricted his direct exploration ventures to “the North Sea with a focus onshore and offshore The Netherlands.” LUKoil’s version of the Vanco takeover refers to drilling operations in West Africa, including Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire. Ukrainian press reports suggest that the price for Vanco’s reinstatement at Prykerchenska was the sale of a large stake in Vanco Ukraine to DTEK, the energy company owned by Ukrainian oligarch, Rinat Akhmetov. DTEK hasacknowledged that it and two associated companies, also Akhmetov properties, “act as financial partners of Vanco Prykerchenska Ltd. in the project, which is in line with DTEK’s long-term development strategy and important for Ukraine’s energy security”. Last July DTEK’s chief executive, Maxim Timchenko, acknowledged that “in addition to energy generating companies and mines, DTEK owns a shareholding in Vanco Ukraine.” He didn’t say who remained as shareholders of the project, and DTEK has so far reported no expenditure on the block. The public record also reveals that Van Dyke’s partner in the original 2006 bidding for Prykerchenska, as well as source of capital for the project, was Nathaniel Rothschild. In Van Dyke’s version, this came about because “Vanco had a representative in Kiev who is a former executive of BP and who had contacts with the London branch of the Rothschild family — JNR Eastern Investments Limited — which came on board as a 50-50 partner with Vanco.” Rothschild was asked to clarify whether he still holds his stake in Prykerchenska; whether he thinks his stake has been adversely impacted by the changes now under way in the Crimean republic, and what he has done about that. Rothschild’s spokesman said he no longer occupies the post, and referred to Rothschild’s investment management office in Jersey. There it was agreed that the questions would be relayed to Rothschild for his reply. He didn’t. Lukoil’s operating and financial reports mention only refinery assets in Ukraine; there is no reference to exploration of Crimean waters, and no report of the losing bid for Skifska or the Vanco link to Prykerchenska. For the time being Lukoil sources are considering the question of whether they might still be interested in these blocks. They are not answering. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly Song A man wears a mask while walking on a bridge during a hazy day in Shanghai's financial district of Pudong December 5, 2013.Japanese electronics giant Panasonic said Thursday it would give employees sent to China a wage premium to compensate for the country's hazardous air pollution, in a possible first for an international company. The move was part of a wider deal reached in Japan's annual labour talks which saw major firms, including Panasonic and Toyota, agree to boost workers' salaries for the first time in years, amid concerns about an economic slowdown after a sales tax rise next month. A Panasonic spokesman confirmed the pollution-linked pay premium for its expatriate workers, but declined to give further details or say how many such workers it has in China, which has extensive trade and business links with Japan. So-called hardship pay is not unusual for employees of foreign firms sent to work to China, but Panasonic is believed to be the first to announce a premium to compensate for polluted air. A Panasonic document from the labour talks said: "As for the premium for expatriates to compensate for a different living environment, the company will have a special review for those sent to Chinese cities." On the weekend, a top Chinese environment official said that air quality was below national standards in almost all China's major cities last year, after Premier Li Keqiang pledged to "declare war" on pollution. Only three out of the 74 cities monitored by the government met a new air quality standard, said Wu Xiaoqing, a vice minister of environment protection, underscoring a problem that has set off alarm bells over health concerns. The Panasonic document referenced so-called PM 2.5 -- small particles which easily penetrate the lungs and have been linked to hundreds of thousands of premature deaths. The standard lists limits on a string of pollutants including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and airborne particles. Levels of PM 2.5 have repeatedly reached more than 400 micrograms per cubic meter, according to a count by the US embassy in Beijing, more than 16 times the World Health Organization's (WHO) safety guideline of 25 micrograms. Chinese cities are regularly cloaked in a smoggy haze, with many residents donning masks to avoid taking in the toxic air. The public have been increasingly angered by the severe environmental consequences of the country's rapid industrialization, among them smog, land laden with heavy metals, and chemically contaminated waterways. The country's heavy and chemical industries, its reliance on coal as its main energy source, rapidly growing car emissions and widespread urban construction have all been blamed for helping exacerbate the problem. Chinese authorities have repeatedly pledged action in recent months, but experts warn that implementation will be key. The government plans to shut down 50,000 small coal-fired furnaces this year, clean up major coal-burning power plants, and remove six million high-emission vehicles from the roads, Li said recently. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
A research team at Goldman Sachs published a 25-page research note on Bitcoin on Tuesday. The consensus among the team of economists, commodities analysts, macro strategists, and outside experts was that Bitcoin can't work as a currency. But its underlying technology holds promise. The report included this annotated brief history of Bitcoin. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 11, 2014. Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. opening bell. Good Morning!   US Futures are slightly higher, led by Nasdaq popping 25bp.   Many traders are watching leadership from Semis – The SOX closed just off a 12Y high.   Overseas markets are up slightly, showing a bounce of the “dead cat” variety as sanctions against Russia are getting closer to reality with this weekend’s Crimera vote.   The DAX is adding 12bp only, and has been a sharp underperformer since the start of March, losing 5% relative to the S&amp;P’s 50bp gain (big shift in ETF flows).   Russia continues to weaken, with the Micex now testing 3Y lows this AM as rhetoric sharpens with the Ukraine PM meeting UN General Assembly Today.   We are seeing some stress coming off Ukraine CDS as a aid package nears, and a bounce in Turkey’s markets – a nice reprieve of the weakness seen into elections later this month.   In Asia, China data missed market expectations on every metric, confirming a sharp slowdown to start 2014 – but hopes of a dovish PBoC lifted the Shanghai by 1%.   The Nikkei was off small, but Japan’s bonds were drilled after BOJ said it would trim purchases.   Aussie is rallying on strong jobs figures, the best month in over a year, and the Miners are jumping 2%.    Retail will be a big focus in the USA, with the release of February Advance Retail Sales – Bad numbers will surely be ignored due to the “Weather Skew”. The 10YY is flat in the USA, remaining below the 100dma.   The € is at the highest since Oct 2011 as German finance minister Wolfgang Schäuble’s comments that rates are too low continue to reverberate, and the Yen is bid as Japanese core machinery orders rose in January at the fastest pace in almost a year.   The DXY is now just off last October’s 1Y lows, providing a tailwind for commodities.   While Gold rests near 6M highs, Industrial commodities are mostly mixed despite the China data – Copper is slightly red, and WTI is bouncing 30bp after the worst session in 2 months.   Nat gas in the US is weaker into our inventory data, and the AG complex is all well bid as traders account for the possibility of sanctions, coupled with lower global agriculture yields.   Catalysts today include the release of US Retail Sales for February at 8:30, alond with weekly Jobless claims.   At 10, we get Business Inventories – and the Senate Banking Nomination Hearing for Fischer, Brainard, and Powell.   Energy players will be focused on Natty data at 10:30, and we have the week’s largests POMO at 11.   At 1 we get the 30Y auction, yesterday’s 10Y auction was the strongest in a year.  Finally, also at 1, ECB President Draghi Speaks in Vienna. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Natalie Behring(Reuters) - J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;JCP.N&gt; is about to undo the centerpiece of former Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson's failed vision to take the retailer upmarket. On Thursday, the department store chain is relaunching its home goods sections. It has brought back many of the more affordable, no-frills brands the former Apple executive ditched and reduced the space given to trendier brands he thought would bring in new shoppers. Penney is trying to rebuild its home business by offering more lower priced items, more in-house brands and additional floor space for basics like towels and comforters. The retailer wants to recapture former clients and go head to head with rivals like Target Corp &lt;TGT.N&gt; and Kohl's Corp. &lt;KSS.N&gt; Fixing the home business is crucial to Penney's fledgling turnaround, both in-store and online, where it generates half of jcp.com's sales. "Home is a traffic driver for the whole store," said Jan Hodges, senior vice president in charge of Penney's home goods business. Store visits fell 17 percent during Johnson's term and continued to slip in 2013. The company, once a leader in the sector, saw sales of home goods plummet to about $1.3 billion in 2013 from $4.2 billion seven years earlier. In 2006, home products generated about 20 percent of Penney sales, on par with rivals Macy's Inc &lt;M.N&gt;, Kohl's Corp &lt;KSS.N&gt; and Target Corp &lt;KSS.N&gt;. Last year, they were about 12 percent. To be sure, some of the decline stemmed from its decision to get rid of its catalog order business in 2011, but most of it was from misreading its customers. Initial reaction has been positive. Citigroup upgraded the stock on Tuesday because it expects the new home sections will lift sales. Penney shares have risen since it gave an upbeat 2014 forecast last month but are still 55 percent below a yearly high hit last May. "They went astray when they brought in $10 cake mix," said Kathy Gersch, a former department store executive and co-founder of Kotter International, a consulting firm that helps companies implement strategies. "The question remains whether they can get that customer back." Penney will have to win back shoppers who drifted to competitors. At HomeGoods, owned by TJX Cos Inc &lt;TJX.N&gt;, sales nearly doubled to $2.8 billion between 2007 and last year, while Target and Kohl's saw steady growth. CUSTOMERS REMAIN FRUGAL Adding to the challenge is that many of Penney's price-conscious shoppers remain reluctant to spend on extras. Euromonitor International also expects the $97 billion U.S. furniture and home furnishings market to grow only 2 percent per year in the next five years. Investors are hopeful that current Chief Executive Myron Ullman, who first led the company between 2004 and 2011, can recover from the mistakes made by his predecessor. Johnson, CEO for 17 months before being fired, convinced the chain to spend hundreds of millions last year remodeling its 600 largest stores, including new home sections with brand "shops," and lost hundreds of millions more in sales from disruption during renovations. The revamping of the home sections didn't cost much, Hodges said, and Penney will continue to offer popular brands like Calphalon while expanding its offerings of other national brands, like Royal Velvet bedding and bath towels. The company also plans to keep the uncluttered look Johnson backed. But Penney is also bringing back lower-priced in-house brands such as Cooks cookware, that Johnson eliminated, and adding bedding, bath and luggage under its Liz Claiborne brand. Private brands could boost profits because they have a gross profit margin 5 percentage points higher than national brands. HOME RE-LAUNCH 2.0 On the floor of the Penney store in Elmhurst, N.Y., last week, ahead of the launch, there were six beds rather than three a year ago, so Penney showcased a wider array of pillows, sheets and comforters. Penney has put out more mock-up windows fully dressed with blinds. Penney is returning to a 60-40 percentage split in favor of soft goods, like bedding and bath products, over hard goods like small appliances since they are more profitable, Hodges said. Penney is re-purposing shops that previously housed the Michael Graves and Martha Celebrations brands to showcase juicers and blenders, hot items now. The Graves and Stewart products will be displayed with other items in a given category. By summer, Penney will also re-jig its furniture selection, significantly paring the modern furniture assortment that flopped with its shoppers, in favor of a return to traditional furniture. "Patience still needs to be the prime virtue for Penney investors when it comes to home," Sterne Agee analyst Chuck Grom said in a research note on Wednesday. (Reporting by Phil Wahba in New York; Editing by Jilian Mincer and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
theprospectgroup / YouTubeMarc FaberChina's economy is only growing at just over half the rate that authorities are reporting, perennial contrarian commentator Marc Faber, editor and publisher of The Gloom, Boom and Doom Report, told CNBC, but he said this was not something for investors to fret over. "I think we are already at a 4 percent growth rate anyway. The figures that China publishes are figures they just take out of a drawer to make it look good," Faber – also known as Dr. Doom – told CNBC Asia's Squawk Box on Thursday. Although Faber said China's growth is much lower than reported he noted that a 4 percent growth rate was not to be sniffed at. (Read more: 'Probably too late' to buy US stocks: Marc Faber) "I think 4 percent growth in a world that is has no growth is actually very good," he said. "It's like a hedge fund manager, he told me last year he makes 4 percent. So I say this performance not particularly good, and he said yes, compared to zero percent interest rates, that is a fantastic return," added Faber. Faber also pointed out that it would be much healthier for China to growth at a slower rate with reduced credit risk. "I'm not saying that 4 percent is as good as 8 percent, but it would be better to grown at 4 percent without a credit bubble than at 8 percent with a colossal credit bubble that will lead down the road to even larger problems," he said. (Read more: We're in a worse position than in 2008: Marc Faber) "And I think we have to realize excessive credit growth eventually leads to a crisis; this always happens. And in the case of China we do not have a credit bubble, we have a gigantic credit bubble," he added. The Chinese government has foretasted that its economy will grow 7.5 percent this year. The most recent quarterly figures showed China grew 7.7 percent on year in the final quarter of 2013. Faber asked investors to look at the recent slump in the Chinese stock market and commodity prices to truly evaluate the state of the country's economy. Shanghai and London copper futures fell to multi-year lows this week, while the Shanghai Composite is down 5.1 percent year to date. "I would like your viewers to consider: why is the China stock market doing so badly if everything is so great? Why is the price of iron ore collapsing and copper prices going down if everything is so great?" he asked. "If you look at the import figures of the trading partners of China, they are all actually showing that exports of China are hardly growing," he added. (Read More: Is China's bond default the tip of the iceberg?) On Friday China's first corporate debt default in at least 17 years sparked fear that the country's 'Lehman moment' is fast approaching. Many commentators have said the default is not as worrisome as it appears because Chinese authorities have the firepower to step in and bail out firms who are risk of defaulting on loans. (Read more: China's Colossal Credit Bubble Next Big Risk: Faber) But Faber countered this view, noting governments always try and give the perception that they are in control. "If someone comes to me and says China has always managed to avoid… any credit problems [because it] has never defaulted, [that] doesn't mean it won't happen in future. The same was said about Japan. The Japanese also thought that way until 1989 and they lost control of it," he said. However, Faber said we shouldn't worry about a crash in China because he believed the U.S. Federal Reserve could always shore up losses by printing more money. "For the world, economic growth in China is very crucial. But not to worry, because the worse the global economy performs, the more geopolitical tensions we have, the more money printing we will have from the Federal Reserve. As it gives the clowns at the Fed another excuse to postpone the tapering," he added. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVolkswagen T-ROC concept car is pictured during the media day ahead of the 84th Geneva Motor Show at the Palexpo Arena in GenevaBERLIN (Reuters) - German carmaker Volkswagen &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; expects to sell more than 10 million vehicles across its multi-brand group this year, aiming to hit a long-running target four years earlier than previously planned. Group sales were up 4.7 percent in the first two months of this year at 1.47 million autos, excluding the MAN SE &lt;MANG.DE&gt; and Scania &lt;SCVb.ST&gt; heavy-trucks brands, VW said at its annual press conference on Thursday. Europe's largest automotive group plans to launch over 100 new models and facelifts this year and next, it said, eyeing continued growth in 2015 auto sales. With its 10 million sales-goal within reach, VW will shift its focus more strongly toward earnings quality, the company said, counting on effects of a new cost-cutting modular platform dubbed MQB that is starting to boost profit. Last year, VW increased group sales 4.9 percent to a record 9.73 million vehicles. (Reporting by Andreas Cremer; Editing by Maria Sheahan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCoeure, executive board member of the ECB, speaks during an interview with Reuters in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank's forward guidance on interest rates means that real interest rates for borrowers should fall as inflation rises and the ECB is ready to act if this does not happen, ECB policymaker Benoit Coeure said on Thursday. "The Governing Council of the ECB expects interest rates to stay at present or lower levels for an extended period of time, while inflation should rise towards 2 percent over our projection horizon," Coeure said in the text of a speech for delivery in Paris. "This implies that real interest rates for borrowers will progressively fall as inflation rises," he added. "And we stand ready to act if this scenario does not materialize." Coeure expected the ECB's health check of banks across the euro zone to prompt corrective action to restructure banks and address capital shortfalls. This in turn would help the ECB's monetary policy gain traction across the bloc. "Looking further ahead, I expect the downsizing of the banking sector to accelerate the development of alternative, capital market-based sources of finance, especially for smaller firms," he said. "We are already seeing this playing out in some jurisdictions - for example, the 'mini bonds' scheme in Italy - and through initiatives, which the ECB supports, to revive European ABS markets." Coeure called on European leaders to agree a single resolution mechanism (SRM) to close non-viable banks. The resolution mechanism - still not finalized - is the second pillar of the banking union, which complements the unified banking supervision under the auspices of the ECB, together marking the most ambitious step towards closer European integration since the launch of the euro. "If we fail to establish the SRM and SRF (single resolution fund), bank resolution will remain a national task, resulting in a misalignment of responsibilities, and entrenching the link between banks and sovereigns," he said. (Writing by Paul Carrel; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA security guard walks past a logo of Alibaba (China) Technology Co. Ltd at its headquarters on the outskirts of HangzhouHONG KONG (Reuters) - Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding is "95 percent certain" to choose New York as the venue for its initial public offering, the Financial Times reported on Thursday, citing unnamed sources close to the deal. The company is no longer discussing a potential listing in Hong Kong, the newspaper added, citing the sources. Alibaba declined immediate comment on the planned IPO, which analysts have estimated could be worth more than $15 billion. The company's listing venue has been up in the air since last year, after Hong Kong regulators refused to bend on their one share-one vote stance. Alibaba has planned an IPO with a shareholder structure that allows a group of top managers and founders to nominate and control the board, while holding only around 13 percent of the company's shares. Though there had been some speculation that Alibaba and Hong Kong regulators could be moving to a compromise, Alibaba Executive Vice Chairman Joe Tsai appeared to throw cold water on the prospect on Wednesday, telling Reuters that the company would not change its partnership shareholding structure in order to list in Hong Kong. Under an agreement with its second biggest shareholder, Yahoo Inc, Alibaba has incentives in place to complete an IPO before December 2015. Japan's SoftBank Corp is Alibaba's biggest shareholder with a 36.7 percent stake. (Reporting by Elzio Barreto and Paul Carsten; Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerTraders are pictured at their desks in front of the DAX board at the Frankfurt stock exchange March 3, 2014. Markets are mostly higher early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is flat. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.3%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.2%. The moves are welcome considering a slew of weaker-than-expected economic data out of China. Retail sales, industrial production, and fixed asset investment figures all grew less than economists had forecasted, solidifying fears that the world's second largest economy was cooling off rapidly. Japan's Nikkei fell 0.1% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 0.6% during Asia's trading session. U.S. futures are flat. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicA fish whose tail is stuck in a partially frozen fish farm is seen near an abandoned steel mill of Qingquan Steel Group in Qianying township, Hebei province February 18, 2014.BEIJING (Reuters) - China's economy slowed markedly in the first two months of the year, with growth in investment, retail sales and factory output all falling to multi-year lows, a surprisingly weak performance that raises the specter of a sharper cooldown. The weaker-than-expected data is bound to amplify global investors' worries about slackening growth in the world's second-largest economy, and will almost certainly feed speculation that Beijing may loosen policies soon to bolster growth. China's industrial output rose 8.6 percent in the first two months of 2014 from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Thursday, missing market expectations for a 9.5 percent rise. That marked the worst performance for China's factory output growth since April 2009. "Policy easing should be imminent," said Hao Zhou, an economist at ANZ Bank in Shanghai, adding that Thursday's data implied that China's economy may grow 7 percent in the first quarter. Sources told Reuters earlier this week that China's central bank is prepared to take its strongest action since 2012 to loosen monetary policy if economic growth slows further, by cutting the amount of cash that banks must keep as reserves. A cut would be triggered if growth slips below 7.5 percent and towards 7.0 percent, and would be expected only in the second quarter, according to the sources who are involved in internal policy discussions. Other sectors of the economy also appeared to have lost steam. Growth in retail sales was the slowest in three years, up 11.8 percent in January and February compared to the year-ago period. Analysts had expected a rise of 13.5 percent. Fixed-asset investment, an important driver of economic activity, fared even worse. It was up 17.9 percent in the first two months from the same period last year, a level unseen in 11 years and some way below forecasts for a 19.4 percent increase. Asian stock markets and most regional currencies such as the Australian dollar and China's offshore yuan pared early gains after the data was released. COOLING, BUT HOW FAST? The statistics bureau released combined data for January and February in a bid to reduce distortions seen in single-month data caused by the timing of the Lunar New Year holidays, when factories, offices and shops often close for long periods. Trade data last week showed January-February exports fell 1.6 percent from the same period a year earlier, and tumbled 18.1 percent in February alone, alarming financial markets. Many analysts believe Beijing will not consider further easing until more months of data are available. But even accounting for holiday-related shutdowns and distortions, the broader weaker trend so far in 2014 appears clear. China's government, which wrapped up its annual parliament meeting on Thursday, had said last week that it aims to grow the economy by 7.5 percent this year. But with growth appearing to drop faster and sharper than what many have expected, some economists believe that China may actually miss its growth target this year for the first time in years. Even government officials are hinting that the target is not cast in stone, in what may be an attempt to guide market expectations lower. Finance Minister Lou Jiwei and Premier Li Keqiang have both said that the target is flexible. (China economics team) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChina's Premier Li Keqiang gestures as he speaks during a news conference in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China Premier Li Keqiang signalled that his government will not ride to the rescue of every troubled investment by saying some loan defaults are "hard to avoid" in what he called a challenging economic environment. Speaking at a news conference, Li acknowledged the economy faced difficulties, but said those who are overly pessimistic about the country's prospects have always been wrong in the past. "We believe we have the ability, and all the means, to ensure that economic growth will stay within a reasonable range this year," Li said at the carefully orchestrated conference where media questions were vetted in advance. "We are reluctant to see defaults of financial products, but some cases are hard to avoid," he said. China saw its first default of a domestic bond last week when a loss-making solar equipment firm in Shanghai missed an interest payment of 89 million yuan ($14.6 million). The default, however, was hailed by experts as a landmark event that will impose more market discipline in the world's second-largest economy, a break from the past when bonds enjoyed an implicit guarantee because the government would bailout troubled firms to ensure stability. China's economy has had a soft start this year, fuelling concerns that the world's most powerful growth engine is stumbling on the back of slackening growth across many sectors, from exports to consumption, investment and manufacturing. That has raised worries among some investors that China will miss the government's economic growth target this year for the first time in years. It is aiming for economic growth of 7.5 percent in 2014. Li skillfully dodged a question on how far Beijing would let economic growth slip before it steps in with policy measures to support activity. Instead, he repeated the government's line that job creation takes precedence over growth. But on government corruption, Li had an unequivocal answer. "We will show zero tolerance for corrupt behavior and corrupt officials. No matter who it is, or how senior their position, everyone is equal before the law," Li said, without mentioning any names. Speculation has gathered around China's former domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang, who sources say is at the center of a corruption investigation reaching into the highest echelons of government, though Beijing has yet to formally confirm this. (Reporting by Adam Rose and Shao Xiaoyi; Additional reporting by Beijing Bureau; Writing by Koh Gui Qing) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe different colours available for the iPod Touch.LONDON (Reuters) - Four of the biggest U.S. technology groups collectively hold an estimated $124 billion in U.S. Treasury debt, much of it offshore, earning them tax-free interest, the UK's Bureau of Investigative Journalism (BIJ) said on Thursday. The finding means Apple Inc, Microsoft Corp, Google Inc and Cisco Systems Inc hold a large proportion of the $254.9 billion held in their foreign subsidiaries in U.S. Treasuries, according to securities filings reviewed by the London-based BIJ, a not-for-profit news organization. Bringing the money home would trigger a tax bill, so the companies keep it offshore, partly to fund foreign expansion but also, executives say, to avoid a tax hit. Democratic party Senator Carl Levin, who has campaigned for years against tax avoidance, was quoted saying by the BIJ that if U.S. corporations invested offshore funds in U.S. government debt, this income should face U.S. taxes. "Those funds ought to be treated as having been repatriated and subject to U.S. tax," Levin said. Corporations including Apple have lobbied for changes so they would not have to pay U.S. tax on income earned outside the United States and brought home. Many other countries, including Britain, only tax income earned within their borders, though some international companies have been accused of reducing their bill via sophisticated offshore accounting arrangements. Some U.S. companies say a "territorial" type of tax system would avoid double taxation and ensure all businesses compete on equal terms. Tax campaigners say it would encourage companies to shift profits overseas. Google said it responded to tax incentives offered by governments while following tax rules in every country where it operates. The other companies declined comment, but have previously said they pay all the tax they should. (Reporting by Tom Bergin; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
