REUTERS/China DailyAn employee works at a factory in Dexing, Jiangxi province, September 9, 2013. China’s official PMI number is out. Manufacturing expanded to 50.4 in April.  This came in just shy of expectations for 50.5, but is up from 50.3 the previous month.  A reading below 50 indicates contraction. China's economy slowed in the first quarter, expanding just 7.4%. Beijing has set a 7.5% growth target, and economists expect policymakers have a floor of 7% growth.  Beijing announced a mini-stimulus to help stabilize growth and this is expected to have improved business sentiment. The HSBC flash PMI reading we got earlier this month, shows that Chinese manufacturing is contracting, though the flash number showed a marginal improvement. But the official survey has a bigger sample and has more exposure to larger manufacturers.  FREE AppDownload
"Shark Tank" investor Barbara Corcoran talks about her investments on the show over the seasons – how many go through, and why others fall through. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Durand Guion, vice president and men's fashion director at Macy's, explains the difference between men's shoe styles. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter
APRussian President Vladimir PutinThe board of the International Monetary Fund has approved a two-year, $17 billion loan to Ukraine, the IMF announced Wednesday.  The loan serves as a rescue package to prevent a collapse of Ukraine's economy, which has been thrown into turmoil amid recent unrest. Russia annexed the region of Crimea last month, and it has continued its troop presence in eastern Ukraine, putting the government of Russian President Vladimir Putin in a standoff with much of the west.  The IMF promised the aid in March, hinging it on reforms that included raising taxes, freezing the minimum wage, and raising energy prices.  In a statement, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said the aid package represented a "crucial milestone" for Ukraine, and he promised the U.S. would impose further "costs" on Russia if it did not work to de-escalate the situation.  "Today’s final approval for the $17 billion IMF program marks a crucial milestone for Ukraine. The IMF program, in conjunction with bilateral assistance from the United States and other nations, will enable Ukraine to build on the progress already achieved to overcome deep-seated economic challenges and help the country return to a path of economic stability and growth," Lew said.  Lew added he is confident Ukraine would enact the required reforms.  "From my recent conversations with Ukrainian officials, including Prime Minister Yatsenyuk, Finance Minister Shlapak, and central bank Governor Kubiv, it is clear that Ukraine is committed to implementing the reforms included in the IMF program, and these reforms are critical to limiting continued vulnerability to regional pressures," he said.  FREE AppDownload
UBS Investor WatchFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Man-Led Households Often Take On Higher Amounts Of Risk Which Can Be Problematic (UBS Investor Research) Men take on the primary financial decision-making role for 40% of couples, according to a report from UBS Investor Watch. They make all financial decisions except those related to day-to-day expenses, large purchases and real estate purchases, where decisions are made equally. But couples in which men take the investment steering wheel face a few key issues. 70% of man-led households use the male's risk tolerance. "These couples are the most likely to have differing risk tolerances—half the time the man has a higher risk tolerance than the woman. In most of these cases, the couple winds up just using the man’s more aggressive risk tolerance, and the woman’s financial views are frequently not incorporated into the couples’ financial planning.  "…Facing longevity and the likelihood of being responsible for financial decisions in the future, retired women in these couples are significantly less confident and more worried about their financial futures than women who are a primary or shared decision-maker." Here's How To Best Manage Country Risk (Vanguard) The best way to manage country risk — the economic and political problems that plague individual countries or a region — is to take on a "more globally oriented portfolio, whether we’re talking about fixed income or equity," says Joe Davis, Vanguard chief economist. "I think the narrower ones, say [an] equity portfolio, mean it’s really targeted to one individual country, and where one is just exposed to the inherent risk that may be just not shared by other countries around the world. So it’s this notion of international diversification, which we think is always critical."  "And so you’re going to have, just all else equal going forward, perhaps similar returns with greater volatility, the more narrow your equity portfolio. And so the recent slowdowns in emerging markets here or there, I think, just underscores the fact that having a broader portfolio tends to moderate those individual issues, and that’s always, I think, a valuable starting point for investors." Brokerages Are Trying To Tackle Elderly Financial Abuse (The Wall Street Journal) Brokerage firms are building compliance groups to tackle elderly financial abuse in cases where elderly clients are exhibiting cognitive problems like dementia or memory loss, reports  Matthias Rieker at the WSJ. Wells Fargo is putting together a team of seven for a 'Department of Elderly Client Initiative' that will help advisors prevent elderly financial abuse. Edward Jones and Merrill Lynch are also tackling this issue. Morgan Stanley's risk department is teaching its advisors how identify and report elder abuse. Employers And Employees Want Retirement Plan Advisors To Adhere To Fiduciary Standard (Investment News) A survey of 3,010 employers by AARP, found that 89% of employers that offer 401(k) plans want their advisors to hold themselves to a fiduciary standard. Meanwhile, a May 2013 survey by AARP found that 93% of employees want their advisors to adhere to a fiduciary standard.  "The results of the two AARP surveys are a strong, almost incontestable vote for the principle that the financial advice provided to those in retirement plans should be in the best interest of the plan participants, not in the best interest of the adviser," said Cristina Martin Firvida, director of financial security and consumer affairs at AARP, according to Mark Schoeff Jr at Investment News. "We continue to urge the Department of Labor to proceed with an updated rule that ensures greater financial protection for workers and their families." If You Think Wealth Inequality Is Bad Now, Look How Bad It Could Get This Century (Business Insider) The global wealth and income inequality problem is getting worse. And many that have read Thomas Piketty's "Capital In The Twenty-First Century," worry that this is just the start. The chart depicting the world's capital to income ratio is what has most worried. As this ratio rises, wealth becomes more powerful than income. Piketty expects the global capital-to-income ratio to head back towards 700%, last seen in Europe from 1700 to World War I. "In a way, the United States is becoming like Old Europe, which is very strange in historical perspective," Mr. Piketty told The New York Times. "Absent drastic policy changes, I doubt that income inequality will decline on its own." piketty.pse.ens.fr/capital21c FREE AppDownload
APSenate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY)Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has received nearly $10,000 in campaign contributions from the head of a company at the center of a high-profile sexual discrimination case. Cintas Corporation Chairman Richard Farmer has given $9,800 to McConnell over the past 13 years, the vast majority of which was contributed after the start of an ongoing lawsuit alleging the company engaged in a "pattern" of discrimination against female job applicants.  Federal Election Commission records show Farmer's first donation to McConnell was made in 2001 for $1,000. All of his other contributions were made after 2005 including $2,600 last September and $5,200 given on Jan. 17. McConnell, a Republican from Kentucky, is currently facing a strong campaign challenge from Kentucky Secretary of State Allison Lundergran Grimes. The allegations against Cintas, an Ohio-based firm that creates uniforms, promotional products, and other supplies for businesses, date back to 2004 when the company was sued by a woman who accused the company of engaging "in gender discrimination in hiring." In 2005, the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission joined the case and alleged there was "a pattern of sex discrimination in hiring" at the company and that only six of the 286 sales representatives hired by Cintas in Michigan from 1999 through 2002 were women. Cintas attempted to get the case thrown out and was initially successful. However, in January of last year, a federal appeals court ruled the company had to face the suit. In October, the Supreme Court declined to hear Cintas' appeal. Last month, both sides faced off in Michigan federal court with lawyers for Cintas arguing, as Law360 put it, that the EEOC was attempting to begin a "massive class action representing more than 1,000 [women] who were denied positions as sales service representatives to obtain ... potentially enormous punitive damages." The federal agency countered that it could not and should not be made to identify everyone who would be part of the suit at this stage. Other than saying the company values "diversity," a Cintas spokeswoman declined to comment on the status of the case to Business Insider Wednesday. "At Cintas, diversity and inclusion is an integral component of our corporate culture.  We do not comment on pending litigation," the spokeswoman said.  In addition to the $9,800 he has given to McConnell, Farmer, who has also given to other Republican politicians and organizations, gave a total of $8,500 to the Kentucky Republican Party. Apart from his donations to McConnell and the Kentucky GOP, the vast majority of Farmer's other campaign contributions went to his home state of Ohio, national GOP organizations, or presidential candidates. Farmer's immediate family has also given to McConnell.  Farmer's son, Scott, who is the CEO of Cintas, gave McConnell a total of $4,300 in 2007. Scott Farmer, who has donated to other Republican politicians, also gave $2,000 to McConnell's joint fundraising committee, The McConnell Majority Committee, that same year.  Joyce Farmer, Richard Farmer's wife, gave a total of $5,600 to McConnell from 2001 through 2008. Last September, Joyce Farmer gave $2,600 to the McConnell Senate Committee 2014, a PAC that has been buying ads for McConnell in his race against Grimes. Joyce Farmer, who has made contributions to other Republican politicians, has also given $10,000 to the Kentucky GOP.  In total, McConnell has received $19,700 from Richard, Scott, and Joyce Farmer. His allied committees have received $4,600 from the Farmers and the Kentucky GOP has been given $18,500 from the family. McConnell and his committees have not received any money from the Cintas Corporation Partners PAC, which has given to both Democratic and Republican politicians. Business Insider reached out to McConnell's campaign Wednesday to ask whether they were aware of the sexual discrimination suit and whether, in light of the allegations, he intended to return his donations from Richard Farmer. Soon afterward, a McConnell campaign spokeswoman responded and indicated they would be providing a response by 4 p.m. ET. Business Insider has not received that response and subsequent attempts to contact the campaign have gone unanswered.  FREE AppDownload
Is AppleCare a waste of money or a good way to protect your costly Apple products? We did the math - take a look. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Coffee, Red Bull, whatever. We drink it for energy, but is that really what it gives us?
The second hell is when you cannot find value. I recently read a study that said the difference in valuation between the cheapest stocks (the lowest 10 percent of the market) and the rest of the market is the smallest it has been in more than 20 years. Of course, the market overall is very pricey; finding undervalued stocks in this environment has become increasingly difficult. To adapt, you need to understand that there are two types of value stocks. The first are statistically cheap — their cheapness stares you in the face. This breed is quickly becoming scarce; even Hewlett-Packard Co. and Xerox Corp. are now found in growth investors’ portfolios. But before I talk about the second type of value stocks, let me tell you how my wife and I bought our house. It was 2005. The housing market in Denver, just as in the rest of the U.S., was getting bubbly. Our family was about to grow, though we did not know it yet. We had sold our condo and were renting month to month and thus were under no pressure to buy a house, but we were keeping our eyes peeled for the right one at the right price. It was a nine-month journey. We even made some offers (usually below the asking price), which the sellers laughed at. They were right; their houses sold above the asking prices in just a few days. This article originally appeared at Institutional Investor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange April 30, 2014. We got our first estimate of Q1 GDP, a preview of this Friday's jobs report, and an announcement about monetary policy from the Fed. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Kwasi Enin, the high school student who got into all eight Ivy League schools, is choosing Yale, according to USA Today.  Enin announced the news today at a press conference in his high school's gym. The 17-year-old always had Yale in mind because of its strong music program, and he said that after visiting the university last week he said he was "blown away by the music scene." Enin is also interested in studying science, he said in a press conference today. "I met people who were just like me — diverse in both science and music – and they told me how manageable it is doing both," he said, according to USA Today. Enin scored a 2250 on his SAT, had taken 11 AP classes, and blew admissions directors away with his sincere essay. JUST IN: Kwasi Enin, LI student accepted to all 8 Ivy League schools, chooses @Yale http://t.co/wvgHoLsop9 pic.twitter.com/1eYBKJLfa7 FREE AppDownload
LaurPhil via www.flickr.com creative commonsJesse Eisinger's new article in NYT Magazine, "Why Only One Top Banker Went to Jail for the Financial Crisis," leaves you with that unsettled feeling you get after waking up from a nightmare — the feeling that once you go back to bed, it will continue. From its name you can glean that Eisinger uses the article to ponder why only one high-level banker went to jail for crimes committed before the financial crisis. The banker, Kareem Serageldin, is as much a side show in the story on the page as he is in the story playing out in real life. The real action (or inaction) takes place at the Justice Department and centers around the evolving nature of its strategy for prosecuting high-powered criminals. Eisinger reports that what was once a department that went after executives with gusto — think: Enron — became a department obsessed with winning. Even if those wins are empty. In the 1990s, over 17% of all federal cases were for white-collar criminals, he points out. And by 2012 that number was down to 9.4%. He even got Preet Bharara, the 80-0 New York prosecutor known for striking terror into the hearts of hedge fund managers, to admit to this problem. From NYT Mag: The former prosecutor was almost sheepish about the insider-trading cases when I spoke to him: “They made our careers, but they don’t change the world.” In fact, several former prosecutors in the office told me that going after bankers was never a real priority. “The government failed,” another former prosecutor said. “We didn’t do what we needed to do.”  The whole article is worth a read, but it's a handful, so you may want to bookmark it for some solid free time. Until then, here are five things you need to know about what Eisinger found in his reporting. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongFor as long as we can remember, economists have tried to project a time when China would overtake the U.S. to be the world's largest economy. In 2012, the OECD projected that Chinese GDP would overtake the U.S. by 2016. The Economist had forecast that China would oust the U.S. from the top spot by 2019.  Now, Chris Giles at the Financial Times writes that China is likely to overtake the U.S. this year! Giles draws on a new report from the International Comparison Program (ICP), that looks at the size of economies not based on market exchange rates, but through the purchasing power of parity (PPP). The report found that "the United States remained the world’s largest economy, but it was closely followed by China when measured using PPPs." This report is looking at figures from 2011. But we before launch into the report's findings, here's a look at the methodology, since that's crucial. Since countries typically estimate their GDP in their own national price levels and currencies, GDPs are not easily comparable. "To be compared, they must be valued at a common price level and expressed in a common currency. The ICP uses purchasing power parities (PPPs) to effect this double conversion," according to the ICP. PPP is a way to compare income levels of different countries. It shows the ratio of prices in a national currency, for the same good or service, in different countries. "When converting national economic measures (e.g., GDP), into a common currency, PPPs are a more direct measure of what money can buy than exchange rates," according to the report.  The ICP gives a very basic example of how it works: "If the price of a hamburger in France is €4.80 and in the United States it is $4.00, the PPP for hamburgers between the two economies is $0.83 to the euro from the French perspective (4.00/4.80) and €1.20 to the dollar from the U.S. perspective (4.80/4.00). In other words, for every euro spent on hamburgers in France, $0.83 would have to be spent in the United States to obtain the same quantity and quality—that is, the same volume—of hamburgers. Conversely, for every dollar spent on hamburgers in the United States, €1.20 would have to be spent in France to obtain the same volume of hamburgers." The PPP-based world GDP totaled $90.64 trillion in 2011, compared with $70.29 trillion when measured by exchange rates. The report found that in 2011, the PPP-based China GDP amounted to $13.49 trillion. Chinese GDP simply based on the currency exchange rate was $7.32 trillion at the time. This is crucial. PPP-based U.S. GDP amounted to $15.53 trillion at the time. Giles extrapolates from this to show how the change in methodology gives China the upper hand:  "In 2005, the ICP thought China’s economy was less than half the size of the US, accounting for only 43 per cent of America’s total. Because of the new methodology – and the fact that China’s economy has grown much more quickly – the research placed China’s GDP at 87 percent of the US in 2011. ... "... With the IMF expecting China’s economy to have grown 24 per cent between 2011 and 2014 while the US is expected to expand only 7.6 per cent, China is likely to overtake the US this year." All that being said, it's important to remember that "PPPs are statistical estimates" and it's hard to gauge the margin of error. But it turns out, despite its economic slowdown, China could be well on its way to overtaking the U.S. this year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronA tourists uses a video camera atop a Big Bus double-decker tour bus as the tour passes the Federal Reserve Building headquarters in Washington.The Federal Reserve just wrapped up its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. As expected, the Fed kept its benchmark rate unchanged at low levels (between 0% and 0.25% ), and it tapered quantitative easing (QE) by another $10 billion. Under QE, monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities will be reduced to $20 billion from $25 billion and purchases of Treasuries will be reduced to $25 billion from $30 billion. QE has been the Fed's extraordinary effort to keep interest rates low and lending markets loose by pumping cash into the economy via bond purchases. "[G]rowth in economic activity has picked up recently, after having slowed sharply during the winter in part because of adverse weather conditions," said the FOMC. "Describing the slowing as “sharp” was likely a nod to the Q1 GDP report that came in below expectations," said Barclays' Michael Gapen. Earlier today, we learned that GDP growth decelerated to just 0.1% in Q1 from 2.6% in Q4. The FOMC also reiterated that the taper will continue as long as the economy keeps humming. "If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings," they said. But they also noted that "asset purchases are not on a preset course." "When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." The Fed's decision was unanimous. "[W]e wouldn't read too much into the unanimous vote, which means Minnesota Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota decided not to dissent this time," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "He made his point at the last meeting about not agreeing with the changes to the forward guidance. It makes little sense to continue objecting to a decision that has already been made." "Altogether, we continue to see the committee ending its asset purchase program in October and, should our inflation forecast prove accurate, move to raise the policy rate in mid-2015," said Gapen. There will be no press conference and there will be no updates to the Fed's economic forecasts. Here's the full statement: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March indicates that growth in economic activity has picked up recently, after having slowed sharply during the winter in part because of adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remains elevated. Household spending appears to be rising more quickly. Business fixed investment edged down, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions will continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in May, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $20 billion per month rather than $25 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $25 billion per month rather than $30 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Richard W. Fisher; Narayana Kocherlakota; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Jerome H. Powell; Jeremy C. Stein; and Daniel K. Tarullo. FREE AppDownload
FactsAboutHerbalife.comShane DinneenShane Dinneen, the young Pershing Square analyst who worked on the Herbalife short, has broken his silence since resigning from the hedge fund several months ago.  Dinneen wrote a blog post on Herbalife's first quarter earnings report for SeekingAlpha yesterday. He's also been writing incredibly long comments on Herbalife-related articles. So it looks like we could be hearing more from him.  Here's his summary from his first SeekingAlpha post: Dinneen played a major role in putting together Pershing Square's Herbalife short position. In December 2012, Pershing Square publicly delcared that it's short $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock. Pershing's founder Bill Ackman said he believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme." He's betting that the stock will go to $0 because regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will investigate the company and shut it down.  Dinneen got to help Ackman give a massive 342-slide presentation at that special Sohn event. That's something that most young analysts will never get to do in their career. In the months that followed, though, the stock rose higher and Pershing Square had amassed hundreds of millions in paper losses.  In the beginning of this year, Ackman sent a letter confirming that Dinneen had resigned from the fund a while ago. Prior to that, the Twittersphere had been speculating that Dinneen was no longer in Pershing's offices. In his investor letter, Ackman called Dinneen "one of the most talented investment analysts" he had ever worked with and someone he holds in "high regard." He also said that Dinneen is welcome back at Pershing Square at any time. Just last month, Herbalife confirmed that it's being investigated by the FTC.  Pershing Square still hasn't broken even on its Herbalife short. Read Dinneen's full article on SeekingAlpha » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff KowalskyThe General Motors logo is seen outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in Detroit, Michigan.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. government lost $11.2 billion on its bailout of General Motors Co, more than the $10.3 billion the Treasury Department estimated when it sold its remaining GM shares in December, according to a government report released on Wednesday. The $11.2 billion loss includes a write-off in March of the government's remaining $826 million investment in "old"GM, the quarterly report by a Treasury watchdog said. The U.S. government spent about $50 billion to bail out GM. As a result of the company's 2009 bankruptcy, the government's investment was converted to a 61 percent equity stake in the Detroit-based automaker, plus preferred shares and a loan. Treasury whittled down its GM stake through a series of stock sales starting in November 2010, with the remaining shares sold on December 9, 2013. At the time of the December sale, Treasury put the total loss at $10.3 billion but said it did not expect any significant proceeds from its remaining $826 million investment in "old" GM, the report by the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program said. The U.S. bailout of GM and Chrysler, which received about $12.5 billion, saved 1.5 million jobs in the United States, according to the Center for Automotive Research. Last week, GM posted its 17th consecutive profitable quarter. Earnings, however, were hurt by a $1.3 billion charge for the costs of various recalls, including for faulty ignition switches on 2.6 million cars. GM is under investigation by the Justice Department, U.S. auto safety regulators and Congress over its failure to detect the faulty ignition switch for over a decade. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is also investigating GM. (Reporting by Eric Beech; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
In 1997 Michael Pascucci sold the car leasing business he founded in the 1970s for $650 million. The business, Oxford Resources, was one of the first of its kind and helped to make Pascucci a millionaire. Since then, he's started more than 20 businesses including the Sebonack Golf Club, a top-100 golf course in Long Island, New York. In a recent interview with finance career site OneWire, Pascucci shares some invaluable advice for entrepreneurs. To start a successful business, he says, “I can tell you three things: One is find a need—one that exists or one you think may exist. Then get a very good solution to fill that need. Then once you have that solution, you need people to implement it, so now hire the very best people you can possibly buy. Have a standard to hire to. Never break your standard.” Pascucci says that his standard is mostly driven by track record, but interviews and your own intuition factor in as well. He also believes certain character traits are relevant: “The intangible is their integrity, their honesty, their candor, their willingness to want to help people and to want to provide the best product to their customer that they can possibly provide.” Watch the full interview below or check out the complete Open Door interview series on YouTube.  FREE AppDownload
BloombergTV via YouTubeAsset returns have a cold, according to Bill Gross. For most of us, sneezing is at best an inconvenience. But for Gross it is an existential release and physical pleasure. In a recent note, the PIMCO founder writes (via Zerohedge): There’s nothing like a good sneeze; maybe a hot shower or an ice cream sandwich, but no – nothing else even comes close. A sneeze is, to be candid, sort of half erotic, a release of pressure that feels oh so good either before or just after the Achoo! The air, along with 100,000 germs, comes shooting out of your nose faster than a race car at the Indy 500. It feels sooooo good that people used to sneeze on purpose. They’d use snuff and stick it up their nose; the tobacco high and the resultant nasal explosion being the fashion of the times. Healthier than some of the stuff people stick up their nose these days I suppose, but then that’s a generational thing. My generation is closer to the snuff than that other stuff. Yes, Gross made a cocaine reference. What he's actually talking about is the overall health of the global economy and the importance of understanding what a neutral federal funds rate means for our super-leveraged world. If we're not honest with ourselves about what rate the world can handle, the returns-flu won't go away. Right now the general consensus among Fed participants is that 4% would be ideal, Gross observes. But the way the world is operating, 2% is more realistic, he says. At PIMCO, we believe that this focus on the future “neutral” policy rate is the critical key to unlocking value in all asset markets. If future cash returns are 2% (our belief) instead of 4%, then other assets such as stocks and real estate must be assumed to be more fairly priced as well. Current fears of asset bubbles would be unfounded. A 2% neutral policy rate, however, is not a “win/win” for investors. It comes at a price – the cost being a financial future where asset returns are much lower than historical levels. So what can investors get over the counter? Gross: Most pension funds assume 7–8% total returns in order to fund future retirement liabilities. Investors want their “cake,” priced at current market prices, but they want to “eat” future returns of near double-digits. That won’t happen with a 2% neutral policy rate.  Still there are ways to fight back – most of which involve taking different risks than you may be commonly used to taking: alternative assets, hedge funds, levered closed-end funds, a higher proportion of stocks vs. bonds in a personal portfolio. We heard you loud and clear, Bill. FREE AppDownload
APSenator Charles Schumer (D-NY), foreground, with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), backgroundSenate Democrats plan to bring a constitutional amendment to the Senate floor this year that would undo recent rulings on campaign finance made by the Supreme Court.  The decisions — including 2010's Citizens United case and the recent McCutcheon v. FEC — have eliminated limits on millions of dollars' worth of donations to political campaigns from corporations, labor unions, and generally wealthy individuals. The amendment, which is being sponsored by New Mexico Sen. Tom Udall, would give back authority to Congress and state governments in regulating campaign spending. The amendment is supported by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and New York Sen. Chuck Schumer, who announced the legislation at a Senate Rules Committee hearing Wednesday. Schumer said there would be a vote on the amendment by the end of the year. "The Supreme Court is trying to take this country back to the days of the robber barons, allowing dark money to flood our elections," Schumer said. "That needs to stop, and it needs to stop now. The only way to undo the damage the court has done is to pass Senator Udall’s amendment to the Constitution, and Senate Democrats are going to try to do that. Before the year is out, we’re going to bring it up on the Senate floor for a vote, where we hope Republicans will join us in ensuring the wealthy can’t drown out middle-class voices in our democracy." The 2010 Citizens United ruling removed restrictions on corporations and unions from spending limits on political campaigns, which led to the advent of so-called Super PACs. The recent McCutcheon decision struck down caps that individuals can make to candidates or political parties during a two-year election cycle. Udall said his amendment would do five things:  It's extremely unlikely Udall's amendment will ever become part of the U.S. Constitution. It would need to be passed by two-thirds of both the House and Senate, as well as ratified by three-quarters of the states. However, the amendment serves as more fodder for Senate Democrats in an election year that has seen them go full throttle with attacks on the billionaire Republican megadonor Koch brothers. The full text of the amendment is below:  FREE AppDownload
USDA.govThe pace of U.S. GDP growth decelerated sharply to just 0.1% in Q1 from 2.6% in Q4. This was much lower than the 1.2% expected by economists. There are obviously a lot of moving parts to the GDP report consider before jumping to any major conclusions. But the bottom line is that the growth grinded sharply lower. But that's not holding back some glass-half-full statements from Wall Street. "Q1 GDP is highly preliminary. There will be three more revisions to these figures between now and the end of July," tweeted Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. "0.1% GDP is history, and it’s a good thing too. Forget about it. What’s up next?" said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "On the investment side, while this is clearly a more weaker than expected number, there are a number of more forward looking indicators that are actually quite encouraging so we wouldn’t be too worried abt this particular number," said Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. All three quotes aren't mutually exclusively. Many economists have flagged the weak investment numbers as a concern. However, it seems to belie the encouraging signs from other indicators, as Hatzius notes. Commercial and industrial loans are on the rise, and we recently learned durable goods orders were much stronger than expected. Overall, the takeaway from Wall Street's economists is similar to what we've heard since the beginning of the year: it was the unusually bad weather, and things should get better. FREE AppDownload
Wizard of Oz, screenshotNow that Barclays is officially creating a bad bank and Skip McGee is officially leaving Lehman, Barclays is changing. Fixed income is going down. Big swinging bankers are going down. Equities salespeople and traders and advisory bankers are going up. Self-effacing types who don’t dance in the limelight and demand huge pay for themselves and their key acolytes seem to be going up too. McGee’s exit from Barclays reportedly comes after he was refused a promotion into the investment banking CEO role now occupied by Tom King. Like McGee, King is a dyed-in-the wool U.S. investment banker. Unlike McGee, King has been relatively low-key. King joined Salomon’s U.S. M&amp;A business in 1989 and went on to become global head of M&amp;A at Citigroup, where he was based out of London from 2000. When King left Citi for Barclays in 2010 he was lauded as a, ‘highly intelligent banker with an understated style.’ “CEOs took to his quiet, thoughtful and intellectual style,” Michael Kirkwood, chairman of Ondra Partners and a former colleague of King’s told Financial News at the time. Texan-born McGee, on the other hand, has a reputation for brashness. He reportedly pushed for Lehman Brothers to take on more risk back in 2005 and 2006 and wrote a ranty letter to his son’s school objecting to ‘negative gender stereotyping.’ Now that McGee’s gone in a fit of pique, it looks a lot like he King were engaged in a power struggle at Barclays since at least late 2012. King joined the British bank as co-head of global corporate finance and sole head of the EMEA investment banking division in December 2009. When King arrived, McGee was already installed from Lehman as head of global investment banking at Barclays and was therefore nominally his boss. In a restructuring in October 2012, however, McGee was ‘promoted’ to become chief executive of corporate and investment banking in the Americas and King was promoted into McGee’s old role as global head of investment banking. Reporting lines were blurred in the process. This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
So what. What is the societal impact of the art market collapsing in on itself (as it always does once stocks stop rising)? What happens to the actual economy if Twitter can’t get back over the IPO print? What’s the effect on the nation if the Sand Hill Road Maserati dealership wait-list drops back down to 6 months from 10? I’m going to go ahead and say none. Zero impact. How do I know? Because if the inflation of a bubble hasn’t benefited anyone on the way up, how widely can its deflation be felt? No one else is playing. No one’s in except the 1% and the benefits have largely accrued to the .1% or the .01% anyway. Unlike the dot com bubble and the housing / credit bubble, this time around there was such exclusivity on the way up that it almost doesn’t matter. Almost nobody got hired as a result of the Rich Man’s Bubble, almost no one got a raise either. In 2000, everyone was daytrading. Not today. In 2006, everyone was financing everything in sight and acquiring homes. Not today. All we got this time around was a lot of cheap web storage somewhere in the ether, a half-dozen useful (free) apps and a handful of nephews and son-in-laws who were momentarily billionaires on paper. Big f***ing deal. That the enormous prosperity of the new bubble wasn’t spilling over to 99% of the nation was largely seen as a curse. Maybe now it’ll be seen as a blessing in disguise. To those who have been playing, I’m sure you’ve done well enough by now anyway. It’s okay. Sorry if you missed your IPO window. Don’t worry, we’ll blow up another one of these bad boys soon enough. This article originally appeared at The Reformed Broker.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
U.S. GDP grew at a measly 0.1% rate in Q1. Personal consumption grew by 3.0%, adding 2 percentage points of growth to GDP. Meanwhile exports fell 7.6% taking a full percentage point of growth from GDP. Each component of GDP varies widely in how much it contributes to growth. The graphics gurus at Reuters put together this chart showing what and by how much each major measure of the economy added and subtracted from GDP growth. REUTERS FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersItalian designers Stefano Gabbana stands next to Domenico Dolce as they talk to the media during a party in ShanghaiMILAN (Reuters) - Fashion designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana were sentenced to one year and six months each in jail on Wednesday, over charges of hiding hundreds of millions of euros from Italian tax authorities. Italy's appeals court upheld a conviction given last June to the pair, who are as famous as the stars they dress, for allegedly using Luxembourg holding company Gado to avoid paying taxes on royalties of about 1 billion euros ($1.38 billion). The previous decision, by a lower court, handed the duo suspended jail sentences of 20 months each and imposed a fine of up to 10 million euros. Dolce and Gabbana have always denied any wrongdoing. ($1 = 0.7237 Euros) (Reporting by Isla Binnie) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFor a minute, it seemed as if Wall Street was in the clear, about to settle into a boring new post-crisis normal after paying off billions in federal fines and getting weighed down by piles of compliance rules and paperwork. The future wouldn't be exciting, but at least bank balance sheets were recovering from the ravage of the mortgage crisis. Even Bank of America and Citigroup, arguably the sickest institutions after 2008, seemed to be getting healthier by 2011. Warren Buffett was getting paid. The world was righting itself. Then, for some reason, slowly, everything started to suck again. Think about it. This week alone, Bank of America announced that it had made a big mistake calculating its capital and had significantly less than it had told regulators during its first-quarter earnings. BNP Paribas reportedly may have to pay a fine of as much as $2 billion for violating U.S. international sanctions, while prosecutors reportedly are getting ready to press criminal charges against it and Credit Suisse. The banks might even plead guilty. And then there's Barclays bank. Not only does it have to create a 'bad bank' to separate and try to spin off more than $90 billion worth of toxic assets it's holding (like Citigroup during the darkest days of 2009), but it was also embarrassingly called out in the Financial Times' opinion page this weekend by a former investment bank head and shareholder who wrote that Barclays was overcompensating bankers for abysmal performance. After two years of earnings misses, Barclays' numbers make that hard to argue with. Accompanying this deluge of bad news there's the feeling that the rest of the world is paying attention again. Credit Michael Lewis for that. His book "Flash Boys," which tells the story of how a few traders at the Royal Bank of Canada realized that high-frequency trading firms, in collusion with stock exchanges, are capitalizing on their unfair advantage in the market, has everyone wondering how safe the stock market is to play in. It was on "60 Minutes," so mom and pop found out about the whole thing. SEC Chairwoman Mary Jo White had to hear all about it at the House Financial Services hearing yesterday, when congressmen asked her over and over if she realized that Americans have zero faith in her agency's ability to do its job. Should we go on? Thanks to its accounting mistake, Bank of America can't pay dividends back to shareholders or buy back stock, but it has company. Citigroup can't do any of that either, since the Federal Reserve decided the bank simply didn't have adequate oversight over its operations. As CLSA analyst Mike Mayo pointed out to Business Insider, if you want to make the argument that these banks are too big to manage, now is the time to do it. "Elizabeth Warren is somewhere doing a jig right now," said Mayo, after Bank of America admitted its error this week. The thing is, it isn't just Warren. In fact, it isn't just the left. On the right side of the political spectrum, Tea Party politicians like Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) have never been friendly to Wall Street. On top of that, Senator David Camp, a Republican not known for his radical views, joined the Democrats in opposing a beloved Wall Street tax loophole called carried interest. And he may even live to see another day, proving that you can turn your back on The Street and live to tell about it. Not even Goldman Sachs is immune to the malaise. Inside the bank there is concern for its equities-trading business. Goldman is losing share to its competitors, and Goldman doesn't lose anything. It doesn't even like the word "share." So for now, Wall Street is looking a lot like Mudville after Casey struck out. There's your update. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersStephen Elop, vice president of Nokia, gestures while introducing the Nokia Lumia 930 mobile phone during Microsoft's "build" conference in San FranciscoHELSINKI (Reuters) - Former Nokia boss Stephen Elop will get 24.2 million euros ($33.4 million) in cash and shares after leaving the Finnish company, more than 25 percent higher than originally envisaged following a surge in its share price. Nokia announced in September a 5.6-billion-euro deal to sell its handset unit to Microsoft. Elop himself is returning to the software giant after the deal closed on Friday, and based on Nokia's share price in September he had been in line to get around 18.8 million euros for the early termination of his contract. Elop, whose severance payment includes just over 4 million euros in cash, stood down as Nokia chief executive in September and led the phone unit from then until the closing of the deal with Microsoft. The unit's operating loss widened to 306 million euros in the first quarter of this year. Microsoft paid 70 percent of the total severance payment, and Nokia the remaining 30 percent, Nokia said in its 2013 annual report. In a separate filing, Nokia said Elop's successor's base salary was smaller than his, with Rajeev Suri set to get 1 million euros, compared with 1.1 million euros in Elop's contract. (Reporting by Sakari Suoninen; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
EBay announced its first quarter earnings report on Tuesday. The company beat analyst estimates for both earnings per share (EPS) and revenue, but the stock is down nearly 5% this morning after lighter-than-expected guidance. For the most part, the earnings were pretty boring.  However, there was one thing that was highly unusual: eBay decided to repatriate $9 billion in cash that was overseas. In doing that, it took a $3 billion tax hit, so it only keeps $6 billion of its cash.  This is very rare. Companies don't like to touch offshore cash because they don't want the tax hit. Apple, for instance, is taking on debt instead of repatriating its overseas cash.  Why is eBay doing this? On the earnings call, it didn't really say, though it hinted at acquisitions/future products. "Just to be clear, we are not announcing any large U.S.-based acquisition," CEO John Donahoe said on the call. "What we are doing is ensuring that we have the capital available for future U.S. needs." It's hard not to speculate that the "growing opportunities" eBay sees in the U.S. could include an acquisition. Mobile payments are an increasingly hot industry — there's gossip that Facebook and Apple are both revving up mobile payments efforts. EBay could try to continue to stay on top of markets it has already entered with PayPal and Venmo.  One big company that's on the block is Square. Lots of people are wondering if eBay would buy Square.  "I'd be surprised if eBay was even considering acquiring Square," says BI Intelligence's payment analyst John Heggestuen. "PayPal already offers products like PayPal Here and Venmo that do the same things as Square's card reader and Square Cash and they have a much more developed marketplace. The only advantage to them would be gaining access to the large number of small and micro-sized business that use Square, but that segment hasn't proven to be profitable yet." The company also used $1.8 billion of its annual $5 billion allocation to buy back shares this quarter, but Donahoe said that the company is not committing to financing that share buyback with the $6 billion in offshore cash.  "Our capital allocation philosophy has been to maintain our financial flexibility to capitalize on opportunities as they arise," Donahoe said. "The reality is, we’re seeing growing opportunities in the U.S." FREE AppDownload
Phalinn Ooi/flickr Spending on healthcare grew an astounding 9.9% in the Bureau of Economic Analysis' advance estimate of first-quarter GDP.  It's the biggest percent change in healthcare spending since 1980, when healthcare spending jumped 10% in the third quarter. Analysts said it's primarily due to a consumption boost from the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Adjusted for inflation, America is spending more on healthcare than ever before. Personal consumption grew by 3.0%, about half of which was due to the growth in healthcare spending, said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist for Pantheon Macroeconomics.  "If health-care spending had been unchanged, the headline GDP growth number would have been -1.0%," Shepherdson said. A BEA representative said the uptick "reflects additional spending associated with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act."  The first-quarter advance estimate reflects spending from January through March, the first three months when millions of people who gained insurance by signing up on exchanges established by the law or by qualifying for Medicaid coverage under the program's expansion.  Jared Bernstein, the former chief economist to U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, speculated that the growth was more likely associated with the Medicaid expansion at this point.  Sign-ups through the exchanges exploded in March, the last month of the first open enrollment period. Of the more than 8 million people who eventually enrolled in insurance plans, nearly half signed up in March or in a special two-week extended period in April. This means the uptick in healthcare spending could be even bigger next quarter. The detailed consumption data in the advance GDP report displays that spending on doctors and hospital services began to rise rapidly last fall, when the law known as Obamacare was implemented. "Both are now running at more than twice their pre-Obamacare trend, indicating that pent-up/hidden demand for healthcare was huge," Shepherdson said.  "Next question: How long will it last?" Here's a chart from Pantheon that shows the growth over the past year in spending on doctor and hospital services, the two factors that dominate the healthcare portion of GDP: Ian Shepherdson/Pantheon Macroeconomics Here's a chart from Business Insider's Andy Kierz that shows the annualized quarterly change since 1980: Andy Kiersz/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Dr Pepper may not get the exposure of carbonated competitors Coca-Cola and Pepsi, but its fervent followers have kept the company alive for more than a century. Thanks to its fans and a consistent presence in popular culture, Dr Pepper remains an iconic American brand.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
Chicago business conditions, as measured by the Institute for Supply Management's purchasing manager's index, came in at 63. Expectations were for 57, from 55.9. New orders and production expanded to their highest levels since October. Employment rebounded. ISM economist Philip Uglow: Last month’s downturn appears to have been a blip with the Barometer increasing sharply in April to the highest since October 2013. Looking at both March and April in aggregate leaves the pace of growth steady at around the 60 mark, which chimes with continued growth in the US economy. Full release » We've had a busy data morning Wednesday, with some very muddled prints. ADP private payrolls beat expectations, but GDP hit a mere 0.1%. Here's what Chicago PMI has looked like recently: Econoday FREE AppDownload
Tradesports.comThe co-founder of the popular online betting site Intrade is re-launching another prediction marketplace in the U.S. called Tradesports.com. Intrade was a prediction market where users could make trades on political and world events. It was really popular on Wall Street. Intrade shut down its operations in the U.S. last year after being sued by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. Instead of predicting election outcomes like Intrade, the new site will predict sporting events. It's basically fantasy sports meets Wall Street. The site will let its users play fantasy sports in real-time for real money. In other words, users can make trades in real-time based on how a game is going similar to how they would trade the stock market.  "It's really made for the wheelhouse of these traders who love sports," the company's CEO Ron Bernstein, a former options floor trader, told us. Bernstein said that it's not a sports betting site. It's "skill-based fantasy sports" on a real-time exchange. Here's how it works: Tradesports.com will offer trading contests that have entry fees as low as $2 (There are also free-to-play games for fun, too). Every contestant gets the same stake. They can buy and sell positions in sports teams and players amongst other contestants during the game. Whoever makes the most money at the end of the game wins. There's also a chatroom for every contest and a leaderboard showing contestants standings.  Tradesports.com is only for U.S. residents. It's available in 40 out of 50 states. (The original European Tradesports.com betting site closed in 2008.) Like the way Intrade was good with predicting political outcomes, Bernstein believes that Tradesports would be a great way to gather data and analysis on sports teams and players. Tradesports.com is available in the public beta today. They're currently signing folks up for the waitlist.  Tradesports.com FREE AppDownload
Guwashi999 via Compfight ccTokyo, JapanOn Monday night, a group of investors announced they'd agreed to shoulder obligations in a class-action settlement against MtGox executives with the goal of preempting the liquidation of what once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange. On the surface, attempting to preserve MtGox doesn't make much sense. Its collapse is widely accepted as Bitcoin's largest setback to date, and the exchange would therefore seem to have no brand equity left. What's more, 553,000 Bitcoins belonging to Gox customers are missing. They're believed to have been stolen.  But the guys behind a group called Sunlot have some heft. Two are execs at major venture capital firms that combined have invested more than $1.5 billion. Another helped build electronic trading platforms for Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  We asked that investor, John Betts, whether there is some kind of underlying asset they are targeting that no one has realized yet.  In a phone conversation Tuesday, Betts stressed the group's priority is returning funds to customers, and in restoring confidence to the broader Bitcoin ecosystem. Under a liquidation scenario, it's possible customers would face greater difficulty in retrieving the entirety of their missing Bitcoins. And even if some were recovered, Betts said, it's conceivable the alleged thieves could unwittingly end up with a share of them. Sunlot hopes to hire an independent auditor who could resolve these issues, and they're offering an incentive bounty of 10% of recovered assets would reward those participating in the recovery.   "We will get access to log files, bank records, data, so we can do a full forensic audit, to best explain how this occurred and come up with a strategy for recovering the missing assets." Unaudited reports suggest MtGox the company may have 200,000 Bitcoins to its name. Those have been accounted for but are under the control of MtGox's bankruptcy administrator. At Tuesday's prices, those 200,00 Bitcoins would be worth $88,400,000. "Recovered funds go to customers until they are made whole," Betts said. "In the possibility that we are able to recover assets above and beyond what the customers lost, then technically they will go to the company, of which the customers will own 16.5%... That will put the company in an earlier position to post a dividend further benefiting customers from their losses." The outcome of Sunlot's entire rescue gambit lies in the hands of the administrator. Betts said Mark Karpeles, Gox's former CEO, reneged on an agreement to sell Sunlot the company directly, and instead began bankruptcy proceedings, making the administrator the defacto overseer of the exchange.  "Mark decided to, based on bad legal advice,  put his interests ahead of creditors so he wouldn't have to appear in U.S. courts," Betts said. Karpeles did not respond to an email request for comment. FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsJan HatziusHere's Goldman's Jan Hatzius on that GDP report: On the investment side, while this is clearly a more weaker than expected number, there are a number of more forward looking indicators that are actually quite encouraging so we wouldn’t be too worried abt this particular number. Also weaker residential investment -7.9% in the fourth quarter, certainly fairly meaningful when taken cumulatively. Overall somewhat weaker than expected – nothing here that would really change our forward looking outlook significantly. Still think growth will be stronger in coming quarters – forecast for second quarter is 3%, feel broadly okay about that despite this negative surprise. More on the GDP report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
The GDP report just came out and it was a big miss. In Q1, the economy grew only 0.1%, rather than the 1.2% that was expected. But really the report won't be a big deal. First of all, we know that there were all kinds of issues due to weather. Check the table below, and direct your eyes to the far right column, under 2014. BEA You can see that personal consumption boomed 3.0%, one of the best numbers in years. This is real end-demand without which the economy has no hope. Where the economy was very weak was on private investment, which was known to be weak due to the bad weather. Meanwhile, private inventories fell 5.7%. That's a huge drop, but inventories always go back and forth, build ups and drawdowns. So after two straight quarters of drawdowns, now it's bound to back up. There was also a huge drop in exports, which doesn't seem likely to continue, given the stabilizing global economy. So bottom line: The economy isn't doing great, but this report isn't that bad. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri A U.S. flag sticks out the window of a damaged hot-rod car in a suburban area after a tornado near Vilonia, Arkansas.The Bureau of Economic Analysis' advance estimate of first-quarter GDP is out and the numbers are mixed. GDP growth slowed to just 0.1% in Q1 from 2.6% in Q4. This was much weaker than the 1.2% growth expected. Economists agree that the unusually harsh winter weather was largely to blame. Personal consumption grew by 3.0%, which was better than the 2.0% expected. This contributed to 2 percentage points of growth in GDP. Then again, excluding the jump in health-care consumption, personal consumption would've been up by about 1.7%, notes Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Sheperdson. "The deceleration in real GDP growth in the first quarter primarily reflected downturns in exports and in nonresidential fixed investment, a larger decrease in private inventory investment, a deceleration in PCE, and a downturn in state and local government spending that were partly offset by an upturn in federal government spending and a downturn in imports," said the BEA. Nonresidential fixed investment, a measure of business spending or capital expenditures, fell 2.8%. "The contraction in residential investment and cap-ex is more than simply weather," tweeted Bloomberg economist Joe Brusuelas. "Raises the hurdle for 3% growth in 2014." Exports of goods and services tumbled 7.6% hacking a full percentage point off of GDP growth. Government expenditures declined by 0.5%. Real final sales — GDP less change in private inventories — increased by 0.7%, compared to a 2.7% increase in Q4. The change in private inventories shaved 0.57 percentage points off of growth. "Overall, disappointing news on first-quarter GDP growth, but it was principally due to the weather," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "We anticipate that second-quarter GDP growth will rebound to 3.5%, and we don't expect these figures to affect the pace of the Fed's QE taper, particularly not when conditions in the labour market appear to be strengthening." Let's not forget that this is only the very first estimate of Q1 GDP. "Q1 GDP is highly preliminary," tweeted Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. "There will be three more revisions to these figures between now and the end of July. Here's a table breaking down growth by GDP component: BEA   FREE AppDownload
ADP said payrolls surged 220,000. Expectations were for a reading of 210,000. Last month was revised to 209,000 from 191,000. Here's the breakdown: Here are the charts: ADP ADPADPADP Around this time last month, we reported that some analysts were rebelling against the weight given ADP's ability to predict the actual jobs number from the BLS. The contention was that it is too reliant on BLS data and not on its own figures, making it sort of useless. What's more, the analysts said, ADP wasn't even using BLS data properly, and that it often ended up with a number closer to the previous month's official figure.  Then ADP totally proved them wrong by basically nailing the number, which came in at 192,000.  In a note this morning, HFE's Jim O'Sullivan says Friday's print will prove another test, but that the critics seem to have outkicked their coverage: ...while we have never viewed the ADP series as a very  reliable monthly indicator, and would prefer if the data were more  clearly independent from the BLS series, we think the scathing criticism is not merited. Realistically, the ADP series will never make the   employment report redundant, but it does at least provide another  gauge of whether trends are suddenly changing. As with jobless  claims, its message a few months ago was that the sudden weakening in payrolls in December and January was exaggerated.  For the record, the median ADP miss, without regard to sign, has been 36K for the initially reported data in the 18 months since Moody’s became the compiler. That is a clear improvement relative to the 62K median miss in the prior 18 months. However, it is slightly larger than the 31K median consensus miss in the last 18 months; the median consensus miss was 44K in the prior 18 months. Let's see what happens. FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/ Getty Images  China may overtake America as the world biggest economy earlier than expected, by the end of this year, rather than by 2019. New data from the International Comparison Programme, a UN statistical database which compares purchasing power across borders and currencies, indicates China’s size may have been underestimated. The Economist says China’s purchasing power parities (PPP) is now up to 20% higher than economists had previously estimated in the 2005 survey. And, according to The Economist’s calculations, China will now take the crown as the world’s largest economy by the end of 2014. Some estimates put China’s GDP at $7.5 trillion compared to America at $15 trillion. However, China’s growth is, and has been for years, streaking ahead of the US and the rest of the world. The IMF currently shows real GDP (Gross Domestic Product) for the US in 2014 growing at 2.8% compared to China’s 7.5%. Previous calculations using IMF numbers had China overtaking America in 2019. Other estimates using OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) numbers had the takeover point happening in 2016. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APTwitter CEO Dick Costolo.It's an ugly start to the morning for Twitter.  In pre-market trading, the stock is down 13%. The more time investors spend thinking about last night's earnings, the less they like what they see.  After reporting its earnings, Twitter was down 8%. Then after the call, it was down 11%. Now it's down 13%.  Josh Brown of Ritholtz Wealth Management says that 11 Wall Street analysts have cut their target price for Twitter this morning.  The big problem for Twitter is that its usage growth has decelerated dramatically. Business InsiderIt has 255 million monthly active users, which was up by 14 million sequentially. That growth is not good enough for a social network that wants to be a global mainstream phenomenon. To put Twitter's user growth in context, Facebook, which has over 1 billion users already, added 48 million users during that same period. Apple, which sells $600-plus devices, added more new users over the past six months than Twitter.  What's perhaps even worse is that Twitter CEO Dick Costolo said on the earnings call that daily active users are in the high 40% of monthly active users, which is flat with where it was pre-IPO. Facebook's daily active users are 63% of monthly active users.  This ratio is particularly bad for Twitter, because Costolo defined Twitter's mission repeatedly on the call as being "the best companion experience to what's happening in [the] world." But if fewer than half of Twitter's users are using it daily, then clearly it's not the best companion for their life.  Another problem: Timeline views per monthly active unique user are down on a year-over-year percentage. On the call, Costolo attributed this to changes in Twitter's design. Instead of having to sort through the timeline to figure out a conversation, Twitter streamlined the process, putting it all in one thread. That cuts down on timeline views but delivers a better experience. Costolo says retweets and favorites are up 26%, a sign that engagement remains strong.TwitterNow, amid all the doom and gloom, there is a way to look at Twitter positively, if you want.  On the call, Costolo said that Twitter is a mainstream service. "We had 3.3 billion views of tweets just about the Oscars in the 48 hours after the Oscars." He didn't cite where the number came from, but those views were across media platforms like newspapers, magazines, TV, and websites.  Twitter, as a service, is clearly well known and mainstream. Despite the lower-than-expected user growth, Twitter beat expectations on the top and bottom lines. This shows that Twitter has a solid business that can continue to grow, even if user growth isn't off the charts.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr via Heisenberg MediaUber CEO Travis KalanickThe Uber Wars have officially arrived across Europe's cities. As the ride-sharing app (or, as is the preferred parlance these days, "transportation network company") has rolled out across the continent, its parent company has become embroiled in a complicated mesh of courtroom battles and public inquiries, with smartphone-enabled ride-hailing locked in a multi-city showdown with existing taxi services. In France, Europe's Uber wars have crossed over into actual violence, and this week even got a homophobic mini-scandal as a side order. Uber and existing taxi services have been fighting each other on several fronts. First came Brussels, where Uber launched in February and ran into trouble pretty much straight away. By early March, two cars signed up to Uber had already been seized by police for flouting local taxi regulations. This month, a city court effectively banned Uber, threatening drivers with a€10,000 fine. Uber is accused of exhibiting 'cowboy behavior.' The trouble has also spread to Germany. A fortnight ago, a Berlin court placed an interim injunction brought by the Berlin Taxi Association against UberBlack, the Uber Town Car service that works by app but uses professional drivers. The injunction ruled that UberBlack's vehicles are officially car rentals rather than taxis, and that therefore they should return to a depot to wait after each trip rather than roam the streets. Uber has said it will counter-sue in any legal case that could cause them to lose business. In reality, it won't need to. The plaintiff in the Berlin case says he doesn't have the means to fight legal challenges to his injunction anyway, and thus won't push for its enforcement. In the meantime, the German Taxi Federation is putting together a case against UberPOP, Uber’s newest ultra-low cost ride-sharing option. In other words, the current injunction looks like it's just round one. Over in France, the debate has both reached the level of national politics and turned violent. In January, Parisian taxi drivers went as far as vandalizing an Uber car during a taxi strike, in one instance trying to break into a vehicle carrying a passenger. Meanwhile, MPs have just finished a two-month inquiry into taxi services across the country, including their relation to app-based services like Uber. They've recommended (but not yet implemented) protection for official taxis, rolling out plans to make them free to hire using GPS apps while forbidding this service to non-official equivalents. If this sounds harsh, a yet stricter attempt to enforce a minimum 15-minute delay between requesting a rideshare car and being picked up was overturned in court this February.  Meanwhile, Uber has hit the European news cycle again after a homophobic abuse incident in Paris on Sunday. An Uber driver picking up three students allegedly refused them with the words, "No, I don't take fags." The students tried to book another Uber car soon after – only to inadvertently call the same driver back for a fresh bout of verbal abuse and an alleged threat to smash their phones. The driver was instantly struck off Uber's roster, but while French taxi drivers aren't famed for their soft-spoken demeanor, the incident still wasn't the best advertisement for a de-regulated approach to accepting drivers. For anyone following ride-share debates in the United States, the European battle lines being drawn will be familiar. Uber's defenders see attempts to limit their scope as the work of cartels. Freezing out Uber means slashing the potential number of vehicles for hire and keeping prices high to protect established businesses at the expense of customers. Uber’s critics see the service as a race to the bottom, a way of ducking valuable regulations in place to ensure the quality of existing taxi services, slashing working class wages and simultaneously using tax loopholes to dodge paying their fair share into the system. The pro-Uber camp has some high-profile advocates, such as the Dutch EU Digital Agenda commissioner Neelie Kroes. In a press release following the Brussels ban, she asked: "Are the police now going to spy on our phones to see when we are making Uber booking? Are we going to bankrupt people and send them to jail for trying to support their families with income as a driver? As if the police in Brussels don't have anything better to do." For others, the fight is actually the other way around, with a U.S. corporation whose value approaches $3.5 billion taking on small European taxi associations who lack the means to fight back on an equal footing against legal pressure. As Germany’s Die Zeit puts it: With huge cash reserves behind it, Uber acts like a robber baron … The Berlin taxi operator plaintiffs could try pushing through the district court’s injunction – which won’t be enforced – but Uber has announced that it will sue in all cases.  If the small business owner with his four taxis and nine employees loses later, he fears massive damage claims.  So Uber can just go ahead. There’s some official backing for this attitude. Thomas Thévenoud, the MP who led France’s enquiry into taxis, has also denounced the company's stance: The cowboy behavior of Uber, this group partly financed by Google that, through a tax optimization device, escapes taxation in France and whose economic model rests mainly on illegal taxis via the UberPOP app. Spanish taxi drivers are now calling for an Uber ban, suggesting that this is a struggle that’s far from over. There's a degree of ugliness to the fight – what with the tire-slashing and legal saber rattling – but overall it may still do some good. By shining a light on both taxi and transportation network companies’ practices, it's at least giving people a chance to see if the claims of both camps stand up to full scrutiny. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench BNP Paribas bank logo is seen at their presentation of their 2010 annual results in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - BNP Paribas &lt;BNPP.PA&gt; faces "uncertainty" over the size of a possible fine for breaching U.S. sanctions on payments involving certain countries, the French bank's chief financial officer said in an interview on Wednesday. "There is uncertainty with respect to the amount and the nature of penalties the U.S. will impose," Lars Machenil told Reuters Insider television. Citing a $1.1 billion provision set aside by BNP for potential litigation costs, he added: "It's not impossible that the fine is far in excess of the provision." Commenting on the outlook for BNP's robust capital base, Machenil said that the bank's "excess" capital could be used for bolt-on acquisitions but ruled out buying back shares at their current valuation. (Reporting by Lionel Laurent; Editing by James Regan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA phone hangs above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening of the market August 19, 2011. Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has the rundown of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning, and welcome to Month-End!   US futures are starting this FOMC day on the back foot, as we have sharp weakness in some major “Momentum” Stocks ---&gt; TWTR is down 14% (Lowest since IPO), EBAY is off 4%, YELP 2.5%, and LNKD, FB and AMZN all 1%+ lower.   In Europe, Lower Inflation and a Retail Sales Miss in Germany has Doves excited, pressing the DAX toward unchanged in average volume.   EU fins are under pressure today, led by a 4% drop in BNP as U.S. Sanctions-Probe Costs May Swell.   We have Russian stocks off small, the Micex looking to exit April flat MTD.  Over in Asia, Nikkei gained small – but the Yen popping as street disappointed BOJ did not expand stimulus.  Chinese markets ended higher, but Chinese banks saw some pressure on Stress test headlines.    In Single Stocks, we have 29 S&amp;P companies reporting today – Pre Open we see ADP, ADT, D, EXC, GRMN, HES, IP, PBI, SO, TWX, WLP – After the bell we see EQIX, MET, SYMC, TSO, WDC, WMB, YELP The 10YY is slightly higher, but remains under the 200dma – we have the Fed today at 2pm – where they are expected to further trim its monthly bond purchases by $10 billion, to $45 billion – There is no Presser today - Yellen speaks at 8:30 tomorrow.   The € is gaining from lows on the $ as PIIGS yields are dropping as Spain’s Economy Grows at Fastest Pace in Six Years – Despite the tailwind from the falling Dollar, we have a sea of red in commodities this AM:  Silver is off another 1.5%, while Gold continues to trade under the 200dma and $1300/oz.   WTI Set for Biggest Monthly Loss in five as inventories explode to 82Y+ highs in the USA.  Scheduled Catalysts today include ADP employment at 8:15, at 8:30, we get GDP and Former Fed Chairman Bernanke speaks, 9am brings ISM Milwaukee - at 10 we get Retail Sales annual benchmark revisions – we hear about Oil Inventories at 10:30 – FOMC announcement is at 2pm–At 3pm, New York Fed to issue QE schedule for May – and at 3:30, we hear from Bernanke again as he speaks at Brookings FREE AppDownload
New York City bagels are so renowned that people on the West Coast are willing to stand in line for two hours in the rain to get a taste of day-old versions of authentic city bagels. We visited top New York City bagel shop Ess-a-Bagel to see how these doughy breakfast staples are made. Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014. The Federal Reserve wraps up its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting today at 2:00 p.m. ET. At that time, we'll get their latest policy statement. The consensus is for the Fed to leave interest rates unchanged and to continue tapering its quantitative easing program by another $10 billion. Here's Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey: The April FOMC meeting will probably be a quiet one compared with the March meeting, with no press conference or Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) to be released. The assessment of economic activity in the statement will likely be upgraded somewhat to reflect the passing weather drag, while the Fed will probably take a benign view of recent developments on inflation and financial conditions. Although the market-implied path of the federal funds rate moved up a bit since the last meeting, broader financial conditions did not tighten. A further tapering in asset purchases of $10bn/month is almost a foregone conclusion. We anticipate no substantive changes to the policy language, following the addition of the “considerable time” forward guidance in March. It looks likely that Minneapolis Fed President Kocherlakota will not dissent at the April meeting. So, it'll stay the course. We'll cover the announcement live at 2:00 p.m. ET today at BusinessInsider.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSVasily FedosenkoGood morning! Here's what you need to know. Fed Day. The FOMC will give its latest guidance on monetary policy at 2 p.m. Bill McBride at Calculated Risk says it'll be mostly staying the course. "I expect the FOMC to announce a $10 billion decrease in asset purchases, to blame the early year weakness mostly on the weather, and to express some concern about housing and also concern that inflation is too low." Twitter Shares Sink. The stock is down 12.6% before the bell after the San Francisco-based group announced disappointing user growth. "Costolo's explanations [for the miss] were admirable, but fell short," BI's Jay Yarow said. "When the call started, Twitter was down 8-9%. By the end of the call, it was down 10-11%."  Mortgage Demand Plummets. Applications fell 5.9% to their lowest level since December 2000. Refi demand fell 7% to the lowest level since 2008.   Japan PMI. Japan's April Markit manufacturing survey yielded some mixed results. The headline PMI fell to 49.4 in April from 53.9 in March. That's the first sub-50 reading in 14 months. Any reading below 50 signals contraction.“As was expected, the implementation of the increase in the sales tax negatively impacted on Japanese manufacturing companies," noted Markit's Amy Brownbill. "Output and new orders both fell for the first time in 14 months. In both cases, Japanese manufacturing companies linked the reductions to the increase in the sales tax." IMF: Russia Is Already In Recession. The International Monetary Fund said Wednesday that Russia is already in recession. The organization also slashed its growth forecast for 2014 to 02.% from 1.3% just a few weeks ago citing the effect of the Ukraine crisis on investment. "If we define recession as negative growth in two quarters in a row, then Russia from that point of view is experiencing recession," IMF economist Antonio Spilimbergo was quoted as saying by the Interfax news agency.   Eurozone Inflation Higher. Prices climbed 0.7%, less than the 0.8% expected but better than 0.5% in March. "European Central Bank governing council member Christian Noyer said Wednesday he favors some additional measures to loosen monetary policy, but said the central bank is already doing a lot," the Wall Street Journal reported. 'I think we can do a little bit more, but essentially we have done what is necessary,' he said on French radio Europe 1." Justice Looking Into Illicit Tax Shelters. The Justice Department is looking to bring criminal charges against Credit Suisse and BNP Paribas for providing illicit tax shelters to U.S. clients and financing blacklisted governments respectively, the New York Times reports. The FT says BNP has warned its penalty could be in hte multiple billions. ADP. At 8:15 a.m. we get the ADP employment report for April. Consensus is for a reading of 210,000 versus 190,000 prior. "The ADP report received a lot of criticism from some analysts ahead  of last month’s release, but the critics were at least temporarily  quieted by just a 1K miss: The BLS reported private payrolls up 192K,  almost identical to the 191K ADP estimate," HFE's Jim O'Sullivan said in a note this morning. "The monthly ADP estimate reflects a combination of current-month  data derived from ADP clients’ employee records and an estimate  of the recent trend, based in large part on the latest BLS data. As a  result, last month’s payrolls data will affect this month’s ADP estimate. The point of contention is whether the ADP estimate has become  overly dependent on the latest BLS data, and not enough on ADP’s  independent information, such that the ADP series is a better indicator of the prior month’s payrolls than the current month’s. Indeed,  data for some months recently seem to fit that pattern, although we  suspect the outcome is largely by chance. According to Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics, which helps compile the data, 96% of the variation in ADP from month to month is due to the independent ADP data." GDP. At 8:30 a.m. we get a Q1 GDP reading. Estimates are for a print of 1.2% growth, down from 2.6% prior. This would be driven by an estimated 2.0% growth in personal consumption. Markets. Are going nowhere. TimeWarner just announced they'd beat on earnings. Other earnings today include Yelp and MetLife. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephane MaheView of a Haliade 150 offshore wind turbine at Alstom's offshore wind site in Le Carnet, on the Loire Estuary, near Saint Nazaire, western France, April 27, 2014. U.S. industrial conglomerate General Electric Co is in advanced talks to buy the global power division of struggling French engineering group Alstom for about $13 billion, sources familiar with the matter said on Friday. France's government has said it wants to find alternatives to the GE offer on the turbines and power grid equipment business. GE, the US conglomerate, has submitted a $17bn offer to buy the energy businesses of France's Alstom. Alstom's board reacted "positively" to the offer and has appointed a committee of independent directors led by Jean-Martin Folz to review the transaction by June 2, GE said in a statement on Wednesday. "If this review concludes positively, an exclusivity period beginning no later than June 2 will be granted," the US company said. The next steps will include Works Councils consultation, approval from Alstom's shareholders, and clearance by regulators. GE said the deal would result in more jobs in France. Patrick Kron, the chairman and chief executive of Alstom, said: “The combination of the very complementary energy businesses of Alstom and GE would create a more competitive entity to better service customer needs. Alstom’s employees would join a well-known, major global player, with the means to invest in people and technology to support worldwide energy customers over the long term." Bouygues, which owns 29pc of Alstom, supports the deal, although Alstom will be able consider alternative proposals for the businesses. German industrial giant Siemens confirmed on Tuesday that it would make an offer the energy assets. Should Alstom decide to accept a Siemens offer it would be have to pay GE a break fee of 1.5pc of the purchase price. The French government has been holding talks with the chief executives of Siemens and GE about the future of the prized industrial company. President Francois Hollande has said he has no preference on the bidder but wants “what is best for jobs”. While the more outspoken Industry Minister, Arnaud Montebourg, has thrown his weight behind an alternative Siemens offer which could create a “European champion”. Siemens is understood to be much further away than GE in its ability to make a bid and said in a statement that “suitable due diligience” is a prerequisite of any offer. France’s Socialist government has already intervened in discussions to put the brakes on a sale of Alstom to the American suitor and give sufficient time for Siemens to be in a position to make a bid. Mr Montebourg, who previously told Indian industrial tycoon Lakshi Mittal he was “not welcome in France”, has said “the government does indeed intend to defend our country’s interests.”  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHomes are seen for sale in the northwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week to their lowest level since December 2000 as both refinancing and purchase applications declined, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 5.9 percent to 333.2 in the week ended April 25. That was the lowest level since December 2000, the group said. "Purchase application volume remains weak despite other data which indicated the overall pace of economic growth is picking up. The combination of higher rates, new regulation and tight inventory are all leading to a weaker spring market than we have seen in years," said Mike Fratantoni, MBA's chief economist. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications declined 6.9 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 4.4 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.49 percent in the week, unchanged from the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeA trainer shows the crowd a killer whale during a show at the animal theme park SeaWorld in San Diego, California March 19, 2014.SACRAMENTO Calif. (Reuters) - A killer whale at SeaWorld is pregnant, the San Diego theme park said Tuesday, a development welcomed by the company but decried by animal rights activists trying to outlaw the breeding of captive orcas and "Shamu" shows that feature them doing tricks. The news of the pregnancy comes weeks after California lawmakers effectively killed a closely watched bill that would have banned SeaWorld from continuing its breeding program and from using killer whales to perform tricks at its California park. "The calf's birth is expected in December," said spokesman Dave Koontz. Killer whales have a 17 1/2 month gestation period. The baby would be the sixth at SeaWorld's San Diego park, and the 32nd at parks owned by the company since 1985, Koontz said. It would be the first calf borne by Kalia, a 9 1/2-year-old killer whale born at the park and still living with her own mother Kasatka. Animal rights activists, some of whom have speculated for months that Kalia might be pregnant, were outraged at the announcement, saying that the mother-to-be is too young to have been impregnated. "SeaWorld routinely breeds its females too young," said Naomi Rose, an orca biologist who has been active in trying to ban the breeding program and the shows. "In the wild, killer whale females don’t have their first calf until they are around 12 to 14 years of age." SeaWorld's orca breeding and entertainment programs have come under close scrutiny in recent months following the release of the documentary "Blackfish," which tells the story of an orca that killed a trainer at the company's park in Orlando, Florida, in 2010. The movie quotes former SeaWorld trainers who say that orcas, which have highly evolved social structures and use sophisticated calls to communicate, do not thrive in captivity and can become dangerous. SeaWorld has responded angrily to the film, calling it animal rights propaganda and saying its contention that orcas do not fare well under its care are false. Koontz said the breeding program enriches the lives of the whales "by allowing them to experience, interact with and help raise another member of their pod." Kalia, he said, was artificially inseminated but also had relations with a male whale, Ulises. The company also pointed to the research it does on marine mammals, and the rescue efforts it has mounted to save whales and other animals who are injured or harmed at sea.   (Reporting by Sharon Bernstein; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneThe TXU Monticello Steam Electric Station power plant near Mt. Pleasant, Texas February 26, 2007. The Texas-sized bankruptcy of Energy Future Holdings, formerly known as TXU, may have been one of the more anticipated defaults of the past few years, but investors can still learn a lesson or two from it. First and foremost, it underscores the perils involved when investors rely too heavily on high-yield, floating-rate bank loans, a popular strategy for those seeking high returns and protection against rising interest rates. The roots of this story stretch back to 2007. That’s when the Dallas-based power company was taken private, for $48 billion, in what is still the largest leveraged buyout (LBO) in history. At the time, yield spreads were extremely tight, prompting buyers to reach for higher returns. That demand helped finance a surge in LBO activity. As we know now, 2007 turned out to be the peak of that LBO boom, and TXU was one of the last and most aggressive transactions of the year. Its weight in major bond and loan benchmarks ensures that its default will roil many portfolios. Money Pours into High-Yield Bank Loans Flash forward to the present: Tight yield spreads on corporate bonds once again have investors hungering for higher returns. LBO activity is heating up again. And with today’s low interest rates expected to rise, floating-rate loans are in demand. Since 2012, investors have poured $82.5 billion into high-yield leveraged loans, which are often used to finance buyouts. That’s nearly three times what investors have put into the much larger high-yield bond market, J.P. Morgan data show. That has caused assets managed by leveraged loan funds to rise sharply (Display). This high demand is creating sketchy supply. It allows companies with fragile credit profiles to borrow cheaply and dulls their incentive to offer much in the way of protection for lenders. The term to watch out for here is “covenant-lite.” Most loans have built-in covenants—safeguards that limit how much debt a borrower can issue. These safeguards allow lenders to negotiate higher rates if debt limits are breached. Covenant-lite loans don’t have these. Higher Covenant-Lite Issuance Raises Risk According to data from J.P. Morgan and S&amp;P, covenant-lite issuance more than tripled last year, accounting for more than half of all high-yield loans issued. In the first three months of 2014, covenant-lite loans comprised two-thirds of total issuance. That suggests that the risks associated with holding loans are increasing. Indeed, the default rate on high-yield loans has been substantially above that of high-yield bonds for most of the past five years. Energy Future Holdings’ default will widen the gap further. What’s more, despite investors piling into high-yield loans, the performance of those loans has come up short. Bonds have outperformed loans for the last five years straight, according to Barclays, providing investors with a cumulative return of 145% through March 31, compared with 100% for loans. Being Senior Isn’t Everything A perceived advantage of bank loans is their seniority in a firm’s capital structure. In other words, if a company defaults, lenders recover more of their investment than bondholders do. But sometimes, being first in line isn’t much to cheer about. The loans at Energy Future Holdings’ Ca-rated wholesale power distributor have lost about 25% in value, indicating that the market expects investors will suffer a significant loss. Sure, bondholders in that same business unit will fare worse. But high-yield bonds issued by a separate subsidiary of the company are trading at a premium. Put another way, senior isn’t always superior. Even loans’ floating-rate appeal is misleading. The coupons on many loans won’t adjust upward until thethree-month LIBOR more than quadruples—to exceed one percent. Futures markets suggest that we’re a long way from that point. A Possible Alternative to Yield Chasing So what can investors do differently? We think it makes sense to consider short-duration, high-yield bonds. They may help shield investors from the risk of rising rates while limiting exposure to the many credit-related pitfalls that dot the investment landscape. Bank loans can still play a role in a diversified fixed-income portfolio. But it pays to be careful. Energy Future Holdings got into trouble when it bet that natural-gas prices would rise—and got it wrong. Nobody knows what might trigger problems for the next heavily leveraged borrower. That’s why investors can’t afford to buy without peering under the hood first. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APThe International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday that Russia is already in recession and slashed its growth forecast for 2014 citing the effect of the Ukraine crisis on investment. "If we define recession as negative growth in two quarters in a row, then Russia from that point of view is experiencing recession," IMF economist Antonio Spilimbergo was quoted as saying by the Interfax news agency. The IMF has lowered its 2014 growth forecast for Russia to 0.2 percent from the 1.3-percent figure it issued on April 8, Spilimbergo said. "We have clarified our forecast on Russia's economic growth. We expect growth at the level of 0.2 percent this year." The IMF's decision came taking into account "the difficult current situation and the significant level of uncertainty related to geopolitical tensions and sanctions," Spilimbergo was quoted as saying in comments translated into Russian. "This all has a very negative effect on the investment climate," he said. "We expect that the fall in investments that already took place in 2013 will increase further this year." Russia's economy contracted by about 0.5 percent in the first three months of the year compared with the previous quarter. The finance ministry warned this month that the economy could tip into recession in the second quarter. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said this month that Russia could see growth of 0.5 percent in 2014 but warned growth could be only "around zero". Standard and Poor's ratings agency on Friday downgraded Russia's ability to repay debt to BBB-, one notch above junk status, and retained its negative outlook. Russia's economy has already seen colossal capital flight since the start of the Ukraine crisis as investors have pulled out their funds. Spilimbergo said the IMF "expects capital outflows this year at a level of $100 billion," but that a "high degree of uncertainty" remained. Russia's government has predicted capital outflows over 2014 of between $70 and $100 billion. Russia's central bank said that capital flight in the first quarter alone amounted to $50.6 billion. Spilimbergo said the IMF was forecasting 1.0-percent growth in Russia in 2015, down from its previous forecast of 2.3 percent. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
MarkitJapan's April Markit manufacturing survey yielded some mixed results. The headline PMI fell to 49.4 in April from 53.9 in March. This was the first sub-50 reading in 14 months, and any reading below 50 signals contraction. “As was expected, the implementation of the increase in the sales tax negatively impacted on Japanese manufacturing companies," noted Markit's Amy Brownbill. "Output and new orders both fell for the first time in 14 months. In both cases, Japanese manufacturing companies linked the reductions to the increase in the sales tax." On the plus side, the labor market seems to be in good order. "That said, payroll numbers increased at a faster rate than in March and growth in employment was the sharpest seen since February 2007," said Brownbill. "Therefore, it will be interesting to see whether the increase in the sales tax will continue to have a negative impact on Japanese manufacturing activity in the future months or whether the effects will only be short lived." FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Guang NiuChinese Navy helicopters fly over a People's Liberation Army Navy warship on April 23, 2009 off Qingdao in Shandong Province.As China boosts its military spending, rattling neighbours over territorial disputes at sea, an AFP investigation shows that European countries have approved billions in transfers of weapons and military-ready technology to the Asian giant. China's air force relies on French-designed helicopters, while submarines and frigates involved in Beijing's physical assertion of its claim to vast swathes of the South China Sea are powered by German and French engines -- part of a separate trade in "dual use" technology to Beijing's armed forces. Chinese President Xi Jinping announced stepped-up production of the Airbus EC175 helicopter in China during his visit to France this month -- a deal analysts said could result in technology transfers to the military. "European exports are very important for the Chinese military," said Andrei Chang, editor of the Hong Kong-based Kanwa Asian Defense Review. "Without European technology, the Chinese navy would not be able to move." The European Union imposed an arms embargo on China after its army killed many demonstrators in the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown. But member states are free to interpret the embargo loosely, analysts say. The exports have generated friction with the United States -- which does not export arms to Beijing -- along with criticism from activists pointing to human rights violations and analysts citing regional security concerns. An EU spokesman said in a statement that "the final decision to authorize or deny the (arms) export is the responsibility of EU member states". AFP Photo/Guang NiuChina -- the world's second largest military spender -- last month announced the latest of many double-digit rises in its official defence budget. EU arms makers received licenses to export equipment worth three billion euros ($4.1 billion) to China in the decade to 2012, according to annual EU reports on the trade. The most recent said arms exports worth 173 million euros were approved in 2012, with France issuing more than 80 percent of them by value. A French parliamentary report said the country delivered China arms worth 104 million euros. Most of the sum was accounted for by the production of Airbus helicopters in China for use by China's military, according to analysts from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which monitors arms transfers. Other EU licences included almost three million euros' worth of "smooth-bore weapons" and accessories, approved for export by Britain, and nearly 18 million euros' worth of "vessels of war" or their accessories and components, authorized by the Netherlands. Most of Beijing's military imports last year came from Russia while France, Britain and Germany supplied 18 percent, SIPRI estimates. China is on track to become a major military power. While it calls its expanding capabilities peaceful and aimed at self-defence, relations with its neighbours have soured in recent years, especially rival Japan, with experts warning of potentially dangerous escalations if either side miscalculates. Tensions spiked last year when a Jiangwei-class Chinese frigate was among the vessels Tokyo accused of locking fire-control radar on a destroyer and a helicopter near disputed islands seen as a potential flashpoint, an allegation Beijing denied. Military experts believe the ship relies on diesel engines produced by German firm MTU. Another accused ship, a Jiangkai-class vessel, uses engines made by SEMT Pielstick, a French diesel engine manufacturer owned by German firm MAN Diesel and Turbo, according to analysts and specifications posted on Chinese military websites. MAN told AFP that its Chinese licensees have supplied about 250 engines to China's navy. MTU said it "acts strictly according to the German export laws", without elaborating. The engines are exported as "dual use" -- having civilian and potential military applications -- so are exempt from the EU arms embargo. Beijing's military has acquired an array of such items, including software used to design fighter jets, from Europe over the past decade. German-designed engines chosen for their quietness power virtually all non-nuclear Chinese submarines and several classes of Chinese frigates deployed in the South China Sea, where Beijing has a host of territorial disputes, analysts say. Citing the co-production deal signed in France, Chang said: "China uses the name of civil purchase to purchase French helicopter engines, and they shift those engines into military helicopters." "If (China) knows how to design the middle-sized EC175, they will know how to design a middle-sized military transport helicopter." China's recent military helicopters "appear to just be upgrades" of Airbus designs, said Roger Cliff, military analyst at the US-based Atlantic Council. Airbus directed inquiries to its helicopter division, which did not respond. Bernadette Andreosso, director of European studies at Ireland's University of Limerick, described Europe's dual-use export controls as "very lax, very loose". European countries face a dilemma, analysts said. "China represents much more of a threat today to stability in the Pacific and elsewhere," said Andreosso. "We might have to sacrifice some of our competitiveness to have greater security." Arms exports have created tension between the EU and US, analysts say, and according to SIPRI the US has not exported any arms to China in any of the recent years for which it has data. China's defence ministry declined to comment. Campaigners also worry about human rights in China, which jails dissidents and deploys troops in sensitive areas including Tibet. "The EU is supposed to be based on the promotion of human rights and democracy, but all too often these values are overridden in the name of short-term profits for arms companies," said Andrew Smith, of the UK-based Campaign Against Arms Trade. Emil Kirchner, an EU policy expert at Britain's University of Essex, said East Asian tensions meant the exports could eventually damage EU interests. "Already, cynics claim that if the People’s Liberation Army went to war tomorrow, it would employ an arsenal filled with equipment from Germany, France and Britain," he said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Investing can be scary and confusing at times. But the basic principles of successful investing are timeless and quotes from some experts help illuminate these. This note looks at those I find most insightful. Cash and bank deposits are low risk and fine for near term spending requirements and emergency funds but they won’t build wealth over long periods of time. The chart below shows the value of $1 invested in various assets since 1900. Despite periodic setbacks (see the arrows) shares and other growth assets provide much higher returns over the long term than cash and bank deposits. There is a big difference between the two. But many let their blind faith in a strongly held view (eg “the US borrows too much”, “aging populations will destroy share returns”, “global oil production will soon peak”, “the IT revolution means this time it’s different”) drive their decisions. They could be right at some point, but end up losing a lot of money in the interim. Unless you really want to put a lot of time into trading, it’s advisable to only invest in assets you would be comfortable holding for the long term. This is less risky than constantly tinkering in response to predictions of short term changes in value and all the noise around investment markets. Investing is not the same as gambling, and requires a much longer time frame to payoff. Having a disciplined investment process and consistently applying is critical for investors if they wish to actively manage their investments successfully in the short term. Many lost a fortune through the GFC in investments that were not understandable and involved excessive complexity. Rules of logic often don’t apply in investment markets. The well-known advocate of value investing, Benjamin Graham, coined the term “Mr Market” (in 1949) as a metaphor to explain the share market. Sometimes Mr Market sets sensible share prices based on economic and business developments. At other times he is emotionally unstable, swinging from euphoria to pessimism. But not only is Mr Market highly unstable, he is also highly seductive – sucking investors in during the good times with dreams of riches and spitting them out during the bad times when all hope seems lost. Investors need to recognise this. A key is to respect the market and recognise that it can be fickle rather than try and take big bets that can send you bust if you get the timing wrong. Eg, by heavily selling shares short if you think a crash is about to happen or gearing in too heavily via margin debt. Such approaches can often undo investors and send them bust as they are too dependent on accurately timing the market. Recessions and bear markets are a normal aspect of investing. But history tells us markets eventually recover. The worst thing an investor can do is get in during good times only to get out after a bear market &amp; miss the recovery. This is one of the best characterisations of how the investment cycle unfolds. It follows that the point of maximum opportunity is around the time most are pessimistic and bearish and the point of maximum risk is when all are euphoric, but unfortunately many don’t realise this because it involves going against the crowd. History tells us that that there are good times and bad and assuming that either will persist indefinitely is a big mistake. Whenever you hear talk of “new paradigms”, “new eras”, “new normals” or “new whatevers” it’s usually getting time for the cycle to go in the other direction. No two cycles are the same but they do have common elements which make them rhyme. In upswings investment markets are pushed to the point where the relevant asset has become overvalued, over loved (in that everyone is on board) and over bought and vice versa in downturns. Recognising these common elements is necessary if you are to get a handle on cyclical swings in investment markets. This doesn’t apply to everything (eg if it is obviously sunny outside according to the usual definition, then it is!), but investing can be perverse. When everyone is saying “it’s obvious that the recession will continue” or “it’s impossible to see a recession as things are obviously good” then maybe the crowd is already on board and the cycle will soon turn. This is another quote on contrarian investing that follows on from those above. Shares have long been observed to have a seasonal pattern that sees strength from November through to May and then relative weakness through to around October. This is evident in the next chart for US and Australian shares. (St Leger’s Day in terms of the UK horse race on the second Saturday in September may be a bit early, but not to worry!) The reasons vary and relate to tax loss selling associated with a September tax year end for US mutual funds, a wind down in new equity raisings around December/January, New Year cheer and the investment of bonuses, but may have its origins in crop cycles. The point is that buying in May, might not be the best time, nor selling in September or October. This is a pre-requisite. If you don’t believe the bank will look after your term deposits, that most borrowers will pay back their debts, that most companies will see rising profits over time, that properties will earn rents etc then there is no point investing. This is flippant but true – to be a successful investor you need a favourable view of the future. Preserving capital is important, but this can be taken too far and often is in the aftermath of bad times with the result that investors end up so focused on trying to avoid capital losses in share markets that they miss the returns they offer. It invariably seems that higher regard is had for pessimists predicting disaster than optimists seeing better times. As JK Galbraith once observed “we all agree that pessimism is a mark of a superior intellect.” And we all know that bad news sells. There may be a neurological reason for this as the human brain evolved in the Pleistocene era when the key was to dodge woolly mammoths and sabre tooth tigers, so it has been hard wired to always be on guard and so naturally attracted to doom sayers. But for investors, giving too much attention to pessimists doesn’t pay long term. Many like to measure risk by looking at measures of volatility, but the riskiest time in markets is invariably when the common view is that there is no risk for it’s often around this point that everyone who wants to invest has already done so leaving the market vulnerable to bad news. Always make sure that you don’t take on so much debt that it may force you to sell all your investments and potentially send you bust, just at the time you should be buying. This may sound perverse as surely it is events which drive investment markets down and destroy value. But the trouble is that events and bear markets are normal. Rather what causes the greatest damage is our reaction to events – selling after markets have already plunged and only buying back in after euphoria has returned. Smart investors have an awareness of their psychological weaknesses and their tolerance for risk and seem to manage them. Dr Shane Oliver is Head of Investment Strategy and Chief Economist at AMP Capital. He’s on Twitter at @ShaneOliverAMP. This originally appeared in his newsletter, Oliver’s Insights, and is republished with permission. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople gather outside a McDonald's restaurant, which was earlier closed for clients, in the Crimean city of SimferopolNEW YORK (Reuters) - Turmoil in Ukraine and a series of Western sanctions on Russia are starting to hurt some U.S. corporations doing business in the region, with the latest round of U.S. penalties threatening to complicate matters further. The companies have expressed concern about the weak Russian economy, the ruble's decline and the potential for the crisis to worsen. There are also worries about a possible backlash in Russia against Western products. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said on Tuesday that international sanctions on Russia were putting pressure on Russia's economy, and more actions could be taken if Moscow did not step back from the Ukraine crisis. Companies began feeling the pain in the first quarter, "but it seems to be worse and more uncertain and spreading in the second quarter, which will obviously impact future earnings reports," said Clement Miller, investment strategist at Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors. McDonald's Corp &lt;MCD.N&gt; , which imports about half of its food used in its Russian restaurants, said the weaker ruble hurt restaurant margins in Russia by 2 percentage points, dragging down the company's overall margins in Europe. "So if you assume the ruble is going to stay at this depressed level the rest of the year, that is something we are going to be battling with for the rest of the year in our European margins," McDonald's Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen said on the company's first-quarter conference call. McDonald's, which operates more than 400 restaurants in Russia, was the first international fast-food chain to tap the Russian market when it opened in Moscow's Pushkin Square before the collapse of the Soviet Union. McDonald's sees Russia as one of its top seven major markets outside the United States and Canada, according to its 2013 annual report. Ford &lt;F.N&gt; also pointed to pressure on margins "because even though we are working hard to localize more and more parts we still have a substantial portion of the vehicles that we produce there that have imported components," Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said in an interview. Shanks, who also cited lower sales volume in Russia due to the country's overall weakened economy, said the geopolitical issues in Russia "so far haven't had much of an effect. But we'll have to wait and see what comes down the road." Ford Sollers, a joint venture between Ford and Russian carmaker Sollers &lt;SVAV.MM&gt;, announced earlier this month that it was cutting 700 staff in its plant near St Petersburg due to Russia's deteriorating economy and weaker ruble. FALLOUT FROM WEAK ROUBLE The worst East-West crisis since the Cold War ended in 1991 is damaging Russia's faltering economy. Surveys have suggested business confidence in the country is now the lowest since 2008, capital outflows have surged and the ruble is down about 8 percent against the dollar this year. The weakening ruble has made it more costly for foreign companies with Russian operations to use the currency to import necessary goods or commodities. Even companies that have yet to see significant harm to sales or profits from the tensions warn that the path ahead is uncertain, especially if escalating tensions lead to broader instability in eastern Europe and beyond. "We are hoping for a peaceful resolution, but business confidence around the world could dampen, and trade and world GDP could slow should the situation deteriorate," Caterpillar Inc &lt;CAT.N&gt; Chief Executive Doug Oberhelman said in a statement with the company's quarterly results. Caterpillar, which celebrated 100 years in Russia in 2013, says Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States are "among the most dynamic developing territories for Caterpillar." CONSUMER BACKLASH? The United States on Monday announced a new round of sanctions aimed at business leaders and companies close to Russian President Vladimir Putin, while the European Union followed up on Tuesday by naming 15 Russians and Ukrainians to its blacklist, moving to freeze assets and deny visas. In response, Putin warned that he could reconsider the participation of Western companies in Russia's economy, including energy projects, if sanctions continued. While it was not clear what, if any, retaliatory steps the Russian leader might take, some experts warned of a backlash from Russian consumers. They speculated the sanctions could potentially leading to shunning of U.S. brands. "I suspect there will be an adverse impact on U.S. companies operating in the market," said Constantin Gurdgiev, an adjunct professor of finance at Trinity College Dublin. "Unfortunately, the bitter aftertaste of the sanctions is going to stay in popular minds for a long time." The deputy speaker of the Russian parliament, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, known for his anti-Western rhetoric, has already demanded that McDonald's pull out of Russia. Credit card company Visa Inc &lt;V.N&gt;, which has 100 million cards in Russia, stopped providing services to two Russian banks after U.S. sanctions in March. The company said the sanctions were hurting its transaction volumes in Russia and that it expected them to have some impact on its results. Chemicals maker DuPont &lt;DD.N&gt; said its position in Ukraine, while only a small percent of its sales, represents an important part of its growth plan. Ukraine seed sales fell below DuPont's expectations in the quarter, the company said. "Given our uncertain political situation there and the tightened credit markets, we are seeing seed-buying decisions being reduced or deferred," DuPont Executive Vice President James Borel said on a conference call with analysts. To be sure, some U.S. companies with a substantial presence in Russia have avoided any serious problems so far. PepsiCo Inc &lt;PEP.N&gt;, which has nine of the top 50 packaged food and soft drink brands in Russia, posted a 10 percent increase in first-quarter revenue in the country. PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi characterized the business climate in Russia as "very friendly," adding that "we have great relationships with the government." Some companies are even seeing a silver lining in the crisis. Raytheon Co &lt;RTN.N&gt; Chief Executive Thomas Kennedy said tensions between Russia and Ukraine have boosted demand for the weapons maker's products in eastern Europe. (Additional reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit, James B. Kelleher in Chicago, Aman Shah in Bangalore, Phil Wahba and Ernest Scheyder in New York and Andrea Shalal in Washington, editing by Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
Quick heads up: Four big economic events are happening today. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:15 AM, the ADP Employment Report for April. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 210,000 payroll jobs added in April, up from 191,000 in March.• At 8:30 AM, Q1 GDP (advance estimate). This is the advance estimate of Q1 GDP from the BEA. The consensus is that real GDP increased 1.1% annualized in Q1.• At 9:45 AM, the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for April. The consensus is for an increase to 56.9, up from 55.9 in March.• At 2:00 PM, the FOMC Meeting Announcement. No change in interest rates is expected (for a long time). However the FOMC is expected to reduce QE3 asset purchases by $10 billion per month at this meeting. Each of these will be paid attention to closely, and we'll be covering each LIVE. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John Gress "I expect the FOMC to announce a $10 billion decrease in asset purchases, to blame the early year weakness mostly on the weather, and to express some concern about housing and also concern that inflation is too low." That's from Bill McBride at Calculated Risk, and it's almost certainly exactly what the FOMC will do on today. Essentially, since the last Fed meeting, there's been zero developments that would encourage the Fed to change course on its "tapering" plan, by which it reduces the pace of its bond buying each month. As for the economy, it's come out of a winter slump, but not blisteringly so. So the Fed can feel comfortable that the economy is improving, but not at a pace that's worrisome or too hot. And yes, housing data is weak (particularly starts), which is definitely one of the things that the Fed will keep its eye on. For a longer take, check out Tim Duy's complete FOMC preview. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChris Viehbacher, CEO of Sanofi, attends the company's 2012 annual results presentation in ParisLONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Sanofi SA is looking to sell a portfolio of older drugs that could fetch $7-8 billion, according to people familiar with the matter, yet another example of drugmakers trying to shed non-core assets and focus on high-growth areas. The French pharmaceutical firm has hired financial advisers Evercore Partners Inc to help it with a deal and has contacted potential buyers in the past few months, the people said, asking not to be named because the matter is private. The drugs for sale include treatments for high blood pressure and cardio-metabolic diseases and account for roughly $3.7 billion in combined annual revenue, one of the people said. The portfolio could fetch up to two times that amount, the person added. Shares in Sanofi rose 1.5 percent in early trade on Wednesday following the news. Generic drugmakers and specialty pharmaceutical companies are seen as logical buyers for the portfolio, said the people familiar with the matter. A spokesman for Sanofi said: "We do not comment on market rumors." Evercore also declined to comment. Drug companies are increasingly looking to shed smaller divisions they view as non-core so they can better focus on their mainstay products. They have also shown willingness to consider large asset swaps with rivals to exit weaker businesses and reinforce core areas where they are already top players. Novartis AG last week announced a major revamp in which it traded more than $20 billion worth of assets with GlaxoSmithKline Plc and agreed to sell its animal health arm to Eli Lilly and Co. Merck &amp; Co Inc is also in the final stages of selling its consumer health unit for close to $14 billion, Reuters reported last week, as its market share in the sector is seen as sub-scale compared with those of market leaders. The Novartis deal, in particular, is seen as a template for others in the pharmaceuticals industry to follow and it could also apply to other industries, such as consumer goods. Sanofi has an extensive line-up of older products that could be carved out, following similar moves now under way at Pfizer Inc and GSK to place older products in separate divisions. Pfizer announced last year it planned to separate its business into three units - innovative pharmaceuticals; vaccines, oncology and consumer health; and established products - and the U.S. group has not ruled out a full breakup. GSK is starting out down a similar path and will announce the first separate results for its established products business when it reports quarterly results later on Wednesday. Sanofi Chief Executive Chris Viehbacher said on Tuesday he did not plan to embark on large-scale deals, despite a current merger frenzy in the healthcare sector, but would continue with a strategy of smaller transactions and bolt-on acquisitions.   (Additional reporting by Ben Hirschler; Editing by Steve Orlofsky, Bernard Orr and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
ESPNGood morning, and welcome to the final day of the month. Things are heading lower at the moment. US futures are all down to the tune of 0.2% or more. Germany is off 0.12%. We're in the calm before the storm right now. The final couple days of the week are going to be very big, with PMI numbers and the Jobs Report. Today we get the latest Fed decision, but nobody is expect anything new at all, just a continuation of the taper. We also get ADP, The Jobs Report, and Chicago PMI today. FREE AppDownload
