screengrab via Bloomberg TVFormer New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is taking over the leadership of the company he founded, Bloomberg LP, just eight months after leaving political office, The New York Times reports. Bloomberg, who owns 88% of his company, told The Times he did not intend to return to a leading role, but he had been seen in the Bloomberg offices more frequently in recent months. The confusion of leadership apparently didn't sit well with CEO Daniel Doctoroff, who announced he would step aside at the end of 2014. He had been with the company since January 2008, and assumed the role of CEO in July 2011. "I have gotten very involved in the company again and that led to Dan coming to me recently to say he thought it would be best for him to turn the leadership of the company back to me," Bloomberg said in a statement. "It was a gracious and thoughtful offer and one that I finally accepted after significant pushback and great reluctance.” Both Doctoroff and Bloomberg insisted to The Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin there were no hard feelings, or fights over leadership. “When Mike decided he wanted to spend some time at the company, and then spent more time, obviously things changed," Doctoroff told The Times. “It isn’t the job I had for the past six years. It’s his — he wants to be involved. He doesn’t want to consult with me on everything. I get that.” Here's Bloomberg L.P.'s full statement on the shakeup. &gt; FREE AppDownload
Yahoo FinanceRough times for Apple — suddenly.  The stock fell ~4.22% today, dropping to $98.94. There are two reasons for the stock to be tanking: the iCloud photo scandal, and a note from Pacific Crest analyst Andy Hargreaves telling investors to sell Apple shares. Last week the company was flying high as anticipation built for the iPhone 6, and the iWatch, which are both expected to be announced next week. The stock was hitting new all-time highs, trading up to $103.20, but today it's back under $100. It all came to a screeching halt over the weekend for Apple when nude photos of celebrities hit the web. Apple's weak security on iCloud, where the photos were backed up, was blamed for the photos hitting the web.  The timing couldn't be worse. Apple is about to roll out a new mobile-payments feature as well as health-tracking data tied to your iPhone. Most of that data is likely to be stored right on the phone, and therefore more secure. However, most people won't understand that delineation. Most people will think, "If Apple can't be trusted with photos, can it be trusted with banking data and health data? " Unrelated to the nude photo scandal, Pacific Crest's Hargreaves says, "We recommend taking profits in Apple." That is, if you've gained some upside from Apple shooting to $100+, then now is the time to lock in that upside with a share sale.  Hargreaves thinks that Apple will sell a lot of iPhone 6 units, but after that it will be hard to sell more iPhones to new users. As the iPhone 6 buzz wears off, he thinks the stock will sink.  Apple has new products coming — mobile payments, a wearable gadget — but he doesn't think that's going to be enough to drive big profit gains.  Here's Hargreaves' key takeaway: "We recommend investors begin to take profits in AAPL. The stock is currently trading above our $100 price target and we believe prices in the vast majority of potential upside from the iPhone 6 product cycle. We are maintaining our Outperform rating until we see detail on new products and services at Apple's Sept. 9 event. However, if the announced products and services do not suggest massive incremental profit opportunities, we are likely to downgrade our rating for AAPL." And here's another bit. We bolded the most important sentence. Note that he says investors should hang on to some Apple, just in case. "We expect a new payment partnership and entrance into the wearables category to be Apple's most significant new product launches in the next six months. Based on the work we have done, we do not expect either new segment to drive incremental profits that are meaningful at Apple's scale in the near to medium term. However, we are open to being wrong on this and believe investor confidence in the iPhone 6 cycle will support the stock through the coming event. Consequently, we recommend holding some position in AAPL through the Sept. 9 event in the hope of getting clarifying detail on the profit potential of new products and services." Not every Apple analyst is negative, though. Yesterday Gene Munster upped his price target to $120, and a few weeks ago Morgan Stanley laid out the case for staying bullish on Apple through the iPhone 6 and beyond. FREE AppDownload
Yahoo FinanceIt's not a good day to be an Apple supplier. Apple's suppliers are the latest casualty of an analyst note advising investors to ditch their Apple shares before the iPhone 6 comes out on September 9. Pacific Crest analyst Andy Hargraves triggered an Apple selloff this morning, causing the stock to dip below $100 for the first time in about two weeks. Here's what Hargraves had to say about Apple in his note: "We recommend investors begin to take profits in AAPL. We are maintaining our Outperform rating until we see detail on new products and services at Apple's Sept. 9 event. However, if the announced products and services do not suggest massive incremental profit opportunities, we are likely to downgrade our rating for AAPL."That has turned out to be bad  news for Apple's suppliers, like GT Advanced Technologies (GTAT), which makes the Sapphire glass rumored to be on the iPhone 6. GTAT was down nearly 5.5% when markets closed on Wednesday. It's not just GTAT that took a hit Wednesday. TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc., (TQNT) another Apple contractor, was down sharply as well: Yahoo FinanceTriQuint was down over 4% on Wednesday. As The Street points out, Skyworks Solutions, Cirrus Logic, and RF Micro devices — all Apple suppliers — were also down on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
euforic services via flickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Can't Tell The Difference Between 'No Fee' And 'No Commission' Advisors (Wealth Management) According to WealthManagement.com senior editor Megan Leonhardt, a new study by Pershing says investors can't tell the difference between "no fee" and "no commission" advising. “It comes down to education,” Kim Dellarocca, managing director at Pershing told Leonhardt. "For investors, there was no strong reaction when asked to choose whether “fee-only” or “no commissions” was more preferable, according to the results of Pershing’s study on advisor value propositions." The study showed those investors already using a fee-only advisor value the statement “we provide advice free from conflicts of interest because we take no commissions” more (64 percent), compared to the 39 percent of investors using a commission advisor. Dellarocca told Leonhardt. “It shows there’s still a great degree of confusion in the marketplace. Those using a fee-only advisor value it more. They’ve been educated already." When Is The Best Time To File For Social Security Benefits (AdviceIQ) "Your Social Security can be worth more in golden years’ income than your 401(k) or individual retirement account," writes May Financial Group's Wayne Fourman. "The trick: Know at what age to best file for benefits." "Consider a married couple who both begin Social Security with a first-year combined benefit of just $23,304, based on the Social Security program fact sheet," contends Fourman. "As of Dec. 31, 2013, the average retired benefits recipient gets $1,294 a month and a spouse $648 a month. A retirement plan needs a value today of $543,147 to provide the same income as Social Security for the next 20 years." Fourman concludes that, "many preparing for retirement do not understand the value of benefits and how those benefits work, nor do the eventual retirees’ financial advisors." Investors Shouldn't Depend On Large Cap Stocks (Financial Planning) In a time when every financial news report mentions to the performance of the S&amp;P, Craig L. Israelsen, executive in residence in the personal financial planning program in the Woodbury School of Business at Utah Valley University, believes that, " it might be wise to consider just how well this measure has performed over time and what role it should play in a portfolio." Israelson adds, "the numbers suggest that despite some spectacular short-term results, too many investors put too much of their money in large-cap stocks." Although, he admits, large-caps performed well in 2013 with the  SPDR S&amp;P 500 (SPY) producing a one-year return of 32.32%. In addition, "the index’s five-year annualized performance (at 17.85%) was also impressive," writes Israelsen. However, "The 10-year and 15-year performance figures were relatively poor with the 15-year annualized return clocking in at just 4.58%." Here Are 4 Questions To Ask Before Adding International Bond To Your Portfolio (Morningstar) Judging by Morningstar's recent fund flow data, investors are giving their bond portfolios a foreign flavor, writes Christine Benz, Morningstar's director of personal finance. "Traditional mutual funds in the world-bond group have garnered nearly $7 billion in new investor dollars over the past year, even as funds in the intermediate-term bond group have seen $37 billion flow out the door."  However, "even as investors have been attracted to the world-bond category, it's easily one of the trickiest to navigate," cautions Benz. "It's compact--with fewer than 100 distinct funds--but it's full of offerings with disparate strategies. Foreign-currency exposure is a key differentiator, but funds also vary in their approaches to market maturity, interest-rate risk, and sector choices, among other factors."  Investment Grade Corporate Bond Are Doing Great (Charles Schwab) "After a disappointing 2013, investment-grade corporate bonds are once again delivering positive returns, thanks mainly to price gains linked to falling Treasury yields," writes Collin Martin, senior research analyst, fixed income at the Schwab Center for Financial Research. "And although yields on investment-grade corporate bonds are now near all-time lows, we still think they look attractive relative to Treasuries and make sense for investors looking to generate income without incurring too much risk." According to Martin, "the Barclays U.S. Corporate Bond Index has generated a total return of 6.6% this year—a nice improvement from its 1.5% drop in 2013. In fact, investment-grade corporate bonds have performed better than most other types of fixed income investments this year, including sub-investment-grade bonds," FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters(Reuters) - The leading vodka brands in the United States are losing their buzz as craft distillers and other alcoholic drinks infringe on their turf. Both Diageo Plc &lt;dge.l&gt;, which markets Smirnoff, and Pernod Ricard SA &lt;perp.pa&gt;, known for its Absolut brand, say newcomers to the vodka market are cutting into their sales. The companies have been losing share over the last five years to smaller brands such as Fifth Generation Inc's Tito's Handmade Vodka. “Let’s be honest. We are not pleased with the performance of Absolut in the U.S.," Pierre Pringuet, Pernod's chief executive officer, told reporters in London Wednesday. He added that "the reality is that there are several hundred new entrants into the market. Basically, 99 percent if not more of these brands do not survive, but the problem is they do take market share." Overall, vodka is facing slower growth in the United States as consumers' liquor preferences change. Sales increased just 1.4 percent to $17.3 billion in 2013, according to market research firm Euromonitor International, marking the slowest pace since at least 2000. That is because newer generations of drinkers are increasingly shifting toward brown liquors such as bourbon and whiskey in what analysts call the "Mad Men effect" - a reference to the Prohibition-era drinks consumed on the popular television show. According to the Distilled Spirits Council, an industry trade group, sales volumes of whiskey in 2013 were up 6 percent, outpacing vodka's 1 percent growth. "Vodka's appeal to a lot of people has been that it doesn’t taste like anything," said Drew Dupuy, a 35-year-old communications manager in Washington, D.C. He used to drink Bloody Marys with vodka at brunch with his friends but now orders the drink with tequila or gin. "There's a wide range of liquors with interesting profiles that you can make really flavorful cocktails with." Such changes in behavior have weighed on Diageo and Pernod's most recent earnings results. For the year ended June 30, Smirnoff net sales declined by 2 percent globally, driven by increasing price pressure in its largest markets of North America and Western Europe. Meanwhile, Pernod said organic sales of Absolut fell 1 percent during the period. Diageo's Chief Executive Ivan Menezes told reporters in July that the company planned to scale back on the pace of the price increases it has implemented in the past three years so that Smirnoff could become more competitive. Still, growth in the United States will be hard to find, said Spiros Malandrakis, alcoholic drinks analyst at Euromonitor. In recent years, companies that sell vodka have tried to attract consumers by introducing more flavors. But sales of flavored vodka are slowing. "People just jump from one flavor to the next, and eventually we just get bored of all of them," he said. He said, of vodka, "Essentially, it has reached the limits of what the category can do."   (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley in New York and Martinne Geller in London; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinWill Russia have enough pigs?The Russian government commenced its counter-sanctions programme a month ago, on August 7. This extended what had been a quarter-billion dollar loss for Australian meat exporters, beginning on March 31, to more than $7 billion in losses for the European Union plus Canada and Norway. In a briefing Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev implied that the sanctions were a sorry tit-for-tat for the sanctions already imposed on Russia. “This retaliation wasn’t easy for us. We were forced into it, but even under these conditions, we’re sure we’ll be able to turn things to our benefit.” The accumulated losses imposed by the sanctions on the Russian trade have been calculated very differently; the estimates range from $3 billion to more than $7 billion. But according to the Wall Street Journal tabulation, Norway’s lost salmon, trout and other fish exports at about $1.3 billion amount to the biggest single-country blow inflicted by the Kremlin — more than double Poland’s lost fruit revenues, and larger in total than the next four country exporters combined. Why such a Russian blow for Norway when, by comparison with other European capitals, Oslo has been so timid? The answer, according to a study of the Russian food sanctions by UK-based food trader, Volga Trader, is that cutting off the flow of Norwegian fish to Russia will be a boon for Russian seafood processors, especially one of the largest of them, Russian Sea. Its proprietor is Gennady Timchenko. Timchenko was one of the original business targets of the US sanctions announced by the US Treasury’s Office for Foreign Assets Control in March. Several of Timchenko’s companies, including Transoil, Acquanika, Sakhatrans, Avia, Stroytransgaz, and Volga Group were listed for US sanctions on April 28. Novatek was added to the list on July 16. So far, Russian Sea has been spared. The Volga Trader report, entitled “Will the Russian Government survive its own sanctions?” was written by Philip Owen, and issued on August 29. Volga Trader provides companies in the food supply industries with the means to enter the Russian market by finding importers, or by organizing investments. It has an operations centre in Saratov and a sales office in Bridgend, Wales. “The categories where imports have been banned are businesses where Russian producers have strong industry associations that have been demanding protection from foreign suppliers. The large Russian producers can compete very well. The lobbying is about profit maximisation rather than survival. Unfortunately, the Russian environment does not encourage the growth of middle sized producers to match the established producers. The word ‘cartels’ comes to mind. So to enhance the profits of the potential cartels and defend the existence of the middle sized producers, the Russian government uses protective measures against foreign imports and massive subsidies to encourage domestic investment, which most small producers are too weak to use. The Russian government imposes heavy tariff and non tariff barriers to exclude foreigners and erratic sanitary and phytosanitary inspection standards to regularly disrupt importers supply chains. Despite all these measures, Russian production has not risen to meet demand. The sanctions continue this process. The sanctions are in place for a year.” “Prime Minister Medvedev said when discussing the sanctions list on 7th August that the list was very unlikely to be expanded. Volga Trader believes that this is because all the major trade associations for food producers have already been satisfied and the large supermarkets, who are also powerful, will protest strongly against more supply chain disruptions. Further counter-sanctions are likely to be in other heavily protected industries such as pharmaceuticals and automotive components, but not food.” Altogether, Volga Trader estimates that the value of European food imports barred by last month’s Russian sanctions will run as high as €13 billion. The tabulation of affected food groups below has been compiled by Volga Trader; it is considerably more detailed than the public releases and press statements issued by the Russian, European or North American governments. Australia has been ignored. The sources are Presidential Decree no. 560 of August 6, “On the application of separate special economic measures for the purpose of the security of the Russian Federation”; European Union export statistics; and a briefing by Medvedev and Minister of Agriculture Nikolai Fyodorov. Sanctioned EU exports to Russia, 2013 exports from the EU Source: Philip Owen, Sales Director of Volga Trader, can be contacted on +44 656 7675, +44 7808 211 497, or at press@volgatrader.com The column “Imports as a share of the Russian market” is an indication of the stress likely to be felt by Russian importers as they seek to replace the lost supplies. It uses figures from Medvedev’s speech which was based on tonnes of food. According to Volga Trader, “there are other versions of these figures in circulation which are based on value or different splits of harmonized system customs (HS) codes. The HS Code is the customs classification for the type of food and the value of imports is in millions of Euro, the quantity is in kilotonnes. Where the share of market held by EU and US imports was high, supplies are now extremely short and buyers are looking for new suppliers to avoid going out of business. The remaining data concerns the value of the now banned imports from the EU.” “The biggest single product affected is the import of fresh salmon and other fish from Norway which is losing over a billion Euro of sales. Pork in its various forms is also a huge part of the sanctions. The opportunity to import other forms of meat as a substitute for pork is large. Meat and offal from sheep, goats, horses and if the price is competitive, venison, are all options. Apart from fresh milk, the sanctioned dairy products represent a large share of the Russian market and retailers will soon be under pressure to find replacement suppliers. For fruit and vegetables, it is currently harvest time. Russian farmers will be selling on to the market rather than into storage. The large price rises Volga Trader is forecasting will not occur for two or three months.” “Many smaller Russian importers with their contacts confined to the EU face ruin as their resources are unlikely to cover the requirements of finding and financing new sources of supply. These are not just elite cheese importers serving the tastes of the Moscow elite. Volga Trader works with sausage factories in the depths of the Volga Region which buy their offal from the US and their meat from Germany, based on personal contacts not readily available in Brazil. So far as the domestic producer associations which have lobbied for these sanctions are concerned, this is good news. It reduces competition. “Surely these food imports can be replaced? As a percentage of world production, the amount is trivial. But the devil is in the details. Farmers and processing companies want to sell at the farm gate or factory loading dock. Retail buyers and processors for the consuming country want to buy on delivery to their warehouse. In between are the traders. The trading of food and other commodities is dominated by about a dozen companies. Typically 60% to 70% of, say, the coffee market is dominated by a handful of companies. So, in principle, a large proportion of the Edam cheese being sent to Russia by lorry from the Netherlands can be sent to China by ship while the cheddar cheese heading for China from New Zealand can be sent to Russia. And all this can be done by a few computers in Paris, London or Geneva. The little guys lose out. Costs might rise a little because present trade patterns are the most cost-effective, according to those computers, but supply and demand will be met. Or won’t it?” “The food arriving from the EU to Russia arrives by refrigerated container (reefer), straight to the retailers’ distribution warehouses. Food arriving from Brazil or Vietnam or anywhere except perhaps for Turkey and Iran is going to be coming to Russia by ship. For food, containers are expensive for long-distance transit. Refrigerated ships (also known as reefers) are preferred. Ships require wharf space; loading; unloading; temperature-controlled storage facilities while they wait for transport to arrive. This costs money. The journey to port might cost as much as the trip across Europe for EU- supplied food. But, at any cost, these facilities are not available in Russia. Russia’s port infrastructure is a mixture of the extremely modern and the hopelessly outdated, mostly the latter. It is already full to capacity. Novorossiysk, the port nearest Magnit, Russia’s biggest grocer, currently has no more than 10,000 square meters of world class, temperature-controlled storage.” “Two of the three biggest ports supplying European Russia are Helsinki in Finland and Riga in Estonia. However, the EU might not sit idly by and let Latin America companies use EU ports to destroy an EU market. At the moment, on behalf of our own clients, Volga Trader is looking at routes overland from Turkey, and from Iran. But where are the lorries and reefer containers to come from? The EU will have tens of thousands to spare, but Russian cabotage laws and a very strong trucking industry association mean that EU lorries cannot deliver point-to-point loads in Russia. The road transportation infrastructure connecting China to European Russia is really bad. To deal with that problem, and avoid Siberia, Chinese firms have been planning to build new ports in Crimea.” “Realistically then, the options for increasing imports are not so very large because of the infrastructure limits. So something else must give way – and that’s price. Shipping €60,000 of port cuts from Berlin to Saratov on a regular run might cost €3,000. The same load from Brazil might cost €6,500 at the present port fees. But with the predictable congestion, these are likely to rise. So a 10% increase in recurring costs These will rise due to congestion. So there is likely to be at least a 10% increase in recurring costs, and that’s not counting the initial set-p costs and extraction of rent by the transport system.” “There is some hope for Russian consumers. Belarussia, which has big, new, underused distribution centres, may become a reprocessing centre for EU pork and cheese. The Belarussian slaughtering and processing industry is modern, but at present it is working only one shift. There is thus surplus capacity. Also the import of live pigs to Russia is allowed. EU animal care regulations make this awkward, but not impossible. Russian independent processors, who are on the whole more antiquated than the Belarussians, can also add extra shifts. All concerned can lift supply, but that will be at the expense of higher prices to the Russian consumer. All the substitutions take time and money to arrange, so the months of October and November are likely to see immediate and big shortages in the protein sanctions.” “But do firms outside the big international trading companies want to sell to Russia? Volga Trader is talking to firms in Brazil, South Africa, Turkey, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Egypt, Zambia and especially New Zealand, which has answers to most of Russia’s shortages. New Zealand was the first country to apply for a trade agreement with the Eurasian Economic Union although traditional allies such as Vietnam and Nicaragua were given such agreements even earlier. Food from these countries will be let in with lower duties. Still, there is a great reluctance to deal with Russia. In Turkey, Russians have a bad reputation for paying their debts. Generally, the non-English speaking countries have a more negative perspective towards Russia than do businessmen in the EU, even in the UK.” “Can Russia replace the lost imports with local production? By this time next year, vegetable production can easily be increased to close the supply gap. Until New Year, there will be little impact from the sanctions and Turkey and Iran can supply extra vegetables and quite a lot of fruit on relatively short overland routes direct to the distribution warehouses. No doubt, after a few months to organize it, a lot of EU fruit and vegetables will arrive in Turkey for “processing”. Turkey may also suddenly become a world leader in the production of Edam cheese.” “The big shortfalls will be in meat or protein products. A chicken matures in six months but it takes longer than a year to plan, finance and fit out a new chicken farm and processing plant. A pig takes eighteen months to mature. The investment is colossal. Five thousand sows will produce between eighty and one hundred thousand pigs in that 18 months. They all have to be fed before a kopek is earned. Of the €45 million required to start a modern pig farm from scratch, €30 million will be spent on feeding the pigs. After that the return on investment accelerates very fast. Again, it takes at least a year to build the farm, and all the good breeding stock is in the EU. Small-scale producers who produce 60% of Russia’s pigs need just eighteen months, but for the consumer market that is still too long. The Russian firms which have already invested on this scale are very concerned to keep capacity well below demand, and take high percentage return not maximise revenue and market share.” For the story of Russia’s pork oligarchs until this big break, click here. The share price trajectory of London-listed pork producer Cherkizovo signalled the market’s understanding of the benefit of the Russian sanctions move a month ago, but since then the price drift has been downwards. According to Owen of Volga Trader, “it takes three years to raise a calf. So at least a quarter of the beef herd are breeding cows who are eating food that doesn’t directly turn into meat. Setting up a large beef herd is a colossally expensive, long-term investment. Similarly, a milk herd. No new supplies can appear in a year. “So what will be the effect on prices? Every undergraduate economist knows that prices are set by changes at the margin, not by the overall balance of supply and demand. So food prices are going to rise, or else the shelves will empty. For some products this process will take six weeks. For others, two to three months. A few years ago, when there was a 5% shortfall in the Russian potato harvest, the price rose from the usual 6 roubles a kilo (in the open air markets for uncleaned potatoes) to 60 roubles a kilo for clean select French potatoes on the shelves of Perekrostik supermarket. Freight rates for all reefers from Europe increased sharply. On the whole, the potato price rose by a factor of three. The present sanctions are on a far greater scale than the potato shortage.” “The Russian shopping basket cannot increase in price by a factor of three, especially when other imports are also rising in price. Discretionary spending of all kinds will take a hit. The Russian shopper could ignore a huge rise in potato prices as it was a small part of the shopping basket. A three-times increase in prices for protein products is harder to ignore at a time of other price rises. Obviously the mix of foods will change. Bread, buckwheat, potatoes, cakes and pastries will become a larger part of the diet, although a lot of the sugar came from the Ukraine. Tinned meat needs less care and attention during import than fresh and frozen so this can be imported easily and quickly. Vietnamese spam will feature on the menu for 2015.” “Without large-scale redirection of EU food supplies through Belarus, and with imports from elsewhere rising effectively, Volga Trader predicts a rise in the protein foods on the sanctions list of between 10% and 50%; the worst of this will happen in November and December of this year.” “If price controls are imposed, there will be shortages instead. Fruit and vegetables may rise 10% to 15% probably after New Year. Small importers and fruit and vegetable storage specialists may go out of business. Food is about 30% of Russian household spend, so the minimum 10% will generate an extra 3% inflation above the basic rate, and impact from the falling value of the rouble, 4% to 5%. Inflation is currently about 7.5%. Without situational changes such as a large rise in interest rates to boost the rouble (which brings other problems), inflation of around 15% within 6 months is likely and it could be much higher if interested parties take the opportunities to charge speculative prices, and the potential Belarussian and Turkish safety valves are blocked.” US Senator Dianne Feinstein, Chairman of Senate Intelligence Committee, dismissed the effects of sanctions in an Aug. 31 comment: “I think there ought to be direct discussions with Vladimir Putin. I think he is the singular figure in Russia. The Crimea is gone. I think there ought to be steps taken to send people, to talk with him, to have our Secretary of State talk with him personally. I think this is deeply personal with him. I really do. And he’s enjoying intensely high favourability in his country. People say, ‘Well, just wait till the sanctions bite and the economy slips.’ I don’t think so. I think if Russians follow him, and up to date, they are following him, the Russians are very brave and very long-suffering. And they will tough out any economic difficulty.” But Russia's economic difficulty could be more than exepect. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hazir RekaThe lack of bearishiness is cause for pause.At 2,000, the S&amp;P 500 is right near its all-time high. It's up an earpopping 200% from its March 2009 low. Some Wall Street strategists believe this bull market could go for years longer. But some measures of sentiment suggest investors should be more cautious. "Sentiment has reached an extreme as Bears according to Investors Intelligence fell to the lowest level since 1987," said FBN Securities' J.C. O'Hara. "The markets persistent grind higher is a constant pain for any bear. The few that remain are the classic perma-bears and adjusting for them we are near rock bottom for bears." Indeed, the unusually limited number of corrections and pullbacks has got everyone taking jabs at perma-bears like Albert Edwards, David Tice, and Marc Faber. "% Bears down to 13.3%, lowest since Feb 1987," tweeted Pension Partners' Charlie Bilello. "Surprised it's even that high, are they counting Faber twice?" The trouble with the lack of bearishness is that there isn't much keeping the bulls in check. "The history of Sentiment reminds us that it’s more dangerous to have an evaporation of bears compared to a plethora of bulls," said O'Hara. Bilello tweeted the chart. Pension Partners via @MktOutperform FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign outside The Home Depot store is pictured in Monrovia, CaliforniaBy Nandita Bose CHICAGO (Reuters) - Customer data could have been stolen from nearly all of Home Depot Inc's  stores in the United States, according to new information released on Wednesday by security website KrebsonSecurity. Brian Krebs, who runs the website, had said on Tuesday   that the problem could affect all of Home Depot's 2,200 stores in the United States. On Wednesday, he said he found new evidence that the breach first surfaced on the website Rescator, where customer credit cards were listed according to store ZIP code. These codes showed a 99.4 percent overlap with Home Depot stores, he said. In all, there were 1,939 codes corresponding to Home Depot store locations, Krebs' website said. It is not yet clear how many customers were impacted. Home Depot has not confirmed that a breach occurred. Company spokeswoman Paula Drake said the retailer is working with leading IT security firms, including Symantec Corp  and FishNet Security, to investigate whether there has been a data breach. "Our forensics and security teams have been working around the clock since we first became aware of a potential breach Tuesday morning," she said. The retailer sought to reassure customers on Wednesday that they will not be held responsible for any possible fraudulent charges. It also asked them to closely monitor their accounts and said it will offer free identity-protection services, including credit monitoring, to any customers who may have been affected. Home Depot could be the latest in a string of retailers to have been hit by security breaches in the recent past. If confirmed, the Home Depot breach could be among the worst. U.S. retailers have been slow to adopt chip-reading technology on their terminals as most Americans do not carry chip-enabled cards. In one of the most serious incidents, hackers last year  stole at least 40 million payment card numbers and 70 million other pieces of customer data from Target Corp . The largest-known breach at a U.S. retailer, however, was uncovered in 2007, at TJX Cos Inc , operator of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains, where more than 90 million credit cards were stolen over about 18 months. In some situations, companies that conduct investigations into data breaches may not be able to come to a definitive conclusion. For instance, Sears Holdings Corp  said in February that an investigation into a possible data breach did not reveal conclusive information. Home Depot shares fell 2.4 percent to close at $89.00 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.   (Additional reporting by  Mark Hosenball in Washington; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the Commerzbank AG is pictured before the bank's annual news conference in FrankfurtBy Karen Freifeld NEW YORK (Reuters) - German lender Commerzbank AG  is nearing agreement with U.S. authorities over its dealings with Iran and other countries under U.S. sanctions, sources familiar with the matter said. The bank is expected to pay about $650 million to resolve the U.S. probes, one person said. An announcement could come as soon as next week but is more likely within the month, the sources said. The sources did not want to be identified because negotiations are still underway. Margarita Thiel, a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based bank, declined comment. Reuters previously reported Commerzbank, Germany's second largest lender, was expected to pay U.S. authorities between $600 million and $800 million, including a demand for more than $300 million from New York's Department of Financial Services, headed by Benjamin Lawsky. The New York regulator is likely to receive about $300 million, one source said on Wednesday. The U.S. Department of Justice, the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve and the Manhattan District Attorney's office also are negotiating. Authorities declined to comment when contacted by Reuters on Wednesday. Commerzbank knowingly banked for the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, one of the sources said. The state-sponsored shipping line was designated for economic sanctions by the U.S. in 2008 for supporting Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Commerzbank, which is 17 percent owned by the German government, is expected to enter into a so-called deferred prosecution agreement that would suspend criminal charges in exchange for a financial penalty and other concessions, the person said. In the past five years, more than a half dozen foreign banks have settled with U.S. authorities over sanctions-related violations. French lender BNP Paribas in June agreed to pay a record-breaking $8.9 billion over violations of sanctions and related conduct. In 2012, Amsterdam-based ING Bank paid $619 million, then the highest penalty, followed by Standard Chartered Plc,  the British bank, which paid $667 million. (Last month, Standard Chartered was fined another $300 million, among other penalties, for lapses in its anti-money laundering controls since the 2012 settlements.) Authorities have said the targeted banks stripped identifying information from incoming wires to avoid red flags that would have helped regulators police the transactions.  (Reporting By Karen Freifeld; additional reporting by Aruna Viswanatha in Washington; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot/YouTubeI'm Shmacked videos show partying at colleges across the U.S. The local newspaper in Syracuse, New York recently informed its readers that "the fastest-growing party brand on America's college circuit" was coming back to Syracuse University. The paper noted that the brand, I'm Shmacked, made headlines last fall when it spurred a riot at the University of Delaware, and that it was "raising debates over the line between harmless young indulgence and excessive, destructive behavior." I'm Shmacked is hugely popular among high school and college students. Their videos have racked up more than 25 million views on YouTube, their Facebook page has more than 100,000 likes, and they have more than 160,000 Twitter followers. In 2012, the popularity of the videos landed I'm Shmacked a profile in The New York Times. The company has reportedly been valued at $5 million. I'm Shmacked's 21-year-old co-founders, Arya Toufanian and Jeffrie Ray, travel around to big college campuses in the U.S. to throw raucous parties and make videos showing students' over-the-top antics. The startup is often compared to "Girls Gone Wild" — I'm Shmacked videos have a similar vibe, but focus almost exclusively on college parties rather than wild spring breaks. The videos can fuel competition among schools. Many students at party schools view I'm Shmacked videos as a badge of honor that helps them out-party one another. Screenshot/YouTube The brand is also drawing backlash. The negative attention has some students worried these videos could hurt their schools and, by extension, their future careers. Of course, college students will always throw drunken parties and maybe even riot with or without I'm Shmacked. But college officials told us the presence of video cameras at college parties encourages out-of-control behavior from students who want to appear in viral clips. Another concern is that videos produced by I'm Shmacked promote a "rape culture" and unsafe environment for female students on campus. Less than two months ago, the company posted a video to its YouTube page titled "Signs She Wants The D" in which a host asks people in Miami how they know a woman wants sex. One guy said: "It depends on what she's wearing. If she's got on leggings, she definitely wants the D. If she got on a skirt, she definitely wants the D." Another man said: "It's up to you. You're the man." And a video posted last year focused on the theory that girls like "a**holes" and featured students saying things like, "Treat her like dirt and she’ll stick to you like mud." These videos are especially concerning because there's a major conversation on college campuses across the country right now surrounding sexual assault and the safety of students. Colleges have been accused of mishandling sex assault cases, and the federal government has stepped in to investigate certain schools. Business Insider first became interested in I'm Shmacked when one of its founders threatened a Business Insider reporter with rape on Twitter. Toufanian distanced I'm Shmacked from the comments made in these videos. "It's content. The students at the university choose the questions, we film it," he told Business Insider. "We do not advocate or encourage anything said on camera, we simply film." Some students, unhappy with the negative image tied to the videos, have started turning on I'm Shmacked. Fraternities at some schools have banned I'm Shmacked from filming on their property, and students have protested on social media to prevent I'm Shmacked from coming to their campuses, students and university administrators told Business Insider. But Toufanian and Ray still have plans for expansion. They're starting to turn their party videos into a business, with an eye on book deals and licensing their footage. Screenshot/YouTubeI'm Shmacked began as a video startup. Toufanian met Ray in New York's Penn Station around 2011. Ray had been filming high school parties around Philadelphia, and once the two got to talking, they got the idea to film college life at campuses around the country. "He was filming in high schools and I thought to myself, 'Why don't I film college,'" Toufanian told Business Insider. "It was really the right place at the right time." The pair hoped to attract companies (which could presumably become sponsors) looking to reach young adults, according to Upstart Business Journal. Three months into the venture, I'm Shmacked videos started to go viral. The first few videos showed party scenes, sports, and picturesque college campus shots set to the beat of rap music. The videos racked up tens of thousands of views.  Ray and Toufanian then started to legitimize the business. After the videos took off, an advertising agency in New York invested $300,000 in I'm Shmacked, according to Upstart.  Now, I'm Shmacked is hoping for more big-time investments. Toufanian recently tweeted about chatting with billionaire entrepreneur and "Shark Tank" investor Mark Cuban. I'm Shmacked's main Twitter account then started tweeting about the possibility of Cuban investing in the company. (The tweets have since been deleted.) It's unclear whether that will ever come to fruition. When asked about whether he's in talks with I'm Shmacked or planning to hear a pitch from them, Cuban told Business Insider: "Nope. Just exchanged messages." Toufanian declined to comment. The effort to monetize the I'm Shmacked business also includes booking venues near big college campuses and selling tickets to events. Toufanian told us I'm Shmacked hires security and brings in police to control the events, but the parties can still get wild. Last week, 35 people were arrested at an I'm Shmacked event in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Of those people, 34 were under the legal drinking age.  "Almost every show has incidents," Toufanian said. "When you have a sold out event with 2,000+ college students in a concentrated area, there might be incidents. We take these incidents very seriously. We implemented increased precautions such as restricted alcohol sales, additional security, and staff to monitor the partygoers and help assist them with water, a cooling-off area, etc."  The most obvious sign that I'm Shmacked had hit it big was the rioting that happened at the University of Delaware last year when the group announced on Twitter they were on their way to Newark, Delaware to make a video. A party at the men's rugby team house devolved into an out-of-control rager. Three people were arrested and the rugby team was suspended for five years. It may have been fun for some but we shouldn't be proud of this..stay safe tonight guys and dont do anything stupid pic.twitter.com/b9sG0OFXIv "If there's a student who's using I'm Shmacked to decide where to apply or enroll, frankly, I don't want the applying or attending the University or Delaware," he said. Screenshot/YouTubeA student from Scotland says I'm Shmacked videos made him want to come to the U.S. for college. Viral videos aren't the end game for I'm Shmacked. The brand bills itself as "a new way to scout colleges," encouraging a culture where students base their higher education decisions on which school throws the best parties. "It's a platform for high school students as well as college students to look at schools that they maybe can't afford to visit," Toufanian said. "If they can't afford to visit the school, they can go on YouTube." These tweets — which were retweeted from I'm Shmacked accounts — show the influence of I'm Shmacked on college decisions: Choosing my college solely based off @ImShmacked videos Colleges should hire @ImShmacked to recruit new students. They're basically doing that now anyways My little sister is making her college decision based on @ImShmacked videos @ImShmacked #syracuse pic.twitter.com/GNBd8dLXle I consulted @ImShmacked heavily when decided which college to go to #VerifyImShmacked Predictably, the influence of I'm Shmacked has angered university administrators. I'm Shmacked is "highlighting the parts of college that don't need to be highlighted," Bronson Hilliard, the assistant vice chancellor for media relations at the University of Colorado, Boulder, told Business Insider. Hilliard (along with several other sources Business Insider spoke to, including current college students) also said the partying seen in I'm Shmacked videos is exaggerated. "It's like any reality TV show. You're going to inject an element of unreality into it when you stick a camera in somebody's face because they're going to act more exaggerated than they normally would," Hilliard said. "It glamorizes overconsumption of alcohol and drugs and it gives you a false sense of what the social norm is on a campus." Toufanian admits the videos are sensationalized, but said I'm Shmacked employees aim to shoot candid footage and don't encourage people to do anything they're not supposed to be doing on camera. "Of course college isn't a big party … we film it in about a week and we chop it up," Toufanian said. "It's very important for our company to include the party footage to be able to attract our audience. There's no point filming a video that's brochure-like because no one is going to watch it." Screenshot Via YouTube Once I'm Shmacked became more mainstream, and news outlets near college towns started airing some of the wild footage, many college students joined administrators in worrying about the repercussions of the videos. A Pennsylvania State University student who requested anonymity told Business Insider I'm Shmacked's popularity has been waning at the notorious party school. "A lot of the frats will tell [I'm Shmacked] to stop taping us or won’t let [them] in," she said. "People used to make it a big deal, people thought it was awesome, but now it’s very much overrated, at least at Penn State ... It had more of an appeal when social media wasn’t quite as big, but now there are so many different accounts that show hot girls at big party schools." And some students agree the videos don't paint an entirely accurate picture of a school's culture.  A student from the University of Colorado, Boulder, who also wanted to remain anonymous, told Business Insider that I'm Shmacked is "really good at making an average college party look really cool." Corey Farris, dean of students at West Virginia University, said that when I'm Shmacked first came to campus, it was "sort of a novel thing," but that wore off with subsequent visits. "When I'm Shmacked then put out a tweet saying 'We're coming back' … the students were quite vocal with what they said," Farris said. "We watched social media that said go away, you're not welcome here. ... When they did show up, they went near some of our Greek houses, and [the students] said 'Get away, you're not allowed to film our house.'" Some students have complained on Twitter that the I'm Shmacked videos brought too much negative attention to the school, causing the administration to crack down on the party scene in an effort avoid more damage to the school's reputation: I don't understand why people get so hyped up over I'm Shmacked coming to Morgantown...them coming to WVU ruined so much. Do people really care that we didn't get the #1 party school spot? That and i'm shmacked made wvu crack down in the first place Kids who are souped for I'm Shmacked to come back to WVU: Little do you know they're the reason campus is so strict and quiet now #DontCome Why is I'm Shmacked at WVU? They're the reason we have idiots that only come there to party and end up making us look like a bad university FREE AppDownload
AudiAudi R8The pace of auto sales in the U.S. blew away expectations in August. For the first time in eight years, light vehicle sales surpassed a seasonally adjusted annualized sales rate (SAAR) of 17 million units. "This was the highest level of auto sales since January 2006 and suggests that real consumer spending is rebounding in August after declining in July," said Barclays' Dean Maki. Audi and Subaru report last month as being the best in company history with sales for both brands jumping 22%. While others like Chrysler (20%), Mazda (11.4%), and Toyota (6.3%) have posted the best August sales in more than a decade.  Mitsubishi lead the way with 28.6% growth which represents the best sales month for the Japanese automaker in 6 years. Nissan also posted double digit growth this 11.5% while Mercedes Benz sales rose 9.4%. Fellow Germans, BMW, saw sales rise 5.5%. The Korean duo of Kia and Hyundai saw sales jump 5.1% and 6% respectively. On the other hand, Honda and Ford both post 0.4% gains in sales while GM posted a 1.2% drop in sales.  This August sales boom can be mainly attributed to the perfect confluence of cheap credit, high manufacturer incentives, and dealers desperate to move existing inventory to make way for eagerly-awaited 2015 model-year cars.  One of the driving factors for the recent sales growth has been the almost "scary growth" in subprime auto lending, Kelley Blue Book senior editor Karl Brauer tells Business Insider.  Due to the cost of cars rising at 9% and income only 4% over the past four years, buyers are more concerned with fitting a new car into their monthly budget than the total cost of vehicle, reported The Car Connection's Richard Read. Car dealers have taken advantage of this mindset to juice sales by putting sub prime borrowers into long-term stretched out loans as recently captured by Business Insider's Myles Udland in a conversation between Morgan Stanley automotive analyst Adam Jonas and a Ohio Chevrolet dealer.  On the whole, Read reports that Americans owe upwards of $902 billion in auto loans. In fact, according to Brauer, 20-30% of all auto sales are done via subprime auto loans. Fortunately, default rates for subprime automotive loans are relatively low. In addition, Brauer adds that subprime sales do not represent a higher percentage of sales than in the past times of general economic stability. APRamsey Mazda in Des Moines, Iowa"With the average age of vehicles on the road at roughly 11 years-old there is certainly pent up demand for cars," added Brauer. "Since people are keeping their cars for longer periods of time, a seven-year subprime loan makes more sense than before." Prior to the 2009 recession, the average amount of incentives offered by automakers represented 9% of the average transaction price of car. That figure fell to roughly 7% in wake of the recession. However, incentive figures have been growing ever closer to pre-recession numbers with current manufactures incentives at 8.4%. In fact, the average incentives offered by GM and other domestic automakers amount to roughly $3,000 per vehicle while Toyota offers around $2,100 and Nissan $2,200 per car. The effect incentives have on sales can be significant. In August, Toyota increased their level of incentives by roughly 19% and saw 10% growth. GM, on the other hand, upped incentives by only 3.5% last month and saw sales slip by 1.2%.  Why do manufactures do this? Brauer says, "car companies are really anxious to keep growth and sales volume high. They are willing to sell vehicles at a discount as long as they can still make a profit." Around August of every year, dealers begin their annual tradition of clearing out the existing inventory. By upping incentives and offering cheap credit, dealers were especially successful in moving their 2014 stock that cost significant overhead everyday they sit on the lot. Since 2014 models are coming to the end of their production life, they are sold at heavier discounts than the more novel and new 2015 models. The introduction of 2015 models like the new Chrysler 200 and Cadillac Escalade have paid dividends for their respective brands. The 200 helped the struggling Chrysler car brand reach positive sales growth for the first time in months, while the new Escalade proved to the be sole bright spot in Cadillac's highly praised but underperforming lineup of models. Alex Davies / Business Insider2015 Cadillac Escalade With the flow of subprime loans, manufacturer incentives, and eager dealerships unlikely to curtail, so will this sales surge. "There's no indication of a drop off," says Brauer. "Growth hasn't fallen even when we thought it would." FREE AppDownload
YahooSen. Elizabeth Warren on Yahoo Global News.Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Massachusetts) took former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor to task on Wednesday for taking a new job from at investment bank Moelis. Cantor will ultimately earn $3.4 million as part of the package for his new position. Asked about Cantor's move in an interview with Yahoo News' Katie Couric, Warren sighed and sharply criticized the "revolving door" between former politicians and the powerful industries that employ them after they leave office. "How wrong can this be?" she asked. "Basically what is happening here is that people work in Washington, and man, they hit that revolving door with a speed that would blind you." Cantor resigned from Congress in August after he lost his Republican primary election in a shocking upset. Moelis announced his hiring on Monday. Some, including former corporate lawyer Dennis Kelleher, criticized the hire as notable because of Cantor's lack of relevant investment experience. "Let’s look at Cantor’s résumé," Kelleher told New York magazine. "Let’s look at all his investment-banking experience. Let’s look at his capital-markets experience. He has none. He has no experience or skills that would qualify him to be even an intern at a fifth-tier firm in the financial industry. I mean, come on!" Warren agreed with this line of thinking in her interview, arguing people like Cantor are "selling access" — not their expertise. "[They] head straight out into the industry not because they bring great expertise and insight but because they’re selling access back in to their former colleagues who are still writing policy," she continued. "I just think this is fundamentally the wrong approach." Warren, who has become known for her criticism of Wall Street, said this phenomenon ultimately "infects" Washington politics. "It worries me about what happens if people in government are looking for that next job: 'Yeah I'm working now, not as much money as I could be making, but when I leave here, that's where I'm headed.' That ultimately infects whatever it is that they’re doing," she said. "I think this is just wrong." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris WattieWeight lifting on Parliament Hill in Ottawa.The World Economic Forum has released its annual report of the globe's most competitive economies. The report ranks these economies on the "12 pillars of competitiveness": institutions, infrastructure, macroeconomic environment, health and primary education, higher education and training, goods market efficiency, labor market efficiency, financial market development, technological readiness, market size, business sophistication, and innovation. "Smart investment in skills and innovation is key to enhanced productivity and competitiveness," the report said. "It also supports more inclusive growth by allowing everyone to contribute to and benefit from higher levels of prosperity. Economies that consistently rank high in the competitiveness rankings are those that are able to develop, attract and retain talent, and constantly introduce new and higher value-added products and services into the market." The report adds that "while all of the pillars described above will matter to a certain extent for all economies, it is clear that they will affect different economies in different ways: the best way for Cambodia to improve its competitiveness is not the same as the best way for France to do so" because the two countries are in different stages of development. The WEF ranked 144 economies. FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesCalifornians vote in midterm elections in November 2010. Midterm elections has historically been a great time to own stocks.With the midterm elections now just two months away and campaigning starting to heat up, we thought we would share our current views on the political landscape and what it may mean for U.S equities. In our two Outlook 2014 publications for this year, we posited that the U.S. economy and corporate profits may drive the stock market higher and investors could turn their attention away from policymakers in Washington, who were such a distraction in 2013 and earlier in the current economic expansion. We continue to see opportunities for further stock market gains over the course of 2014, as discussed in our Mid-Year Outlook 2014: Investor’s Almanac Field Notes, based upon fundamentals rather than the potential for sweeping legislative change. Although our analysis of stock market performance around midterm elections is very supportive of our positive stock market outlook, it is not a key driver of that outlook. We do not expect politics to have a big impact on the stock market this fall for two reasons: •<U+0083> There is not much uncertainty for the elections to remove. Markets hate the uncertainty that changes in Washington’s political landscape tend to bring. But there is no debt limit debate until March 2015 or spending cuts that need to be addressed over the near term as in recent years. •<U+0083> Divided government will likely persist no matter the election outcome. Neither party is likely to gain a distinct advantage. We (and the consensus) fully expect that the election will leave us with a still divided government. Major policy initiatives such as tax reform or entitlement reform (as necessary as they may be) are unlikely to get done by the next Congress regardless of midterm election results. It is highly likely that Republicans will maintain control of the House, where they currently hold a sizable majority that may widen. In the Senate, professional political forecasters and our contacts in Washington put the odds that Republicans regain control at between 60% and 70%. To win the Senate, Republicans would need to win six of the 21 contested seats currently held by Democrats (assuming incumbent Republicans hold on to their 15 contested seats). If so, divided government in Washington would persist for at least two more years, with a Democratic president and Republican Congress until the 2016 presidential election.  Several of the contested seats currently being held by Democrats are in traditionally Republican-leaning (so-called red) states, which, along with fewer seats to defend, redistricting, and the latest polls, suggest Republican control of the House and Senate in 2015–2016 is more likely than not. If the Republicans do not take control of the Senate, then a divided and gridlocked Congress returns. Although Washington is probably more likely to get some things done with Congress entirely under Republican control, especially as the Obama Administration moves more into legacy-building mode, major market-moving reforms are unlikely in either scenario. This outcome doesn’t mean policy is irrelevant and that nothing will get done in Washington over the next two years. A continuing resolution this fall will be needed to fund the government until after the 2014 elections. This may begin to turn the market’s attention to the next debt ceiling deadline in March 2015, which could have some political brinksmanship attached to it, although a default is very difficult to envision. We do not believe the Republicans have the appetite for another budget standoff that could result in another government shutdown or, worse, default. In addition, there appears to be bipartisan support for changes to energy policy that could come in 2015, regardless of the makeup of Congress. Infrastructure, immigration, and housing finance reform are also areas of potential compromise. LPL Financial Research Though not a key piece of our positive outlook for the S&amp;P 500, stocks seem to love midterm elections. Since World War II, the market’s reaction to midterm elections has almost always been positive, even when the balance of power has shifted in one or both houses of Congress — as would happen this year if the Republicans take the Senate.  As shown in Figure 1, the fourth quarter in any year has been a good time to own stocks, but the fourth quarter during midterm election years — the quarter that begins on October 1, 2014 — has historically been a really good time to own stocks. In fact, 14 of the last 16 fourth quarters during midterm election years have seen the S&amp;P 500 Index move higher, by an average of 8%. A change in control has not changed this dynamic. In four of the five years that midterm elections resulted in a change in power (1954, when Democrats took the House; 1986, when Democrats took the Senate; 2002, when Republicans took the Senate; and 2006, when Democrats took the House and Senate), fourth quarter returns were positive, much like those in midterm election years when no change in power took place. Interestingly, in the only two midterm election years since World War II during which U.S. equities did not experience a fourth quarter rally (1978 and 1994), the Federal Reserve (Fed) was aggressively hiking interest rates. •<U+0084> In 1978, the lead-up to the Islamic Revolution resulted in strikes and unrest in Iran. In November 1978, a strike by Iranian oil workers reduced production from 6 million barrels per day to about 1.5 million barrels. At the same time, foreign oil workers fled the country. In the United States, inflation hit 9% in the fourth quarter of 1978 with no signs of slowing down as it approached double digits. In response to surging inflation, the Fed was aggressively hiking rates, with a total increase of 1.25% in the fourth quarter alone, pushing the policy rate up to 10%. •<U+0084> In 1994, the S&amp;P 500 turned in a roughly flat fourth quarter on the heels of a shift in power to the Republicans. However, the performance was less of a reaction to the election results than to rising fears of recession amid the Fed’s aggressive hiking of short-term interest rates and a corresponding run-up in long-term interest rates (to nearly 8% from below 6% at the start of the year). Although the Fed is currently withdrawing stimulus by phasing out quantitative easing (QE), we do not expect the Fed to raise interest rates until well into 2015. As a result, we do not expect the Fed to disrupt the stock market during the fourth quarter as it did during the fourth quarters of 1978 and 1994. LPL Financial Research Bottom line, the resolution of election uncertainty — and ending the predominantly negative rhetoric surrounding the campaign — has historically been a positive for the stock market and may help the S&amp;P 500 reach new highs during the final stretch of 2014. And ending uncertainty seems to matter more to investors than the actual election results. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Leon Neal/PoolFull-size models of military vehicles and aircraft are displayed on the golf course of the the Celtic Manor Hotel, ahead of the NATO summit, in Newport, Wales, September 3, 2014.Stocks were mixed on Wednesday as the Nasdaq served as the day's largest loser, as shares of Apple weighed on the tech index. Apple shares were down more than 4% on Wednesday after one analyst recommended investors take profits in shares. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The Federal Reserve released its latest Beige Book report on economic activity, which showed that economic activity continued to grow in each of the Fed's districts. The pace of growth was little changed from the last Beige Book report, released at the end of July, and the report showed that five districts "explicitly reported that contacts... remained optimistic about future growth." In a note to clients following the Beige Book report, Jesse Hurwitz at Barclays said, "Taken together, this report is consistent with our expectation of continued moderate economic growth and further tightening in labor markets."  2. U.S. auto sales had a huge month in August. The annualized pace of sales jumped to 17.45 million in August, up from 16.4 million in July and way more than the 16.6 that was expected by analysts. This was also the highest annualized pace for auto sales in July 2006. Among the notable individual reports were a 20% sales jump for Chrysler, which beat expectations for a 12% increase, and a 9.4% increase for Mercedes-Benz, the luxury carmakers best-ever sales for the month of August. Nissan/Infiniti sales also crushed expectations, growing at an 11.5% pace against expectations for a 2.7% rise.  3. U.S. factory orders jumped 10.5% in July following a 1.5% gain, though this jump was slightly less than the 11% expected by economists. This jump in orders followed the huge 22.5% gain seen in durable goods orders last week.  4. Andrew John Hall, one of the most successful oil traders in the market, sees crude oil prices going to $150 a barrel within five years. Hall, who is known as "God," by some of his competitors, sees America's shale boom receding, pushing oil prices higher. Hall has been telling subscribers to his investing newsletter that he's been buying up long-dated crude contracts.  5. A report from CNBC said that Tesla has chosen Nevada as the site of its much-anticipated Gigafactory. A Tesla representative told Business Insider that, "We look forward to meeting with Gov. [Brian] Sandoval and other legislators in Carson City, [Nevada] tomorrow to announce a major economic development." 6. According to a Reuters report, activist hedge fund investor Carl Icahn sold his entire position in discount retailer Family Dollar and took home a $200 million profit. Icahn was the company's largest shareholder after taking a 9.4% stake in June, and at the time Icahn pushed the company to seek a sale. As of Tuesday, Dollar General had raised its bid for Family Dollar to $9.1 billion, or about $80 per share.  7. Apple shares fell more than 4% as the company continues to deal with the fallout from the leak of nude celebrity photos from its iCloud service, while on Wednesday Andy Hargreaves, an analyst at Pacific Crest, said that investors should take profit in Apple shares. Apple is expected to announce a new lineup of iPhones, as well new payments and wearable products, at an event next week and ahead of this announcement, Hargreaves said: "Based on the work we have done, we do not expect either new segment to drive incremental profits that are meaningful to Apple's scale in the near to medium term." 8. The European Central Bank is set to announce its latest monetary policy decision on Thursday morning at 7:45 am ET, with ECB president Mario Draghi set to hold a press conference that begins at 8:30 am ET. Expectations are for the bank to keep rates unchanged, but with the Eurozone economy continuing to flirt with recession, investors are eager to hear if Draghi signals any intention to engage in quantitative easing.  Don't Miss: The 27 Most Competitive Countries In The World » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Apple logo is pictured on the front of a retail store in the Marina neighborhood in San FranciscoSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Four tech companies including Apple  and Google  have resumed mediation talks with tech workers who are suing over hiring practices in Silicon Valley, according to a court filing on Wednesday. Plaintiffs accused Apple, Google, Intel  and Adobe  in a 2011 lawsuit of conspiring to avoid poaching each other's employees. Last month a California federal judge rejected a proposed $324.5 million settlement in the case, saying it was too low.   (Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citi sign is seen at the Citigroup stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Citigroup Inc  agreed to sell another 41 branches in Texas to BB&amp;T Corp  as the third-largest U.S. bank cuts back on brick-and-mortar outlets and focuses on online banking. The disposal follows the sale of 21 branches in the state to BB&amp;T in December. Citi also sold its retail banking and credit card business in Spain to Banco Popular  in June and, according to a source, is considering selling its Japanese retail banking operations. The latest sale includes retail branches in Dallas, Houston and Midland that had $2.3 billion in deposits and $87 million in loans. Citi said on Wednesday its branch network in Texas did not provide the scale to capture future growth and market share in traditional retail banking. Citi, led by Michael Corbat, has been seeking buyers for about 50 branches holding $3 billion of deposits in California, Bloomberg reported in April. The company's retail banking business has been struggling. Income from continuing operations at the unit fell 46 percent in the second quarter. Revenue from the business accounts for nearly a quarter of total revenue. The bank had 3,463 branches in 35 countries as of June 30, with a little over a third of them in North America, according to a filing. The latest purchase will boost BB&amp;T's total branches in Texas to 123 with $5.3 billion of deposits. BB&amp;T said it would pay a premium to book value of about 5.3 percent of total deposits. Citi said the sale was not material to its earnings and that it would continue its other businesses in Texas. Deutsche Bank Securities was financial adviser and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz provided legal counsel to BB&amp;T for the deal. Citi's shares, which have gained about 6 percent in the past one year, were up 1 percent at $52.49 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday. BB&amp;T's shares were up marginally at $37.73 in early market trading.  (Reporting by Anil D'Silva and David Henry; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Tesla Motors CNBC is reporting Tesla has chosen Nevada as the site of its Gigafactory.  "We look forward to meeting with Gov. (Brian) Sandoval and other legislators in Carson City at 4 p.m. tomorrow to announce a major economic development," a Tesla rep told Business Insider. The Gigafactory is a critical piece of CEO Elon Musk's plan to make a mass-market Tesla car, and lower the cost of carbon-neutral power. Musk has said he intends to double the world's supply of lithium-ion batteries by 2020 and thus drive the price of the power packs downward. He's also said he plans to build multiple Gigafactories in the future.  Tesla had already broken ground on a prospective site outside Reno earlier this summer that only bore the name "Project Tiger." The Tahoe Reno Industrial Center currently boasts e-commerce facilities owned by Apple, Amazon, Barnes &amp; Noble, and Zulily. Tesla's facility, which is expected to employ 6,500 workers is estimated to cost up to $5 billion. CNBC says specific terms of the deal with the state are still being worked out, and that it could be a week before they're announced. Dow Jones also reported Nevada was chosen.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA model stands with a 2015 Chrysler 200 at the Jacob Javits Convention Center during the New York International Auto Show in New York April 17, 2014. August turned out to be a huge month for auto sales. The annualized pace of sales jumped to 17.45 million from 16.4 million in July. This was well ahead of the 16.6 million expected. "The 103-month high was set as rising automaker incentives intersected with a strengthening economy and growing consumer confidence to boost deliveries well past 1.5 million units, for an industry wide 9.3% rise in daily sales," said WardsAuto via Calculated Risk. Calculated RiskChrysler sales jumped 20% in August, beating expectations for just 12.0% growth. Ford sales unexpectedly climbed by 0.4%, which was notably better than the 1.2% decline expected. GM, however, saw sales fall 1.2%. Analysts were expecting a modest 0.1% decline. "The data have been volatile, but auto sales appear to be on a higher track, supported by easing credit conditions and rising consumer confidence and financial health," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists ahead of the announcements. "Pent-up vehicle demand is also supporting sales, and we expect to see a decent gain in August after a pause in July." Here's a tally of some of the announcements: FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBillionaire activist-investor Carl Icahn gives an interview on FOX Business Network's Neil Cavuto show in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Billionaire investor Carl Icahn has sold his entire stake in Family Dollar Stores Inc &lt;FDO.N&gt;, making a profit of about $200 million on the investment, according to sources familiar with the matter on Wednesday. Dollar Tree Inc &lt;DLTR.O&gt; agreed in July to buy Family Dollar for $8.5 billion. Since then, however, the deep-discount retailer has drawn competing interest from Dollar General Corp &lt;DG.N&gt;, which has bid $9.1 billion for its smaller rival.  Icahn became Family Dollar's largest shareholder in June, when he disclosed a 9.4 percent stake in the struggling retailer and pushed the company to sell itself.  At the end of July, Icahn disclosed he had reduced his position to 3.61 percent. It was not clear when Icahn sold the remaining stake. But his decision could indicate he did not expect a tussle for Family Dollar between its two suitors to lead to a substantial increase in the deal price. His decision also reduces some activist pressure on Family Dollar. Icahn had pushed Family Dollar to sell itself to Dollar General and was openly critical of Family Dollar Chief Executive Howard Levine, who would have retained his position after an acquisition by Dollar Tree. In an interview with Reuters last month, Icahn said: "This is a quintessential example and a reflection of what is wrong with corporate America."  Icahn had also criticized Family Dollar's performance over the last few years. In a June 19 regulatory filing, he said the company not only underperformed its peers but also the S&amp;P 500 index over the last 1-year and 3-year periods. Another activist investor, Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management LP also owns 7.34 percent in Family Dollar, according to Thomson Reuters data.  Trian's Chief Investment Officer Edward Garden has been a Family Dollar board member since 2011, and served on a committee of four directors that oversaw Family Dollar's strategic alternatives including the Dollar Tree deal.  Family Dollar's traded around $80.22 on Wednesday, unchanged on the day. Dollar General has offered $80 per share for the company, while Dollar Tree has a deal to buy Family Dollar for $74.50 per share.              (Reporting by Nadia Damouni; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Meredith Mazzilli, Jeffrey Benkoe and Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Fed's Beige Book report is not as boring as it sounds.The Federal Reserve just released its latest Beige Book report. The report showed that for the second straight time, economic activity expanded in all twelve districts. Manufacturing reports were mixed, while consumer spending grew in most districts at rates ranging from slight to moderate, with few changes since the last report. Overall, loan demand rose in eight of the twelve districts, while credit standards were largely unchanged and six districts reported improving credit quality, falling delinquency rates, or both.  Here's the full text from the Federal Reserve: Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity has expanded since the previous Beige Book report; however, none of the Districts pointed to a distinct shift in the overall pace of growth. The New York, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts characterized their growth rates as moderate; Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City reported modest growth. Boston reported that business activity appeared to be improving, and Richmond reported further strengthening. Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas explicitly reported that contacts in their Districts generally remained optimistic about future growth; most of the other Districts cited various examples of ongoing optimism from specific sectors. General consumer spending grew in most Districts at rates ranging from slight to moderate, with few changes in the pace of growth compared with the last Beige Book. Most Districts reported a continued expansion of auto sales, noting record-high levels for several markets within the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts; however, in some parts of the New York and Philadelphia Districts sales began to fall back from their relatively high levels. Tourism activity was reported to have increased across much of the nation, with many Districts reporting higher hotel booking and occupancy rates. Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall. District reports on manufacturing were mixed--divided almost evenly into one of three characterizations of the sector's activity: expanding, contracting, or unchanged. Among Districts reporting on their firms' near-term expectations, the manufacturing outlook remained generally upbeat, with New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta reporting increased optimism. Since the previous Beige Book, residential real estate activity, particularly sales of existing homes and construction of new homes, generally expanded or held steady in about half of the Districts. About half of the Districts also reported some growth in construction and in sales or leasing of nonresidential properties. Overall, loan demand rose in eight Districts and held steady in one. Credit standards were largely unchanged. Six Districts reported improving credit quality, falling delinquency rates, or both. Reports regarding farm products were mixed; for some crops, high anticipated harvests have put downward pressure on prices and expected farm incomes. Generally, oil and gas production and demand for related activities continued to edge up from already high levels, while total coal production mostly held steady. Trends in employment, wages, and prices were relatively unchanged in the Federal Reserve Districts, with greater wage pressures reported in sectors where shortages of skilled labor persisted. Consumer Spending and Tourism Most Districts reported some growth in consumer spending with a pace of growth characterized as ranging from slight to moderate. Compared with the last Beige Book, the Chicago District noted a pickup in growth; Philadelphia indicated somewhat slower growth; and merchants in the Atlanta District reported that sales had weakened slightly. San Francisco contacts suggested that consumers appeared more optimistic about the recovery, New York reported mixed consumer confidence, and Cleveland and Richmond indicated that consumers were being conservative in their discretionary spending. Strong sales were noted for clothing and apparel in Boston and Chicago; household and home improvement categories in Boston and Kansas City; electronics in San Francisco; and back-to-school items in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas. Cleveland also noted that some retailers have seen a significant rise in online shopping. Since the previous Beige Book, auto industry contacts in most reporting Districts have noted continued expansion, with sales at high levels. In the Philadelphia District, Pennsylvania dealers claimed statewide record auto sales in July, as did an auto dealer in Dallas. However, sales in Pennsylvania began to back off their highs in August. Likewise, New York reported mixed results from some upstate auto dealers. Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco noted increased sales of SUVs and pickup trucks. Some Cleveland contacts attributed rising truck sales to a stronger construction industry, while contacts in San Francisco cited a decline in fuel prices as a factor. Inventory levels were mixed among reporting Districts, declining slightly in Kansas City, remaining at or above desired levels in St. Louis, and building up in Cleveland. Tourism activity increased in all reporting Districts. Hotel occupancy rates remained high or rose in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts. San Francisco reported that strength in visitor volume in Las Vegas was due more to convention attendance than to tourism, and Richmond cited group bookings for business and reunion events as sources of strength. Most reporting Districts indicated optimism about future activity levels, with Boston, Richmond, and San Francisco reporting strong advance hotel bookings through the fall. Nonfinancial Services On balance, nonfinancial services have grown since the previous Beige Book. The Boston District reported strong demand for software and information technology services, with contacts attributing this strength to continued economic recovery and robust demand for software products. New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco firms reported moderate growth, and providers of professional business services in Minneapolis reported increased activity. Richmond, St. Louis, and Dallas reported modest growth in services, and Kansas City reported stable sales growth for professional and high-tech services firms. Conditions for staffing services were generally positive across reporting Districts. Staffing activity generally increased in Boston, and staffing contacts in Philadelphia noted increases in new clients and firms hiring to grow their businesses. Dallas reported mixed demand from staffing firms, noting strength in engineering, information technology, and health-care positions but flat demand for legal services. Districts reporting on transportation services generally noted growth. Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas reported moderate to strong freight volumes. Richmond contacts attributed some recent growth in port activity to ships diverted from West Coast ports and to an early arrival of the peak import season. Kansas City transportation firms reported stable sales growth and continued high demand for construction products. Cleveland noted that amid broad-based demand strength, shipments of consumer durables and energy-related commodities and materials stood out. Dallas cited notable growth in shipping volumes for steel. Contacts from New York, Cleveland, and Atlanta mentioned driver shortages or difficulties finding qualified drivers, and contacts in Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta noted concerns about capacity for various types of transportation. Manufacturing Since the last Beige Book period, the Cleveland, Richmond, and Dallas Districts reported that manufacturing activity has expanded; New York, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City indicated that their growth rates had moderated somewhat. San Francisco cited mixed reports from a variety of contacts. Boston, Philadelphia, and Chicago reported continued growth. Within manufacturing, growth was reported across a broad base of sectors. Increases in auto production or derived demand for steel and other related products were cited by Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas. San Francisco cited increases in steel capacity utilization over recent months. Cleveland cited slightly lower steel shipments because of seasonal factors but indicated underlying demand was strong. Construction was cited as a source of increased demand by manufacturing contacts in the Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Chicago reported that demand for heavy machinery picked up some on net, as higher demand for construction machinery overshadowed weakness for agricultural and mining machinery. Firms in the Boston District reported strengthening demand for semiconductors, while San Francisco reported that demand for semiconductors strengthened in part because of robust orders from other countries. With the exception of motor vehicle producers, manufacturers in the Atlanta District generally reported weakness in new orders and shipments. Manufacturing associated with the energy sector was cited as a continued source of growth by Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Dallas. Contacts in most Districts expressed optimism about the near-term outlook for manufacturing growth. Moreover, in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts, optimism reportedly increased in comparison with the previous reporting period. Boston and Cleveland reported that current capital spending is roughly in line with earlier plans. Kansas City indicated slightly diminished capital spending plans, but the outlook remained solidly positive across contacts. Real Estate and Construction Barely half of the Districts reported stable or growing residential real estate activity related to the construction of new homes and sales of existing houses. New construction and existing home sales generally grew modestly; market conditions tended to vary by metropolitan area and by neighborhood within metropolitan areas. Boston, New York, and Dallas reported high levels of ongoing multifamily construction projects; Chicago reported a moderate pace of growth, and San Francisco noted a pickup in activity. A little over half of the Districts reported some degree of growth in nonresidential real estate activity, with increased construction, leasing, or both tied to steady or falling vacancy rates and to rent increases. None of the Districts reported a decline in overall activity, although New York and St. Louis described activity as mixed. In addition to traditional office space, certain Districts reported increased demand for specific projects: Boston noted demand for construction in the hospitality sector, Philadelphia cited industrial and warehouse projects, Richmond noted distribution centers, and St. Louis reported new retail and mixed-use projects as well as new industrial facility construction. Banking and Finance Overall, banking conditions continued to improve from the prior Beige Book period. Loan volumes increased in nearly all reporting Districts, led by moderate gains in the San Francisco District and modest gains in Chicago. Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Dallas noted slight gains; Kansas City reported steady demand. Lending volumes rose in Richmond and appeared to increase, on net, in New York and Cleveland. Auto lending was the category most often cited as growing. The Cleveland and Atlanta Districts reported very strong auto loan demand, while Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco also noted growth in this category. In addition, Philadelphia, Chicago, and St. Louis reported growth in credit card borrowing. San Francisco also noted a slight increase in unsecured consumer credit. New York and Cleveland reported that overall consumer loans had leveled off, while consumer installment loans were described as somewhat softer in the Kansas City District. Philadelphia and San Francisco reported increasing usage of home equity lines of credit, while slightly less usage was reported in the Cleveland District. Demand for business credit expanded in most reporting Districts. Commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) lending increased in the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts; reports from the Philadelphia District were mixed. Cleveland reported that demand for C&amp;I loans was greatest from manufacturers, energy producers, and health-care providers; Dallas also noted demand related to energy projects. Commercial real estate lending exhibited slight to moderate growth in the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts; Philadelphia and Dallas reported no change; and volumes in the Kansas City District decreased slightly. Demand for residential mortgages was less robust; only the Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported increases (which were typically only slight), and New York, Cleveland, St. Louis, and Kansas City reported no change or slight decreases. Cleveland did note some increase in refinancing loans, as did Richmond; however, New York and Philadelphia reported continued declines in this loan category. The Philadelphia, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported that credit quality improved further, while New York and Cleveland stated that delinquency rates fell across all loan categories. A survey of St. Louis District banks showed improved creditworthiness of applicants and unchanged or slightly lower delinquencies for several loan categories. Credit standards remained generally unchanged in most Districts. Bankers in the Atlanta District reported that they were well capitalized but remained cautious about residential lending and fiercely competitive over commercial lending. Contacts in the Richmond and San Francisco Districts described intense competition among lenders for customers with high-quality credit. Philadelphia and Cleveland also reported heated competition. However, according to Atlanta District contacts, standards remained especially rigorous for first-time homebuyers. Agriculture and Natural Resources Farming contacts in many Districts have reported record-high crop yields, resulting in declines in market prices for cotton, corn, soybeans, and other agricultural commodities. The lower prices have resulted in lower expected incomes for some crop producers while reducing feed costs for some livestock producers. Dallas reported that historically high cattle prices have slowed the efforts of cattle producers to rebuild their herds. Chicago reported that hog and cattle prices have slipped during this Beige Book period; however, higher milk prices have helped the livestock sector stay profitable. Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco reported some drought-related disruptions. San Francisco reported higher shipping costs among growers because locomotives were being diverted to the Midwest to haul oil and gas rail cars to refineries in Texas. Activity in the energy sector was generally positive. Oil and gas production and related activities continued to edge higher from already high levels, and total coal production was mostly steady. The Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported modest to brisk growth in activities related to oil production (refining, exploration, drilling, rigging, and oil field and geological services). Producers in the Kansas City District indicated that slightly lower oil prices have not negatively affected drilling plans. In contrast, coal production was reported to be relatively stable in the Cleveland and Richmond Districts; St. Louis pointed to modest growth. Richmond reported a modest decline in coal prices, and Cleveland described spot coal prices as remaining depressed. In addition, Cleveland indicated that activity in the Marcellus and Utica shale fields was continuing relatively unchanged at a high level. Employment, Wages, and Prices Labor market conditions, as measured by hiring trends, were reported to be relatively unchanged from generally modest rates in most Districts; however, contacts in nearly all Districts reported difficulties finding certain types of skilled labor. Contacts cited shortages of skilled information technology workers in the Boston District, of truck drivers in New York, and of construction workers in Atlanta. Employment agencies in New York described the job market as strengthening, and some Dallas contacts noted that the labor market remains very tight in the energy sector. Contacts in Cleveland, Richmond, and San Francisco also mentioned challenges finding qualified workers. Staffing contacts in Philadelphia reported that some of their clients are hiring to grow their businesses. Generally, Districts reported little change in wage pressures, which were commonly characterized as slight or modest. Richmond was an exception, reporting that wage growth slowed in the manufacturing and service sectors. Stronger wage pressure was reported for specific categories of skilled workers. In particular, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco noted greater wage pressure for jobs in energy, construction, trucking, manufacturing, engineering, information technology, finance, and health care, among others. Some general contractors in the Cleveland District reported that they have increased wages and upgraded benefit plans as a means of attracting and retaining skilled workers. Overall, price pressures remained largely unchanged. Input prices were described as modest, stable, or benign in reports from Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City. Chicago noted that prices fell for corn, soybeans, hogs, and cattle but rose for milk during the current Beige Book period. San Francisco cited higher building supply prices, Minneapolis cited higher prices for some metals, and Chicago noted that energy prices generally remained elevated. Cleveland District contacts in the manufacturing and freight transportation sectors noted some ability to pass higher input prices through to customers with little pushback. By contrast, only a few companies in the Atlanta District noted plans to increase prices over the remainder of the year and expressed confidence that any increases would stick. Retail and Tourism Retailers contacted for this round report comparable-store sales changes ranging from down 1 percent to up 7 percent year-over-year. Spending on clothing, household items, and home improvement categories is said to be good. Prices remain steady and inventory levels are well controlled. Some selective hiring is planned. These retailers expect to achieve their 2014 goals of low single-digit sales increases. Their outlook for the U.S. economy ranges from "mixed" to an expectation of moderate growth--one retailer characterized its outlook as "neither bullish nor bearish." Boston-area hotels continue to do very well. Occupancy rates averaged 92 percent in July, and revenues were up 9.5 percent from July 2013, mainly because the average price per room was up. Advance hotel bookings are strong through the fall. Through July, Boston restaurant revenues were up 6.9 percent from January-July 2013. Business travel remains strong and leisure travel is up 2 percent year to date, which contacts indicate is a large increase for this market segment. Year to date through July, traffic at Logan Airport was up 4.5 percent. Contacts expect 2014 travel to best 2012 and 2013 records. Manufacturing and Related Services Of the dozen manufacturing firms contacted this cycle, only one reports declining sales and two report exceptionally strong sales growth versus the corresponding period a year earlier. The firm reporting a decline in sales attributes it to an exceptionally strong period a year earlier. One of the companies reporting exceptional growth was a semiconductor manufacturer, with 15 percent year-over-year sales growth in the second quarter; this is considered high even for this highly cyclical business. The other strongly growing company is a computer systems vendor who sells largely to the Defense Department; this contact said that clarity about the Federal budget had released significant new spending. Two firms that sell equipment to semiconductor manufacturers report strengthening sales, but a third is facing a "lull" in orders and expects them to pick up in the first half of 2015. Only one contact, a manufacturer of semiconductor equipment, reports layoffs over the last year. Of the remainder, one reports a small reduction in headcount, four cite no change, and the rest are increasing employment, although no one reports large-scale hiring. A typical comment came from a maker of electrical equipment, who says their hiring is "cautious." Many firms, including those with strong sales growth, indicate they want to do more with less or "keep headcount growth below sales growth." Firms continue to cite problems finding skilled engineers. All but one contact indicates that prices are stable on both the selling side and the input side. The exception is a producer of milk products who reports that the price of raw milk increased dramatically on account of increased exports, raising U.S. retail prices of milk products. Half the contacts report declining inventories. The contact in the semiconductor industry with sharply higher sales also reports an increase in orders that they are unable to fill on time or at all; they are increasing capital spending to reduce bottlenecks. Most firms report increased capital spending more or less in line with earlier plans. Outlooks are positive. Even the semiconductor manufacturing firm that laid off workers in the first half of the year expects strong sales growth in the first half of 2015. A manufacturer of toys has a mixed outlook; this contact says high-priced products are not selling well because consumers are cautious.  Software and Information Technology Services First District software and information technology services contacts generally report strong demand through August, with year-over-year revenue increases mostly ranging from 7 percent to 20 percent and quarter-over-quarter increases in the mid-single-digits. Contacts attribute this growth to continued macroeconomic recovery, a rebound in the manufacturing sector, and robust demand in the marketplace for software products. By contrast, one contact producing healthcare software reports slight year-over-year decreases in revenues, which he attributes to the expiration of federal stimulus money for health records software. Most firms have added to headcount in the last year, with positions concentrated in sales, research and development, and marketing. Wages are generally flat; however, one firm awarded merit-based increases in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. Selling prices have held constant. Looking forward, while New England software and IT contacts remain concerned about cost implications of the Affordable Care Act, weakness in the Chinese economy, and the overall macroeconomic environment, they continue to be optimistic, expecting a steady rate of growth through the next few months. Staffing Services New England staffing contacts generally cite increased activity since their last reports in May. While one firm supplying workers to the healthcare sector saw a dip in billable hours from June to early July, strong growth in July and August is putting them back on track. On a year-over-year basis, revenue growth is in the 4 percent to 20 percent range. Only one contact continues to report year-over-year revenue declines in the New England region, attributed primarily to client mix. Labor demand is reportedly strong in the information technology, software, aerospace, nursing, electronics, and legal industries. Supply is largely unchanged since May, with continued shortages of high-end technical workers such as software developers, Java programmers, computer engineers, mechanical design engineers, and quality assurance managers. Maintenance and ambulatory nursing positions are also reportedly difficult to fill. By contrast, one contact notes that entry-level IT workers are plentiful. To attract high-skilled workers, staffing firms continue to expand their social media outreach efforts and invest in technological innovations such as mobile compatibility and website development. Both bill and pay rates have increased, with one contact expecting continued upward pressure on wages through the coming months. Contacts express concern about increased health insurance costs as a result of the Affordable Care Act and the extent to which they will be able to pass these additional costs on to their client base. Despite this challenge, New England staffing contacts are increasingly optimistic, expecting year-over-year revenue growth in the high-single-digit range in coming months.  Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity appears mostly steady across the First District. Contacts in Hartford, Portland, and Providence all describe office leasing activity as slow, but the slowness is attributed to typical seasonal patterns. In Providence, lack of suitable industrial space remains a problem in light of healthy demand for space in that sector. In Hartford, interest is expected to be fair-to-strong in a set of downtown commercial structures that were recently (or will soon be) placed for sale, including three well-leased office towers, and there is the sense that an increasing number of owners want to cash in on robust investor demand for commercial real estate. In Portland, retail sector sales and leasing are strong, helped in part by some large national chains that are adding locations in the area, and strong investment demand across property types in recent months has pushed commercial property prices up by 10 percent from a year ago. In Boston, market conditions are largely unchanged since the previous report. Downtown leasing activity held steady, and office leasing demand appears to be strengthening along the Route 128 corridor. However, despite rising profits, most existing firms are not expanding their space needs and some recent lease renewals resulted in reduced footprints. Contacts continue to be impressed by the amount of capital pouring into commercial real estate (as well as into multifamily structures) in the greater Boston area, with prices that reflect highly optimistic expectations. Also in Boston, construction activity remains strong in the hospitality and multifamily sectors, and speculative office construction remains limited. The outlook is uncertain for Rhode Island, where the outcome of the closely contested gubernatorial election is seen as holding some upside potential for growth in the state via improved business sentiment. Independently, a contact sees a risk of increase in the vacancy rate for class A office space in downtown Providence. In Hartford, economic growth is expected to fall short of the national pace, likely resulting in flat leasing activity, but the commercial real estate lending environment appears to be loosening up some. In Boston, contacts expect moderate economic growth and a continuation of current trends, including strong investor demand. While one Boston contact sees a risk of overbuilding in the hotel and multifamily sectors, the city's office sector is not seen as facing a similar risk.  Residential Real Estate Closed sales of single-family homes in June were mixed across the First District compared to June 2013. Sales declined in Massachusetts and Vermont, increased in Connecticut and Maine, and remained unchanged in Rhode Island. (Contacts in New Hampshire were unavailable.) Median sales price changes also varied by state, increasing only in Massachusetts, declining in Rhode Island and Vermont, and holding steady in Connecticut and Maine compared to June 2013. For Massachusetts, this is the fifth consecutive month of year-over-year declines in sales of single family homes and for greater Boston it is the sixth consecutive month of year-over-year declines. Contacts in Massachusetts say the ongoing decline in sales and rise in sales price are driven primarily by a shortage of inventory, with little change in consumer demand. Indeed, Massachusetts inventories have been trending down for more than two years on a year-over-year basis and median sales prices have risen for more than a year and a half. With only 5.5 months of supply, Massachusetts was considered a sellers' market in June (a market is considered balanced when 7.5 to 8.5 months of supply are available). By contrast, Maine is experiencing an increase in inventory and contacts are hopeful that availability will keep the fall market strong. Connecticut contacts cite low inventory of starter homes. Respondents in all five states express concern over student debt levels, believing they will continue to weigh on housing markets for the foreseeable future. Relative to a year earlier, June condominium sales were higher in Maine, Connecticut, and Vermont and lower in Massachusetts. The median condo sales price increased over the same period in three of those four states; in Connecticut, the median sales price was unchanged. Sentiment in the First District is generally positive, with expectations of continuing improvement. However, multiple contacts say expectations need to realign to a "new market norm." These contacts say that both buyers and sellers in New England housing markets must adjust to price increases that are well below previous high rates and begin to look at a house as shelter rather than as "a piggy bank." Return to top Consumer Spending General merchandise retailers say that sales were roughly on plan since the last report with some improvement noted in recent weeks; selling prices have remained steady overall. One major retail chain indicates that sales improved moderately and were generally on plan in July and thus far in August. Retail contacts in upstate New York note that sales were generally flat in June and July but have picked up in early August, with the pickup attributed to strong back-to-school demand. Most retail contacts portray inventories as being in good shape, though one upstate mall characterizes them as on the high side. Prices are mostly described as steady. Auto dealers across upstate New York report mixed results. Buffalo area dealers report that new vehicle sales increased in July but that sales of used vehicles remained soft. Conversely, after a strong spring season, Rochester area dealers say that new vehicle sales weakened in July and remained flat in early August. Auto dealers note that both wholesale and retail credit conditions remain in good shape. Tourism activity has strengthened further since the last report. Business at Broadway theaters continued to show strength in July and the first half of August, with both attendance and overall revenues up roughly 13 percent from a year earlier. Hotel occupancy rates remained elevated in New York City and have picked up across much of upstate New York--in particular, in the Buffalo, Rochester and Albany areas--in July. Consumer confidence in the region was mixed again in July: The Conference Board's survey showed confidence rising to the highest level seen so far this year in the Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA), whereas Siena College's survey of New York residents shows confidence retreating, after climbing for three straight months. Construction and Real Estate The District's housing markets have been mixed but a bit firmer, on balance, since the last report. New York City's rental market has continued to strengthen, with rents rising at a moderately brisk rate, while the city's co-op and condo market has been generally stable. Across much of the District, including New York City, home resale activity has receded somewhat, while the inventory of available homes has risen slightly but remains low; selling prices are flat to up slightly. One homebuilding contact in northern New Jersey notes that the tone of the market is fairly positive for multi-family (mostly rental) construction, and that developers are building more ahead of demand. In contrast, single-family developers are reluctant to build any significant inventories of new homes. A contact in New York City notes that there is a good deal of new development in the pipeline and expects sales and closings to pick up in the months ahead; this contact also sees a good deal of new construction in the planning stage--largely condos in Manhattan and rental apartments in Brooklyn and Queens. Commercial real estate markets have been mixed since mid-year. Manhattan's office market has continued to tighten, with availability rates slipping to a 5-1/2 year low and rents up 5 percent to 10 percent from a year ago. Across the rest of the region, however, office markets have been stable to slightly softer: in Long Island availability rates have held steady near a 7-year low, whereas in northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield counties, and across upstate New York they have been steady at high levels. Office rents have been steady to up slightly. Industrial markets have been steady across most of the District, though availability rates have edged down in northern New Jersey, and asking rents have risen rapidly in Long Island and particularly in Brooklyn and Queens. Finally, Manhattan's retail vacancy rate has edged up while rents remain flat; in Long Island and northern New Jersey, however, the market for retail space has shown signs of firming slightly. Other Business Activity Manufacturing firms in the District report some moderation in growth from the brisk pace noted in the last report, whereas service-sector firms indicate a pickup in growth. Manufacturers express increasingly widespread optimism about the near-term business outlook. Service-sector firms report that increases in input costs remain fairly widespread; among manufacturers, such price pressures increased slightly but remain fairly subdued. The vast majority of both manufacturing and service-sector contacts continue to report that selling prices remain flat. The labor market has shown further signs of strengthening since the last report. Manufacturers continue to add workers, on balance, and considerably more plan to increase than to reduce staffing levels in the months ahead. A growing proportion of service firms say they are hiring, though there has been little change in the proportion that say they are raising wages. One major New York City employment agency reports that hiring activity has continued to improve gradually, while another reports more widespread strengthening and notes increased wage pressures across the board. A growing proportion of workers are said to be switching jobs for increased pay. One trucking industry analyst reports that the industry is doing well but cites a chronic shortage of drivers and notes that this has intensified somewhat in recent months. Financial Developments Since the last report, small to medium-sized banks across the District report increased demand for commercial mortgages and commercial &amp; industrial loans, but they report that demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages has leveled off. Bankers also report that demand for refinancing continues to decline. Credit standards are reported to have tightened for commercial &amp; industrial loans, but remain unchanged across other loan categories. Respondents report no change in spreads of loan rates over cost of funds for their residential mortgage business and a narrowing of spreads for all other loan categories--particularly commercial mortgages. Finally, bankers report a further decrease in delinquency rates in all loan categories, but most notably for consumer loans. Return to top Service sectors maintained a moderate pace of growth overall, while staffing services continued to rise at a modest pace. Manufacturers also reported an ongoing modest rate of increase in activity. The commercial and residential real estate sectors continued to report slight overall growth during the current Beige Book period, both for construction and for sales and leasing of existing properties. Lending volumes continued to grow slowly over this period, and credit quality continued to improve. Contacts continued to warn of a slight increase in credit risks resulting from heated competition for loans. Overall, contacts reported slight increases in wages, home prices, and general price levels, similar to the paces reported for the previous Beige Book period. Overall, contacts continued to anticipate moderate growth over the next six months.  Generally, more firms expressed greater confidence in the economy and more overall optimism for growth. Several contacts professed relief in the relative absence of any "summer swoon," resulting in a reduced level of uncertainty. Manufacturing Overall, Third District manufacturers have continued to report modest increases in new orders and shipments since the last Beige Book with somewhat faster growth in the early part of the seven-week period than in the latter. Gains in activity continued to reflect demand from a broad base of sectors. Contacts specifically mentioned stronger demand from the auto, aerospace, energy, and railroad car sectors. Housing construction and capital spending on equipment and building repair were also mentioned as spurring some growth in new orders. Weak demand was cited from sectors that produce farm equipment, CDs and DVDs, and toys. In general, contacts expressed their belief that overall consumer confidence had improved, as had the confidence of their business customers. Two-thirds of Third District manufacturing contacts expressed expectations that business conditions would improve during the next six months; none anticipate deterioration. This represents significantly greater optimism than during the last Beige Book period. However, a somewhat larger percentage of firms now expect to reduce employment levels over the next six months, and a somewhat smaller percentage expect to increase their level of capital spending. Retail  Since the prior Beige Book period, contacts reported slight growth in nonauto retail sales in the Third District overall--somewhat slower than last period's modest pace. Results were mixed throughout the period and among retail types. An operator of area malls reported a pickup in activity in August after a "flattish" July. Growth in activity was greatest for family and back-to-school shopping in areas where schools started early. Apparel sales were boosted by relatively cool August weather that helped to focus shoppers' attention on new fall inventories. An outlets operator reported moderate to strong sales growth for July but that one mid-August weekend was flat. However, the outlets operator stated that this has been "the most positive summer since 2007" and that retailers are not seeing the deep discounting (of up to 50 percent) that was evident last summer. Contacts remain optimistic; one stated that retail health is generally better than it was before the recession. Contract talks for future leases are beginning to look out to 2016. Meanwhile, fewer lease deals are stagnating as more retailers are proceeding with their existing lease plans. The very strong pace of auto sales reported in the prior Beige Book period appears to have softened to merely strong growth as the current Beige Book period draws to an end in August. In Pennsylvania, July was reported as a record month for statewide auto sales. However, sales appeared to be backing down during the first two weeks of August. One contact suggested that dealers sometimes begin running out of inventory at this time of year. New Jersey contacts reported that year-over-year growth rates of auto sales moderated throughout this Beige Book period, following very high rates reported during the prior Beige Book. Dealers remain very optimistic for continued strong sales levels through 2015. Finance Third District financial firms have continued to report slight increases in total loan volume since the last Beige Book. Demand increased most for consumer credit lines, such as credit cards and auto loans. Demand for home mortgages and home equity lines continued to grow, but the gains were slower, and some contacts reported falling demand for refinancing loans. Reports of demand for commercial and industrial loans were mixed. The market for commercial real estate appears to have changed little. Banking contacts generally reported ongoing steady improvement in credit quality and their loan portfolios, but they continued to warn of competition leading to an increase in risk taking. Customers have a "strengthening sense of stability" and greater optimism, according to several banking contacts. In particular, capital spending by businesses has picked up a bit; however, enough caution remains to constrain much new hiring. Real Estate and Construction Third District homebuilders have reported little change in sales overall since the last Beige Book period, although results are mixed across the District. A New Jersey builder reported another weak month in July but noted a slight pickup in August. In Pennsylvania, a north-central builder credited shale gas money for prompting greater-than-normal numbers of contract signings in July and August. "First-time homebuyers are nonexistent," according to a south-central homebuilder who reported that this August is worse than last year. Residential real estate brokers reported continued slight improvements in sales this period on a par with the prior Beige Book period at the beginning of this summer season. However, on a year-over-year basis, most major markets remain somewhat weaker. Central Pennsylvania is an exception with slight increases reported for existing homes sales in the Harrisburg area. Declines in the Greater Philadelphia area were smaller than during the last Beige Book period; declines in the Jersey Shore area were greater. A major Philadelphia-area broker expressed little change in activity from the last Beige Book period, reiterating that sales were definitely doing better than they were earlier in the year and that higher-priced homes were selling slowly but all other homes were moving quickly. Brokers remain optimistic for further improvement in 2015. Nonresidential real estate contacts reported that growth in construction activity and in leasing activity have changed little from the slight pace seen in the previous Beige Book period. Construction activity continues to be greatest for industrial/warehouse building projects, which get snapped up quickly when built on spec. An architecture and engineering firm reported that this has been a good summer. Contacts also reported improved leasing activity in southern New Jersey for small offices as well as industrial buildings. However, firms reported few signs of rents strengthening in most office markets and cited continued weak growth in service-sector employment. Services Third District service-sector firms have continued to report moderate growth in activity since the last Beige Book. About one-third of all firms reported increases in new orders and sales. Although fewer firms this period reported increases, many firms reported that their current lull or slowdown is seasonal. Several large service companies reported generally steady growth and a greater sense of economic certainty for themselves and their clients. Some staffing contacts in New Jersey and Pennsylvania reported that they are adding new clients, and that firms are hiring to grow their businesses, not just replacing staff. Staffing firms were upbeat about prospects for the remainder of the year. Over three-fourths of the service-sector contacts reported expectations that growth trends will remain positive over the next six months. Tourist areas in the District benefited from great weather conditions throughout most of the summer. Accordingly, most contacts reported modest gains overall. For some areas, including the Pennsylvania Dutch area and much of the shore, visitation was up from a year ago. Two Lancaster hotel operators experienced their highest occupancy rates since 2008 and their highest average daily room rates since 2006. A Delaware shore hotel operator had "one of its best Julys ever, and best month of August, too." Traffic was reported as down in Atlantic City because of the struggling casinos, and in a few parts of Ocean County, the rental market is still below pre-Sandy levels; however, most of the southern Jersey Shore communities experienced strong summer bookings. Despite greater numbers of tourists, spending at restaurants and shops in tourist areas continues to be soft as households are watching their overall budget. Tourism contacts remain generally positive regarding prospects for the fall. Prices and Wages Overall, Third District contacts reported little change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Book periods. Less than one-third of the manufacturing firms reported an increase in their input costs--a smaller fraction than in the prior Beige Book period. The percentage of firms reporting higher prices for their own products also fell. About one-fourth of the service-sector firms reported an increase in prices paid and received--slightly fewer than last period. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing. Brokers continued to report slight overall increases in home prices. Some contacts continued to report tight margins. Several homebuilders reported increasing difficulty finding specialty trade contractors. Overall, contacts among service-sector companies reported little change in labor costs. Generally, contacts reported that hiring remains cautious--occurring when necessary for replacement or for some incremental growth; however, some staffing firms noted more hiring for expansion than during the previous Beige Book period. Return to top On net, payrolls showed a mild increase. Many companies would like to add workers, but they are unable to find qualified candidates. Staffing firms reported little change in the number of job openings and placements. Upward pressure on wages is being felt mainly by the construction and freight transport industries. Input and finished goods prices were stable, apart from increases for metals, agricultural products, and diesel fuel, and a decline in coal prices.   Manufacturing Reports from District factories indicated that new orders and production grew at a moderate pace since the latter part of the second quarter. Companies seeing the strongest demand are linked to the food, motor vehicle, and oil and gas industries. A few manufacturers attributed stronger demand to customers completing inventory adjustments. Year-over-year revenues are generally higher. Our contacts are optimistic in their outlook, with a majority projecting strong demand for the remainder of the year. Steel shipments dipped slightly since our last report due to seasonal factors, though one contact described demand for value-added industrial steel products as strong. Fourth-quarter steel shipments are projected to be better relative to the third quarter, even on a seasonally adjusted basis. Auto production at District assembly plants for the first seven months of this year was more than 9 percent higher as compared to the same period in 2013. Capital expenditures are in line with budgeted amounts for the fiscal year. Companies considering an increase to their capital budgets as the year progresses reported that the additional monies will be used mainly for capacity expansion and process automation. A growing number of manufacturers reported rising prices for raw materials, especially metals and agricultural products. Several noted that the increases are beginning to impact their profitability. Higher materials prices were passed through to customers with little pushback. We heard numerous reports about new hiring for managerial, professional (engineering and IT), and production positions. On the production side, there is a growing trend to hire on a temporary or part-time basis until the worker demonstrates that he or she can perform the job. The boost in hiring has put little upward pressure on wages. Real Estate and Construction Sales of new and existing single-family homes have leveled off since our last report. Year-to-date purchases through July were slightly lower compared to a year ago. Several homebuilders noted that their construction backlogs are strong at this time due to a sales surge in the spring, but they are uncertain about activity several months down the road. Single-family construction starts across the District are on a gradual upward trend and are ahead of year-ago levels. New-home contracts were spread across all price-point categories. New-home pricing was fairly stable; any increases were attributed to rising development costs, including for lots. Year-to-date selling prices of existing homes trended slowly higher and are above those seen in 2013. Nonresidential builders reported strong pipeline activity during the past couple of months, and a majority indicated that the level of activity has picked up from year-ago levels. Inquiries are markedly higher and backlogs are growing, in many cases extending into 2015. The hesitancy that was seen earlier in the year on the part of customers to commit to a project has diminished. Market demand is broad based, with contractors becoming less dependent on non-commercial projects. Most builders are fairly optimistic in their outlook, but they remain concerned about labor issues and tight margins. Builders are projecting modest increases in materials costs, mainly around 2 to 3 percent. The highest price increases are expected for drywall, steel products, softwood, plywood, and diesel fuel. Many general contractors (GCs) reported that they are looking to increase their payrolls, but it is very difficult to find qualified craft-workers. Some GCs have been increasing wages and upgrading benefit plans as a means of attracting and retaining skilled workers. Subcontractors are pushing through rate increases to cover rising construction costs (including labor) and to widen their margins. GCs reported a declining number of bids from subcontractors, which they believe is attributable to inadequate capacity on the part of their subs. Consumer Spending Spending at retail outlets and hospitality venues during June and July was generally higher as compared to the early part of the second quarter. Revenues showed a modest increase relative to the same time period in 2013. There is some consensus that even though consumers are growing more confident, their discretionary spending is still relatively weak. Back-to-school items are doing well. A few retailers observed that while their brick and mortar sales have stalled, on-line purchases have risen significantly. Hotel operators told us that occupancy rates are rising and consumers are more accepting of higher prices. Fourth-quarter revenues are projected to be higher, with expected year-over-year percent gains in the low-to-mid single digits. We heard several reports about higher food prices continuing to put upward pressure on restaurant prices and difficulties associated with passing these cost increases through to consumers. Otherwise, vendor and shelf prices held steady. Hotel operators are investing significant monies in upgrading their properties, and some retailers are increasing capital budgets allocated for their e-commerce operations. Retail payrolls are stable. New motor vehicle sales continued to increase at a robust pace. Year-to-date purchases through July were up 6 percent compared to 2013. Sales of SUVs and trucks picked up during the past few weeks. Some contacts believe that a stronger construction industry is responsible for rising truck sales. With model-changeover time approaching, dealers are seeing some buildup of new car inventory. Used-car purchases showed a modest increase month-over-month and year-to-date. Looking forward, dealers believe that the level of sales will remain elevated, although the pace of sales growth might slow somewhat. The use of incentives has picked up, especially for less popular models. We heard a report about dealers needing to be more adept at using technology to attract younger buyers. Demand for service technicians is growing, but dealers are having difficulty finding qualified applicants. Banking Demand for business credit expanded at a moderate pace over the reporting period. Demand was strongest for commercial real estate loans, C&amp;I lending to manufacturers and energy producers, and from healthcare providers. While little change in interest rates was reported, pricing competition remained keen. Consumer credit demand was roughly stable on net. Applications for auto loans remain very strong, while households made slightly less use of HELOCs. A seasonal uptick for boat and RV loans was noted. Residential mortgage activity was flat. Although purchase transactions dominate mortgage applications, several bankers saw an increase in refinancings. Most of our contacts reported a slight decline in delinquency rates across loan categories. No changes were made to loan-application standards during the past six weeks. Core deposits held steady or showed modest growth, with increases coming mainly from commercial customers. On balance, banking payrolls held steady. New hires were mainly in the areas of compliance and risk management; however, in response to reduced traffic at branches, payrolls there are being reduced and some jobs are being changed from full- to part-time, especially those that are considered entry level. Energy Year-to-date coal production across the District is consistent with prior-year levels, with no material change in overall production levels anticipated in the near term. A decline in the output of thermal coal (sold mainly to domestic utilities) has been offset by increased production of metallurgical coal, much of which is exported. Spot coal prices remain depressed. Activity in the Marcellus and Utica shales is at a high level. During the first half of 2014, the number of producing wells in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus rose by almost 10 percent compared to the second half of 2013, and the amount of gas produced increased by over 14 percent. We heard a report about Ohio’s Utica shale production remaining below its potential until additional gas transport and processing infrastructure is completed. Wellhead prices for natural gas have declined slightly, while oil prices were steady. Little change was seen in equipment and materials prices, aside from an increase in diesel fuel. Oil and gas producers are feeling some upward pressure on labor costs. Freight Transportation Freight volume expanded since our last report, with several contacts describing the pace of growth as moderate to strong. Although demand is fairly broad based, shipments of consumer durables (including motor vehicles) and energy-related commodities and materials stand out. The near-term outlook is favorable; however, several freight haulers are concerned about a capacity shortage. At this time, cost pressures are limited to labor--wages, recruitment, and retention. Some of these rising costs are being passed through to higher shipping rates. Fuel surcharges remain in place. Hiring is for replacement and to a lesser degree, adding capacity. Although most fleets would like to add capacity, they are having difficulty finding qualified drivers. Year-to-date capital spending is in line with or slightly ahead of projections. Firms that are ahead of projections are typically using the monies to add capacity. Return to top The Fifth District economy strengthened further in recent weeks. Manufacturing advanced moderately as shipments and new orders accelerated, and executives were upbeat about further improvement in business conditions. Retail sales grew moderately, although shoppers remained conservative in their spending. At non-retail services firms, the pace of revenue growth was modest. Tourism strengthened, with an increase in group bookings. Lending volumes rose, with stronger demand for mortgage loans, and competition among lenders was stiff. Commercial real estate lending increased in several states, although there were few reports of new construction. There were some reports of upward pressure on interest rates. Residential real estate sales improved modestly, although inventory and prices were little changed. Commercial real estate activity generally strengthened, with mixed reports on vacancy rates. Rental rates were little changed in most locations, while commercial real estate sales prices varied across the District. In agriculture, some crop prices decreased, while input prices were unchanged. Planting and harvesting continued on schedule. In energy markets, coal production was unchanged and prices declined. Demand for both temporary and permanent employees rose slightly in recent weeks. Wage growth slowed in the manufacturing and service sectors, according to our most recent surveys. Prices of manufactured finished goods and raw materials grew at a slower rate, and prices in the service sector, including retail, moved up more rapidly. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity improved moderately in recent weeks. According to our latest survey, shipments and new orders grew at a faster rate and inventories of finished goods and raw materials rose at about the same pace as in our last report. Several North Carolina manufacturers reported steady order volumes in recent weeks, while two Virginia producers stated that shipments and new orders increased slightly. A manufacturer of electrical products located in South Carolina reported that sales had recently increased and he was upbeat about the future. Additionally, an executive at a pipe manufacturing facility in Maryland said that orders and shipments were up slightly from the previous month. Several manufacturers reported greater optimism about future business conditions. According to most contacts prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace. In contrast, an executive at a Carolinas packaging corporation stated that input prices decreased, and output prices remained stable. Ports Port activity strengthened further since our last report. Volume and traffic through District ports were considerably greater year over year, with double-digit gains in imports. Some of the increase was attributed to diversions from the West Coast during labor negotiations. In addition, the peak import season appears to have shifted earlier this year. Consumer goods such as apparel, auto parts, and plastic products were import leaders. Furniture imports were flat according to one source. A port official noted that ship capacity has become very tight, driving up prices for smaller importers. Export leaders were soybeans, grains, corn, lumber, forest products, and auto parts, and for one port, cars. Retail Retail sales grew moderately faster in recent weeks despite generally restrained spending by consumers. A representative of retailers in central Virginia commented that consumers seemed to be thinking, "It's nice, but is it necessary?" The manager of a discount store at the Virginia shore reported flat sales in recent weeks, and a West Virginia grocer said his market was soft. Further, a building supply executive said that consumers were less optimistic than a month ago. In contrast, a South Carolina chain grocer stated that sales had increased and that he was remodeling some of his stores. Most auto dealers reported stronger sales growth in recent weeks, although a couple reported a slightly slower pace. A West Virginia dealer attributed his softer sales to layoffs of coal workers in his area. Retail prices increased more rapidly since our last report. Services Revenues at non-retail services firms rose modestly in the last four weeks. An executive at a financial services firm in central Virginia commented that his clients were "somewhat sanguine about prospects," and an accountant at a business-to-business firm reported more new contracts. In contrast, a CFO at a healthcare organization said that demand for elective services remained soft, and resources have been managed to match the volume. In trucking, an executive reported that business was steady at typical levels, with some upward movement in contract and spot market pricing. He said that his firm was seeing a continued shift toward more "dedicated" agreements, in which customers were locking in rates for future shipping. Prices in the service sector rose slightly faster compared to a few weeks ago. District tourism strengthened during July and August, particularly group bookings for business and reunion events. A Baltimore hotelier said autumn sporting events were driving advance bookings. In Virginia Beach, transient bookings softened, while group reservations increased for family retreats, association events, and some military events. Hotel bookings were also strong at resorts in the mountainous areas of the District, where a contact reported a very strong start to his fiscal year, owing in part to well-attended local events. Some room rate increases were reported. Finance Reports on loan volumes were mostly positive in recent weeks. Demand for residential mortgages strengthened somewhat. Firms in South Carolina and West Virginia reported increased mortgage demand, and a North Carolina lender stated that loan activity had improved. In contrast, a banker in central Virginia reported a slight decrease in mortgage demand over the last few weeks. Refinance lending was unchanged in Virginia and increased slightly in West Virginia. Demand for auto loans strengthened in West Virginia. Financial contacts in Maryland, North Carolina, and South Carolina reported that commercial lending was up. Additionally, loan volumes increased in Virginia, where demand was buoyed by some new construction projects in Northern Virginia and Richmond. According to several bankers, competition for loans remained stiff. For example, a West Virginia banker characterized business lending in the state as originating more from a "take away game" than from new loans. Additionally, an auto dealer in Maryland remarked that competition was strong for consumer credit, especially for buyers with high credit scores. Another Maryland banker said that used car financing tightened slightly but was still available and affordable. Some slight upward pressure on interest rates was reported in Virginia and West Virginia. Lastly, credit standards were largely unchanged with the exception of Virginia, where some terms were relaxed. Real Estate District housing markets improved modestly since our last report, particularly in August. A Charlotte agent stated that closed sales and pending sales were up year over year, while a Northern Virginia Realtor reported above-average buyer traffic. A broker in Washington D.C. said that summer sales had picked up slightly from the slump caused by an unusually harsh winter. District-wide, home prices were generally flat and average days on the market appeared little changed in recent weeks, with higher-end homes continuing to sell more quickly than homes at other price points. Existing home inventories were mostly flat, although there were scattered reports of more homes coming onto the market. A Northern Virginia broker reported an increase in absorption of single-family inventories. Contacts indicated that they saw no change in the level of multi-family construction. Commercial real estate activity strengthened moderately over the past several weeks. Commercial brokers in many areas of Virginia and South Carolina reported steady leasing activity, while Realtors in Charlotte and Charleston, West Virginia said leasing slowed; a contact in Roanoke indicated no change. Vacancy rates decreased according to Realtors in Richmond and Charleston, South Carolina, while contacts in Virginia Beach, Raleigh, Charlotte, and Roanoke stated that vacancy rates were unchanged. Realtors in parts of Virginia, West Virginia, and North Carolina reported that rents stabilized, and landlords were staying close to list prices on rentals, with fewer concessions and incentives. A slight uptick in rents was reported in Charleston, South Carolina. Comments on the supply of Class A office space were mixed. Brokers in Virginia Beach, Raleigh, and Charlotte reported an increase in commercial sales; however commercial sales prices varied across the District. The amount of construction anchored by grocery stores and restaurants increased in Richmond and Virginia Beach, and a source reported additional distribution center construction in Charlotte. Agriculture and Natural Resources Prices received by farmers dropped for some crops since our last report. For example, cotton prices decreased in the last six weeks and corn prices fell year over year. However, farmers reported no change in input prices in recent weeks. A Virginia producer reported completion of summer soybean planting and barley harvesting, while corn harvesting has begun in South Carolina. A sod farmer commented that he expects high demand and tight supply to end soon. Coal production was unchanged since our last report, and exports of metallurgical and steam coal weakened. In addition, coal prices declined modestly in the past six weeks. Labor Markets The demand for workers rose slightly in recent weeks. In Maryland, contacts from the manufacturing, financial services, technology, and construction industries indicated increases in hiring, including some previously outsourced positions. A source in the District of Columbia stated that job growth continued, but at a slightly slower pace than in prior weeks. A community developer in North Carolina reported some staff growth and a high volume of applications for open positions. A South Carolina staffing firm representative noted an increase in hiring, including for temporary and temp-to-permanent jobs. However, some hardware merchants reported cutbacks in employee hours. A manufacturer in North Carolina said finding skilled labor remained a problem; however, an in-house training program was almost complete. Finally, some call centers in North Carolina had difficulty filling open positions. Wage reports were little changed on balance. According to our most recent surveys, manufacturing employment eased slightly and the average workweek lengthened; employment in the service sector strengthened. Average wage growth in the manufacturing and service sectors slowed, particularly wage growth in the retail sector.  Return to top Retailers noted sales had increased from their year-earlier level and automobile sales continued on their upward trend. Reports from contacts in the travel and tourism sector remained upbeat. Residential brokers and builders cited that sales of existing and new homes were ahead of last year's levels. Contacts also indicated that inventory levels were mostly down and home prices continued to rise on a year-over-year basis. Commercial real estate firms reported that demand continued to improve and construction activity grew modestly, on balance. With the exception of motor vehicle producers, manufacturers generally noted a decline in new orders and production compared with the previous reporting period. Bankers reported mixed results regarding financing conditions as they remain cautious about residential lending but competitive in their commercial lending. Businesses indicated modest increases in hiring across much of the District over the reporting period. Firms cited relatively stable wage growth, while input cost pressures were described as benign. Consumer Spending and Tourism According to District merchants, retail sales weakened slightly since the last report, though they remained above their year-earlier level. Retailers indicated that margins remained tight. Back-to-school sales got off to an early start but have been dominated by heavy promotional activity and discounting. Once again, several contacts reported that a strong housing market in their area had boosted retail sales. The outlook among District retailers is a bit more guarded than in our last report but most businesses anticipate sales will improve through year end. District auto dealers noted that sales were ahead of their year-earlier level; as in the broader retail sector, promotional activity was strong. Reports from travel and tourism contacts were positive. Hospitality contacts in Georgia, Florida, and Louisiana saw increased occupancy and daily room rates in July compared with the same period last year. Reports indicated that theme park attendance and ticket sales early in the summer were softer than expected as family vacations were delayed because of the addition of winter makeup days at the end of the school year. However, activity picked up to anticipated levels as the summer progressed. Mississippi casino gaming revenues increased compared with a year ago. Industry contacts expect business and leisure travel to exceed forecasts for the remainder of 2014. Real Estate and Construction Many District brokers reported that home sales had increased from their year-earlier level. The majority of brokers indicated that inventory levels remained flat or declined on a year-over-year basis. Contacts continued to note that home prices were ahead of their year-earlier level. However, the outlook among brokers worsened somewhat from previous reports as most expect home sales to remain flat or decline slightly over the next three months. Reports from District builders remained fairly positive. Most indicated that recent activity either met or exceeded their plan for the period. The majority of builders noted that construction activity and new home sales were ahead of year-ago levels. Half of builders reported that inventories of unsold homes were down from a year earlier. The majority of contacts continued to see modest home price appreciation. The outlook for new home sales and construction activity remains positive. Demand for commercial real estate continued to improve since the last reporting period. Contacts indicated that absorption and rent growth across property types remained positive. Contractors noted that apartment construction remained fairly strong and that the level of construction activity across other property types had picked up modestly. Half of contacts reported no change in backlogs from their year-earlier level, while the remaining half indicated their backlog had increased relative to a year ago. The outlook among District commercial real estate firms also remains positive. Manufacturing and Transportation District manufacturers indicated that the pace of growth had slowed over the reporting period. Contacts cited declines in new orders and production compared with the previous reporting period. Purchasing agents noted longer wait times for materials ordered from their suppliers. Finished inventory levels were reported to have increased somewhat. The outlook among manufacturers for higher production improved slightly from the previous reporting period. Reports from district transportation firms were mixed. Trucking companies noted strong freight volumes; however, driver shortages and tight trucking capacity continued to negatively affect the industry. Air cargo experienced slight increases in tonnage led by a rise in international freight. District rail contacts cited double-digit increases in domestic coal volumes as export coal volumes declined, and shipments of petroleum products nearly doubled from their year-earlier levels. Increased capital expenditures on rail infrastructure and rail car capacity were also noted. Banking and Finance Bankers reported that they were well capitalized and had plenty of money to lend. However, banks continued to be cautious with regards to residential lending. Availability of credit to homebuyers, particularly first-time homebuyers, remained limited as rigorous underwriting standards continued to slow down the approval process. Contacts reported a decrease in mortgage loan production due to difficulties associated with the Qualified Mortgage Rule. Lender competition for commercial loans continued to be fierce. Consumer credit availability improved since the previous report. Auto loan demand remained very strong over the reporting period. Employment and Prices Employment levels picked up modestly across most of the region; however, businesses still mentioned difficulties in finding qualified workers, which seem to be both intensifying and broadening across skills and occupations. In addition to trucking, engineering, construction, and information technology positions, contacts increasingly reported difficulty filling mid-level positions such as analysts and clinicians. Most contacts continued to cite relatively stable annual wage growth in the 2 percent to 3 percent range. However, there were some reports of rising offer wages and ongoing upward wage pressure for some high-skill, low-supply positions. Overall, however, businesses continued to report relatively benign input-cost pressures. Only a few companies noted plans to increase prices over the remainder of the year and expressed confidence that any increases would stick. According to the Atlanta Fed's survey on business inflation expectations, unit costs are expected to increase 2.0 percent over the next 12 months. Natural Resources and Agriculture Gulf Coast refineries have experienced record-high utilization rates over the summer as a result of refining, refitting and capacity expansions, increases in both domestic and foreign demand, and access to lower-cost crude oil. Energy firms expect sustained growth in the coming months, yet continue to monitor volatile global events because of their potential to affect crude oil supply and energy prices. Parts of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama experienced abnormally dry to moderate drought conditions over the reporting period, while the rest of the District ended the period drought free. The USDA designated several counties in the Florida Panhandle as primary natural disaster areas due to damages and losses caused by excessive rain earlier this year. Lower corn prices benefited livestock and poultry producers that rely on corn for feed. Pulp exports were robust as a result of increased demand for low-end paper products from emerging markets. Return to top Consumer Spending Growth in consumer spending picked up to a moderate pace in July and August. Retailers reported noteworthy sales increases for apparel and lawn and garden items, but cited weaker growth at grocery stores. The relatively mild weather resulted in below-average sales of items such as summer-related toys and cooling appliances. Promotional activity scaled back some, but remained high, as clearance sales have been effective at eliminating excess inventories. Retail contacts noted that the cost of further intensifying promotions outweighed any potential benefits. Light vehicle sales increased, particularly for mid-size sedans and crossover vehicles. Activity in auto service and parts departments remained high as dealerships continued to address the spate of recent recalls. Business Spending Business spending continued to grow at a moderate pace in July and August. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most manufacturers and retailers. Capital expenditures and spending plans both increased. More contacts reported capital expenditures to support capacity expansion, particularly in the auto and construction industries, and contacts increased their outlays on structures while maintaining spending levels on industrial equipment and information technology. The pace of hiring slowed slightly, though hiring plans ticked up. Demand remained strong for skilled workers, particularly for those in professional and technical occupations and skilled manufacturing and building trades. Shortages of skilled workers were reported in the manufacturing, construction, transportation, IT, and healthcare industries. Contacts again mentioned expanding internal training programs to address worker shortages and an increased willingness to pay higher wages and bonuses. In the construction industry, contractors were renting specialized equipment in place of hiring new workers. Demand for lower-skilled workers picked up some, with a staffing firm reporting increases in billable hours in the trade, transportation, and utilities industries. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity increased over the reporting period. Residential construction expanded at a moderate pace in both the single- and multi-family markets. Builders continued to note that activity varied widely by neighborhood, with most of the strength concentrated in high-income urban areas. Single-family home sales increased, while condominium sales weakened somewhat. Contacts were optimistic that sales would gain momentum in the fall, as continuing increases in home prices and residential rents signal solid underlying demand. Nonresidential construction also expanded at a moderate pace, led by demand for industrial and office buildings. Contacts again reported that automotive supply manufacturing plants were a particular source of strength. Commercial real estate activity increased broadly, as vacancies ticked down and rents rose. Leasing of industrial buildings, office space, and retail space all increased. Manufacturing Manufacturing continued to grow at a moderate pace in July and August. The auto industry remained a source of strength for the District. Demand for steel increased further. However, capacity utilization in the steel industry is still low by historical standards, and a contact noted that some capacity designated for nonresidential construction remains offline due to continued weak demand from this market segment. Steel service center inventories remained a bit low, but contacts expected to rebuild them over the next two months. Most specialty metal manufacturers reported improving order books, though a few were disappointed by second-quarter sales. Demand for heavy machinery picked up some on net, as higher demand for construction machinery overshadowed weakness for agricultural and mining machinery. Contacts noted that growth in farm machinery sales, in particular, has slowed, with dealers offering discounts on purchases of equipment for which there had been waiting lists in recent years. Moreover, there were reports of excess inventories of used farm equipment and layoff announcements at farm machinery plants in the District. Manufacturers of construction materials reported steadily increasing production and shipments, and a contact expected strong demand over the third quarter. A utility company reported that weather-adjusted energy usage was higher than a year ago at this time. Banking and Finance Credit conditions improved modestly in July and August. Business lending increased, with contacts noting continued growth in demand for the financing of equipment and commercial real estate from small and middle-market businesses. In addition, both small and middle-market businesses increased their utilization of credit lines. Growth in leveraged lending was relatively flat, with pricing and structure little changed from the prior reporting period. A banking contact noted that some corporate clients were shifting toward traditional and leveraged bank loans and away from high-yield debt to satisfy their funding needs. Banking contacts also continued to cite competitive pressures on terms and pricing for traditional and leveraged business lending, particularly from nonbank financial institutions willing to take on higher credit risk. Consumer loan demand increased moderately over the reporting period, with contacts noting an increase in credit card lending, continued growth in auto lending, and a slight uptick in new mortgage originations. Prices and Costs Cost pressures increased over the reporting period, but remained modest overall. Energy prices remained elevated. Steel prices were higher in spite of increased imports, as a large share of these imports remains at the docks due to customers’ unwillingness to pay elevated shipping surcharges. Retail prices were up slightly as contacts reported decreasing the generosity of sales promotions. Meat and dairy prices also rose, though contacts did not report price pressures for other grocery items. Overall, wage pressures were modest, but a number of contacts again reported wage pressures for skilled workers. In addition, a staffing firm reported that pay rates increased for staffing and professional positions. Non-wage labor costs were little changed. Agriculture Corn and soybean production in the District should exceed last year’s levels. Although much of the District recently weathered a dry spell, cool temperatures helped reduce the stress on crops. Nonetheless, crops in the northern parts of the District may not fully mature before the dates of normal first frosts. With national records expected for the corn and soybean crops, prices moved down from the prior reporting period. To avoid selling crops for lower prices than in recent years, farmers have explored options for storage and livestock feeding. Higher milk prices helped the livestock sector stay profitable even though hog and cattle prices slipped. Ethanol prices eased, but production remained profitable. Return to top Consumer Spending Anecdotal reports from retailers indicated modestly improving conditions. Roughly 40 percent of the retailers surveyed anticipate third-quarter sales to be similar to a year ago, and 40 percent anticipate higher or somewhat higher sales. The majority of respondents report that third quarter sales are on pace to meet or exceed expectations. The outlook for fourth-quarter sales among retailers was also positive. Roughly half of contacts expect fourth quarter sales to be at least somewhat higher than the same period last year, while a third expect sales to be similar to the same period last year. Anecdotal reports from auto dealers were also positive. About half of the auto dealers surveyed anticipate third-quarter sales to be similar to a year ago and the other half expect higher or somewhat higher sales. The majority of auto dealers reported that more low-end cars have been sold relative to high-end cars. Half of the contacts reported that their inventories are too high, but most others reported that inventories are at their desired levels. Contacts anticipate stable or improved sales in the fourth quarter compared with a year ago. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of planned manufacturing activity since the previous Beige Book have been positive on net. Several manufacturing companies reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the District. Producers of steel, pet food, plastics, lighting products, consumer goods, and industrial appliances plan to hire additional employees and expand operations in the District. In contrast, firms that manufacture tools and light machinery reported plans to lay off workers and close facilities. Reports from auto parts manufacturers were mixed. Recent reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have also been positive on net. Firms in healthcare, finance, retail, transportation, and telecommunications services reported new hiring and expansion plans. In contrast, firms in food, information technology, and news media services announced plans to lay off employees. Real Estate and Construction Home sales decreased in the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2013, July 2014 year-to-date home sales were down 3 percent in Louisville, 4 percent in Little Rock, 6 percent in Memphis, and 4 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction declined in the majority of the District's metro areas. July 2014 year to date single family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2013. Permits decreased 14 percent in Louisville, 29 percent in Little Rock, and 1 percent in St. Louis. Permits showed no change in Memphis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions in the District have been mixed. Contacts in Louisville reported weak demand for downtown office space, while contacts in St. Louis reported increasing demand for office space and a scarce supply of commercial real estate space. Contacts in Memphis reported stable office vacancy rates and a decrease in both retail and industrial vacancy rates. Commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District. Contacts in Louisville reported the return of large-scale construction with two new retail projects in the area. A contact in Little Rock reported a new industrial facility under construction in southwest Arkansas. Contacts in Memphis reported the redevelopment of an uptown building into mixed-use space, and contacts in St. Louis reported construction of a large industrial building on a speculative basis. Banking and Finance A survey of District banks showed that overall lending activity during the past three months was unchanged to slightly higher. For commercial and industrial loans, credit standards eased slightly over this period, creditworthiness of applicants improved modestly, demand was stronger, and delinquencies were largely unchanged. For prime residential mortgage loans, credit standards remained basically unchanged, creditworthiness of applicants improved moderately, demand was unchanged to somewhat lower, and delinquencies were largely unchanged. For credit cards, both credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants showed no change during the period, demand was moderately stronger, and delinquencies were unchanged. Finally, for auto loans and other consumer loans, credit standards eased slightly, creditworthiness of applicants improved slightly, demand increased slightly, and delinquencies decreased slightly. Agriculture and Natural Resources As of mid-August, around 73 percent of the District corn, rice, and sorghum crops was rated in good or excellent condition. In contrast, only 56 percent of District pasturelands was rated in good or excellent condition. District farmers will likely produce close to 9 percent less corn in 2014 than in the previous year. However, District rice, cotton, and sorghum production will be 34 percent, 17 percent, and 11 percent higher than last year, respectively. District coal production for July 2014 was about 10 percent higher than in July 2013. Coal production year-to-date is 1.3 percent higher than the corresponding period a year-ago. Employment, Wages, and Prices A survey of Eighth District businesses indicated that, over the past three months, employment levels and wages have grown at a modest pace while prices have increased moderately compared with the same period last year. Sixty-one percent of contacts reported that employment levels have stayed the same relative to the same period a year ago, while 31 percent reported a slight increase and 8 percent reported a slight decrease. Sixty percent of contacts reported that wages have stayed the same, while 37 percent reported a moderate increase and 2 percent reported a slight decrease. Finally, 62 percent of contacts reported that prices have stayed about the same relative to a year ago, while 31 percent reported an increase and 7 percent reported a decrease. Return to top Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending increased moderately. A Minneapolis-area mall reported slightly higher recent sales compared with a year earlier; summer items were largely sold out. A restaurant chain reported recent same-store sales up about 8 percent compared with a year ago. Several new chain restaurants were moving into Rapid City, S.D. Recent vehicle sales were solid in many parts of North Dakota, with brisk sales continuing in the western part of the state. Auto dealers in rural areas were concerned about a potential drop in sales activity if crop prices remain relatively low. Summer tourism activity was above year-ago levels. According to officials, tourism in northwestern Wisconsin has been solid since mid-June after a slow start; tourism was above year-ago levels in western North Dakota. Summer tourism activity in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan was about the same as last year, according to an official. Hotel and motel occupancy was up from a year ago during the early part of the summer season in western South Dakota; however, in recent weeks, some tourism businesses observed slower activity relative to last year. Construction and Real Estate Commercial construction activity increased. Compared with a year ago, the value of commercial permits issued in July in Bismarck, N.D., increased significantly, but industrial permits were relatively flat. Commercial permits in Billings, Mont., more than doubled in value in July from a year earlier. In Sioux Falls, S.D., the value of July commercial permits increased significantly from a year ago. Residential construction increased from last year. The value of July housing permits increased in Bismarck from a year ago, primarily due to multifamily building. July single-family residential building permits in Billings increased 67 percent in value from last year, but multifamily building was down. The value of July residential permits in Sioux Falls increased 24 percent from the same period last year. However, in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of July residential permits decreased 8 percent compared with July 2013. Based on a Minneapolis Fed mid-August survey of Ninth District contacts, a large majority of respondents from the construction sector thought sales revenue would increase over the next four quarters. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A real estate analytics firm noted that Minneapolis-St. Paul office, retail, and hotel vacancy rates dropped in the second quarter from the first quarter of 2014. According to the mid-August survey, half of the respondents from the real estate sector expect increased sales revenue over the next four quarters, while 29 percent expect a decline. Residential real estate market activity decreased since the last report. In the Sioux Falls area, July home sales were down 15 percent, inventory increased 9 percent, and the median sales price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier. July home sales were down 6 percent from the same period a year ago in Minnesota; the inventory of homes for sale increased 12 percent, and the median sales price rose 4 percent. The Minneapolis-St. Paul multifamily vacancy rate increased in the second quarter from the first quarter of 2014. Services Activity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. According to the mid-August survey, respondents from the professional services sector experienced increased sales activity over the past four quarters and expect increased sales activity over the next four quarters. Professional services respondents also expect increased profits and productivity over the next four quarters. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing continued to increase since the last report. A manufacturing index released by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) fell slightly from the previous month in July for Minnesota and the Dakotas, but remains at a level consistent with expansion in activity. About two-thirds of manufacturers responding to the Minneapolis Fed's mid-August survey reported that their sales increased over the previous four quarters, and more than half expect continued growth over the next year. In Minnesota, a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning manufacturer and a custom precision manufacturing machine producer recently announced capacity expansions. Energy and Mining Activity in the energy sector grew briskly since the last report. Mid-August oil and gas exploration activity increased from a month earlier. North Dakota oil production jumped 2 percent in June from the previous month to a new record. Regulators in North Dakota recently approved a 150 megawatt wind turbine project. Mining activity held steady since the last report. July production at Minnesota iron ore mines increased from June, but was down slightly from a year earlier. Since the last report, a copper-nickel mining and processing operation in the Upper Peninsula made its first ore shipments. AgricultureAgricultural conditions were mixed since the last report. Most of the District's corn and soybean crops were in good or excellent condition in mid-August, with strong yields forecasted. Livestock and dairy producers continued to benefit from higher output prices and lower feed costs. A majority of lenders responding to the Minneapolis Fed's second-quarter (July) survey of agricultural credit conditions reported lower farm incomes compared with the previous quarter. Relative to a year earlier, prices received by farmers in July were lower for corn, soybeans, and wheat; prices increased for hay, cattle, hogs, poultry, eggs, and milk. A mildew outbreak in North Dakota may reduce sunflower yields. Employment, Wages, and Prices Labor markets continued to tighten gradually since the last report. A recreational vehicle manufacturer will add 100 new employees, and an industrial equipment manufacturer announced plans to hire more than 30 new workers. A snack food manufacturer in a rural area has hired 60 foreign workers with seasonal work visas in order to fill open positions. A job-placement firm noted increased demand recently for workers across a number of industries. According to the mid-August survey, over half of all respondents expect to keep the same number of full-time employees on staff over the next 12 months, while about a third anticipate increased employment. In contrast, an agribusiness firm recently announced that it will cut about 170 information technology jobs and outsource the work to a company overseas, a fast-food products company recently cut 66 jobs, and a medical device firm announced 40 job cuts. Overall wage increases were moderate since the last report. According to the mid-August survey, the pace of wage increases over the next 12 months is expected to remain generally the same as during the preceding 12 months. Also, some trucking firms in the District noted that they raised wages over the past few months to attract drivers. Prices were generally level, with some exceptions noted below. A construction contractor noted that construction costs are expected to increase 6 percent in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area over the next 12 months. Mid-August Minnesota gasoline prices were down about 15 cents per gallon both from mid-July and from a year earlier. Slight gains in some metals prices were noted since the last report, except for copper prices, which decreased slightly. Return to top Consumer Spending Consumer spending increased modestly in July and August, although contacts in some industries were slightly less optimistic about future sales growth than in previous surveys. Retail sales edged higher and store inventories fell sharply. Several retailers noted stronger sales of home improvement and household items. Expectations for future retail sales remained solid, with inventory levels expected to stabilize. Auto sales increased slightly and were modestly above year-ago levels, but the rate of expected future sales growth slowed mildly. Contacts said mid-sized cars and small SUVs sold particularly well. Auto inventories fell slightly and were expected to continue to decrease. Restaurant sales grew moderately, although future activity was expected to remain steady. Tourism-related activity continued to rise, with conditions considerably better than a year ago. Tourism contacts expected solid activity heading into the early fall months. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Growth in District manufacturing activity slowed somewhat, but expectations remained positive. Production growth eased at both non-durable and durable goods-producing plants, particularly for food and metals producers. Growth in shipments and new orders also moderated, as did order backlogs, and employment levels fell slightly in August. Expectations for future factory activity rose slightly and remained solid. Manufacturers' capital spending plans decreased slightly, but were still above year-ago levels. Transportation, professional, and high-tech firms reported fairly stable sales growth from the previous survey, and expected growth to edge higher in coming months. Several transportation contacts also mentioned continued high demand for construction products. Meanwhile, growth in wholesale trade fell back, with further easing expected. Real Estate and Construction District real estate activity expanded modestly in July and early August, supported by increased construction and stronger sales activity. Residential home sales edged up, with sales of low- and medium-priced homes remaining more robust than sales of higher-priced homes. Home prices increased further, and inventories rose slightly compared to the previous survey period. Residential real estate contacts expected home prices and sales to grow modestly and inventories to decrease slightly over the coming months. Housing starts increased slightly, and sales of construction supplies continued to increase at a moderate pace. Residential construction activity was expected to expand at a modest pace with stronger anticipated sales, starts, and traffic of potential buyers. Commercial real estate and construction activity strengthened further, with lower vacancy rates and increased sales and absorption; expectations were for moderate sales growth over the next few months. Banking Bankers reported steady overall loan demand, stable loan quality, and unchanged deposit levels relative to the previous survey. Respondents reported a minor decrease in demand for commercial real estate loans, and demand for consumer installment loans was somewhat softer. Most respondents reported steady demand for agricultural loans. Demand for commercial, industrial and residential real estate loans was slightly weaker compared to the previous survey. Most bankers indicated loan quality was unchanged compared to a year ago, and a majority of bankers expected loan quality to remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories. In addition, deposit levels stayed constant. Agriculture Improved growing conditions and the potential for record crop production this fall depressed prices and lowered farm income expectations since the previous survey period. The majority of the District's corn and soybean crops were rated in good condition but improved yields may not offset the effect that recent price declines will have on income. District farm income remained well below year-ago levels even with strong profits in the livestock sector due to rising cattle and hog prices. Demand for farm operating loans rose further but loan-to-value ratios remained relatively conservative. Still, some bankers reported loan repayment rates had weakened since last year and also noted a rise in loan renewals and extensions. Despite lower farm income, cropland values generally held steady during the growing season while strong demand for high-quality pasture supported modest gains in ranchland values. Energy District energy activity edged higher in July and early August. Drilling activity rose modestly, particularly for oil wells, and expectations on activity levels remained solid for the upcoming months. Crude oil rig counts reached their highest levels in seven years, while natural gas rig counts remained steady but low. Oil prices eased in early August, which contacts attributed to unchanged global supply and fewer supply threats in the Middle East. Despite slightly lower prices, local producers did not expect drilling plans to be negatively affected. Natural gas spot prices slid to the lowest level this year in the midst of mild summer temperatures and steady supply; however, prices remain higher than a year ago. Most energy contacts expected oil and natural gas prices to fall slightly through the coming months, but indicated capital expenditure plans remained solid. Wages and Prices Over the reporting period, prices rose modestly in most industries, and wage pressures increased slightly. Retail prices continued to increase moderately, and most retailers expected prices to continue to move up at a similar pace in the coming months. Raw materials prices in the manufacturing sector grew slightly, while manufacturers' selling prices maintained their slight growth rate from the previous survey period. Transportation input and selling prices rose modestly, and firms expected input prices to rise further in the near future. Restaurant menu prices continued on their moderate upward trend, reflecting rising food costs. Construction materials prices moved slightly higher and builders expected prices to continue to rise. Wage pressures were slightly higher in most industries. Many contacts reported difficulty in finding qualified workers across a range of skill levels and industries. Return to top The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Reports on manufacturing activity were largely positive, without the scattered reports of weaker demand noted in the last report. Retail and automobile sales strengthened, and demand for nonfinancial services was stable or improved. Both home sales and commercial real estate leasing activity remained solid. Demand for oilfield services remained robust, and agricultural conditions improved. Prices increased modestly or held steady, as did employment levels. Outlooks remained optimistic. Prices Most responding firms said prices increased slightly or held steady since the last report, with an uptick in the share of firms raising prices. Retailers and food producers noted continued price increases for meat and dairy and were beginning to see rising prices for vegetables. Ticket prices and fees moved up across the airline industry, while fuel costs decreased. Lumber, cement and brick producers reported increases in selling prices, largely due to increasing input costs. Scattered reports of selling price increases came from other manufacturers as well. Prices for accounting services were at high levels, with firms saying that they have been able to hike rates up over the past year with very little pushback. Legal fees were flat at average levels, and loan pricing was unchanged at competitive levels. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell since the last report, as did the price of natural gas. Gasoline and diesel prices also fell over the reporting period. Labor Market Employment at most firms increased or held steady, with some continued reports of difficulty in finding skilled workers. Reports of hiring were slightly less widespread than in the prior reporting period and came from airlines, auto dealers, some high-tech and transportation manufacturers, and manufacturers of construction materials (such as metals, lumber, and brick). Some construction-related manufacturers reported a shortage of truck drivers, with one contact noting they cannot compete with the wages offered in the energy sector and another saying the company is sponsoring commercial driver's license training in an effort to fill necessary positions. Retailers noted flat employment at existing stores but a couple of contacts noted continued hiring for new stores. Energy contacts continued to report a very tight labor market. Reports of upward wage pressures were roughly as prevalent as in the last report. Staffing services firms noted that wage pressures remained strongest for skilled workers. Upward wage pressures were reported across the manufacturing sector, from semi-skilled positions in construction-related manufacturing to high-skilled positions in high-tech manufacturing. Energy industry contacts continued to note upward pressure on wages and bonuses. Manufacturing Most manufacturers noted an increase in demand since the last report and outlooks were nearly unanimously positive. Primary and fabricated metals producers noted broad-based improvement in demand, with one contact saying that demand resulting from highway, commercial building, and energy-related work was particularly robust. Demand reports from lumber, cement, glass, and brick manufacturers were mixed but all contacts noted that business was up from a year ago. Contacts in high-tech manufacturing reported that demand grew at a good pace over the past six weeks. Demand for semiconductors from the auto and industrial sectors was particularly strong, and one contact noted that there was some increase in demand from computer manufacturers that may be related to the termination of support for the Windows XP operating system. Food producers said demand was flat over the reporting period but up slightly from a year ago. Chemical producers reported higher production rates. Refinery utilization rates increased and lower oil prices and a wider spread between domestic and international oil prices helped boost refiner margins in recent weeks. Outlooks of refiners and chemical producers remained positive. Retail Sales Retail sales increased over the reporting period, but reports on the pace of growth were mixed; stronger growth was seen in stores benefiting from back-to-school shopping while food price inflation likely hampered grocery sales growth. According to three national retailers, demand in Texas continued to slightly outperform the nation as a whole. One contact noted that demand in areas of Texas with more energy-related activity was growing faster than in the rest of the state. Contacts' outlooks were positive, with growth expectations for 2014 versus 2013 ranging from low- to mid-single digits. Automobile sales increased at roughly the same pace as during the last reporting period. Contacts noted that July was a great month for the industry; one auto dealer said it was their best month ever. Demand was up relative to a year ago. Contacts' outlooks for the rest of the year were good, with one contact expecting growth in the second half of the year to be better than in the first. Nonfinancial Services Nonfinancial services firms reported demand was flat to up from six weeks ago, and all were optimistic in their outlooks for the months ahead. Demand reports from staffing firms were mixed, although contacts noting an increase said it was broad-based across sectors, with particular strength in direct hires for engineers, IT, and science positions. Demand for legal services was flat, although contacts said health care was a new bright spot. Two legal contacts anticipate increased work from energy-related projects and another noted additional compliance work for banks. Transportation service firms said overall cargo volumes increased since the last report. Changes in shipping cargo volumes were mixed but notable growth was seen for steel. Railroad contacts reported an increase in year-to-date cargo volumes versus the same period a year ago. One contact noted that motor vehicle, lumber, metallic ore, and crushed stone volumes rose markedly in the western part of the U.S. over the reporting period. Small-parcel cargo volumes increased in July for the fifth consecutive month, with growth driven by retail trade (led by e-commerce) and wholesale durables. Airlines reported that passenger demand was flat over the reporting period and up from a year ago. Domestic demand has been stronger than international demand, and one contact noted a large increase in corporate demand. Construction and Real Estate Home sales grew at a steady to slightly slower pace since the last report, and sales were generally even with last year's levels. New home prices continued to rise, in part due to low inventories of finished lots and high construction costs, and contacts noted decreased affordability for entry-level buyers. Apartment demand remained strong, and contacts noted increases in occupancy rates and solid rent growth. Contacts said multifamily construction remained at elevated levels, and overall outlooks were optimistic. Demand for commercial real estate remained solid. Office leasing activity was steady, and according to one contact construction activity slowed in Houston but increased slightly in Dallas. Demand for industrial space was strong, particularly in Dallas where leasing activity among mid-size tenants picked up. Outlooks remained generally positive. Financial Services Loan demand remained soft but increased slightly from the last report. Credit-funded oil and gas and other commercial and industrial projects contributed to the uptick. Residential and commercial real estate loans and small business lending demand remained fairly stable. Mortgage lending grew only slightly, as credit conditions remained notably tight. Loan quality improved, and interest rates on loans remained low. Deposit volumes continued to grow despite deposit rates staying near zero percent. Compliance costs from federal- and county-level regulations were noted as increasingly burdensome by multiple contacts. Outlooks were more positive than at the time of the last report, in light of mounting evidence of a strengthening Texas business climate. Energy Demand for oilfield services remained robust. Growth in Texas drilling activity over the reporting period was concentrated outside of the major basins. Margins for oilfield service providers were largely unchanged. Geological service firms continued to see strong demand. Outlooks for the rest of the year remained optimistic and were largely unchanged from the prior reporting period. Agriculture The severity of District drought conditions eased over the reporting period, particularly in the Texas Panhandle and southern New Mexico. Texas' cotton crop was mostly in fair to good condition and harvesting started in some areas. Most crop prices declined over the past six weeks due to expectations of very high U.S. corn, cotton, and soybean production. Domestic demand for beef remained solid despite continued record-breaking cattle prices. Some cattle producers have started to rebuild their herds after the sharp liquidations that took place over the past few years, but progress has been slow because of historically high cattle prices. Return to top Prices and Wages Price inflation overall remained quite modest. Contacts noted that vigorous competition, including from online vendors, restrained overall retail price increases for nonfood and grocery store food products. Continued minimal price inflation for most food items blunted the effect of larger price increases for meat and dairy items. Some contacts reported that casual dining restaurants passed through the cost increases that resulted from higher minimum wages to their menu prices. In some areas, building supply prices increased. Final sales prices of Internet and digital media services have not changed so far this year and are not expected to change for the rest of the year. In general, wages continued to increase at a modest pace. However, skilled construction workers experienced more-pronounced wage gains, as did certain technical employees in the computer industry. In addition, some contacts noted upward pressure on salaries for entry-level positions in the financial industry. In most areas, wage changes for lower-skilled workers--beyond the increases that resulted from higher minimum wages--were slight, but some contacts from faster-growing areas reported difficulty filling these positions, resulting in larger wage increases. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales growth ticked up since the previous reporting period. Contacts reported that consumers appeared more optimistic about the recovery. Sales of digital games and consumer smart-connected devices and wearables accelerated. Manufacturers have positive expectations for the computing device market, with plans for improvements in hardware and software, as well as new product launches. Auto dealers in Idaho noted that reductions in fuel prices spurred sales of pickups and large sports utility vehicles in recent weeks. Demand for business and consumer services increased moderately. Businesses continued to invest in cloud services and security. Sales in the quick-service segment of the restaurant industry--coffee and doughnuts--increased relative to earlier in the year. Contacts reported that hotel vacancy rates in southern California declined and room rates rose. Advance bookings for the fall appear somewhat stronger than a year ago. Visitor volume in the first half of 2014 in Las Vegas was up over the same period a year earlier; contacts there cited strength in convention attendance as opposed to in tourism. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity was mixed during the reporting period of early July through mid-August. Demand for semiconductors strengthened, partially due to robust orders from other countries. Sales of finished steel products increased over a year earlier. Steel manufacturing capacity utilization during the last three months was at the highest level since 2008, reflecting strengthening demand from West Coast nonresidential builders. However, new orders for commercial aircraft in the first six months of this year were down from the same period in 2013. In addition, demand for finished wood products used in home building was relatively weak during the reporting period, and capacity utilization in this sector was relatively low. Aerospace manufacturing contacts noted that increasing tensions and broadening sanctions against Russia may reduce titanium supplies. Greater demand for composite materials from the aerospace, automotive, marine, and energy sectors as they substitute away from older materials may increase competition for limited supplies of these inputs. Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Contacts reported good agricultural conditions in the District overall. Excellent cotton and grain harvests are expected. Produce supplies are somewhat constrained due to the drought in California, and prices of some products, including grapes and nuts, are high. Growers in California were able to tap underground aquifers this year but are concerned about water sources next year should the drought continue. Contacts reported a spike in growers' shipping costs due to the diversion of locomotives to the Midwest to haul oil and gas rail cars to refineries in Texas. Construction activity in China and Japan sustained demand for timber as housing activity in the United States slowed. Real Estate and Construction Real estate activity advanced, but growth in the residential sector has slowed since the start of the year in many areas. Sales trends were mixed. Some contacts reported a slower overall pace of transactions, while others reported a pickup, especially for mid-priced homes. Prices increased in most areas, but generally at a slower pace than earlier in the year. Inventories of homes for sale were normal to somewhat elevated in selected areas. Contacts in Hawaii and Oregon reported rising rents and cited high home prices as a spur to demand for apartments. Residential construction activity for multifamily projects picked up. New and expanding medical practices boosted absorption rates for office space. In contrast, retail vacancy rates increased in some areas. Financial Institutions Contacts reported that credit availability was good, and overall loan demand increased moderately since the previous reporting period. Demand for consumer loans, including auto loans, unsecured credit, and home equity loans, improved slightly. Contacts expect demand to pick up further as consumer debt levels decline and owners regain equity in their homes. Demand for commercial real estate loans increased moderately. Some contacts reported strong demand for construction loans. Contacts reported that continued uncertainty on the part of small businesses regarding health-care costs is tempering their loan demand. Competition among lenders for customers with high-quality credit is intense. Credit quality improved since the previous reporting period, and loan delinquencies were low. Private equity financing in the Internet and digital media sector in June was at its highest level since the beginning of the recession. More to come ... FREE AppDownload
FRED This is the chart that eurozone policymakers are most afraid of. It shows Euro Area inflation is falling precipitously over the past three years leaving the region perilously close to falling into deflation — an outcome they are desperate to avoid. Why is this important? Inflation is normally a dirty word. But a little bit of inflation is good for economic growth because it encourages people to spend today rather than save for later. Economic growth across large chunks of Europe is declining toward 0%. It's teetering on the brink, essentially. The ECB actually needs some inflation, for once, to get things rolling again. The European Central Bank (ECB), which has a mandate to achieve an average 2% inflation rate, is meeting tomorrow to set interest rates for the Euro Area. Yet with interest rates already right down against the zero lower bound, and the deposit rate (the interest rates the central bank pays on its own savings accounts) having dropped into negative territory (-0.1%) in June, there are few options open to the central bank to stimulate economic activity and try to push up inflation by lowering interest rates. The rates can't go any lower. Mario Draghi, the president of the ECB, has promised to do "whatever it takes" to resolve the region's problems and is now openly discussing the potential of launching a European asset purchase programme similar to the quantitative easing programmes in the U.S. and U.K. But the question for many is whether he has promised too much and will now struggle to deliver. The problem facing Draghi is that, while countries like Greece and Italy are in great need of increased spending to help restart their sluggish economies. But one of the key the mechanisms by which central bank policy is transmitted to the real economy — bank lending — is broken. The chart below, from a recent paper by the German Institute for Economic Research, shows the percentage change in lending to non-financial companies: DIW Berlin Lending is collapsing all over the place, basically. What it suggests is that even if the ECB does act tomorrow, central bank action alone will struggle to alleviate the problems in the areas where they are most apparent. His lack of firepower may well be the reason why Draghi used his speech at Kansas City Fed’s annual conference at Jackson Hole to raise the prospect of loosening the "overall stance of [fiscal] policy" — that is, to pull back on some of the budget tightening measures European Union leaders have been pushing for over recent years. There's just one problem: The Germans. There is little sign that Europe's largest economy is listening. Germany wants balanced budgets above everything. Germany's finance minister Wolfgang Schäuble even implied Draghi's speech was all just a misunderstanding that had been "overinterpreted." Few believe that, but convincing the Germans of the need to reverse spending cuts is a big ask — and it may be a necessary one. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons P vs. NP is about finding algorithms, or computer programs, to solve particular math problems, and whether or not "good" algorithms exist to solve these problems. Good algorithms allow a computer to come up with a solution to a problem relatively quickly, even if the size of the input to the problem is very large. Problems for which computer scientists have found good algorithms are said to be in the "complexity class" P. However, there are a large number of problems for which the best-known algorithms are not efficient, and can take an extremely long time to run on even the fastest computers. Some of these problems have very important applications to computer and industrial design, internet security, and resource allocation. Problems that have a good algorithm for checking a given possible solution but that don't necessarily have a good algorithm for finding solutions are in the complexity class NP. The million-dollar question is whether the two complexity classes P and NP equal each other. P is contained in NP: Any problem that can be solved quickly by a computer can also have a particular possible answer quickly checked by a computer. The reverse — whether NP is contained in P — is unknown: We don't know whether problems that have a good algorithm for checking answers also have good algorithms for finding answers. Most computer scientists and mathematicians think that the two classes are not equal: that there are some problems in NP that are not in P. Yet this has never been mathematically proven. Finding efficient algorithms for the hard problems in NP, and showing that P = NP, would dramatically change the world. On the other hand, finding a proof that no such algorithms exist, and that P <U+2260> NP, would likely involve a huge leap in our understanding of the nature and limitations of computers. There are many useful problems that are in P: We know how to solve them relatively quickly, even for large inputs. For example, every year the National Resident Matching Program assigns recent medical-school graduates to hospital-residency programs using an algorithm Business Insider has described in the past. Graduates and programs each make rankings of their preferences. The algorithm takes each unmatched graduate, and tentatively tries to match them with their highest-ranked program. If the program has space available, it tentatively accepts the graduate. If the program is full but prefers the current applicant to someone on its tentative acceptance list, the program kicks out the lowest-ranked tentative candidate and replaces him or her with the higher-ranked current applicant. The low-ranked candidate who got kicked out is added back to the unmatched graduate pool, where he or she will try to match with the next program on his or her ranking. In the absolute worst-case scenario, we would have to try matching every graduate with every program that they have on their ranking list. In this scenario, a computer running this algorithm would have to perform a tentative match for each possible pair of applicant and program. This means that the largest number of tentative matches the computer would have to perform would be the number of applicants times the number of residency programs. This gives us a more formal definition of P. P stands for "polynomial time": An algorithm like residency matching can be run in a number of steps based on a power of the size of the input. Algorithms like this can be run relatively quickly on a computer — while it will take longer for a computer to run the algorithm for a larger input, the number of operations the computer needs to execute grows in a reasonable way. These are our "good" algorithms. Not all problems have known good polynomial time algorithms. An example is the Traveling Salesman Problem. Here, we consider a set of cities that have some fixed distances between each other, and a salesman who starts in one city and needs to visit the other cities and then come home. The salesman's goal is to find the shortest such tour of the cities. Here's a simple example with four cities and their distances marked in blue (distances are clearly not to scale): Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Here's one possible tour our salesman could take through the four cities: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Start at A, walk to B (which has a distance of 1), then across to D (distance 6), then to C (distance 3), then back to A (distance 5). Adding up the distances, the total length of this tour is 1 + 6 + 3 + 5 = 15 units. We're looking for the shortest path, however. At this point, we can frame this as a related yes-or-no question (formally, P and NP are defined in terms of yes-or-no questions, which are closely related to the kinds of problems we're looking at here): Is there a path shorter than the one above, a path with a total distance of less than 15? Notice that it's very easy to check any particular route to see if it satisfies our criteria. First, make sure we actually visit all our cities. Second, add up the city-to-city distances to get the total length of the tour, and see if it's less than 15. The fact that it's easy to check a given possible answer means that the Traveling Salesman Problem is in NP. Since checking a particular path is easy, one possible way to solve this problem is through brute force: Find the length of every possible route that starts and ends at A while visiting the three other cities. Here are all the possible routes in our simple example, with the loops indicated by the order in which we visit the cities (so that, for example, the route above is represented by ABDCA): Business Insider/Andy Kiersz The path around the outside of the square, either going ABCDA or ADCBA, is the shortest path with a total length of 10 units. For four cities, this approach is pretty easy: We had only six routes to consider. That number of routes is not an accident: We are starting at A, and from that point we have three cities to choose from for our first leg: B, C, or D. Once we've chosen the second city to visit, we have two cities left to choose from. After we've chosen a third city from those two, there's just one remaining city to visit. So our number of possible paths is 3 × 2 × 1 = 6. The same idea for counting paths works as we add more cities. If we have a Traveling Salesman Problem with five cities, we have 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 24 paths to look at. If we have six cities, we have 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 120 paths. As we can already see with these small numbers of cities, the number of paths grows extremely quickly as we add more cities. While it's still easy to take a given path and find its length, the sheer number of possible paths makes our brute-force approach untenable. By the time we have 30 cities, the number of possible paths is about a 9 followed by 30 zeros. A computer that could check a trillion paths per second would take about 280 billion years to check every path, about 20 times the current age of the universe. There are algorithms for the Traveling Salesman Problem that are much more efficient than this brute-force approach, but they all either provide some kind of approximate "good enough" solution that might not be the actual shortest path, or still have the number of needed calculations grow exponentially with the number of cities, taking an unacceptably long time for large numbers of cities. There is no efficient, polynomial time algorithm known for the problem. It turns out that there are a large number of problems that are like this: It's easy to check whether a particular candidate solution works for us, but actually finding a solution is much more difficult. As mentioned above, problems for which it's easy to check whether a particular possible answer works are said to be in the class NP, for "nondeterministic polynomial time." That "nondeterministic" refers to a computer that, roughly speaking, could make as many copies of itself as needed to solve a given problem. If we had such a computer, we could just make as many copies of the computer as there are possible solutions, and check each one of them in parallel. The big question is whether or not P = NP: do good, efficient, polynomial time algorithms exist to find solutions to problems that have good checking algorithms? Answering a question like this at first glance seems excessively broad. There are many NP problems, like the Traveling Salesman, for which no polynomial time algorithm is known. Fortunately, there is a special subset of NP problems with a very interesting property: Finding a polynomial time algorithm for one of these problems would lead to a similarly quick algorithm for any NP problem. These problems are called NP-complete. The basic idea is fairly straightforward. A problem is NP complete if it would be possible to make a good algorithm for any NP problem using a "black box" that could solve the NP complete problem quickly. That is, having an efficient algorithm for an NP complete problem automatically leads to an efficient algorithm for any NP problem. Many interesting problems, including the Traveling Salesman Problem, are NP complete. This makes answering the million-dollar question somewhat easier: You either need to find an efficient algorithm for one NP complete problem, or prove that no such algorithm exists for one particular such problem. Most computer scientists think that the latter is true: It's likely that there are no polynomial time algorithms for NP complete problems. But there is no formal proof of this yet, and any such proof would almost certainly involve radical new insights into the nature of computation and algorithms. The practical implications of this problem, however, could be even more extreme than these theoretical aspects. Many hard problems in NP for which we don't have a good polynomial time algorithm are very useful. The Traveling Salesman Problem from above, for example, has applications in logistics and manufacturing: finding efficient road paths for deliveries, or the most efficient way for a robotic arm to place components on a circuit board. Being able to quickly solve the Traveling Salesman Problem would be very useful in these areas. One of the biggest NP problems for which we don't yet know an efficient algorithm is factoring integers. One of the most basic facts in number theory is that any number can be broken down into a unique product of prime numbers: numbers that are not divisible by any number other than themselves and one. For small numbers, finding factorizations is easy: 15 is 5 × 3; 12 is 2 × 2 × 3; 70 is 2 × 5 × 7. For larger numbers, however, finding those prime factors can be much more difficult. To see why, consider the most naive possible way to go about factoring a number: Take every number between 2 and one less than the number, and divide the number we're interested in by the smaller number. If this division has no fractional part, or leaves no remainder, then the smaller number is a factor of our number. This naive brute-force approach works fine for small numbers, but quickly breaks down as we add more digits. For a two-digit number, we have fewer than a hundred possible candidate factors. But for a 10-digit number, we have billions of numbers we need to try out to see if they are factors. So, the number of possible factors increases exponentially with the number of digits. If we have a number that is the product of two prime numbers with around 100 digits each, the resulting number will have around 200 digits. Taking such a huge product and trying to find the two prime numbers going into that number using the naive brute-force approach would take a nearly unimaginable amount of computing power and time. As with the Traveling Salesman Problem, there are better algorithms than brute force for factoring extremely large integers. However, none of the currently known algorithms satisfy the gold standard of running in polynomial time. Travis Goodspeed via Flickr A user randomly chooses two extremely large prime numbers and then multiplies them together. By publishing that product of the two primes along with another number of the user's choosing, other computers can encrypt messages for the user that can (probably) only be decrypted if someone knows the two prime numbers. As long as the user keeps those prime numbers secret, they will be the only person who can read messages encrypted with the publicly available product of the primes. The security of RSA, which is used in many secure online communications, would be completely broken with an efficient integer-factoring algorithm. A hacker with the ability to take the public composite number and quickly find the secret prime factors of that number would be able to decrypt any supposedly secure message sent to the user, such as encrypted emails, or credit-card numbers sent to an online vendor. Factoring is an NP problem, since a possible solution can be quickly checked: If I have some prime numbers that I think are the factors of a given number, I can just multiply those primes together and see if I actually get my number. This means that if there is an efficient polynomial time algorithm for NP complete problems, large numbers can be factored quickly, and internet security based on RSA or similar protocols would fall apart. Whether or not P = NP, the insights to be gained by answering this deep question would have tremendous theoretical and practical effects on our understanding of the abilities and limitations of computers, and an answer is certainly worth at least a million dollars.    FREE AppDownload
A 300-page proof of a 400-year-old problem has finally been confirmed ... by computer. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Produced by Jim Festante, an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He is the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben. Follow Slate: On YouTube
Vice President Joe Biden sported a super fancy Hamptons golf club shirt while talking to workers in Detroit, Michigan about fair wage on Labor Day. Biden's blue polo shirt had what appears to be The Sebonack Golf Club logo (You can check out some examples on eBay). The vice president's office did not respond to a request for comment about the shirt from Business Insider.  The private golf club has one of the priciest annual memberships and is quite popular with Wall Street-ers. It costs upwards of $500,000, according to a Bloomberg News report. The 300-acre Southampton golf course, which opened in 2006, is super high-end. Big name Wall Streeters who have golfed at Sebonack include, Lloyd Blankfein, Feroz Dewan (Tiger Global), Daniel Och, Henry Kravis, Jimmy Dunne III (Sandler O'Neill) and Bob Prince (Bridgewater Associates), according to handicap records on GHIN.  Here's a shot of Biden. That's the Sebonack logo  [via Geoff Shackelford].  ABC 7 Here's Biden running in his golf shirt:  ABC 7 Also, here's a photo of the golf club. It's nice, right? Sebonack Golf Club FREE AppDownload
Thomas Jefferson High SchoolRecognize this handsome CEO?School is back in session.  Before they were masters of the universe, the biggest names on Wall Street were once just regular high school kids, too.   They were members of sports and academic teams.  They were on the homecoming court.  They entered essay contests, edited the school's literary magazine and starred in musicals. We combed through a number of high school yearbooks and have compiled photos and accomplishments of some of the Street's most recognizable names. Some of them still look the same, while others have drastically improved their hairdos.  We even found Goldman's CEO Lloyd Blankfein in his swim trunks.  Enjoy!  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi, left, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel during a European Union leaders summit in Brussels on June 29, 2012.The European Central Bank is set to announce its latest monetary policy decision on Thursday as the economic situation on the continent continues to look increasingly grim. Expectations are for the central bank to keep rates unchanged. Currently, the ECB's main refinancing rate is 0.15%, its marginal lending facility is at 0.4%, and its deposit facility is -0.1%.  But the focus will be on whether ECB president Mario Draghi gives further signals that the central bank may soon undertake a broad quantitative easing program like those undertaken by the Bank of Japan and the Federal Reserve. The ECB has already said it will undertake targeted LTROs, or long-term refinancing operations, which are subsidized loans to boost lending in the non-financial sector, at some point this year. But as economies in the area have continued to falter, and in the wake of Draghi's recent Jackson Hole speech, many believe it won't be long until the ECB undertakes a quantitative easing program including the outright purchase of assets.  At Jackson Hole, Draghi said: "I am confident that the package of measures we announced in June will indeed provide the intended boost to demand, and we stand ready to adjust our policy stance further." This comment from Draghi was interpreted as indicating his willingness to undertake a QE program. Draghi also spoke on the dismal employment situation in Europe and argued that austerity measures imposed by European government had hampered the economic recovery in the eurozone, saying that "it would be helpful for the overall stance of policy if fiscal policy could play a greater role alongside monetary policy, and I believe there is scope for this, while taking into account our specific initial conditions and legal constraints." @ericbeeboInflation in the eurozone keeps falling. And since that speech, things haven't gotten better. Inflation data released on Friday showed that price gains in Europe continued to slow, with prices in the eurozone periphery falling 0.2% year-over-year, while the overall eurozone saw prices gain just 0.3%.  In a note to clients, Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok said Draghi would be forced to act given the current inflation trends. This same report also showed that unemployment in the eurozone remained unchanged at 11.5% in July. Along with his Jackson Hole presentation, Draghi released a series of slides that showed the perpetually high unemployment experienced by the eurozone since the financial and sovereign debt crises. ECBUnemployment in the eurozone remains oppressively high. Additionally, manufacturing data out of Europe released on Monday showed the eurozone manufacturing PMI fell to a 13-month low of 50.7 in August.  Any reading above 50 signals growth, but the eurozone is once again flirting with contraction and a possible economic recession.  Following the PMI report, Markit's Rob Dobson said: "Although some growth is better than no growth at all, the braking effect of rising economic and geopolitical uncertainties on manufacturers is becoming more visible. This is also the case on the demand front, with growth of new orders and new export business both slowing in August." Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macro said the PMI report showed "alarming signs from the eurozone manufacturing sector. The downbeat economic news is intensifying."MarkitManufacturing activity in the eurozone is again flirting with contraction. Before Draghi's speech at Jackson Hole, the economic data coming out of Europe was fairly grim, with GDP in the second quarter showing no growth at all for the economic bloc.  Frederik Ducrozet, senior Eurozone economist at Credit Agricole, said he expected Draghi to strike a dovish tone on Thursday, writing: "We expect an overall dovish tone, downward revisions to 2014-2015 staff forecasts for GDP and inflation, some modest tweaks to TLTRO conditions and a pre-announcement of ABS purchases." Last week, we highlighted a chart from Ducrozet that showed how inflation expectations in Europe had cratered. But an update to this chart shows that these expectations have moderated some, and Ducrozet believes that Draghi will seek to avoid any outright purchases of government debt, which he says, "remains both undesirably and unlikely."  Credit AgricoleInflation expectations in the eurozone have rebounded some after falling off a cliff following Mario Draghi's speech in Jackson Hole. Over the weekend, Reuters reported that German Chancellor Angela Merkel was unhappy with Draghi's comments at Jackson Hole, which were broadly interpreted as Draghi pressing for more fiscal stimulus, or government spending, to jumpstart the eurozone economy. Germany is currently the most potent economy in the eurozone, and it is largely seen as having the greatest influence over fiscal policy in the economic bloc, which has imposed austerity, or cost-cutting measures, as countries have looked to repair their financial situations following the sovereign debt crisis.  So it seems as if the political plea made by Draghi in his Jackson Hole speech ruffled Merkel's feathers. But the ECB, unlike the Fed, the Bank of England, or the Bank of Japan, doesn't have the same "political juice" with the governments that use its currency, and so ultimately, Draghi is more hamstrung politically than any of his central bank peers. Draghi may have annoyed Merkel by suggesting that fiscal spending could be the answer to the eurozone's economic woes, but he is far from having the political influence to make than an imminent reality.  We'll have the ECB's policy announcement, and more importantly, full coverage of Draghi's press conference live on Thursday morning.  FREE AppDownload
Chris Jackson/Getty ImagesVirgin Group founder and chairman Richard Branson. As we shake off the summer malaise and head into fall, it's the perfect time to read some motivational and insightful business books. And there's no shortage of good material. Coming out in the next two months are memoirs packed with advice, like Virgin Group founder Richard Branson's "The Virgin Way: Everything I Know About Leadership;" post-recession financial analysis, like Martin Wolf's "The Shifts and the Shocks: What We've Learned — and Have Still to Learn — from the Financial Crisis;" and useful professional guides, like Steven Pinker's "The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing in the 21st Century." We've gathered some of the fall's most interesting and valuable books to add to your reading list. Some are available now and others are available for pre-order. FREE AppDownload
BIIThe market for traditional store registers —  those bulky countertop terminals used at most large retailers — is still growing at a healthy rate. BI Intelligence forecasts payment terminal shipments will grow 73% in three years, increasing to 35 million in 2015.  The real storyline, though, is what's going on in the different regions of the world. The U.S. and Europe are stagnant. That's largely because mobile card readers from startups like Square are cutting into new payment terminal sales in these countries. In a new report from BI Intelligence, we take an in-depth look at the global payment terminal market. We examine which regions are driving growth and how market share is shaping up in different regions. We also take a look at the three ways mobile technology could eventually kill the legacy payment terminal and assess how big a threat mobile really poses.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all our charts, data, and analysis on the payments industry — including downloadable Excel files — sign up for a free trial. FREE AppDownload
AP2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee SUVChrysler Group's resurgent 2014 continues as the automaker steamrolled through its best August in 12 years. August sales for Chrysler surged 20% over last year, smashing analysts' expectations for 12% growth. The company on pace to increase annual sales by 14% from 2013.  With dealerships eager to move their existing stock of 2014 models and customers lining up for newly available 2015 cars, August is traditionally the last major hurrah for auto sales. Chrysler has taken advantage of this plus a smoldering SUV and truck market to get the jump on its competitors.  Chrysler's Jeep and RAM truck brand account for much of the company's surge with August sales up 49% and 39% respectively. "Trucks and SUVs are hot right now and they are perfectly positioned to take advantage of this," Kelley Blue Book senior editor Karl Brauer told Business Insider. "The RAM truck product refresh has been aggressive and successfully done. Jeep's new Cherokee and Grand Cherokee models hae really resonated with the public in a way that a Chrysler product has not been able to for a long time." Chrysler 2015 Chrysler 200Their are also signs of life in from Chrysler Group's ever-struggling car brands. Although 2014 sales are down 9% compared to 2013, the company's Chrysler brand finally saw positive sales growth in August with an increase of 4%. Much of this growth can be attributed to the arrival of the highly lauded 2015 Chrysler 200 mid-sized sedan that will compete with industry titans like the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord. Although Chrysler Group have shown their ability to turn out competitive SUVs and Trucks prior to their merger with Fiat, their car brands have not had a good track record in producing competitive products. "Chrysler haven’t had a competitive mid-size sedan in more than a decade," added Brauer. "The 200 serves as a validation of the Chrysler-Fiat merger. These new car models have been strenghtened due to Fiat." However, all of the news coming from Chrysler has not been positive. It's bread and butter Dodge brand is down 6% in August and 3% for the year. Even in the hot selling SUV market, the brand's highly rated Durango SUV is down 8%. Unfortunately, a big reason for the Durango struggles comes from the success of its Jeep stablemates, said Brauer. The Jeep brand and products are so strong that it's effectively cannibalized some of the Durango's sales.  On the Fiat side, the brand's 500L mini-people carrier has been decimated by a July recall due to faulty airbags. Sales for the models plummeted a whopping 97% in August - selling just 33 cars in the U.S.  Every company has its problems. But not every company is delivering double-digit sales growth. FREE AppDownload
The rate of return for students who finish their degree in six years is 40% less than the return for students who only took four years, the New York Fed says. Yesterday, Fed researchers Richard Deitz and Jaison Abel published an article showing that on average a college degree is worth the investment, but that the picture becomes a bit less clear for certain types of college graduates. Now we know one of the unusual flavors: The non-traditional graduate. The rate of return on an investment in a college degree for a grad who took only four years to graduate is 14% over the lifetime of one's career. But for someone who takes five years to graduate, the return slips to 11%. And for someone for whom it took six years, you'll only recoup 8%.   New York Fed The reason is the opportunity cost on lost years of wage increases, an earnings “wedge” they say persists throughout one’s career.  "The differences add up each and every year, so that those graduating later never really catch up to those who graduated earlier," they write.  Here's their table showing the opportunity cost breakdown for five-year and six-year grads: New York Fed  Abel and Deitz have two more posts on this subject this week that promise to add even more nuance to the question of whether college is a worthwhile use of one's money. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Regis Duvignau Yoghurt produced by French Dairy Group Danone are displayed on a shelf in a supermarket in Lanton, Southwestern France.LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. drugmaker Hospira’s &lt;hsp.n&gt; talks to buy the medical nutrition unit of Danone &lt;dano.pa&gt; and use the deal to move its tax domicile abroad have stalled, according to people familiar with the matter, as attempts by U.S. companies to relocate abroad and cut their tax bills draw growing criticism back home. Hospira, a Midwestern pharmaceutical and medical device maker, had been discussing a so-called tax inversion deal under which it would pay roughly $5 billion in cash and stock for the French company's medical nutrition business. Such a transaction would have allowed Hospira, which has a market value of $9.15 billion, to lower its tax rate and free up its foreign cash. But the discussions have for now been put on hold and it remains unclear if the proposed deal and its structure could be revived, people familiar with the matter said this week, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. It was not immediately clear why the parties paused discussions, but the decision comes as U.S. companies considering tax inversions come under intense pressure from the government and politicians to rethink their plans. When Hospira's interest in the Danone business first emerged in July, a senior U.S. senator wrote to the Lake Forest, Illinois-based company urging it not to move its tax base abroad. Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, represents Illinois and he told Chief Executive Michael Ball that Hospira should not "turn its back on American taxpayers and consumers by taking advantage of a tax loophole called 'inversion”. Reuters first reported in February that Danone, the world's biggest yoghurt maker, was considering selling the business - which makes feeding tubes, foods and drinks for people with special nutritional needs - even though it has a profit margin above the group average. Hospira was among a field of bidders including German healthcare group Fresenius and Swiss food company Nestle that also held talks with Danone over the business. It could not be ascertained if there was another bidder involved in the auction, but one person said the sale process was still ongoing. While talks with Hospira have stalled for now, any potential deal with the U.S. company does not necessarily have to be predicated on a tax inversion, that person added. "All options are still open. Price, structure and bidder - those are uncertain.” Spokesmen for Danone in Paris and Hospira in Illinois declined to comment.   TAX INVERSION MARKET SLOWING So far in 2014, ten corporate inversion transactions have been struck, the most in any given year. Dealmakers now say the market for inversions is slowing, with U.S. companies looking to buy overseas rivals primarily for tax benefits increasingly dismayed by rising prices, administrative hassles and fears of a U.S. government crackdown. Danone has been grappling with falling earnings due to weak baby food sales in Asia as a result of a health scare and sluggish dairy sales in Europe due to slow consumption and a jump in milk prices. On Tuesday it said that Chairman and Chief Executive Franck Riboud would split his role after 18 years at the helm of the world's largest yoghurt maker. Riboud, 58, who took over from his late father, Antoine Riboud, in 1996, will remain as chairman and focus on the company's long-term strategy while Emmanuel Faber, 50, the chief operating officer, will become CEO, effective Oct. 1. A sale could enable Danone to use the proceeds to fund an expansion of its faster-growing baby food and dairy businesses, targeting acquisitions in Asia and Africa, analysts say. For the $30 billion medical nutrition market as a whole, about three-quarters consists of nutrition products delivered orally or through a feeding tube, according to analysts from Exane BNP Paribas. That portion of the market is led by Abbott Laboratories &lt;abt.n&gt;, with a 30 percent share, followed by Nestle &lt;nesn.vx&gt; with 25 percent and Danone with 16 percent. Smaller players include Fresenius &lt;freg.de&gt; and Mead Johnson Nutrition &lt;mjn.n&gt;. The remainder is in nutrition delivered intravenously, and is dominated by Baxter International &lt;bax.n&gt;, Fresenius, B Braun Melsungen &lt;bbrmg.ul&gt; and Hospira. People familiar with the process have said Fresenius and Nestle would have almost certainly faced anti-trust problems were they to acquire the whole business. Danone could now attempt to either split the business among potential suitors or lower price expectations, which could entice private equity players. If a deal with one of the strategic players failed, private equity funds would probably be interested in Danone Medical Nutrition, which offers appealing growth prospects and has exposure to emerging markets, said a sector banker and a source at a private equity fund in Europe.   (Editing by Soyoung Kim and Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/BigTallGuyHome Depot is investigating a potential data breach that may be even larger than the massive hack that hit Target last year.  During the Target hack, data from more than 40 million payment cards was stolen over the course of three weeks during the busy holiday shopping period.  Home Depot's potential breach may extend back to late April or May, according to several banks familiar with the matter, reports Brian Krebs of Krebs on Security.  "If that is accurate — and if even a majority of Home Depot stores were compromised — this breach could be many times larger than Target," Krebs writes.  He said it's not clear how many stores have been impacted, "but preliminary analysis indicates the breach may extend across all 2,200 Home Depot stores in the United States." Home Depot has roughly 400 more U.S. stores than Target. The home-improvement chain said Wednesday that it's still investigating "unusual activity" and hasn't confirmed whether a breach actually occurred, the Wall Street Journal reports. Target is still trying to recover from the impact of its breach, which has cost the company more than $150 million so far, according to the Journal.  "Customer traffic and sales sank following the holiday data breach at Target, and the retailer's chief information officer and CEO left in its wake," Shelly Banjo writes. "According to Stifel Nicolaus analyst David Schick, a similarly sized breach could dent Home Depot's earnings by seven cents a share in 2014, when the company has forecast $4.52 a share." FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's top stock market strategists are starting to wonder if this already-epic bull run in the stock market might just be the beginning of something huge. On Tuesday, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker predicted that the S&amp;P 500 could go from around 2,000 today to 3,000 in about five years before the bull market ends. "We believe a prolonged period of deleveraging in the U.S., coupled with an uneven global recovery, are just two of the reasons why this could prove to be the longest U.S. expansion — ever," Parker wrote. RBC Capital Markets' Jonathan Golub shared a similar sentiment in a research note publish around the same time as Parker's. "Earnings projections for 2015–16 have been rising since April, reversing a downward trend," Golub wrote. "We believe this reflects growing optimism (especially among CEOs via stronger guidance) on the direction of the economy. Given a lower cost of capital and enhanced growth prospects, we see further upside to stocks over the next several years." Years. These bold predictions aren't without some historical precedent. In his note, Golub presented a 100-year long chart of the Dow Jones Industrial Average on a log scale. As you can see, the stock market has actually experienced long periods of volatile sideways moves before shooting higher. "As the super cycle chart shows, it is not unusual for the market to experience prolonged periods of strong returns," Golub said. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
CBS 60 Minutes screencapAndrew Madoff.Andrew Madoff, the son of Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff, died from mantle-cell lymphoma, CNBC reports. He was 48. Andrew Madoff's attorney confirmed to CNBC that he had died Wednesday morning at Sloan Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York. Andrew was one of Madoff's two sons. The younger Madoff son, Mark, committed suicide in 2010. Following Mark's suicide, Madoff's wife, Ruth, cut off contact from Bernie, who is serving his sentence in Butner, North Carolina. Madoff was arrested and sentenced to 150 years in federal prison for orchestrating the largest financial fraud in history. Last year, Andrew told People Magazine that he would "never forgive" his father for his crimes.  "I will never forgive him for what he did," he told People. "He's already dead to me." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPacks of U.S. one hundred dollar billas are counted at a bank in Westminster, ColoradoBy Emily Stephenson and Douwe Miedema WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. regulators met on Wednesday to adopt rules for banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to keep them afloat during a crunch, after many were caught short of cash during the 2007-09 financial crisis. The rules, a key plank of a global agreement to make big banks such as JPMorgan Chase  and Citigroup  safer, are a new building block as regulators across the world work to make banks sturdier and head off a future meltdown. "Liquidity squeezes were the agents of contagion in the financial crisis," Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo said. "The (new rule) makes such squeezes less likely by limiting large banks from taking on excessive liquidity risk." The regulators also unveiled rules determining how much money - or margin - swaps buyers and sellers must set aside when they do trades outside central clearing houses, which makes them more risky than cleared derivatives trades. The Fed board will vote on the rules in a public meeting on Wednesday and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) also will take a vote. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said it had already adopted both rules. U.S. regulators in October 2013 first proposed the liquidity rules, which were more stringent than the global agreement, with a shorter phase-in period for domestic banks. The Federal Reserve said big U.S. banks would need to hold a total of about $2.5 trillion in highly liquid assets by 2017. The institutions would have a shortfall of about $100 billion if that threshold applied today, the Fed said. Banks must maintain enough liquid assets on hand to survive a 30-day squeeze. Banks with more than $250 billion in assets will have to tabulate their liquidity needs every day, while smaller institutions will calculate theirs monthly. Fed staff said they want to work on a plan to eventually include the most liquid municipal bonds in the asset buffer, although for now they will not count, something that has frustrated state and local government officials. Global regulators also are working on an additional requirement that would force banks to calculate their liquidity needs over a full year, the so-called Net Stable Funding Ratio. On top of that, the Fed is working on rules to rein in banks that heavily rely on short-term funding tools. Staff also recommended that the Fed repropose margin requirements for swap trades conducted outside clearing houses, which function as middlemen by taking on the risk that trading partners cannot deliver on their promises. Swaps, which mushroomed during the pre-crisis boom, must now be routed through clearing houses but some are so complex that they are still not cleared, and the new rules set out how much money trading partners need to set aside to cover risk. The margin rules largely followed a global agreement released in 2013. The U.S. proposal was somewhat stricter in its definition of large financial end users, agency staff said.  (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Bill Trott) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin The sun rises nar Rosneft's Vankor oil field in eastern Siberia, some 1,740 miles east of Moscow.Russian President Vladimir Putin said his government may offer China an opportunity to hold a share in one of the biggest energy projects in Siberia, the Vankor oil and gas field. Putin made the tentative offer on Sept. 1 as he and China's vice premier, Zhang Gaoli, presided over the launch of construction of the oil pipeline that will carry nearly 40 trillion cubic meters of gas to China over 30 years, earning Russia $400 billion during the period. "The new gas branch will significantly strengthen the economic cooperation with countries in the Asia-Pacific region and, above all, our key partner China," Putin said at the ceremony outside Yakutsk, the capital of Russia's Republic of Yakutia. In fact, China is so important a partner that Putin said it was likely that the Kremlin would permit Beijing to become a shareholder in the Vankor field in the eastern Siberian region of Krasnoyarsk. Vankor, owned by Rosneft, the state-run Russian oil giant that owns the field, has oil reserves estimated at 520 million metric tons and gas reserves of 95 billion cubic meters. "Vankor is one of the biggest production operations today and very promising," Putin told Zhang, according to a transcript of the event published on the Kremlin website. "Overall, we take a cautious approach to letting in our foreign partners, but we of course set no restrictions for our Chinese friends." Putin added, "The state authorities support this idea and we would welcome your participation." Since Putin first became Russia's president in 1999, the Russian government has increased its hold on the country's enormous energy resources. In the process, it has kept Western oil and gas companies and even private Russian firms from developing them. REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinAn aerial view of Rosneft company's Vankor oilfield about 1118 miles north of the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk.Still, Russia needs the money and expertise available only from the West, especially at a time when the country's oil companies are impeded by sanctions imposed by the European Union and the United States because of Moscow's suspected support of pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. As a result, Rosneft is seen as being eager to offer partnerships in Vankor to foreign companies, including Britain's BP, the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corp. of India and ExxonMobil of the United States. The offer of a share to China indicates that Moscow is eager to show that it can get what it wants from partners in the East as well. Meanwhile, at the ceremony outside Yakutsk, both Putin and Zhang autographed the newly welded pipeline, a tradition in Russia on such occasions. The structure has been dubbed the "Power of Siberia." Also present was Alexei Miller, the CEO of Gazprom, which will provide the gas to China. "Gazprom is always a reliable supplier of gas to its customers," Miller said, "which also applies to the "Power of Siberia." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA model stands with a 2015 Chrysler 200 at the Jacob Javits Convention Center during the New York International Auto Show in New York April 17, 2014. August turned out to be a huge month for auto sales. The annualized pace of sales jumped to 17.45 million from 16.4 million in July. This was well ahead of the 16.6 million expected. "The 103-month high was set as rising automaker incentives intersected with a strengthening economy and growing consumer confidence to boost deliveries well past 1.5 million units, for an industry wide 9.3% rise in daily sales," said WardsAuto via Calculated Risk. Calculated RiskChrysler sales jumped 20% in August, beating expectations for just 12.0% growth. Ford sales unexpectedly climbed by 0.4%, which was notably better than the 1.2% decline expected. GM, however, saw sales fall 1.2%. Analysts were expecting a modest 0.1% decline. "The data have been volatile, but auto sales appear to be on a higher track, supported by easing credit conditions and rising consumer confidence and financial health," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists ahead of the announcements. "Pent-up vehicle demand is also supporting sales, and we expect to see a decent gain in August after a pause in July." Here's a tally of some of the announcements: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungPIMCO's Bill Gross.PIMCO's Bill Gross is out with his latest investment outlook letter, and he communicates a fairly simple message: economic growth depends on credit growth. In his letter — called "For Wonks Only" — Gross writes that, "A credit-based financial economy depends on an ever-expanding outstanding level of credit for its survival."  Gross doesn't disappoint in walking through an argument that is, pretty much, only for wonks; but in its most distilled form, Gross's argument is that if the outstanding debt of the U.S. carries an average interest rate of 4.5%, then credit growth needs to expand at that rate to pay for outstanding interest. Currently, we're falling short of that. Gross writes that the Fed is, "underachieving that target in the U.S., which is the reason why GDP growth struggles at 2% real or lower and nominal GDP growth seems capped at 4.5% or lower. Credit creation is essential for economic growth in a finance-based economy such as ours. Without it, growth stagnates or withers." Gross includes this chart, which shows the tepid rate of credit growth since the financial crisis.  PIMCO Gross writes that the current "global monetary experiment" being undertaken by central banks — holding interest rates near zero, and in the case of the U.S. and Japan and potentially the Eurozone, asset purchases — may support the economy and calm markets.  "Over the long term, however, economic growth depends on investment and a rejuvenation of capitalistic animal spirits — a condition which currently does not exist," Gross writes. Back in the spring, Liz Ann Sonders of Charles Schwab highlighted a chart showing the increase in total loans &amp; leases, which accelerated in the early part of this year.  An updated version of that chart from the Fed shows that this trend has continued. Bill Gross, it seems, remains unconvinced.  FRED FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA pair of workers assemble a wing for the Boeing 777 at the company's plant in EverettWASHINGTON, Sept 3 (Reuters) - -  New orders for U.S. factory goods jumped in July on robust demand for transportation equipment, with the overall trend pointing to strengthening manufacturing activity. The Commerce Department said on Wednesday new orders for manufactured goods increased a record 10.5 percent. June's orders were revised to show a 1.5 percent increase instead of the previously reported 1.1 percent rise. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast new orders received by factories advancing 11.0 percent in July. Orders excluding the volatile transportation category slipped 0.8 percent in July. But that followed a 1.4 percent increase the prior month, leaving the overall trend positive for manufacturing. Manufacturing is accelerating, with the Institute for Supply Management reporting on Tuesday that its gauge of factory activity hit its highest level in nearly 3-1/2 years in August. In addition, a measure of new orders touched a 10-year high. In July, orders for transportation equipment soared a record 74.1 percent, reflecting outsized civilian aircraft orders received by Boeing BA.N that was flagged in the durable goods orders report published last week. Capital goods orders surged a record 52.5 percent. But orders for primary metals, machinery, computers and electrical equipment, appliances and components fell. The Commerce Department also said orders for durable goods, manufactured products expected to last three years and more, increased 22.6 percent in July, as reported last week. Durable goods orders excluding transportation slipped 0.7 percent instead of the previously reported 0.8 percent fall. Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft - seen as a measure of business confidence and spending plans - declined by a slightly bigger 0.7 percent. They were previously reported to have slipped 0.5 percent. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWhite-hot steel pours like water from a 35-ton electric furnace, Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., Brackenridge, Pa.Factory orders jumped by 10.5% in July, following a 1.5% gain in June. This was actually a hair shy of the 11.0% expected by economists. This follows last month's July durable goods report, which showed an unusually large order for Boeing planes caused durable goods orders to surge 22.5%. FREE AppDownload
NANCY SMITH / artloversnewyork.comAndrew John Hall, whom other oil traders call 'God,' right, with members of the Viennese art collective gelitin at a Nov. 23, 2005, event in New York City. One of the most successful oil traders alive thinks America's shale renaissance will prove to be a dud and that crude prices will hit $150 within five years. In a coming Bloomberg Markets profile, Andrew John Hall, who according to a 2013 Max Abelson profile is known to competitors as "God," has been telling subscribers to his investing letters that he has been buying up long-dated crude contracts in anticipation of a run-up in prices as America's shale oil boom recedes.  The British-born Hall (whom you can see above, at right, in a photo provided by Nancy Smith of ArtLoversNewYork.com — Hall is a huge art collector) was embroiled in a fight during the financial crisis over access to a $100 million bonus payout he was due for 2009 trades from then-employer Citi. It was ultimately blocked after Citi received a third bailout. But the year before that, he had netted $98 million. More recently, as oil price growth has stalled, Hall's trades have come up short, Bloomberg's Bradley Olsen writes. Assets under management at his Astenbeck Capital Management LLC hedge fund firm fell as much as 29% to $3.4 billion this May from 2013.  But Hall, who also remains CEO of Phibro, a trading unit Occidental Petroleum bought from Citi in 2009, is unfazed by the losses. Despite America's massive shale oil boom, Hall is convinced prices will rise. EIAU.S. oil production has shown no sign of slowing. "'When you believe something, facts become inconvenient obstacles," Hall wrote in April according to Olsen, taking issue with a Citi's Ed Morse, who has predicted a shale renaissance could result in $75-a-barrel oil over the next five years. Hall has said Brent crude prices are likely to rise to as much as $150 a barrel in five years or less, according to Olsen. The back end of the crude futures curve already seems to agree with him. While near-term contracts continue to slide on ample supply, long-dated ones remain elevated. Morgan Downey "In his counterarguments, he digs deep, delving into the minutiae of how Texas discloses oil production, the tendency of some shale wells to play out quickly and the degree to which the boom has relied on debt," Olsen says. "The simplest of his reasons, though, is that producers have already drilled in many of the best areas, or sweet spots. Hall predicts that growth in shale output will begin to moderate this year and U.S. production will peak as soon as 2016. 'Once those areas have been drilled out, operators will have to move to more-marginal locations and well productivity will fall,' Hall wrote in March. 'Far from continuing to grow, production will start to decline.'” Click here to read Olsen's full write-up of the profile » We first saw this at @forexlive. Thanks again to Nancy Smith of ArtLoversNewYork.com for the archival photo of Hall. FREE AppDownload
Reuters / Hugo CorreiaThe fall of the Santo empire made front page news across Portugal. Switzerland's financial regulator said on Wednesday it is investigating Banque Privee Espirito Santo SA (BPES), a Swiss private bank which is part of the Espirito Santo family's troubled business empire. The Lausanne-based bank is owned by Espirito Santo Financial Group (ESFG), which has been under creditor protection since late July after it buckled under massive debts linked to its founding family. ESFG was the biggest shareholder in Banco Espirito Santo, which was Portugal's largest listed bank that had to be rescued on Aug 4 in a 6.44 billion US dollar deal. The Swiss regulator FINMA said its investigation would focus on the role of the Swiss bank, which is undergoing voluntary liquidation, in distributing securities and financial products for the wider group. "The influence of the owners of the bank on procedures in Switzerland will also be examined," FINMA said in a statement posted on its website. In early July, the Geneva-based bank became the first Espirito Santo group entity to acknowledge that its clients had not been reimbursed on debt issued by Espirito Santo International. FINMA said it has also appointed an independent third party to clarify the circumstances surrounding the issues. In July, a FINMA board member stepped down unexpectedly due to a role he held at BPES. Last month, BPES said it would sell large parts of its private banking business to rival Swiss bank CBH Compagnie Bancaire Helvetique SA, after being ordered by FINMA to seek a buyer for some of its assets.  Reuters / M. UlmanuSwiss investigators are looking into  Banque Privee Espirito Santo SA, this chart shows the Espirito Santo family's ties to the Santo businesses. (Reporting By Katharina Bart. Additional reporting by Laura Noonan in London. Editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
IGNITION: Future of Digital is quickly approaching. Early-bird rates are expiring tonight, Wednesday, Sept. 3 at 11:59 p.m., so get your tickets now!   Join senior executives from the converging worlds of media, technology, marketing, and investing to explore the ongoing explosion of new business models being fueled by digital technology and the Internet. Speakers include: For a taste of what you can expect in December, check out the latest IGNITION 2014 lineup. And reserve your spot now before the early-bird rates expire!  P.S. If you're interested in sponsorship opportunities at IGNITION, contact events@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for IGNITION updates. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Peter JonesGood credit not necessary.NEW YORK (Reuters) - A record number of U.S. consumers are taking out loans to buy cars, especially those purchasing used vehicles, according to data released on Wednesday. In the second quarter, 85 percent of new car purchases and 53.8 percent of used car purchases were financed, according to data from Experian Plc., an information provider. That was up 0.5 percentage points and 0.9 percentage points, respectively from the same period in 2013. Additionally, the size of auto loan amounts and monthly payments continued to rise, especially for used cars. Since the second quarter of 2013, the average used vehicle loan rose 1.9 percent to $18,258 and the average monthly payment on such vehicles rose 1.1 percent to $355, both all-time highs. "More and more consumers, especially those that are credit challenged, are turning to the used vehicle market as a viable option to purchase their next car," said Melinda Zabritski, senior director of automotive finance for Experian, in a statement. On Wednesday, automakers reported August sales data. Analysts are expecting the year's sales pace to remain well above 16 million new vehicles. Both Chrysler and Nissan saw new car sales move substantially higher in August. Banks were the largest lenders to consumers buying used cars, financing 35.6 percent of all such purchases, or 0.8 percentage points less than the second quarter of last year. In recent years banks have begun to focus more on the used car market as automakers' in-house financing arms came to dominate the new car market. Such "captive" finance companies made more than one out of every two new car loans in the second quarter, according to Experian. Regulators have become more concerned with banks' willingness to lengthen terms on car loans, lend to borrowers with lower credit scores and give out loans that are larger than vehicles are worth. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice has started investigating subprime auto loans that companies such as General Motors Co's auto financing arm and Santander Consumer Holdings USA Inc. have made and securitized since 2007. But at least in the second quarter, the share of both new car and used car loans that went to borrowers with subprime credit scores declined, according to Experian. "Lenders are still showing cautionary signs when lending to the subprime market and keeping their risk at manageable levels," Zabritski said. In recent months, a variety of market observers have raised red flags about subprime auto lending. They've voiced concerns at a time when automakers selling vehicles in the U.S. has seen the annualized sales pace push steadily toward 17 million new cars and trucks.  Wells Fargo &amp; Co. remained the largest U.S. auto lender in the second quarter with a market share of 5.75 percent, down from 5.89 percent a year prior. Capital One Financial Corp. surged past JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. to become the third largest U.S. auto lender after Ally Financial Inc. The McLean, Virginia-based bank's share of the used car market rose from 3.77 percent to 4.20 percent. FREE AppDownload
Israel signed a memorandum of understanding with Jordan Wednesday, under which it will supply the Hashemite Kingdom with $15 billion worth of natural gas from its Leviathan energy field over 15 years. The new deal is the largest collaboration with Jordan to date, and will make Israel its chief supplier, according to the Globes business news website. The final agreement will be subject to the approval of Energy and Water Minister Silvan Shalom, who is expected to confirm it. According to Globes, the U.S. was involved in the negotiations, and U.S. envoy Amos Hochstein will attend the signing of the memorandum. Shalom hailed the agreement, and referred to it as “a historic act that will strengthen the economic and diplomatic ties between Israel and Jordan.” “At this time, Israel is becoming an energy superpower, which will supply the energy needs of its neighbors and strengthen its standing as a central source of energy supply in the region, and I welcome it,” he said in a statement. In February, Israel signed a deal with Jordan to supply $500 million worth of gas to the Hashemite kingdom from the Tamar natural gas field in the Mediterranean. The Jordanians turned to Israel because their supply of natural gas from Egypt had been halted by repeated terrorist attacks on the gas pipeline from Egypt, a Channel 2 report said. Israel decided last year to export 40 percent of the country’s offshore gas finds, and has since signed a 20-year, $1.2 billion deal with a Palestinian firm, and in June signed a letter of intent to supply energy to an Egyptian facility as well. In March 2013, Israel began pumping natural gas from the Tamar deposit — discovered in 2009 and located some 90 kilometers (56 miles) west of Haifa — which holds an estimated 8.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. In addition to Tamar, in 2010 an even larger deposit, Leviathan — which boasts an estimated 16-18 trillion cubic feet of gas — was discovered 130 kilometers (81 miles) west of Haifa. It is expected to become operational in 2016. The decision on gas exports grew out of conclusions published by the Tzemach Committee headed by former Water and Energy Ministry director general Shaul Tzemach. The committee, formed in late 2011, had called on Israel to keep the first 450 billion cubic meters for domestic use, and allow the export of up to half of any additional amount extracted from the proven reserves. The latest deal to date comes after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised a “new diplomatic horizon,” and improved regional ties, in the aftermath of the recent military campaign in the Gaza Strip. Yifa Yaakov and Times of Israel staff contributed to this report. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan stands on an escalator in the financial district of Pudong in ShanghaiBy Michael Martina BEIJING (Reuters) - Companies facing antitrust investigations in China are subject to a host of pressure tactics from regulators, a business lobby said on Wednesday, in the latest report to cite due process concerns over China's anti-monopoly enforcement. China has ramped up the use of its 2008 Anti-Monopoly Law, prompting a string of complaints from foreign groups that foreign firms are being unfairly targeted by its three antitrust regulators. The U.S.-China Business Council (USCBC) said companies that drew scrutiny from regulators had been pressured to "admit guilt", appear without legal counsel and make statements without being informed of the grounds for investigations. "Such practices contradict both the letter and the spirit of China's efforts to promote rule of law and due process, and they are out of line with international best practices," the group  said in a report. Reuters reported last year that companies had been warned by tough-talking regulators not to use external lawyers during investigations. The government rejects complaints about its three antitrust regulators and says investigations by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), the Ministry of Commerce, and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) are conducted according to law. A top regulatory official said China was not being unfair to foreign firms, the official Xinhua news agency reported. "Some of the NDRC monopoly investigations involve overseas multinationals, but that does not mean that we are targeting them," Xu Kunlin, head of the anti-monopoly bureau under the NDRC, was quoted as saying. "We treat local and overseas companies equally to ensure justice for all."  CONCERNED The USCBC report follows a string of statements from the American Chamber of Commerce in China, the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China and the Washington-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce, expressing alarm about what they have called China's unfair use of competition policy. The USCBC said 86 percent of respondents to a survey reported they were either somewhat, or very, concerned about China's anti-monopoly enforcement efforts. Both Chinese and foreign companies had been investigated since the Anti-Monopoly Law came into effect, it said, but regulators' actions "in recent months" had focused more heavily on foreign businesses. Foreign business advocates had initially been hesitant to publicly discuss concern over accusations of due process violations as investigations picked up in 2013. But in an April letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce urged Washington to get tough with Beijing on its use of competition policy, which it said had been seized upon by China to advance its industrial agenda and nurture domestic companies. The issue was raised at high-level strategic talks between the United States and China in July. China is trying to restructure its economy so that growth is driven by consumption and antitrust agencies have said they will target industries where practices could lead to "unreasonably" high consumer prices. Microsoft Corp  and U.S. chipmaker Qualcomm Inc  have been among dozens of companies scrutinized. The National Development and Reform Commission said this year that Qualcomm was suspected of overcharging and abusing its market position in wireless communication standards, charges that could lead to fines of more than $1 billion.  (Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWSArgentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner speaks during a ceremony at Buenos Aires' Stock ExchangeBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - An Argentine bill designed to sidestep adverse U.S. court rulings regarding the country's defaulted debt may be amended  to include France as a jurisdiction for making restructured bond payments, state news service Telam reported on Wednesday. Argentina's Senate was set to debate the proposal, which passed committee in the lower house of Congress a week earlier. President Cristina Fernandez wants to make debt payments locally and bring foreign debt under Argentine law. On Tuesday legislators were visited by government officials to discuss possible amendments to the bill, Telam and other local media reported. "The officials talked with government-allied lawmakers about Article 7 of the bill, referring to payment jurisdiction, which might also include France," Telam said. Latin America's No. 3 economy fell into default again in July after failing to reach an agreement with a group of hedge funds led by NML Capital Ltd and Aurelius Capital Management, which rejected the country's 2005 and 2010 debt restructurings  and which are suing for full payment on their bonds. A U.S. court has banned Argentina from servicing restructured debt until it pays the litigating funds $1.3 billion plus interest. Fernandez, who calls the funds "vultures", says that to abide by the court ruling would spark additional legal claims and devastate the South American country's finances.  (Reporting by Hugh Bronstein and Walter Bianchi; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric RisbergA burned out automobile is shown next to a ruptured gas line amid rubble after a fire caused by a gas pipeline explosion in a neighborhood in San Bruno, California September 10, 2010. SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - The California Public Utilities Commission on Tuesday levied penalties of a record $1.4 billion on Pacific Gas and Electric Co, stemming from the deadly 2010 San Bruno natural gas pipeline rupture and fire near San Francisco. This is the largest safety-related penalty ever imposed by the commission, dwarfing a $38-million fine for PG&amp;E over a 2008 natural gas explosion in Rancho Cordova, California, the agency said. The fines cover 3,798 violations of state and federal laws and regulations that two administrative law judges for the agency found in connection with PG&amp;E's pipeline network operation, including the 2010 explosion. Many of those violations had run for years, the panel said. The penalty takes effect in 30 days, unless a party to the proceedings, including PG&amp;E, files an appeal or a panel member requests a review of the decision. The utility was "still looking at a number of options" related to Tuesday's decision, said Keith Stephens, a spokesman for the company, a division of PG&amp;E Corp. The company had asked the commission to "ensure that the penalty is reasonable and proportionate," PG&amp;E Corp Chairman and Chief Executive Tony Earley said in a statement. The fine comprises $950 million to be paid to the state treasury, $400 million to a PG&amp;E plan to boost pipeline safety and an estimated $50 million earmarked for more than 75 specific safety remedies ordered by the commission. When combined with another $635 million the agency previously ordered the utility to pay to modernize pipelines, the overall penalties PG&amp;E faces from the San Bruno disaster would exceed $2 billion, the commission said. The agency previously ruled that all penalties must come from shareholders and may not be passed on to utility customers. The company said its total shareholder impact could reach $4.75 billion, including $2.7 billion in estimated costs it said had already been incurred or are forecast to be incurred to improve the safety of its natural gas operations. The pipeline explosion on Sept. 9, 2010, in San Bruno, a city just south of San Francisco, destroyed an entire neighborhood, killing eight people and injuring 58. The National Transportation Safety Board later blamed the utility's lax approach to pipeline safety and weak oversight by regulators. A federal grand jury in April indicted the company on 12 felony counts of violating safety regulations. The company has pleaded not guilty. (Writing and additional reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
During the post-financial crisis bull market, corporations have seen profit margins expand as companies cut costs by laying off workers and getting more productivity out of the employees who remain.  But recent data has painted a somewhat conflicting picture, and it looks as if by some measures profit margins might be getting slimmer, or "rolling over."  Following the financial crisis, companies of all sizes saw margins expand. But of late, smaller companies haven't continued to enjoy record margins, while larger companies are still seeing margins hold up, as seen in this chart by UBS. UBSSee the gold line fall. Second-quarter GDP data showed that after-tax corporate profit hit a record high. But following the second GDP estimate released Thursday, The Wall Street Journal's Justin Lahart highlighted a sometimes overlooked adjustment in the profit-margin data. The "record" after-tax corporate profits exclude two adjustments — one that measures the change in the value of inventory and another that measures depreciation of plants and equipment — and were these items included, corporate profits as a percent of GDP would be 10% lower than a year ago. And though the adjusted profits are still near record highs, corporates have clearly seen some decline in profit. This chart from FRED shows how the unadjusted and adjusted measure of corporate profits have diverged in the past year.FREDThe blue line is trending down. Some economists on Wall Street have also noted this divergence, and when you look under the hood of corporate balance sheets, profit margins might be getting squeezed for the first time since the financial crisis. In a recent note to clients, Sean Darby, chief global equity strategist at Jefferies, said: "Glancing at U.S. nationwide operating margins suggests that margins did indeed peak through 1Q and 2Q of 2014." Darby noted three factors that contributed to this contraction: increased capital expenditures, share buybacks, and higher input costs. Darby adds that while the "high degree of U.S. sector oligopolization," among other factors, will keep costs constrained, "the best of the restructuring and cost cutting is over." This chart from Darby shows how multiple expansion for the S&amp;P 500 coincided with an increase in profit margins, which have recently pulled back.  Jefferies Dean Maki at Barclays says the catalyst for the squeeze in corporate profit margins is straightforward: Labor costs are rising faster than output prices. The broader implications of labor costs rising faster than prices can sometimes be ominous, but Maki writes that, "While sliding profits often lead to recessions, there is nothing that says this is inevitable." This chart from Barclays shows how labor costs have outpaced prices this year. BarclaysThe dark blue line is outpacing the light blue line. Maki expects the decline in corporate profits to put pressure on companies to raise prices, which the Fed most likely welcomes, given that inflation has been running below its 2% target this year.  In her speech at Jackson Hole last month, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said there were still pockets of weakness, or "slack," in the labor market. And in an optimistic reading, the increase in wages highlighted by Maki could indicate the start of a "virtuous cycle" in the labor market, where employees gain leverage and are able to command higher wages. Or at least, this is how the Fed would want to see this play out. At Capital Economics, John Higgins also sees profit margins falling in the face of a strengthening labor market, but like Maki, Higgins does not see this fall coming as a collapse that sends the market tumbling. "The structural forces (e.g. globalization) that have put significant downward pressure on labor's share of income since the turn of the century are unlikely to disappear anytime soon," Higgins writes. "So the after-tax profit share is unlikely to collapse and trigger the sort of major correction in equity prices that bears anticipate." The "significant downward pressure" Higgins references is something that Business Insider's Henry Blodget has argued is the result of corporate leaders extracting profit by suppressing wages, creating, "a country of a few million overlords and 300+ million serfs." And when you look at this chart showing how employee compensation as a percent of GDP has fallen, it's easy to see part of what the inequality argument is driving at. FRED It's also worth noting that companies in the S&amp;P 500 enjoyed record profit margins in the second quarter. In a recent note to clients, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin wrote that he anticipated profit margins for the S&amp;P 500 would remain near 9%, while consensus estimates are for margins to expand to 10% by the end of next year.  Goldman Sachs And while the S&amp;P 500 is among the most-referenced stock indexes and is often considered the "benchmark" index for U.S. equities, it still excludes many thousands of smaller public — not to mention all private — companies, possibly painting a misleading picture of the state of corporate earnings. The S&amp;P 500 is market cap weighted, meaning the largest companies make up the largest percentage of the index. Currently, that means Apple is the largest company in the S&amp;P 500; in its most recent quarter, Apple's gross margin was 39.4%.   Many have called the current bull market and economic recovery a "balance sheet recovery" that has seen companies repair balance sheets by, again, cutting costs, and engaging in financial engineering to boost earnings and stock prices.  This behavior has fed the ever-growing profit margins gains.  But if this trend is faltering, and companies start investing in their actual businesses rather than just their financial statements, then maybe we can drop "balance sheet" from the word "recovery." FREE AppDownload
Allie Caran, a coffee educator at a small batch roaster Toby's Estate Coffee, showed us the step-by-step guide to making "The God Shot" – the perfect shot of strong and tasty espresso. Produced by Matthew Stuart.  Follow BI Video: On YouTube
YouTube screenshotKen Griffin's wife has filed a response to his divorce petition asking the court to void the couple's prenuptial agreement, claiming she was rushed into signing it before their wedding, Crain's reports, citing the filing. Back in July, Griffin filed for divorce from his wife of 11 years, Anne Dias-Griffin, while she was on summer vacation with their three children. Griffin, 45, is the founder of the Chicago-based hedge fund giant Citadel LLC. Dias-Griffin, 43, was born in France. She is the founder of the hedge fund firm Aragon Global Management. Dias-Griffin is now seeking equitable division of their assets and sole custody of their children, the Crain's report said, citing the filing. She wants their prenup thrown out. CNBC/ Heidi GutmanAccording to Crain's, Dias-Griffin says she didn't receive a copy of the prenup until shortly before the wedding date, and she was busy with wedding plans and running her hedge fund firm. Dias-Griffin also said she told Griffin she didn't want to sign the prenup. This, according to Dias-Griffin's filing, led to an argument in which she said Griffin "destroyed a piece of furniture in their home." Dias-Griffin says Griffin got her to meet with a psychologist. According to Dias-Griffin, the psychologist sided with Griffin. She ended up signing the prenup three hours before the rehearsal dinner. Griffin's attorney maintains that the prenup is valid. He also told Crain's that Dias-Griffin's allegations were "simply untrue." Under the terms of the prenup, she says she will receive 1 percent of Griffin's assets. Griffin has an estimated net worth of $5.5 billion, according to Forbes. Griffin and Dias-Griffin were married in Versailles in July 2003. This is the second divorce for Griffin. He divorced his first wife in 1994. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pichi ChuangA person stands in front of a 25.3-meter-long giant rabbit designed by Dutch artist Florentijn Hofman at an old aircraft hangar as part of the Taoyuan Land Art Festival in Taoyuan, northern Taiwan, on Wednesday. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  1)  Ukraine Cease-Fire Is Announced, Then Retracted. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko's press office retracted a statement it had released saying he had reached a cease-fire agreement with Vladimir Putin that sent stocks surging. A Kremlin representative subsequently said no such agreement was in place, and fighting continued in Ukraine's east. "Putin and Poroshenko in fact discussed the steps that would be conducive to a cease-fire between the militias and the Ukrainian security forces," Putin's press secretary Dmitry Peskov said, RIA Novosti reported. Russia cannot negotiate a cease-fire "because it is not a party to the conflict," he said according to MarketWatch. 2)  Obama Sending More Personnel To Iraq. President Obama has authorized an additional 350 military troops to "protect our diplomatic facilities and personnel in Baghdad, Iraq," according to a spokesman. "The decision was made at the recommendation of the Department of Defense and noted that additional forces will not serve in a combat role," NBC said. "Additionally, the President will be consulting this week with NATO allies regarding additional actions to take against Islamist militants." 3)  Apple In Crisis? BI's Jim Edwards argues that on the eve of one of the iPhone 6 announcement, the company now faces a crisis of confidence thanks to the celebrity hacking scandal. There was also an iTunes outage Tuesday night. "Trust is a huge part of the Apple brand. People use Apple because its products 'just work,' and because hackers and malware tend to operate on Windows and Android systems, not Apple's OS and iOS platforms ... Now, Cook is in danger of seeing that trust slip away. He was just about to ask consumers to place even more faith in iCloud, which will sit at the center of ambitious plans to extend Apple's mobile payments capabilities (through NFC and Touch ID), its online e-commerce strategy (through iTunes, the app stores, and Beats), through improvements to its Mac operating system (OS X Yosemite will have an iCloud Drive storage system), and through Handoff, a new system that lets you switch your work between your Mac and an iPad seamlessly. Instead of the tech media being filled with stories about how exciting this is all going to be, blogs are running "how-to" guides for people who want to switch off iCloud." 4)  Today's Bad Europe News. According to Eurostat, retail sales fell 0.4% in the Euro area in June. For what it's worth, it's only the first time since January that this figure has declined. Meanwhile the purchasing managers' index for services firms fell to 53.1 in August from 54.2 in July, though it is still well above the crucial 50 level that marks an expansion in activity, reports the FT's Claire Jones. 5)  UK Services Growth Fastest In 10 Months. The Markit/CIPS services purchasing managers' survey for Britain hit 60.5 in August, up from 59.1 in July. Samuel Tombs, senior U.K. economist at consultancy Capital Economics said per the FT that the strength of the survey provided "reassurance" that the economic recovery was not losing pace and that the U.K. was "set for a period of strong, non-inflationary growth." Meanwhile analysts expect the Bank of England to leave rates unchanged at its policy meeting this week, according to AFP. 6)  Norway Oil Slowdown. Oil companies expect to invest 19% less in Europe's largest oil producer in 2015 than 2014, according to a new survey. Norway has become increasingly dependent on oil revenues, and the slowdown is likely to hit the broader economy. "Lower oil-sector investments may limit overall growth and lead Norway's central bank to lower its expectations of future rates, as an economic slowdown would normally call for lower key rates to boost growth," Marketwatch's Kjetil Malkenes writes.  7.  Commerzbank CEO Calls For Common Bonds. Martin Blessing, the head of one of the world's largest banks, published an op-ed arguing that eurozone lenders should begin issuing Eurobonds to help boost the euro. FT: "The Commerzbank chief argued in the article that the European Central Bank's response to the crisis, which has involved buying government debt, and the bonds issued under the European Stability Mechanism bailout vehicle meant sharing debt burdens was 'already a reality.' Mr Blessing, who has chaired the board of Germany's second-largest bank since 2008, said on Wednesday that eurobonds 'would permanently establish the euro as a globally important currency, ensuring the sustained importance and competitiveness of Europe.'" Germany's finance ministry quickly pushed back, saying this would let peripheral countries off the hook from reforming their economies. 8.  LVHM Cuts Hermes Loose. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA will devolve its $7.5 billion holding in Hermes International SCA after a French court ruled in favor of the Birkin bag maker, Bloomberg's Andrew Roberts reports. LVHM "will distribute the stake to its shareholders and institutional investors, leaving ... holding company Groupe Arnault with an 8.5 percent interest, the Paris-based company said," according to Bloomberg. LVMH currently holds about 23 percent of Hermes. Hermes had sued LVHM after it had built up holdings that caught Hermes equity holders unawares. The resolution reduces “the speculative appeal of Hermes which goes back to being a normally traded company,” one analyst told Bloomberg. Hermes shares fell 11% in Paris, while LVHM climbed 3.9%. 9.  Data. We'll learn light vehicle sales for August. Consensus is for an increase to 16.5 million SAAR in August from 16.4 million in July (Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate). At 10 a.m. we get factory orders for July consensus is for a 10.5% increase. And at 2 p.m. we get the Fed's Beige Book survey of economic conditions.  10.  Markets. Stocks in Europe and U.S. futures surged on the since-retracted Ukraine cease-fire announcement. Germany’s DAX Index rose 1.2%. London's FTSE climbed 0.9% In Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland shares jumped 3.2%, its biggest rally since November, according to Bloomberg. Dow futures were up 74 points. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDeaths of Rozier and Romain.Inventions have been boosting economic growth and productivity since the dawn of man. Unsurprisingly, it is the inventor who is often the early tester of those inventions. And some of those inventions pose deadly risks. With the help of Wikipedia, we've compiled a short list of brilliant engineers, scientists, and old-fashioned daredevils who fell victim to their own ideas. FREE AppDownload
From Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, here's what traders are talking about this morning: US Futures are following global upside, with Russell Minis up 50bp as the “growth” trade continues.   We will be on the lookout for mean reversion from yesterday’s ETF allocation trades (SPY &gt; IWO / TLT &gt; SPY / VGK &gt; EZU - and a rebound in Energy --&gt; XLE, IYE, XLU) unless the allocation bleeds into today.    All of the global upside driven from stronger Chinese Services PMI, and headlines that Russia and Ukraine reach a "permanent ceasefire" in eastern Ukraine.   The rouble is bouncing from record lows against the $, and Micex is up 2%+.    Volumes are better in Europe, with the DAX gaining 1.3% on 75% heavier volume than the last week.    Over in Asia, the Nikkei gained 40bp and near Jan peaks as Abe reshuffled his cabinet - China data propels HK to biggest gain in a year – Sensex gained as the temperature in Pakistan cooled off – While Aussie finished in the red, weighed down by the Miners.  Despite Rates higher, risk-embracement is lifting the EEM 1.5% early.  The 10YY in the US continues its upward climb, gaining 4bp and testing 3week highs.   Bund 10YY up 4bp as well, and the EUR is gaining against the $ ahead of ECB tomorrow and the Yen still near 1Y lows into the BOJ Friday.    Keep an eye on Sterling into the BOE tomorrow, we saw heavy capital flows leave London yesterday on the Scottish independence poll.    Gold is staging a small bounce after yesterday’s smack, while Copper is under pressure on an investigation of the power grid in China.    We are seeing Ukraine stress reversing, as Wheat and Palladium are getting hit,  while Oil is catching a lift after yesterday’s smackdown.   Catalyst Calendar gets thick today – Brazil PMI at 9, at 10 we get the Bank of Canada Rate Decision along with US Online Help Wanted Index and Factory Orders.   We have a small POMO at 11, and the Federal Reserve Beige Book at 2.   We will be getting monthly auto sales figures throughout the session ahead of API Crude data tonight. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages rose last week as interest rates declined, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, rose 0.2 percent in the week ended Aug. 29. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications rose 1.4 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 1.5 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates fell to their lowest level since June 2013, averaging 4.25 percent in the week, down 3 basis points from 4.28 percent the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe tail wing of a Malaysia Airlines jet is seen at Kuala Lumpur International AirportKUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia Airlines has changed the wording of an online contest called "My Ultimate Bucket List" after Internet users derided the campaign as insensitive following two disasters suffered by the airline this year that claimed 537 lives. A bucket list commonly refers to things one wants to do or see before dying. Nearing six months since the unexplained loss of Flight MH370, the carrier launched the campaign asking Australian and New Zealand customers to describe in 500 words or less, "What and where would you like to tick off on your bucket list, and explain why?". The prize for 16 winners was an iPad or return tickets to Malaysia. Hit by plunging ticket sales after the March 8 disaster and the July 17 shooting down of another passenger jet over Ukraine, Malaysia Airlines has slapped discounts on some routes and launched special offers to revive its business. It has almost doubled its commission payments to Australia-based travel agents to revive sales there, according to Australian media reports. By Wednesday, the original link to the "Bucket List" contest had been removed from the airline's website. The contest was still being offered, with less fanfare, asking contestants to describe destinations and activities on their "to-do" list. A Malaysia Airlines spokesperson could not be reached for comment. The airline will de-list from the stock exchange this year as it undergoes a government-led restructuring announced last week that includes a 30 percent cut in its workforce.   (Reporting By Trinna Leong; Editing by Stuart Grudgings and Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Saeed KhanParis (AFP) - Economic prosperity is the worst enemy of minority languages, said researchers Wednesday who listed parts of Australia and North America as "hotspots" for extinction risk. Based on the same criteria used to determine the risk of extinction faced by animal and plant species, they concluded that about a quarter of the world's known 6,909 languages were threatened. "Languages are now rapidly being lost at a rate of extinction exceeding the well-known catastrophic loss of biodiversity," the US-European research team wrote in the Royal Society Journal Biology Letters. "Small-population languages remaining in economically developed regions are seriously threatened by continued speaker declines." In Alaska, for example, there were only 24 active speakers by 2009 of the Athabaskan people's indigenous language, which children were no longer learning. And the Wichita language of the Plains Indians, now based in Oklahoma, had only one fluent speaker by 2008. In Australia, aboriginal languages like the recently-extinct Margu and almost extinct Rembarunga are "increasingly disappearing", the team wrote. "Economically developed regions, such as North America and Australia, have already experienced many language extinctions," they said. "Nevertheless, small-range and small-population languages still persist in hotspots within these regions. Those languages need immediate attention because of their high extinction risk." Also at risk were developing parts of the world undergoing rapid economic growth, such as much of the tropics and the Himalayan region, said the team -- citing Brazil and Nepal. The researchers had gathered data on the number of speakers of a language, their geographical range, and rates of growth or decline. They then considered possible influences like globalisation or environmental and socio-economic changes. The data comparison showed that "levels of GDP (gross domestic product) per capita correlated with the loss of language diversity: the more successful economically, the more rapidly language diversity was disappearing," said a press statement from the University of Cambridge. Study co-author Tatsuya Amato from the university's zoology department, explained that as economies develop, one language often comes to dominate a nation's political and educational spheres. "People are forced to adapt the dominant language or risk being left out in the cold -- economically and politically." One saving grace is bilingualism, which the team said must be encouraged to preserve the world's linguistic diversity. "Our study also contributes to a basic understanding of the origin and maintenance of human cultural diversity," they wrote.   FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogGlobal economic growth has slowed over the past few years. Economists such as Larry Summers are talking about secular stagnation. If this is happening, then demography may be the best explanation for it. The post-war baby boom generation is in their 50s and early 60s. People are living longer everywhere and burdening government budgets with social welfare spending on their senior citizens. The resulting budget deficits are financed with credit that is a growing liability for younger generations without creating any offsetting income-producing or productivity-enhancing assets. Demography can account for the dramatic decline in both inflation and bond yields in the US. Indeed, there has been a very close fit among the Age Wave (i.e., the percentage of the labor force that is 16-34 years old), the inflation trend, and the 10-year US Treasury yield. Today's Morning Briefing: A Dozen Lessons. (1) Doing our homework. (2) A dozen lessons. (3) Central bankers are know-it-alls who don’t. (4) Deflation may be a monetary phenomenon too. (5) Bond vigilantes go on a European vacation. (6) Yellen admits she is guessing about slack. (7) Could it be that low price inflation is driving low wage inflation? (8) Europe and Japan going down same dirt road. (9) US remains outstanding. (10) Corporations are managed to be profitable. (11) Time to pull out reasons why P/Es have more upside. (12) Demography can explain a lot. (13) Hillary vs. Mitt. (14) Jihadists on a deadly crusade. (15) “The November Man” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCustomers attend a workshop about the Samsung Galaxy S5 in JakartaBRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Union antitrust regulators fined Philips, Samsung Electronics and Infineon Technologies a total of 138 million euros ($181.28 million) on Wednesday for fixing prices of chips used in mobile SIM cards. The European Commission, which raided the companies in October 2008, said the cartel took place between 2003 and 2005. German chipmaker Infineon received the biggest penalty at 82.8 million euros. Samsung was fined 35.12 million euros and Philips 20.15 million euros. Philips denied fixing chip prices and said it would challenge the decision in court. Renesas Technology, a joint venture between Hitachi Ltd and Mitsubishi Electric that was acquired by Renesas Electronics Corp in 2010, escaped a fine of more than 51 million euros as it was the first to alert the cartel to the EU competition authority. The chips produced by the companies are also used in bank cards, identity cards, passports and pay TV cards. The companies had sought to settle the case in return for a 10 percent cut in the fines but talks broke down last year. ($1= 0.7613 euro)  (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee, additional reporting by Amsterdam newsroom; Editing by Julia Fioretti and Michael Urquhart) FREE AppDownload
This morning there's been some confusion in Ukraine, as the Ukrainian President Poroshenko announced a "cease-fire." Putin then said there'd been no such thing. Here's how the market reacted to the news, via FinViz. There was a clear pop right after 4 AM, and then not longer after, the market gave it almost all back. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Here's today's horrible datapoint out of Europe. According to Eurostat, retail sales fell 0.4% in the Euro area in June. Here's the chart: Eurostat FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA bartender holds a glass of Carlsberg beer in a bar in St. PetersburgCOPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Shares in Danish brewer Carlsberg &lt;carlb.co&gt; jumped over 4 percent on Wednesday after reports that Ukraine and Russia had reached a ceasefire agreement in the eastern Ukraine. "That is definitely why the Carlsberg shares are going up," chief share trader at Danske Bank Mads Zink told Reuters. Reuters share price data also showed the jump after the news was announced by Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko's office. The Danish brewer has a large exposure to Russia through its market leading Baltika brand and its shares has been under pressure this year due to the crisis there.   (Reporting by Teis Jensen; editing by Sabina Zawadzki) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSun rises to the east of the U.S. Federal Reserve building in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. bank regulators plan to adopt on Wednesday rules forcing big banks to hold more assets that they could sell easily in a credit crunch, a requirement that is closely linked to the experience of the 2007-2009 financial crisis. Regulators also will unveil a separate proposal governing how much money swaps buyers and sellers must set aside when they make trades outside central clearing houses. The rules from the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp (FDIC) and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are part of a series of reforms aimed at making banks sturdier and heading off another economic meltdown. The liquidity rules, which call for big banks to hold enough liquid assets to meet their cash needs for 30 days, are a key pillar of the international agreement known as Basel III. They aim to ensure banks have easy-to-sell assets on hand so they could meet customer withdrawals or post collateral in a crunch. U.S. regulators in October 2013 proposed liquidity requirements that were more stringent than the global agreement, with a shorter phase-in period for domestic banks such as JPMorgan Chase &lt;jpm.n&gt; and Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; than their foreign counterparts would face. The final rules, to be unveiled on Wednesday, have already sparked protests. That is because regulators will spell out which assets count as highly liquid. Banks will have to hold a minimum amount of these assets, such as U.S. Treasuries. As in the initial proposal, municipal bonds will not count toward that buffer, a person familiar with the situation said. That has angered state officials, who say banks will buy fewer of their bonds and taxpayers will shoulder more costs for projects such as new roads. "As stewards of our states' coffers and protectors of our states' financial resources, state treasurers were surprised to learn that federal regulators quietly posted their intent...to vote on significant and potentially very harmful rules," the National Association of State Treasurers said in a statement. In a separate action, regulators expect to re-propose margin requirements for swaps trades conducted outside clearing houses. Those rules were proposed in 2011 but were never made final. The new proposal due out Wednesday is expected to tie into guidelines released by the global Basel group last year. Swaps, which mushroomed during the pre-crisis boom and were lightly regulated, largely must now be routed through clearing houses, or middlemen that take on the risk that trading partners will not deliver on their promises. But some swaps are complicated and are still not cleared. The new rules will regulate how much margin counterparties must set aside for these riskier deals. Experts said banks are keeping a close eye on the margin rules, which could be costly for them. The regulators also are expected to take a third, unrelated action to finalize rules proposed in April 2014 that specify how banks must calculate their capital requirements. (Reporting by Emily Stephenson; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukA temporary tent camp set up for Ukrainian refugees outside Donetsk, located in Russia's Rostov region near the Russian-Ukrainian border, on Aug. 18. 1. A video released on Tuesday by ISIS appears to show the murder of American journalist Steven Sotloff.  2.  Over one million people have been displaced as a result of the crisis in Ukraine, according to the U.N. refugee agency.  3. Obama announced he was sending an additional 350 troops to protect the U.S. embassy in Iraq, bringing the total number of U.S. troops in Iraq to 1,500.  4. Apple refuted allegations that any of its systems, including iCloud, were breached in the celebrity hacking scandal in which hundreds of nude photos were leaked online.  5. The Ebola epidemic in West Africa has led to major food shortages and skyrocketing prices in the region, the U.N. said.   6. European Union officials are thinking about boycotting the 2018 World Cup as part of an extension of sanctions against Russia, the Financial Times said.  7. A crewmember of the South Korean ferry that sank in April testified in court that he and another worker drank beer as they were waiting to be rescued, Reuters reports.  8. All CVS stores in the U.S. have stopped selling tobacco products as of Tuesday night, one month earlier than planned.  9. The former European commissioner for monetary union, Olli Rehn, said it would be impossible for an independent Scotland to use the pound without Westminster's formal permission, The Guardian reports.  10. DNA tests have proved the innocence of two North Carolina men who spent more than 30 years in prison.  And finally... Newlywed celeb couple Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie got $2 million from People and Hello magazine for exclusive pics from their ceremony.  FREE AppDownload
