REUTERS/Carlos BarriaAsian markets are higher on the back of the rally in the U.S. stock market, and after Chinese Q1 GDP beat expectations. Japan's Nikkei is up 2%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.5%. China's Shanghai Composite is flat. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.5%. While the latest data beat expectations it confirmed fears of China's economic slowdown. Q1 GDP was up 7.4% on the year, but down from 7.7% the previous quarter. Quarter-over-quarter GDP was up 1.4% or 5.7% annualized. The Aussie dollar got a nice pop after the data beat expectations but pared some of those gains. FInViz Meanwhile, S&amp;P futures are up 0.3% and NASDAQ futures are up 0.4%. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images / Mike StobeNow that he's out of office, former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is stepping up his efforts to battle the National Rifle Association and expand gun control laws. Bloomberg detailed his plans in an interview with the New York Times published Monday — in which he predicted his crusades against guns, smoking, and obesity would serve him well in the afterlife.  "I am telling you if there is a God, when I get to heaven I’m not stopping to be interviewed. I am heading straight in. I have earned my place in heaven. It’s not even close," Bloomberg said.  Bloomberg is prepared to spend $50 million this year alone on his gun control push, The New York Times' Jeremy Peters reports. According to the report, he will use the investment to build "a nationwide grass-roots network to motivate voters who feel strongly about curbing gun violence." Peters wrote that Bloomberg "tossed out the $50 million figure out as if he were describing the tip he left on a restaurant check" and hinted he could spend even more in his battle against the NRA.  “I put $50 million this year, last year into coal, $53 million into oceans,” Bloomberg said referencing money he's spent on environmental initiatives. “Certainly a number like that, $50 million. Let’s see what happens.” The NRA did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Bloomberg's plans.  Bloomberg also dismissed the idea his reputation as the "nanny" mayor of a big city who has pushed bans on smoking and sugary drinks in addition to gun control might not make him the ideal face of a gun control campaign that will need to change hearts and minds in red states.  “I don’t know what your perception is of our reputation, and mine, the name Bloomberg around the country,” he said noting that in his travels he regularly hears people tell him, “You’re a rock star" and "people yelling out of cabs, ‘Hey, way to go!’” Under his plan, Bloomberg would bring two gun-focused groups he currently funds — Mayors Against Illegal Guns and Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America — under one umbrella group called Everytown for Gun Safety. It will focus in the short term on legislation to expand background checks on gun buyers. The group's focus will be on field operations, something the NRA and other pro-gun groups have mastered. The focus of their outreach will be on women — mothers, in particular — who they feel can be swayed on the gun issue. The topic of gun violence has largely faded from the national scene. It has been almost a year since the Senate failed to pass a bill that would have expanded background checks, and there has been no renewed momentum. That defeat was widely seen as a loss for Bloomberg, who spent over $10 million on his gun control campaign prior to the bill's failure. Supporters tout progress on the background check issue at the state level.  Some groups hinted at plans to punish senators who voted against the background check bill last year. When they did, some Democrats and liberals argued it would be counterproductive, since pushing red-state Democrats to the left on gun issues could lose the party the Senate.  Bloomberg doesn't seem to care about causing difficulties for Democrats, saying his focus is squarely on the gun fight. “You can tell me all you want that the Republicans would be worse in the Senate than the Democrats,” he said. “Maybe they would. But that’s not what we’re talking about here.” This post was updated at 11:30 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex LeeChina's Q1 GDP beat expectations rising 7.4% year-over-year. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for Q1 GDP to rise 7.3%. But this was down from 7.7% the previous quarter, showing that China's economy continues to slow.  Quarter-over-quarter however GDP was up 1.4% or 5.7% annualized. This was also slower than revised 1.7% growth in Q4 2013 and 7% annualized. Meanwhile, year-to-date Chinese retail sales were up 12%, beating expectations for an 11.9% rise. For March, retail sales were up 12.2%. Industrial production was up 8.8% in March, below expectations for a 9% rise. Year-to-date fixed asset investment was up 17.6%, missing expectations for an 18% rise. This of course come on the back of slower credit growth, disappointing trade data, and producer prices that were down for the 25th straight quarter. "Data released today displayed some moderate improvement in March, but the improvement is not big enough to deliver an around 7.5% growth target for the whole year," Bank of America's Ting Lu said in a note to clients.  "So we expect Beijing to implement its mini-stimulus—some small-scale growth supportive measures focusing on fiscal spending in social housing, urban infrastructure and central &amp; western region infrastructure. Despite the falling M1 and M2 yoy growth, we believe the PBoC won’t cut RRR in the near term on low interbank rates." In a previous note, Ting had attributed slower growth to Beijing's crackdown on pollution and corruption, and the "lagged impact of rising CNY and rates in 2H13 and government’s efforts in controlling local government debt and some shadow banking practice." Investors are again beginning to worry about a Chinese hard landing, which is four straight quarter of below 5% growth.  China has set a growth target of 7.5% and economists think the government has a floor of 7%.  China's Labor Ministry says 7.5% growth generates 10 million jobs and that growth below 7% could cause high unemployment. Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart showing that the trajectory of YoY and QoQ GDP growth. Michael McDonough Bloomberg via Twitter We will have live coverage of all the data » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
It's been a good news/bad news kind of day for the investors and employees of Motorola Solutions but a downright jubilant day for its smaller competitor Zebra Technologies. Zebra, with about $1 billion in 2013 revenue and 2,600 employees, just bought its larger rival, Motorola Enterprise, with 4,500 employees and nearly $2.7 billion in revenues.  Or to put it another way, Motorola Enterprise reported a 2013 backlog of sales ($833 million) that was almost as big as the actual 2013 revenue that Zebra brought in, just over $1 billion. Zebra is paying cash in the deal, through cash on hand and new debt. How did the smaller rival buy the bigger company? The two have been competitors in the bar code market for over 20 years and the CEOs were acquaintances, Michael Terzich, Zebra's SVP of global sales and marketing told Business Insider. Both companies are based in the Chicago area. For years Zebra CEO Anders Gustafsson had told Motorola Solutions CEO Greg Brown that he'd love to buy him out. "Our CEO, Anders Gustafsson, and Motorola's CEO, Greg Brown, they've had contact over a couple of years. Certainly over the course of time, we let our feelings known, that if there was ever an opportunity for this to be put into play, we would have an interest," Terzich told us. So when word leaked that Motorola was shopping around for a buyer for Enterprise business about nine months ago, Gustafsson threw Zebra's name in the hat.  (In October, Reuters reported that Motorola was looking for a buyer for its wireless LAN business, which is part of the Enterprise unit.) Zebra wasn't the only buyer interested, Terzich said, and the talks grew more serious over the last six months. Its all-cash deal obviously won the day. For its $3.45 billion, Zebra got the bar code business, the wireless LAN unit, as well as RFID chips (a sensor technology often used in place of bar codes) and Motorola's rugged tablets business (popular with warehouses and transportation companies). When the deal closes later this year, Zebra will become a company with 7,100 employees in 85 countries selling to 95% of the Fortune 500, Terzich says. Meanwhile, on the same day that Brown announced the sale, he told investors that Motorola's next quarter will fall short of the company's outlook numbers. Motorola Solutions succeeded Motorola after it spun-out its smartphone business in 2011. That business was sold to Google for $12.5 billion. In January, Google sold the Motorola unit to Lenovo for $2.9 billion. What remains of Motorola Solutions is a $6 billion company that sells radios, its iDen push-to-talk network and  government communications equipment. As for the 4,500 Motorola employees joining Zebra, Terzich admitted that there will likely be some layoffs. But he also said that Zebra didn't want to gut the company, but grow it. He tells employees that "the opportunities are far greater than the risks associated with some redundant positions." Investors are skeptical. Zebra's stock finished Wednesday down about 10%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil Noble Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, tries to hit a ball using a cricket bat as she and her husband, Britain's Prince William, attend a promotional event for the upcoming Cricket World Cup in Christchurch April 14, 2014. Good morning, and welcome to Wednesday. Here’s what you need to know: China’s Q1 GDP is out at 12pm AEST, along with a string of other data that has the potential to move the markets today. The market is looking for growth of 7.3%, down from 7.7%, but there are other key numbers to watch: retail sales, fixed asset investment, and industrial production, all of which are expected to be up on previous reads. There’s a full preview here and we’ll have live coverage of the numbers today. US markets staged a strong rally in the second half of the session and closed up for the day. As has been the case with the swings in the markets over the past week, there wasn’t really an identifiable driver of the move, and the NASDAQ was once again the laggard, up 0.2% while the Dow was up 0.5% and the S&amp;P500 up 0.6%. US CPI came in slightly ahead of expectations, at 0.2% for March (0.1% was expected) for an annualised rate of 1.5%. The rally has continued in futures trading after hours. The Nikkei was up 0.6% yesterday thanks to the US dollar recovering against the Yen, but the Hang Seng fell 1.60% while stocks in Shanghai dropped 1.39% after Chinese credit growth came in lower than expected. Australian market futures are pointing to a slight rise at the start of trade; we get production reports from resources giants BHP and Fortescue today. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella has outlined how he sees the forthcoming age of the “Internet of Things” playing out in the real business world. He talks about “the data culture” that will emerge when electronic chips are installed in inanimate objects everywhere, and says that “with the right tools, insights can come from anyone, anywhere, at any time. When that happens, organisations develop what we describe as a ‘data culture’.” The company launched three new products overnight, including a new database, SQL Server 2014, that can crunch vast amounts of data almost instantaneously. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge start their Australian tour in Sydney today. They’re in the country for 10 days, and will take in Uluru and a visit to the Adelaide suburb of Elizabeth before finishing in Canberra next week. Here’s the itinerary. Two Australians were killed in a Predator drone strike in Yemen last year, it has emerged. The pair, in their twenties, were al-Qaida footsoldiers and were killed by a strike in which they were not the primary targets. The US notified Australia after the strike and identified them through DNA testing on bone fragments. It will take up to two months for the underwater drone looking for wreckage from MH370 to complete its scan of the designated search area. The scale of the challenge became clear on Monday when the US Navy’s Bluefin-21 drone had to resurface after reaching its depth limit of a crushing 4.5km. The Australian federal government officially gave the green light for a second airport in Sydney yesterday. It will be a $A2.5 billion project which will create some 60,000 jobs in western Sydney. It’s the first of a likely surge in similar projects to be announced by Tony Abbott, who wants to be known as “an infrastructure prime minister”. Two points to note: the project will largely be funded by private investment, and it is unlikely to have a curfew similar to Sydney’s current airport, where operations cease between 11pm and 6am to let people sleep in the built-up areas around the airport. This clears the way for more flexible flight scheduling to Sydney out of major hubs like Dubai, LA, Singapore and Hong Kong. Regardless of your opinion of Tony Abbott’s government, one thing it can’t be accused of is not doing anything. Here are 14 emerging technologies that will change the world, including context-aware computing, telepresence (imagine the impact on business travel!) and something called “botsourcing”. Some of these are viable technologies now and may be commercially viable within the next decade. The Melbourne Victory kept their Asian Champions League hopes alive last night with a 2-0 win over title defenders Guangzhou Evergrande – a huge win. In other sports news, Australian F1 driver Daniel Ricciardo’s disqualification from the Melbourne Grand Prix, where he finished second, has been upheld. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. When It Comes To ETFS Many Investors Want To Go Back To The Basics (Vanguard)  A Vanguard-produced webcast on ETFs found that two-thirds of retail investors tuning in were doing so just to understand what ETFs — exchange-traded funds — are and how they are different from mutual funds. Vanguard thinks it's smart for advisors to go back to the basics. It's important for investors to understand the difference between an ETF and a mutual fund. Jim Rowley, a senior investment analyst in Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, pointed out two key differences. "For all the similarities, it comes down to two main differences, and that is with a mutual fund investors transact directly with the mutual fund. And you might do that through a financial intermediary or some type of advisor. But you're really acquiring shares of a mutual fund directly whereas with an ETF, you trade those shares on an exchange; you acquire them with some other market participant. "Now, the other difference being with a mutual fund, you get your trades executed at the net asset value at the end of the day, and with an ETF you get that at a traded market price." American Investors Are Optimistic About U.S. Stocks But Might Be Overlooking Europe (Franklin Templeton) Franklin Templeton’s 2014 Global Investor Sentiment Survey has found that 75% of American investors think U.S. stock performance will be up in 2014. But 40% intend to take on a more conservative investment strategy this year. American investors think that Asia will have the next-best returns in equities in 2014.  "American investors today may be overlooking investment opportunities in Europe," said David McSpadden of Franklin Templeton Investments. "Those overly focused on their home country or on avoiding market volatility can be severely limiting their opportunity set. History shows that winners rotate—the top-performing asset classes in any given year might be vastly different the next. In many cases, it’s market volatility that creates opportunities for active managers to successfully capitalize on mispriced securities around the world for investors’ benefit." The survey polled 11,113 investors in 22 countries. The Momentum Stock Meltdown Has Exposed A Big Flaw In A Very Popular Investing Strategy (Business Insider) The recent stock market sell-off led by high-growth momentum stocks could have "exposed a flaw in strategies that take passive investing too literally," writes Business Insider's Sam Ro. Passive investing refers to a type of investing that mirrors a market index. Rebalancing your portfolio is key to managing risk when certain sectors grow faster than others. "There’s an important lesson from the recent rout in momentum stocks," noted Joseph Paul of AllianceBernstein. "Investors who have bought into an index have also been buying into dream stocks, often unintentionally. As these stocks rose to excessive valuations, they automatically became a bigger part of the benchmark." Advisors Are Increasingly Turning To Closed-End Funds (Aberdeen Asset Management) A closed-end fund is an investment company that raises money through an IPO by issuing a fixed number of shares and is then listed like a stock. These funds aren't closed to new investors, but have a fixed number of shares that can be traded daily. A study from Aberdeen Asset Management shows that financial advisors are increasingly turning to these funds in their client portfolios. Sixty-nine percent of advisors surveyed by Abderdeen said they used closed-end funds in client portfolios, up from 63% in 2012, and 52% in 2011. "Advisors are increasingly recognizing the potential benefits of closed-end funds; we believe, however, that among the greatest challenges to increasing investor demand for these products is a lack of knowledge and understanding of the potential benefits of closed-end fund," Alan Goodson, Head of Product - U.S. for Aberdeen said in a press release. The study was commissioned by Aberdeen, which offers these products through Fund Consultants, an independent consulting firm. Cliff Asness On The Basic Investing Strategy That's Made Him One Of The Most Successful Investors (Bloomberg TV) Hedge-fund manager Cliff Asness thinks investors should consider the HML — high minus low — trading strategy which involves going long a portfolio of cheap stocks and short a portfolio of expensive stocks. The idea being that cheap stocks outperform expensive ones over time. But Asness told Bloomberg TV that investors should remember two key things about this: 1. He would be long cheap and short expensive. "I would do that in stocks, I would do that in stocks around the world, I would do that when it came to countries, when it came to bonds and when it came to currencies."2. That strategy can look too good. But it's important to remember it doesn't always work. "If you went long cheap and short expensive, 1999 was not the year to do it. So the other thing you should take away from this chart is this is a pretty good thing to have as part of your portfolio but it does not always work, 'cause nothing does. It should be part of your portfolio — you should look to add that, diversify it with other things, it's not an arbitrage." Screenshot via Bloomberg TV FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA carpenter carries plywood flooring at a building site of Mid-Atlantic Builders' 'The Villages of Savannah' in Brandywine(Reuters) - A resurgent U.S. housing market has created an unforeseen land shortage that could take the shine off an otherwise promising year for homebuilders. To keep up with demand, builders who neglected to buy land during the downturn must now pay top dollar for prized city-center locations. Their profit margins are likely to be squeezed this year, even as house prices rise. "Builders waited so long to buy land that, when the recovery happened, it was very strong and they got caught short," said Tobias Welo, a portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments. The quickest solution for the big players, according to some analysts and fund managers, will be to snap up small, privately owned builders facing the opposite problem: plenty of land but limited access to bank finance. The Dow Jones U.S. Home Construction index &lt;.DJUSHB&gt; has regained much of the ground lost in the second half of 2013, when rising mortgage rates and wider economic uncertainty broke an 18-month winning streak for homebuilder stocks. With anecdotal evidence from homebuilders and mortgage brokers suggesting a pick-up in demand for residential housing, analysts are forecasting an average 18 percent jump in the value of the leading U.S. homebuilders this year, according to Thomson Reuters data. The average forecast covers D.R. Horton Inc &lt;DHI.N&gt;, PulteGroup Inc &lt;PHM.N&gt;, Lennar Corp &lt;LEN.N&gt;, KB Home &lt;KBH.N&gt; and Toll Brothers Inc &lt;TOL.N&gt;. David Crowe, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders, expects new home construction in the United States to rise by about 25 percent this year, up from 18 percent last year. But his forecast is conditional on homebuilders buying enough land in sought-after urban areas. If they don't, he said, the rate of increase could be half his original estimate. James Krapfel, analyst at Morningstar Inc, forecast new home construction growth at 16 percent this year - a slower rate than last year - due in part to the shortage of developed land. Not everyone is affected equally. Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder, and Toll Brothers, the biggest luxury builder, bulked up their land banks with a string of low-cost land acquisitions during the 2008-2010 economic downturn. Toll Brothers has accumulated a bigger land bank than most - enough to last more than 12 years, compared with an average 7.4 years for the top five U.S. homebuilders, according to data published by Tri Pointe Homes Inc &lt;TPH.N&gt; in November. Less acquisitive during the downturn, D.R. Horton, the largest U.S. homebuilder, and PulteGroup, its nearest peer, are more likely to feel the shortage, analysts said. PulteGroup has land supply to last about seven years, the data from Tri Pointe showed. D.R. Horton and PulteGroup did not respond to requests for comment for this article. &lt;^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ GRAPHIC: U.S. land financing http://r.reuters.com/juq97v GRAPHIC: Construction spending http://r.reuters.com/xef94t ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^&gt; SCOUTING FOR LAND To date, homebuilders have turned the land shortage to their advantage. It has even helped them to raise prices as Americans adjust to higher mortgage rates in a stabilizing economy. For D.R. Horton, the three-month period ended December 31 was its most profitable first quarter since 2006. Its average sales price rose 10 percent to $275,600, with a "very strong" spring selling season yet to come. In the same quarter, PulteGroup's revenue growth was driven by a 13 percent increase in its average sales price, even as the company slowed the pace of new-home building. But time is running out for ambitious homebuilders short of land, who must typically spend between two and five years readying raw land for development. Land near city centers, known in the industry as 'A' lots, is especially hard to come by. "The run-up in land prices has been huge. What someone paid for land last year may not even work today," said Scott Laurie, chief executive of privately owned Californian builder Olson Homes, which plans to spend at least 25 percent more on land purchases in 2014 than last year. Acquiring smaller, private companies with a foothold in urban locations could be the quickest way for big homebuilders to grow their land banks - and the feeling could be mutual. Private companies have found it more difficult to secure financing since the crisis: U.S. land development financing totaled around $210 billion in the fourth quarter last year, only a third of the level in early 2008, data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp showed. (http://r.reuters.com/gun97v) Ryland Group Inc &lt;RYL.N&gt; has said it wants to buy homebuilders that would add to its land bank, having already acquired Lionsgate Homes in Dallas, which gave it access to 885 developed lots and homes. (http://r.reuters.com/wyx28v) Tri Pointe and Toll Brothers also announced deals late last year that gave them access to developed lots in California. "The attractiveness of a private builder to a public builder is its land position," said Hollis Greenlaw, chief executive of United Development Funding, which manages funds holding more than $1 billion for investment in homes. "They don't need any more homebuilding talent. What they want is those land positions." (Editing by Mathew Veedon and Robin Paxton) FREE AppDownload
She recorded a beat on the top and bottom lines, and the stock shot up 9% immediately after the close. Most of the good news came from Yahoo's stake in Alibaba, the Chinese auction giant. Yahoo's core underlying business — advertising — was mostly flat. Mostly flat, but not completely flat: Search was one bright spot. Search revenue ex-traffic acquisition costs was $444 million, up 9%. The rest of Yahoo continues to move sideways, however. This was, notably, yet another call on which Mayer trumpeted her editorial and mobile app moves while moving swiftly past the elephants in the room: The fact that topline GAAP revenues actually declined 1%, and the fact that the company still can't announce any revenue from Tumblr, the social media platform it bought for $1 billion a year ago. In the earnings release there is — again — no mention of revenue from Tumblr. At some point it would be nice to see a financial logic for that deal to appear in Yahoo's numbers. Yahoo / BIClick to enlarge: Mayer's massive coffee cup made a return to the earnings desk.CFO Ken Goldman admitted to investors that the company needed to be more transparent on Tumblr metrics going forward — so hopefully we'll see Tumblr numbers next quarter. Mayer said there was user growth on Tumblr. But there is no clarity on whether advertisers give a damn. While ex-TAC revenues are more important to Yahoo in terms of the company's finances, GAAP revenue is an interesting indicator of the size of Yahoo's entire business — and if it isn't going up then that's a problem for Yahoo. It means that Yahoo in a post-Alibaba environment would be a dismal beast indeed. Yahoo's earnings in equity was up 39% to $301 million. Mostly that's Yahoo's big stake in Alibaba, which will soon file for an IPO. Its stake in Yahoo Japan actually declined. The top and bottom lines are small but healthy beats for Yahoo — and that will be welcome news inside the purple palace. The pre-call revenue estimates were almost exactly flat from the year before. That's the main issue with Yahoo — where is the growth? YahooMarissa Mayer on her earnings call.Here are the main points from the investor slides: But here's the big picture — Mayer's biggest problem. The company is basically going sideways: Yahoo And now some numbers. Note that the growth is after traffic acquisition costs — the overall billings are still slightly in decline: Yahoo You can also see in there the Alibaba numbers — a big leap to $301 million. Here's something positive from the underlying ad business: Search is up in both price and volume — it's hard to make both those metrics go up at once, and that's a sign of relatively strong demand. YahooThere was also increased demand (but not prices) on the display side: Yahoo Here is the guidance: Yahoo Highlights from the Q&amp;A with Wall Street analysts: Mayer: A modest success this quarter. She produces this odd graphic showing where she thinks the company is: Yahoo It's a business-school type strategy slide. The unspoken argument here is that Yahoo's growth is still below market growth — meaning that a dollar invested in Yahoo instead of the general market actually destroys value, rather than creates it. Here's the growth in search: Yahoo Mayer underlines all the editorial talent she has brought to Yahoo's online magazines. Here's a look at Yahoo Gemini, its new ad placement interface. It's available thru Yahoo Ad Manager: Yahoo Here's how Yahoo's acquisitions fit into the company: Yahoo Here are Yahoo's most recent buys: Yahoo Toward the end, Mayer says Yahoo hired 300+ engineers in Q1 2014. So if you want a job, go to Yahoo. CFO Ken Goldman just admitted the company needs to provide more transparency around numbers from Tumblr. Yahoo is working on it, he says. But he doesn't provide any actual numbers. Mayer comes back on. She has this to say about Tumblr: 122% growth in Tumblr mobile engagement. Q1 advertising started web in-stream, and mobile in-stream. "150 top brands have a presence on Tumblr." But she doesn't give any hard dollar numbers. A "presence" on Tumblr is not the same as being a paying Tumblr client. Here's the Tumblr slide. It refers to daily active users on Tumblr: Yahoo Mayer is asked when we'll see growth: She declines to give a date, and talks about her investment in mobile, video and new products. "We really think this offers great opportunities for users and advertisers in the future and we think our Q1 results are indicative of some of the early signs of growth we can see." As the camera pans out at the end of the call, it reveals a bucket-sized coffee cup on Mayer's side of the desk. She had a gigantic coffee cup on her Q2 2013 call, too. Previously: There are general worries about the long term health of both the search and display ad businesses that are at the core of Yahoo. On the upside, Mayer has made several moves in mobile apps and online magazine and news content. So any sign of those paying off will be a big boost. Lastly, Alibaba will file for an IPO in the U.S. Yahoo owns a 24% stake in the company. The offering could raise $15 billion, and Yahoo would see a chunk of that. FREE AppDownload
Satya Nadella has been the CEO of Microsoft for a whole 70 days, during which he's been changing the company's direction at a blistering pace. He's already launched Office for iPad, reshuffled executives, released a free version of Windows, and hosted a developer conference full of love for Apple.  On Wednesday, he laid out Microsoft's plan for the next big thing coming to the Internet, known as the Internet of Things (sometimes called the Internet of Everything). That's when every inanimate object gets a computer chip sensor and an app and can be accessed over the Internet: your doors, your elevator, your medicine bottles, your sneakers, your air conditioner, even your contact lenses. Nadella has come up with a new name for the phenom: "the data culture." First, he announced three new products: He also offered his vision for the future in a blog titled "The data culture for everyone." Here's the key sentence: We believe that with the right tools, insights can come from anyone, anywhere, at any time. When that happens, organizations develop what we describe as a 'data culture.' In the past, only people who knew how to use a complicated database could ask questions, do analysis and learn things. The next generation of technologies will be all about the apps that will let anyone, regardless of technical skill, sift through large quantities of information and discover new things, be it for research or business needs. That, he says, will turn the world into a "data culture." By the way, this "data culture" will create a $1.6 trillion business over the next four years, according to an IDC study commissioned by Microsoft. Cisco's John Chambers has predicted that the IoTs will be far bigger over time. In about a decade, it will be a $14 trillion market, he says. To give you some context, Gartner estimated that the entire tech market in 2014 will reach about $3.8 trillion. So, if these predictions hold true, IoT will more than triple it. FREE AppDownload
The stock market rally, which started at around 1:00 p.m. ET is continuing in the after-hours session in the futures markets. In the wake of better-than-expected earnings announcements from Intel and Yahoo, S&amp;P 500 futures are squeaking higher on the CME. Below is a chart of the E-Mini S&amp;P 500 futures contract, which is often just referred to as ES. Note, the x-axis is based on Central Time. CME FREE AppDownload
APFormer Secretary of Defense Donald RumsfeldDonald Rumsfeld served as secretary of defense under both President Gerald Ford and President George W. Bush, but he can't master the tax code.   Every year on Tax Day, Rumsfeld sends a letter to the IRS explaining that he doesn't know whether he did his taxes properly. Rumsfeld published his newest letter on his Twitter page Tuesday. "I have sent in our federal income tax and our gift tax returns for 2013," Rumsfeld wrote. "As in prior years, it is important for you to know that I have absolutely no idea whether our tax returns and our tax payments are accurate." In his letter, Rumsfeld attributed his ignorance of whether he paid his taxes properly to the complexity of the tax code. "The tax code is so complex and the forms are so complicated, that I know I cannot have any confidence that I know what is being requested and therefore I cannot and do not know, and I suspect a great many Americans cannot know, whether or not their tax returns are accurate," Rumsfeld wrote. Rumsfeld noted that he was confused about his taxes even though he "spent more money than I wanted to spend to hire an accounting firm." "I do not know whether or not my tax returns are accurate, which is a sad commentary on governance in our nation's capital," Rumsfeld wrote. Read Rumsfeld's full letter to the IRS below.   Twitter FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   ShutterstockIf this is how you feel when your spreadsheet ties, read on!We're looking for a Finance Director to support our executive team with financial reporting, budgeting, forecasting, accounting, and analysis. You will manage a small team (currently one person) and will be expected to streamline finance operations to ensure sustained growth, including helping to set up our international operations. This is a new position at the company and we're looking for someone with strong initiative and can-do attitude. Digital chops are critical. The essence of this role is owning the finance and accounting function at Business Insider. This entails reporting, metrics, analytical models, forecasts, budgets, audits, and 409a. You'll oversee AP, AR, and P&amp;L functions and will sign off on the month-end close and manage the cap table. You will maintain strong internal financial controls and handle corporate finance activities such as debt and equity. In addition, you will oversee the offices (NYC headquarters and regional offices in San Francisco and London) as well as the administrative aspects of HR. Who's Right For The Job?  If you're interested in joining a cutting-edge media company as it expands its revenue streams and grows internationally, then this is a great role for you. The ideal candidate will be organized, resourceful, and self-motivated. You should be interested in digital technology and an avid reader of business news. Some specific requirements: Skills &amp; Experience: If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you should have: The finance director will report to the President/COO. The role is full time and based in our New York City offices. About Business Insider Business Insider is one of the fastest-growing business media companies, with more than 40 million readers per month. Formed in 2007, BI was built for the digital age, offering real-time coverage of tech, finance, and general business news. BI reaches the next generation of business leaders. You can learn about our recent performance here.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiA trader pauses amidst the activity in the S&P 500 pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.Today's positive close belies a huge swing we saw in the high-growth tech stocks. The Dow was down by as much as 110 points before coming back. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Policy Horizons Canada worked with futurist and data visualizer Michell Zappa of Envisioning to produce a report called MetaScan 3: Emerging Technologies and accompanying infographics. We are reproducing the summary for emerging digital and communications technologies. "Minority Report"Coming soon?In electronics, advances take the form of faster computers, flexible and printable electronics, and smaller and better sensors. In networking, the trend is towards more interoperability between networks, higher bandwidth and more virtual services. In human interfaces, we see change converging on more portable devices and enormously improved telepresence between people. We have included predictions based on consultation with experts of when each technology will be scientifically viable (the kind of stuff that Google, governments, and universities develop), mainstream (when VCs and startups widely invest in it), and financially viable (when the technology is generally available on Kickstarter). Digital currencies: Electronic money that acts as alternative currency. Currently, alternative digital currencies are not produced by government-endorsed central banks nor necessarily backed by national currencies. It differs from virtual money used in virtual economies due to its use in transactions with real goods and services; not being limited to circulation within online games. Scientifically viable today; mainstream in 2016; financially viable in 2017. Botsourcing: The assignment of physical and online tasks traditionally performed by human agents to an autonomous software agent. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream and financially viable in 2020. Smart dust sensors: A system of many tiny microelectromechanical systems such as sensors, robots, or other devices, that can detect, for example, light, temperature, vibration, magnetism, or chemicals. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2024; and financially viable in 2027. Printed electronics: A set of printing methods used to create electrical devices on various substrates. Electrically functional or optical inks are deposited on the material, creating active or passive devices, such as thin film transistors or resistors. Printed electronics is expected to facilitate widespread, very low-cost, low-performance electronics for applications such as flexible displays, smart labels, decorative and animated posters, and active clothing that do not require high performance. Scientifically viable in 2021; mainstream and financially viable in 2022. Memristors: The reason why the memristor is so different from the other three basic circuit elements is that it retains memory without power. It is a new material that promises computers two orders of magnitude more efficient from a power perspective than traditional transistor technologies, contains multiple petabits of persistent storage, and can be reconfigured to be either memory or CPU in a package as small as a sugar cube. Scientifically viable in 2018; mainstream in 2022; financially viable in 2025. MOOCs: Massive Open Online Courses are a type of online course aimed at large-scale participation and open access via the web. Scientifically viable and mainstream today; financially viable in 2021. 5G: A predicted future fifth generation of mobile telecommunications, expected to be the next major phase of mobile telecommunications standard as well as a proposed single global standard. Scientifically viable in 2016; mainstream in 2017; financially viable in 2022. WiGig: Wireless Gigabit will deliver up to 6 Gbps [6,000 Mbps] connections between devices in interior spaces. This will enable wireless displays, much like Wi-Fi did for wireless networking. Scientifically viable in 2016; mainstream in 2021; financially viable in 2022. High-altitude stratospheric platforms: A quasi-stationary aircraft that provides means of delivering networking to a large area while flying at a very high altitude (17–22 km) over cities for several years. They are effectively low-orbit regional communication satellites. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2026; financially viable in 2027. Context-aware computing: Computers that can both sense and react to their environment. Devices will have information about the circumstances under which they operate, and based on rules and sensor inputs, react accordingly. Context-aware devices may also learn assumptions about the user's current situation. Scientifically viable today; mainstream and financially viable in 2017. Annotated-reality glasses: Much like Google's Glass project, these allow contextual information to be overlaid on the user's field of vision. Scientifically viable today; mainstream in 2019; financially viable in 2020. Wall-sized screens: Tileable and interactive screen-wallpapers are expected to dominate all types of surfaces for domestic and professional uses. Wrap-around screens recruit the peripheral vision and create a truly immersive experience Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2022; financially viable in 2023. Telepresence: A set of technologies which allow a person to feel as if they were present, to give the appearance of being present, or to have an effect, via telerobotics, at a place other than their true location. Scientifically viable today; mainstream in 2024; financially viable in 2025. Immersive multi-user VR: A fully immersive Virtual Reality environment to which the user connects through direct brain stimulation. All senses would be stimulated, diffusing the boundary between reality and fiction. Scientifically viable and mainstream in 2026; financially viable in 2027. Check out infographics showing these and other emerging technologies » FREE AppDownload
ReutersChina is set to release a string of economic data at 10 p.m. ET on Tuesday.  The number everyone's keeping an eye on is Q1 GDP. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for Q1 GDP to rise 7.3% year-over-year, down from 7.7% the previous quarter.  In terms of quarter-over-quarter growth, Q1 GDP is expected to rise 1.5%, compared with 1.8% in Q4 2013.  China's economic data so far this year have prompted economists to lower their growth forecasts. "In our view, the weaker 1Q growth could be due mainly to government’s much more serious anti-pollution measures, an escalation in anti-corruption and anti-vice campaign, cyclical slowdown of the property sector, lagged impact of rising CNY and rates in 2H13 and government’s efforts in controlling local government debt and some shadow banking practice," Bank of America's Ting Lu said in a March 31 note to clients. But this isn't the only data slated for release tonight. Retail sales are expected to rise 12.1% YoY, while year-to-date retail sales are expected to rise 11.9%.  Industrial production is expected to rise 9% YoY, and Ytd industrial production is expected to rise 8.8%. Producer prices fell for the 25th straight month and that doesn't bode well for industrial production data. Finally, Ytd fixed asset investment is expected to rise 18%, modestly higher than 17.9% the previous month. We'll be watching the latest data to see if it confirms an economic slowdown. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesYou’ve padded your emergency fund, paid off your debt and saved up a few thousand dollars — $5,000 to be exact — that you’re ready to invest. But is it best to put it in a mutual fund, certificate of deposit, index fund or exchange-traded fund? "If you’re asking what’s the best way to invest $5,000, it’s kind of like asking what should I have for dinner tonight? Well, it depends," says Greg McBride, chief financial analyst of Bankrate. "What do you like? What don’t you like? Do you have any allergies? What are you in the mood for? The same thing [applies] here." Before you get to specifics, such as how much risk you can stomach or what to choose off the menu of investments, start with the basics. "The first question you need to ask yourself is, ‘When do I need to spend that money?’" says Manisha Thakor, founder and CEO of MoneyZen Wealth Management. "My rule of thumb is investing is something you do for the long run, which I would define as a minimum of five years and ideally 10-plus years. Once you are sure it’s long-term money, now you’re ready to really get into the nuts and bolts." To help you delve into those nuts and bolts, we asked financial experts for advice on the best way to invest your $5,000. They suggested options for both the short and long term, if you’re hoping to grow that money for retirement decades down the road. Related: U.S. News Financial Advisor Finder Online savings account. The best place for money you need in a moment’s notice is an online savings account, McBride says. Even though interest rates for online savings accounts are low — hovering around 1 percent — they "pay the best returns relative to the savings account offers among all the financial institutions," he says. The returns currently compare to those of CDs, but without the early withdrawal penalties. CDs and money market accounts. If your time horizon is less than five years, Thakor recommends putting the money in a CD with a maturity date that matches your goal. This option may be ideal if you have a low risk tolerance, since CDs are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. up to $250,000 per depositor. The downside? You can't touch those dollars for a predetermined time without paying a penalty. Alternatively, money market accounts, which are also insured by the FDIC, earn slightly less interest than CDs, but you can withdraw the money at any point. Just keep in mind that interest rates are generally inversely correlated with access to your money. As Thakor puts it: "If you want unlimited access to your money, you’ll get slightly lower rates. If you don’t mind tying it up for a defined period of time, which is what you do with a CD, then you can get a slightly higher rate." Given their low yields, CDs and money market accounts are better for shorter-term investments, since they don’t always keep up with the cost of inflation. "Even though on paper it might look like you’re protecting your principal and [your] deposit is growing a little bit in value, you’re actually losing ground because the purchasing power is not holding," says Paul Granucci, a financial solutions advisor with Merrill Edge. Related: How to Invest Your First $1,000 Actively managed mutual funds. Investors with a longer time horizon can afford to take on more risk for a greater return by putting their money in the stock market. Mutual funds offer an easy way for investors to gain exposure to a broad range of stocks. If picking stocks makes you nervous, fear not. With actively managed funds, a fund manager makes all the decisions for you, including what sectors of the economy to invest in and which companies are undervalued or poised for growth. But beware: Mutual funds come with fees. The average actively managed stock fund charges an annual fee of 1.26 percent, according to fund tracker Morningstar, and Thakor advises against buying mutual funds with an expense ratio of more than 1 percent. If you do go the actively managed route, Granucci recommends a globally balanced mutual fund, which is diversified in stocks, bonds and cash and contains domestic and international investments. Index funds. "If the goal is to try to achieve a lot of diversification and build a portfolio that you can more or less kind of set and forget, it’s hard to beat index funds," says Christine Benz, director of personal finance for Morningstar. With index funds, you don’t have the opportunity to beat the market, but you can keep up with the market, "which is not a bad place to be given that most active fund managers do not outperform their benchmarks over long periods of time," Benz adds. Thakor points out that index funds are the healthiest option on the menu — without organic food prices. "Index funds are the financial equivalent of a superfood like chia seeds or kale," she says. "Depending on what type you pick … you can get exposure to literally thousands of stock and bond issues at a very nominal fee." The average expense ratio for stock index funds is 0.75 percent, according to Morningstar. ETFs. Mutual funds and ETFs are very similar. "When you buy one share of an ETF or one share of a mutual fund, you’re buying a small piece of a lot of different investments that make up that fund," Granucci explains. "The difference is how they are managed." There’s no active management with ETFs, so if you’re thinking about investing in a handful, be prepared to rebalance your portfolio at least once a year (mutual fund portfolios should be rebalanced, too). Advantages include costs that are a lot lower than those of mutual funds (Morningstar reports ETFs have an average annual fee of 0.57 percent) and no minimum investment requirements. While mutual funds may demand initial investments of $1,000 or $3,000, ETFs — which are traded on exchanges and fluctuate in price during the day — cost only their current trading price, like stocks. ETFs offer exposure to asset classes ranging from bonds to domestic and international stocks, and even alternative investments like commodities. "Instead of trying to do one fund that’s going to do it all, you might need to find three or four ETFs that are going to fill all the different buckets that you want to hit," Granucci says. Related: How to Avoid Getting Ripped Off By ETFs You might be ready to put that $5,000 to work, but before you settle on one of the above investments, McBride points out three places where your money would be better spent: "For the vast majority of Americans, tackling those three priorities is going to more than chew up that $5,000," he says. And there’s a reason why paying debt is at the top of the list: You’ll get a higher risk-free rate of return by paying down credit card debt than you will investing in financial securities. As McBride says, "Paying off a 15 percent credit card balance is like earning 15 percent risk-free." But let’s assume you’ve paid off your debt, contribute to a 401(k) or IRA and have enough savings for a rainy day. Now you’re ready to sit down at the table. The experts might have different tastes, but they all agree on one thing: You have to know what you’re ordering. In other words, if you don’t understand what you’re investing in, you might make some mistakes. "The power of investing comes from compounded returns and time, and if you don’t understand what you’re doing and you’re afraid to ask questions, when the inevitable hiccup comes in the market," Thakor says, "you will be more likely to change your course." This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChinese credit growth continued to slow in March, adding to concerns about a broader economic slowdown. Outstanding loans were up 13.9% year-over-year, down from the 14.2% pace of growth in the previous month. M2, a broad measure of money supply was up 12.1% YoY, lower than expectations for a 13% rise, and down from 13.3% the previous month. This was the slowest growth on record. While new loans were up to 1.05 trillion yuan in March from 645 billion yuan the previous month, liquidity is still thought to be tight. Finally, total social financing (TSF) jumped to 2.07 trillion yuan, from 939 billion yuan the previous month, and above expectations for 1.85 trillion yuan. But TSF was down 19% on the year. TSF refers to financing available to the economy from the financial sector, which includes trust loans, entrusted loans, FX loans, bankers’ acceptance bills, corporate bonds, and non-financial stock sales.  Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that new trust loans were down after the "near-default of one trust loan in January and the government’s proactive measures in controlling risks in the trust sector." We also saw the implications of China's first corporate bond default. While new corporate bonds surged to 252 billion yuan, up from 100 billion yuan the previous month, the demand was largely for riskless and high investment grade bonds. "The y/y slowdowns in money and credit growth rates suggest near-term weakness in economic growth," according to Jian Chang and Jerry Peng at Barclays. "On the other hand, the better-than-expected March new loan and total financing support the view that financing channels remain open to stabilize growth as demand recovers. We expect this improvement to continue in Q2." Societe Generale's Wei Yao has previously said that so far the credit slowdown was "mostly responding to higher interbank rates, as intended by the PBoC." Here on out she expects it to be from "regulatory tightening of the Document 107," which is intended to clamp down on shadow banking. Aware of China's growing debt burden, policymakers are trying rebalance the economy and pushing deleveraging, but this is expected to cause some pain in the near term. We'll be covering Q1 GDP growth out 10 p.m. ET on Tuesday. Here's a look at moderating Chinese credit growth: Barclays FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 is rallying after spending most of today's session in negative territory. The Nasdaq, however, is still down 0.6%. Weakness in stocks this morning coincided with a drop in the U.S. dollar against the euro and the Japanese yen. Reports suggest the Ukrainian army has launched an offensive against pro-Russian separatists who have occupied government buildings in eastern Ukrainian towns in recent days, a development that has had markets on edge. The release of the NAHB-Wells Fargo Housing Market Index at 10 a.m. ET disappointed relative to consensus estimates, suggesting the housing market remains weak despite a return to more normal weather conditions following the unseasonably harsh winter that dragged on economic data. Many of the big moves in markets have occurred since then. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top, from left to right, are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, five-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1. Bespoke Investment Group presents a variant of the above chart in a blog post on its website: America's share of world market capitalization has dropped sharply since around March 20, mirroring the rise that occurred over the preceding month. To what extent is this a U.S. story as opposed to a rest-of-the-world story? The next chart breaks down the returns of MSCI's United States Index versus those of MSCI's All Country World Index excluding the United States since Feb. 19, when the ratio between the two (the green line in the chart above) really started accelerating to the upside. Arguably, the majority of the story has been a rest-of-the-world one, as markets outside the U.S. catch back up after a period of underperformance. Of course, that's been made easier by the recent sell off in the U.S.  Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 2. FREE AppDownload
Scott DickersonThe United States is a big, diverse place, with each of the 50 states differing from each other in significant ways. We recently took a look at the most normal states in America. Here is the other side of that ranking: the 11 states that are furthest from the national norm. We considered 31 indicators from the Census Bureau's 2012 American Community Survey, along with 2012 unemployment rates from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The indicators cover different social, economic, housing-related, and demographic characteristics of each state's population and of the population of the U.S. as a whole. For each of those indicators, we figured out how far each state's level was away from the national level. These were then rescaled and averaged to get a sense of how far each state is from the overall national baseline. The states were then ranked on "normalness" based on how large that average distance was. Below are the 32 population indicators from the 2012 American Community Survey and Bureau of Labor Statistics we used to compare the states, along with the corresponding national baseline values. All values (except unemployment) were taken from the 2012 ACS one-year estimates, downloaded using the Census Bureau's American Factfinder tool. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census and Bureau of Labor Statistics FREE AppDownload
acrossthefader.orgFast food is an integral part of American culture.  With all the time and money spent on fast food, most people have strong opinions about where they go and why.  Fans of Five Guys swear its burger is the best thing out there. Others prefer a Big Mac or a Whopper for their burger fix.  We've compiled a list of some of the best and brightest fast-food offerings, and we want to know your favorites.  Thanks in advance for your time! We'll publish the results later this month. FREE AppDownload
Carlos Barria/ReutersIt is widely known that economic inequality — in terms of both income and wealth — has been getting more severe for most of the last 30 years. At the start of his presidency, President Obama set out his intention to "spread the wealth around." But it hasn't really worked out the way Obama wanted. Inequality has continued to grow. U.S. median household income in June 2013 was 4.4 percent below where it was in June 2009, when the recovery from the Great Recession began. Meanwhile, the top 1 percent of Americans — those earning above $366,623 a year — has taken 81 percent of the fruits of the recovery. And the top 0.01 percent — earning about $8 million a year — has pocketed an astonishing 39 percent of the growth. Thomas Piketty's landmark book Capital in the Twenty-First Century sets out a theoretical model to explain how inequality either grows or shrinks over time. Piketty identifies two key quantities: G, the level of economic growth in the entire economy, and r, the rate of return on capital in the economy. If g exceeds r, then inequality tends to shrink, as the growth in the wealth of capital holders is outpaced by growth in the economy at large. But if r exceeds g, then inequality tends to expand. Thomas Piketty/via The WeekPiketty's data on historical income — extrapolated from tax records — shows that for the bulk of the past 200 years, the rate of return on capital has vastly exceeded the level of growth. That has led to the kind of unequal society recorded in many of the novels of the 18th and 19th centuries, such as Honoré de Balzac's Père Goriot. For several decades in the middle of 20th century — in what could be seen as a historical anomaly — return on capital was lower, and growth shot up. Piketty sees the next century as returning to the premodern norm of much higher inequality. From a policy perspective, what matters is the after-tax return on wealth. This means progressive taxation — particularly the taxation of wealth and inheritance — can be a powerful force in limiting inequality. The golden age of taxing high earners, from 1930 to 1975, accompanied the only reduction of inequality in the entirety of the era inaugurated by the Industrial Revolution. Absent high taxes on the rich, Piketty argues, the record shows that inequality in a capitalist system has always been massive — indeed, it is a feature of capitalism itself. But remember, there are two variables to this: Growth as well as the return on capital. Growth depends on the total level of economic activity in the economy. As Piketty's data shows, economies have taken great leaps forward with technological progress and innovation, advances that began way before the era of progressive taxation. In other words, there is truth to the idea that the creation of wealth precedes its distribution. A proportionate swell in wealth creation may be just as good a remedy to inequality as redistribution. And while there has definitely been a stagnation in growth in some countries, like Japan, in recent years, it is not necessarily true that the growth and wealth creation that brought down inequality in the middle of the last century will never return. Take renewable energy, for example. Solar panels — the cost of which continues to massively decrease as the technology improves, and which are already as cheap as fossil fuels in some parts of the world — have the potential to create massive economic growth over the next two decades and beyond. The total solar energy hitting Earth each year is equivalent to 12.2 trillion watt-hours. That's over 20,000 times more than the total energy that all of humanity consumes each year, and far more in one year than the total quantities of fossil fuels that have yet to be extracted. That is a source of fuel for an awesome amount of potential growth. Once solar is cheaper per watt than coal, oil, and natural gas, falling energy costs will provide massive relief to people squeezed in recent years by the rising cost of fossil fuel extraction, a burden passed on to the consumer. All else being equal, falling energy prices mean more disposable income to save and invest, or to spend. And because of the decentralized nature of solar energy, the benefits of cheap, plentiful energy can be realized by anyone with a solar panel, instead of being accrued by the capitalist who owns the coal mine, the power plant, or the oil well. Having access to an independent energy supply would be highly empowering for individuals and local communities, allowing a higher degree of independence from governments and corporations. You could power your own lights, computers, and electric vehicles. You could even begin home- or community-based manufacturing in the form of 3D printers. With cheap, decentralized energy, the possibilities are endless for large-scale distribution of wealth. In fact, it is eerily reminiscent of the initial Marxist vision of the means of production — energy and manufacturing — being taken out of the hands of capitalists and put into the hands of the masses. Solar represents a modern and (importantly) non-violent improvement upon the 19th- and 20th-century visions of workers seizing factories and farms with hammers and sickles. No cults of personality, dictatorships of the proletariat, or gulags necessary. Of course, progressive taxation and redistribution from richer to poorer can still ease inequality in the short term, whether or not these effects eventually kick in. And I could be completely wrong. But the current trends suggest that this vision of decentralization is much closer to the true story of capital in the 21st century than the redux of 19th-century-style inequality that Piketty imagines. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonA gas flare is seen at an oil well site. Gas flares are created when excess flammable gases are released by pressure release valves during the drilling for oil and natural gas.The International Panel on Climate Change’s Working Group 3 report is a welcome outline of how to stem the tide of climate change. It illustrates a significant change in strategy, from a complete switch away from fossil fuels to other mitigation measures. Until recently IPCC strongly advocated switching away from fossil fuels as the main route to carbon neutrality. Any mention of other mitigation measures tended to be dismissed as defeatist and diverting attention from the real problem of switching away from fossil fuels. But recent developments seem to have forced the IPCC to change its tack. The innovations and reforms laid out to reduce emissions include short-term measures such as switching from coal to gas, as well as the loftier goal of turning to renewable energy. Preventing global warming requires a concerted effort of the whole world – it therefore requires agreement of all the governments. This has proved to be impossible to achieve, despite numerous world summits. Perhaps this kind of global cooperation was rather naïve to hope for. The lack of consensus, however, has meant that global greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise. This makes keeping temperatures to a 2°C increase more and more difficult. The world financial crisis of 2008 and the recession it caused has highlighted the cost of switching away from fossil fuels. The expense of a switch would jeopardise global economic recovery and increase “fuel poverty”, or indeed lack of access to electricity, by making electricity more expensive. It is noted that “about 1.3 billion people worldwide do not have access to electricity and about 3 billion are dependent on traditional solid fuels for cooking and heating with severe adverse effects on health, ecosystems and development”. Responding to financial pressures, subsidies for renewables have been reduced in many countries over the last few years making investment in them less profitable. The perceived depletion of fossil fuels globally was one of the additional reasons for the IPCC previously advocating a switch away from fossil fuels. But the shale gas revolution in the US and the growth of unconventional hydrocarbons has shown that oil and gas reservoirs are far from extinct. Indeed, the International Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook report for 2011 spoke of the “Golden Age of Gas”. An abundance of cheap gas not only puts severe competitive pressure on renewables and nuclear, it also offers a short-term bridge to a low carbon future, as producing electricity from gas gives of about half the CO2 emissions of coal. As coal is still a dominant fuel source in many countries in the world – notably in China and India – switching to gas would reduce their CO2 emissions considerably and at much lower costs than switching to renewables, as it did in USA. Despite the US government failing to act convincingly on climate change, America has achieved some of the highest reductions of CO2 emissions in recent years thanks to the switch from coal to gas. Environmentalists have previously dismissed the argument for investing in gas, for fear it would lock us into a high-carbon future (when compared to switching to renewables). But the latest IPCC report seems to accept the gas argument by saying: Greenhouse gas emissions from energy supply can be reduced significantly by replacing current world average coal-fired power plants with modern, highly efficient natural gas combined-cycle power plants or combined heat and power plants, provided that natural gas is available and the fugitive emissions associated with extraction and supply are low or mitigated (robust evidence, high agreement). This is a welcome departure from a principled but very expensive and therefore unrealistic position of dismissing gas to a more realistic one of accepting it as a cheaper “lesser evil”. In fact, gas power stations, due to their ability to change generation relatively quickly, play an important role in providing a flexible back-up for intermittent wind and solar generation in many countries (such as Ireland). Nuclear was previously seen as an important low-carbon technology. But the Fukushima disaster has caused many countries in the world, most notably Germany and Japan, to abandon nuclear energy. As a result Germany, despite very significant advances in deploying wind and solar energy, has increased its CO2 emissions due to replacing nuclear partially by coal and lignite – the two worst carbon polluters. The latest report therefore recommends that nuclear power can make an “increasing contribution to low-carbon energy supply”, though this is not without its ill-effects on the environment. It also goes to show why there is more emphasis on gas as a short-term bridge in the latest report. There is increased appreciation that it is more important to take action now rather than later to prevent further accumulation of greenhouse gases in atmosphere. This is why the short-term and effective – albeit imperfect – mitigation measures, such as switching from coal to gas, are better than long-term perfect ones, such as switching to renewables. By the time the latter are established to be more cost-effective, it might be too late to prevent climate change. The IPCC report shows there are a variety of different ways to mitigate against climate change. Apart from the usual call to increase the uptake of renewables, they advocate replacing coal with gas, deploying carbon capture and storage, technical and behavioural changes for all modes of transport, reducing fuels that are carbon intense and the building sector’s use of energy, as well as generally improving energy efficiency across sectors. Continued efforts must be made across the world to implement these more realistic measures.  Janusz Bialek receives funding from Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Hedge-fund manager Cliff Asness of AQR Capital Management told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle that there's one strategy investors should incorporate into their portfolio. Asness pulled up a chart that shows cumulative returns to HML, or high minus low, a construct by Eugene Fama and Ken French that means cheap versus expensive. In a story for Institutional Investor earlier this year, Asness and John Liew described this as "a trading strategy that goes long a diversified portfolio of cheap U.S. stocks (as measured by their high book-to-price-ratios) and goes short a portfolio of expensive U.S. stocks (measured by their low book-to-price-ratios). The idea is that "cheap stocks tend to outperform expensive stocks and therefore that HML produces positive returns over time." Here's a look at the chart: Screenshot via Bloomberg "I joked with them for years that they don't call it this, but they built a little hedge fund, a long-short on pure diversified value," Asness told Ruhle. "You might notice from when the graph was up it goes up a lot more than it goes down. Over time cheap has beaten expensive." So what are the two key takeaways for investors from this chart? First is that he would be long cheap and short expensive. "I would do that in stocks, I would do that in stocks around the world, I would do that when it came to countries, when it came to bonds and when it came to currencies." Second, "that chart can look a little too good." Asness emphasized that they had circled a part of the chart that showed the "the greatest dip for value investing ever: the tech bubble." "If you went long cheap and short expensive, 1999 was not the year to do it. So the other thing you should take away from this chart is this is a pretty good thing to have as part of your portfolio but it does not always work, cause nothing does. It should be part of your portfolio you should look to add that, diversify it with other things, it's not an arbitrage." Asness said we're looking at lower returns over the next 10 to 20 years. Of course we think this perfectly good interview was marred by a sexist line from Asness at the start of the interview that he later tried to explain away as more a joke about himself. FREE AppDownload
After spending 40 years on Wall Street building Perella Weinberg, a global investment firm, Joe Perella has seen people come and go. In an interview with financial career site OneWire, he shared what he thinks gives people real staying power — the power to build a successful business and brand in an incredibly competitive industry. “I think successful people work harder than the average person,” Perella said. “They’re all smart. There are a lot of smart people in this world that aren’t successful. Luck enters into it. I call it serendipity. But you make your luck by really working hard … beyond your maximum level.” Even more than that, Perella said, successful people don't have a maximum level. That is to say, they're always pushing for more. There is no top. There is no success for successful people. "They're never satisfied," Perella said. "They know they can do it better than they did it yesterday, and they come to work every day saying, 'How do I do it better? How do I make a better firm? How do we earn a better return for our investors?'" Meta, right? Perella urged young kids starting out in finance to keep these traits in mind, and when they're heading to interview to remember that everyone is good. In fact, everyone is great. The question is why you want to do the work and what you know about the firm. Watch the insightful interview. (Below is Part II of the two-part interview with Perella. Watch Part I here, and subscribe to the series to learn about upcoming episodes.)  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVQuant fund manager Cliff Asness dropped a sexist line while talking about "quant stuff" with Stephanie Ruhle on Bloomberg Television. "So yeah, you're giving me that look that I get when I talk to women about quant stuff," Asness said to Ruhle during the first few minutes of the interview. She called him out on it. He backed it up saying he was only making fun of himself in college. "Two minutes in, and I'm getting sexist by accident. Just to be clear, that was me making fun of myself in college." Here's a transcript to give it some context: Asness: Now, the way I invest and AQR invests, we are quantitative ... We tend to take many different positions and they tend to be offsetting positions. So we certainly take risks. I won't pretend that's not riskless, but we try very hard — succeed more often than we don't, but not always — not to make what we do about what happens in the Ukraine. To have offsetting positions. So for me, when something happens in the Ukraine, it's going to affect my portfolio, but for me this is a weird concept — I shouldn't know how.  Ruhle: One more time? Asness: OK, let's say you're market-neutral. You're long a bunch of things. You're short a bunch of things. You think these things are better than these things. Ruhle: Uh-huh.  Asness: If the world is good, you're going to make money on the longs more than the shorts. And if the world is bad they're going to go down less. If something happens, it's going to scramble the whole thing.  Ruhle: Yes. Asness: I still hope to make money. But I wasn't betting on that thing. I wasn't calling the Ukraine. So yeah, you're giving me that look that I get when I talk to women about quant stuff.  Ruhle: Oh, really? Are you hitting me with sexist line right there? ... Let's just have a time-out right there ... Sorry, this is how it goes. "When I talk to women about quant stuff ... " I mean, seriously ... I'm, like, ringing a foul-ball bell ...  Asness: Two minutes in and I'm getting sexist by accident. Just to be clear, that was me making fun of myself in college. Ruhle: [Laughs] All right. We've included some screenshots of the reaction:  Bloomberg TV"Let's just have a time-out right there."Bloomberg TVBloomberg TV"I mean seriously ... I'm, like, ringing a foul-ball bell ... " Watch below:   FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/David BeckerAfter MSNBC Political Reporter Benjy Sarlin wrote about Donald Trump's speech at last weekend's Freedom Summit in New Hampshire, he said he received a handwritten note from the real-estate-mogul-slash-reality-television-star. Sarlin posted a picture of the missive, which was a copy of his article with Trump's criticism scrawled on top on his Facebook page Tuesday. Trump drew an arrow pointing to a line that said, "Trump also spoke" and added some thoughts. "Benjy — And got the biggest response (by far) + standing ovation," Trump wrote. "Be honest now." He finished his note by sending Sarlin "best wishes." Sarlin told Business Insider he was glad to hear Trump's thoughts. "I appreciate Mr. Trump's constructive criticism just as I appreciate all reader feedback," Sarlin said.  Trump has a habit of sending handwritten annotations of his press clips to reporters. After reading our initial story about Trump's correspondence with Sarlin, Yahoo! News Political Reporter Chris Moody forwarded us a copy of a note he received from Trump in response to a 2011 story he wrote saying Trump "fired himself" from hosting a Republican presidential debate after most of the candidates said they would not attend. "Chris—BAD Reporting BAD Reporter," Trump wrote. "No 'WHY'!"  Trump's missive to Moody did not include "best wishes." In 2011, Trump sent Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter a marked up copy of a blog post from the magazine's website. Sadly, Business Insider has never received any correspondence from Trump. View Trump's notes to Sarlin and Moody below. Facebook Chris Moody  Full Disclosure: This reporter briefly worked with Sarlin at Talking Points Memo in 2013.  This post was updated at 11:17 am to include Moody's letter from Trump.  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderWhen faced with the decision of choosing between a job you love and a job that pays well, remember this: You can have your cake and eat it too. The second annual list of the best employers in America by PayScale and Business Insider evaluates companies by both pay and happiness. For the second year, New Jersey biotechnology company Celgene Corporation topped the list as the Best Employer in America. In fact, many of the best companies are in the health-care industry. The tech industry was booming last year, with typical top companies such as Google and Yahoo taking the second and eighth spots, respectively. This year, however, tech companies took a noticeable tumble: Google dropped to No. 8 this year, Yahoo fell to No. 17, and Microsoft, which ranked No. 14 last year, fell off the map. In creating this list, companies in the Fortune 500 were ranked using PayScale's salary and survey database. Final scores were determined by multiplying six criteria: high job satisfaction, low job stress, high work-schedule flexibility, high job meaning, experienced median pay, and salary delta (that is, how the median pay compares to other companies in the same industry). Since we think that pay is one of the most important factors, we double-weighted pay in our calculations. Read the full methodology here. FREE AppDownload
Governing.com has put together a map of changes in inflation-adjusted per capita personal income by U.S. county between 2007 and 2012, using data from the BEA.  "While per capita personal income had just about returned to pre-recession levels in 2012, incomes grew far faster in select counties across the country, mostly in Great Plains states," the site says. We actually saw this via Rob Port at North Dakota's SayAnything blog. North Dakota topped all other states during this period in per-capita personal income growth. Port added this: "...This sort of growth across the state is truly startling to observe, and it’s not all oil. If you look at where most of the green counties are nationally, they’re in areas that are strong in agriculture and/or energy."  Check it out: Governing.com For a very rough comparison, here's the county breakdown in change in family income from 1980-2010.  PatchworkNation
North Korea has diversified its business model for earning hard currency, shifting from a reliance on manufacturing drugs and counterfeiting foreign bank notes to smuggling products from endangered species, fake pharmaceuticals and counterfeit cigarettes. The details of Pyongyang's methods of earning the funds it needs to pay for its nuclear and missile programmes are spelled out in a study released on Tuesday by the Washington-based Committee for Human Rights in North Korea. The 115-page report says Pyongyang has been producing narcotics and smuggling them abroad through the diplomatic bag and printing high-quality forgeries of foreign currency since the mid-1970s, all part of the Kim regime's "fundamental strategic objective" of self-preservation. There has been a shift in recent years, however, with the emergence of a privatized market economy that the authors describe as "a criminal one that is feeding off the suffering and deprivation of the population". The smuggling by North Korean diplomats of rhino horn and ivory also appears to be a more recent development, the report says, with a North Korean citizen arrested in 2012 in Mozambique as he attempted to smuggle 130 pieces of ivory, with an estimated value of $36,000, out of the country. Similar seizures in Kenya, Russia and France totaled more than 1.8 tons of ivory. There has been a substantial increase in North Korea's output of counterfeit cigarettes since 2002, with a container of fake Marlboro cigarettes impounded in Singapore after arriving from North Korea via the South Korean port of Busan. Similar seizures took place in South Africa, Vietnam, Taiwan and the Philippines, while in late 2006, 3 million cartons of counterfeit cigarettes - with a street value of £3.5 million -were found by Greek customs authorities aboard North Korean-flagged ships. North Korean officials were caught in 2004 smuggling 150,000 tablets of the sedative Clonazepam in Egypt, while embassy employees from Bulgaria were detained in Turkey carrying half a million tablets of the synthetic stimulant Captagon, with an estimated value of $7 million. North Korea has also been accused of manufacturing fake Viagra pills. The report claims that North Korean officials have also engaged in smuggling gems over international borders, trafficking in DVDs. smuggling used cars and even selling pornography in Finland.  FREE AppDownload
APFor all of Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan's talk about Republicans needing to produce a budget with a clear vision of the party's principles, a conservative confab in New Hampshire proved the House Budget Committee chairman's vision is far from universal.  At the Freedom Summit in Manchester, N.H., on Saturday, two of the top likely GOP presidential candidates — Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz — refused to endorse Ryan's proposed budget or call for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to bring it up for discussion. Real-estate mogul Donald Trump openly attacked Ryan and his budget in a speech, and his remarks were well received. Trump portrayed Ryan's budget as shredding Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. He warned the conservative attendees of the political peril of those positions.  "I think he's a very nice person," Trump said of Ryan. "But his whole stance is to knock the hell out of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. And the Democrats love it. They love it. They just sit back." The unveiling of Ryan's budget has drawn groans from Republicans, who worried it could step on their election-year anti-Obamacare messaging. It calls for balancing the federal books over the next 10 years through repealing Obamacare and making massive cuts to Medicaid and Medicare, essentially privatizing the latter. Medicaid, under the Ryan budget, would be transformed into a block-grant program for states. In a show of solidarity, the vast majority of Republicans voted last week to pass the budget through the House of Representatives.  However, the Senate is a different story. The Democrats who control the Senate chamber are not planning to write a budget this year, pointing to the spending levels already set through the agreement reached late last year by Ryan and Senate Budget Committee chair Patty Murray late last year. But if their reactions were any indication, Senate Republicans aren't exactly dismayed by the fact Ryan's budget won't go anywhere in the Senate. In New Hampshire, both Paul and Cruz refused to say whether they'd support the budget. Cruz, in particular, found it difficult to tiptoe around the questions, repeatedly saying he doesn't spend a lot of time focused on House legislation.  "What my focus is on is the challenges we have ahead," Cruz said. "My top priority in office is restoring jobs and economic growth."  Cruz demurred when asked if he thought Ryan's budget was the best way to do that and whether he would vote for the budget if it came up for discussion.  "It is clear that Harry Reid has no intention of passing legislation this year in the Senate," Cruz said.  Later, it was former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee who declined to endorse Ryan's budget. When he was asked about it, Huckabee instead noted the budgets he brought up as governor of Arkansas were generally a starting point for discussions rather than ideas that would be adopted wholesale. However, Huckabee seemed reluctant to describe Ryan's budget as even a positive starting point. "It is for Paul Ryan," he said. What about for Mike Huckabee? "You know, there would be some things that I would probably change," he said. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Seth PerlmanThe April NAHB housing market index, a gauge of homebuilder confidence, missed expectations coming in at 47. This was up from a revised reading of 46 in March, and below expectations for 49. A reading over 50 shows that more builders view conditions as good than poor. The brutal winter and concerns about the cost and availability of labor and lots have been blamed for the softness in the HMI recently. Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart showing the trajectory of homebuilder confidence: Michael McDonough via Twitter  Here's his chart showing the regional breakdown of homebuilder confidence has been rising in Northeast and declining in the west. FREE AppDownload
Burgess.House.govRep. Michael BurgessBy: U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Committee on Rules.  The idea of a flat tax as applied to income is not a new one.  In fact, the Member of Congress that held my seat prior to me, former Majority Leader Dick Armey, was a champion of the idea in the 1980’s and 90’s.  Since 2003, at the beginning of every new Congress, I have introduced H.R. 1040, the Flat Tax Act.  That means that I have introduced the Flat Tax Act six times during my tenure as the Congressman representing the 26th District of Texas.Despite 10 states and 42 countries around the world enacting some form of a flat tax, the U.S. Federal Government has never coalesced around the notion.  That is, until now.Just last week, the House of Representatives passed H. Con. Res. 96 the House Republicans’ Fiscal Year 2015 Budget.  Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) once again put forth an economically responsible budget that will balance in 10 years while fostering a healthier economy.  Within Chairman Ryan’s budget there is support for H.R. 1040 as the resolution states that Congress should take a hard look at the Flat Tax Act. While I was hopeful that comprehensive tax reform might become a reality, in an election year this may be a bridge too far.  However, I am encouraged at the universality that the notion of a flat tax is beginning to achieve.  Under Chairman Dave Camp’s (R-MI) tax reform discussion draft, he lowered both the corporate and individual tax rates and began to take out deductions and expenditures within the code.At its core, a flat tax is a simple notion: There exists one rate of taxation applied to a tax filer’s income.  Under my version of the flat tax, H.R. 1040 would dramatically simplify the tax code by offering taxpayers the option to pay a single rate of tax instead of navigating the web of confusing tax provisions.  My legislation follows the principle of choice and allows individuals and businesses alike to opt into a 17% flat tax.  However, those who want to remain in the current system can continue to file as before.  My belief is that once a filer sees how easy filing a flat tax return is, they will not want to return to the previous, convoluted system.The benefits of a flat tax are many. A flatter, fairer tax structure would be simple and tax returns would be done on a single page, maybe even on a postcard.  Gone are the days of Americans spending over 6 billion hours filling out their tax forms.  Yet another benefit of the Flat Tax Act is that it eliminates the Alternative Minimum Tax, capital gains taxes, the estate tax and the marriage penalty.  These are federal gimmicks are unpopular, unfair and stymie economic growth.Critics often point out that by lowering the rates and creating one flat rate for all tax filers, the tax will not raise enough revenue necessary for the federal government to function.  However, historically, the amount of revenue that has been collected from an income tax necessary to sustain our federal government has been about 17%.  That is precisely the number that I propose in the Flat Tax Act.If one looks at other countries in which a flat tax was instituted, not only is adequate revenue generated, but there is a vast increase in both revenue and economic growth.  The theory is that by lowering the tax rate, taxpayers become more productive and create more economic growth, which in turn, provides more tax revenue because businesses are more successful and the economy is operating at a higher level.Believe it or not, around the world, Russia is a considered a prime case of the success of a flat tax.  After the first year of its introduction in the country, the real revenues from its personal income tax rose by 25% followed by a 24% increase in the second year and a 15% increase in the third year.Likewise, several U.S. states have also implemented a single flat tax.  Americans from Utah to Massachusetts have realized the benefits of switching to a flat rate of tax as applied to their income. State revenues have increased because of a flat tax as well.There is a clear trend developing here.  As evidenced by the recent actions by Chairmen Ryan and Camp, more and more budget and tax experts are supporting a flat rate of tax.  I am very encouraged by this sign.   For far too long, our tax system has been one of complexity, confusion and disenfranchisement.   A flatter and simpler tax where all taxpayers are equal is the answer to the ills of the present tax code.I applaud the House of Representatives for passing a fiscally responsible budget.  I applaud the consideration of H.R. 1040 within the House’s budget.  Now, let’s consider how the right change to the tax code could improve an antiquated system, save Americans time and money, and most importantly, deliver enduring prosperity for all. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusDaniel S. Loeb, founder of Third Point LLCLast week, Sotheby's released an investor presentation slamming activist investor Daniel Loeb and the two nominees for the board backed by his hedge fund Third Point LLC. In sum, the auction house said that Loeb and his nominees lack experience to be on the board. Loeb, who owns a 9.6% stake in Sotheby's, has now fired back with a presentation of his own.  In that presentation, he has included a slide calling the board's criticism about his experience to their investors part of a "Misdirection Campaign." Loeb's presentation touts his experience as a "leading collector of modern and contemporary art." He points out that he's been recognized by ARTNews as one of the "200 Top Collectors" each year since 2005. He also points out that works from his family collection have been showcased in museums and shows. For example, some pieces from his collection by artist Martin Kippenberger were featured in the 2009 exhibition "The Problem Perspective" at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York. He's also a trustee of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. Here's the slide: Third Point LLC You can see Loeb's full presentation here .PDF » FREE AppDownload
The fact that this cutting took place concurrently with the market’s new-highs machine stalling out should not be viewed as a coincidence. And now, with the S&amp;P off some 3% from all time highs, FactSet explores the possibility of this current earnings season actually showing Q1 as having been a (gasp!) down-quarter for profits… As of today, the S&amp;P 500 is projected to report a year-over-year decline in earnings (-1.6%) for the first quarter. At the end of the first quarter (March 31), the estimated year-over-year decline was 1.3%. The first quarter of 2014 marks fourth time in the past 12 quarters (3 years) that a year-over-year decrease in earnings was projected at the end of a quarter, prior to the start of the earnings season for the quarter. However, the index only reported an actual decline in earnings in one of the three previous quarters (Q3 2012). What is the likelihood the index will report an actual decline in earnings for Q1 2014?  Josh here –  the good news is that analysts have been willing participants in the beat-and-lower phenomenon for years now. You can see the downward revisions (green bars) being handily exceeded by actual results almost every time. Beat rates for the S&amp;P as a whole have been running at a rate of 60 to 70% pretty consistently for the period pictured. We’ll see if they can pull it off again and avoid the first quarter of year-over-year negative earnings growth since Q3 2012. Source: FactSet ResearchRead Also: Jeffrey Kleintop: The Weakest Earnings Cycle in 55 Years (LPLFinancial) FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgIt will not have been a Happy Passover in markets, according to CNBC's Jim Cramer. "This market, it's got a disease," he warned on Monday's episode of "Mad Money." "We've been hit with a plague of initial public offerings. That isn't over yet. And for those of you celebrating Passover tonight, the plague of IPOs is worse than the plague of locusts, frogs — definitely not as bad as the whole death of the first-born thing, though." Cramer's concern is straightforward. "A stock market is like any other market. It's all about supply and demand," he said. " That's basic economics 101. So when you flood the stock market with too much new supply, say via endless torrent of IPOs, that puts real downward pressure not just on those stocks but on the entire averages." He cited data from Renaissance Capital showing that in the first quarter alone, 64 companies came public, raising a $6.10 billion. "Just in the first quarter of 2014 we've seen twice as many deals as we had during the first quarter of last year," he said. Biotech stocks have been particularly voluminous. Historically, the market averaged about 12 biotech IPOs a year; we just had more than double that for the year in one quarter. "No wonder that group has fallen for five straight weeks and is now down an average 22%," he said. Fortunately, the plague will eventually have to cure itself. "What would a cure look like?" he asked. "If we get less enthusiasm for IPOs like we saw last week, I think that would be a good thing. We are not going up with these all priced, we are going down. Bottom line: We're beginning to see the possibility of a decline in the number of new deals." Watch the full clip:  FREE AppDownload
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics just released March consumer price index data. "Core" inflation — a measure that ignores food and energy prices — unexpectedly accelerated to 1.7% from a year earlier, up from 1.6% in February. Gains were driven by an acceleration in housing prices, which account for a little more than 41% of the whole index. The year-over-year change in the housing component rose to 2.8% from 2.5%, marking the fastest advance in housing prices since 2008. Inflation — and especially core inflation, of which housing is a part — is a key input to Fed policy. The year-over-year change in the housing component of CPI seems to lag the year-over-year change in the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller 20-City Composite Home Price Index by about 19 months, as the chart illustrates. Given the rise in home prices we have already observed, inflation seems likely to pick up in the months ahead, which could put further pressure on the Fed to think about tightening monetary policy, especially if positive trends in the labor market continue. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
       Good morning. I'm delighted to have this opportunity to speak to you today, even though I am unable to be with you in person. I'd like to share a few thoughts about the important issues that the Financial Markets Conference (FMC) is addressing this year. Many of these issues, of course, are ones the FMC has grappled with every year since the crisis, an event which elevated the importance of this gathering and of the vital contributions made by the research and the policy discussion the FMC fosters.               One of those issues is liquidity. Maturity transformation is a central part of the economic function of banks and many other types of financial intermediaries. But as we saw in the crisis, maturity transformation also exposes intermediaries to liquidity risk, particularly when intermediaries are heavily reliant on short-term wholesale funding. In 2007 and 2008, short-term creditors ran from firms such as Northern Rock, Bear Stearns, and Lehman Brothers, and from money market mutual funds and asset-backed commercial paper programs. Together, these runs were the primary engine of a financial crisis from which the United States and the global economy have yet to fully recover.    
Gold is getting smoked today. Worst day since December, when the taper was first announced. Kitco FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)House prices led the housing-inflation component of the consumer price index by about 19 months. Inflation unexpectedly accelerated in March because of increased costs of food and shelter, according to just-released data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Both the headline consumer price index and the "core" price index (which excludes food and energy prices) advanced 0.2% in March from the previous month, ahead of consensus estimates for a 0.1% rise in both series, matching February's pace. The year-over-year change in the core index rose to 1.7% from 1.6%, while the year-over-year change in the headline index was boosted to 1.5% from 1.1%. Economists expected the former to hold steady at 1.6% and the latter to rise to 1.4%, because of a drop in energy prices in March 2013. The headline index was boosted by a 0.4% advance in food prices from the previous month in March despite a 0.1% drop in energy prices. The core index was bolstered by housing prices, which make up about 40% of all consumer prices, rising 2.8% from a year earlier — the fastest yearly gain since March 2008. FREE AppDownload
Jordan Strauss / Invision / APAlicia KeysThe results of the Empire State Manufacturing survey are out, and they're not good. The headline activity index unexpectedlyfell to 1.29 in April from 5.61 in March. Economists were expecting the number to rise to 8.00. From the report: The new orders index fell below zero to -2.8, pointing to a slight decline in orders, and the shipments index was little changed at 3.2. The unfilled orders index remained negative at -13.3, and the inventories index dropped ten points to -3.1. The prices paid index held steady at 22.5, indicating continued moderate input price increases, and the prices received index rose to 10.2, pointing to a pickup in selling price increases. Employment indexes showed a modest rise in employment levels and a slight increase in the average workweek. Indexes for the six-month outlook continued to convey a good deal of optimism about future conditions, and the capital expenditures index climbed seven points to 23.5, its highest level in several months. Here's some historical context: New York Fed FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/William HongA couple poses for wedding pictures at a park in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province.The rise of China has been a major driver of the demand for gold. While gold has little industrial use, it holds profound cultural significance for the Chinese. The biggest driver of consumer demand in China is clearly one event: the wedding. "It is estimated that close to 40% of Chinese 24 carat jewelery consumption is related to weddings," note the analysts at the World Gold Council. "In the third and fourth tier cities this percentage is greater." 24 carat jewelery accounts for 85% of gold jewellery demand in China. "‘Pure gold’ jewellery is a unique product that fulfills the requirements of both adornment and investment, and research confirms its appeal to young consumers," said the analysts. Here's some more color: The growth in the number of people of marriageable age together with, in general, increasing wealth has boosted sales of jewellery for traditional wedding sets and rings. Typically a three-piece wedding set, known in Mandarin Chinese as jiehun san jing might consist of a necklace/ pendant/bracelet, ring and earring combination. Bracelets are especially popular in southern China where wedding sets are also often five- rather than three-piece. The number of marriages, according to the mainland’s official data for China (which includes figures for Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) has increased by 60% since the middle of the last decade to 13.2 million at the end of 2012.45 This has undoubtedly made an important contribution to growth in demand for 24 carat gold over the last decade (Chart 12)." China, however, faces an unusual demographic hurdle that is bad news for weddings. "Women are bearing only 0.71 girls over their lifetime, well below the replacement figure of just over unity," noted the analysts at Nomura. "In 2010, there were 51m more men than woman in the country. The sex ratio among newborns is 120 boys for every 100 girls, the highest in the world. At this rate, there will not be enough brides for as many as one-fifth of today<U+201F>s baby boys when they get to marrying age, heightening the risk of social tensions." WGC analysts acknowledge this concern, but note that this will be a bigger issue for demand in the 2020s. For now, expect demand and weddings to continue to rise through at least 2017. World Gold CouncilA pretty tight correlation. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA Venezuelan opposition protester prepares to throw a Molotov cocktail during riots in Caracas, March 2, 2004. Global companies like Coca-Cola don't just deal with demographic and cultural differences. They have to deal with politics, monetary policy, and fiscal policy. In it's Q1 earnings announcement, Coca-Cola laid out the cost of doing business in Venezuela, where policymakers boldly revalued the country's currency: Based on recent changes to the Venezuelan currency exchange rate mechanisms, we changed the exchange rate we used to remeasure our Venezuelan subsidiary’s financial statements into U.S. dollars. As of March 28, 2014, we used the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for U.S. dollars conducted under Venezuela’s Complementary System of Foreign Currency Administration (SICAD 1). As of March 28, 2014, the SICAD 1 rate was 10.8 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, compared to the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the U.S. dollar we previously used. During the first quarter, the Company recorded charges of $247 million related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Based on our current projections, we expect this change in exchange rates to have an unfavorable currency impact on our operating income for the remainder of 2014. Additionally, the Venezuelan government issued a new law on fair pricing establishing the maximum profit a business can earn in Venezuela. We are currently evaluating the impact the new law may have on our 2014 operating results. That's no small amount of money. Then again, that's in the context of Coca-Cola's $10.5 billion in sales and $1.6 billion in net income during the quarter. FREE AppDownload
The American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) — an organization that pushes market reforms around the country — is out with its latest map of the most and least competitive states in America. The map is silly. Dynamic economies like New York and California are ranked near the bottom, while un-dynamic economies like Indiana and Wyoming are ranked near the top. Obviously ALEC is ranking states based on each state's level of deregulation and awarding the most deregulated states, but the outcomes seem to have very little bearing in where companies actually want to launch and do business. ALEC FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ismail ZitounyOfficials of Muammar Gaddafi's government sit behind bars during a hearing at a courtroom in Tripoli April 14, 2014. Libyan prosecutors on Monday began the trial of deposed leader Muammar Gaddafi's sons and former regime officials in a major test for the North African state's transition to a democracy. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. China credit growth. Credit growth in China continues to slow. "New yuan loans were higher than expected at 1.05 trillion yuan in March (consensus: 1 trillion; Barclays: 1.1 trillion), while credit growth slowed further to 13.9%, from 14.2% in February," write Barclays economists Jian Chang and Jerry Peng in a note to the firm's clients. "M2 growth fell to a record low of 12.1% in March (consensus: 13.0%; Barclays: 12.8%), reflecting a high base last year and slower deposit growth. Overall, we maintain our view of weak near-term growth but a recovery in Q2. The year-over-year slowdowns in money and credit growth rates suggest near-term weakness in economic growth. We have lowered our Q1 GDP growth forecast to 7.2% year over year (from 7.3%), which implies a sharp slowdown in growth momentum to 4.6% quarter over quarter at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate. On the other hand, the better-than-expected March new loans and total financing support the view that financing channels remain open to stabilise growth as demand recovers." Australia decoupling? The Australian dollar is up more than 5% against the U.S. dollar so far this year despite the reemergence of concerns about the slowing Chinese economy, Australia's biggest export destination. Minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's April meeting released Tuesday contained a bit of discussion on this. The Aussie dollar is down about 0.4% against the USD today as a result. "Members  noted  that  the  exchange  rate remained high by historical  standards," said the minutes. "Despite commodity prices falling further over the past month,  the exchange rate had appreciated a little further. While the decline  in the exchange rate from its highs a year earlier would assist in achieving  balanced  growth  in  the  economy,  this  would be less so than previously  expected given the rise in the exchange rate over the past few months." Yellen speaks. Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen will deliver opening remarks via streaming video at the Atlanta Fed's annual Financial Markets Conference at 8:45 AM ET. Yellen's comments have caused gyrations in markets multiple times in recent weeks as she has sought to reassure market participants that the Fed will not wind down its monetary stimulus measures too early, and will thus be closely monitored this morning. "This week offers a few key pieces of Fed commentary that could be meaningful to the market this weeks as we hear from Yellen twice — once on Tuesday at a financial markets conference and then on Wednesday when she addresses the Economic Club of New York," says Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital. "Attention will be paid to any further clarity on the timing of the first hike, but we anticipate she'll be more cautious on offering hint at this point, especially in the wake of the '6 months' confusion." Markets are quiet. U.S. stock futures are rallying a bit and are set to open in the green, while U.S. Treasury note futures point to higher yields. European equity indices are trading lower with the exception of France's CAC 40. Gold is down 1.6%, trading around $1305 an ounce. The dollar is up slightly against the euro and little changed against the yen. The Japanese Nikkei 225 closed up 0.6% on Tuesday, but the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 1.6%. German sentiment. ZEW's monthly indicator of German economic sentiment slid to 43.2 in April from 46.6 in March, marking a decrease in expectations for future growth. The "current situation" component, however, leaped to 59.5 from 51.3, marking the highest level in three years. "The cautious expectations in this month's survey are likely to be caused by the Ukraine conflict, which still creates uncertainty. Furthermore, the slight decline in economic expectations has taken place against the backdrop of a very positive evaluation of the current economic situation in Germany," said ZEW in a press release. "This very positive assessment of the economic situation may also explain to some extend why a part of the surveyed experts have slightly lowered their expectations for the next six months — in their view the German economy is already growing at a considerable pace." U.K. prices. The year-over-year change in the U.K.'s consumer price index eased to 1.6% in March from 1.7% in February, in line with expectations. "This is the slowest pace since October 2009," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "It is the third consecutive month that the reading is below the BOE’s 2% medium term target. If the inflation is not in the consumer sector, some fear it may be showing up elsewhere. The ONS reported today that annual house price inflation accelerated to 9.1% in February, nearly a 4-year high. In London, the ONS found, house prices have increased almost 18%, the most in nearly 7 years." U.S. prices. Monthly U.S. consumer price index data will be released at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict both the headline index and the "core" index (which excludes food and energy prices) rose 0.1% in March. Such gains would leave the year-over-year change in the core index steady at 1.6% while boosting the year-over-year change in the headline index to 1.4% from 1.1% in February, due to a drop in energy prices in March 2013. Empire manufacturing. The results of the New York Fed's monthly Empire State Manufacturing Survey are also due out at 8:30 AM. Economists predict the report's headline index rose to 8 this month from March's 5.61 reading, indicative of an acceleration in the pace of improvement in business conditions for manufacturers in the state of New York. NAHB housing. The National Association of Home Builders releases the April update to its monthly Housing Market Index at 10 AM. Economists expect it to advance to the neutral 50 level from March's 47 reading, implying that an equal number of home builders view sales conditions as positive as those who view conditions as negative. Earnings. Consumer giants Coca-Cola and Johnson &amp; Johnson report quarterly earnings results this morning before the opening bell. Coca-Cola is expected to post earnings of $0.44 per share in the quarter ended March 31 on revenues of $10.55 billion (down 4.4% from last year). Johnson &amp; Johnson is expected to report earnings of $1.48 per share on revenues of $18 billion (up 2.8% from last year). Yahoo! and Intel report this afternoon after the closing bell. *** Below is a submission to our quarterly "Most Important Charts In The World" presentation from Paul Diggle, a property economist at Capital Economics. If you haven't seen the other 123 charts yet, click here to check them out » Business Insider/Matthew Boesler FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of SchrammSchramm's T500XD WEST CHESTER, Pennsylvania (Reuters) - The backbreaking life of a roughneck, the iconic worker bees of oilfield drilling rigs, is getting a little easier. Schramm Inc, which built the drilling rig that four years ago helped rescue 33 trapped Chilean copper miners, has designed a 500,000-pound rig for the oil and natural gas industry that can walk, rotate 360 degrees, be operated with a remote control, and load pipe automatically. The T500XD rig's futuristic control room has touchscreens and joysticks, rather than the valves and dials on conventional rigs, appealing to a generation of oilfield workers raised on video games. More than 200 sensors monitor pneumatics, oil flow and myriad other processes, "talking" via satellite or Wi-Fi to Schramm's Pennsylvania headquarters and signaling any problems. Riding the global boom in fracking - the practice of injecting sand, water and chemicals deep underground to release oil and gas - Schramm's latest rig, although pricey, allows producers to sharply reduce labor costs, the company says. It's all part of what Schramm, controlled by private equity firm GenNx360, says is an attempt to make the process of drilling a new well safer and faster. So far, selling the rig to the slow-to-change drilling industry has been a challenge, and the risk of technological theft looms over much of the energy sector. But executives say they are pushing forward regardless, and some analysts say the company could be an appealing acquisition target, especially if its new rigs start selling. "We designed the rig to have lots of automation and to be simpler to run," said Ed Breiner, Schramm's president. "That means less fatigue and fewer injuries for oilfield workers," who often have 12-hour shifts. Conventional oilfield drilling rigs must be assembled in pieces, often requiring a crane. To ship parts to an oil well, it typically takes 40 truck loads of supplies. Time is wasted building and breaking down such rigs, especially if the next well to be drilled is only a few hundred feet away. Schramm's T500XD ships in roughly half the amount of loads, can assemble itself, and walk to the next well. At 30 feet per hour, the speed is not exactly a jackrabbit's pace, but it reaches a new well in a quarter of the time and is faster than the few other rigs on the market that can walk. On a conventional rig, a roughneck needs to stand on top of the derrick tower to guide and move oil pipe into a well. Schramm's rig lets the operator sit in the control room and, with joystick controls, guide an automated arm to pick up and load pipe. "Pipe handling is probably the biggest area of injury in the oil industry," Breiner said. "This rig removes that risk." Highlighting the risks, a Chevron Corp natural gas well in eastern Pennsylvania exploded earlier this year while roughnecks were preparing to run tubing down the well, killing one. Schramm's new rig, which took three years to develop, also uses about 40 percent fewer workers than traditional rigs. For remote regions with vast energy supplies but few workers, such as North Dakota or west Texas, the T500XD could be a welcome relief. But in regions with workers hungry for jobs, such as Pennsylvania, Ohio or even China, with its rapidly growing population and thirst for oil, the T500XD could be seen as a job-killer, analysts said. It's an assertion that Breiner rejects, saying new technology in the industry will boost production and reduce injuries. Energy Drilling Australia, a subsidiary of Ausdrill Ltd, is paying $8 million for Schramm's second T500XD in order to frack in Australia's Cooper Basin, which the U.S. Department of Energy estimates has the world's seventh-largest deposits of shale oil. The company picked Schramm's rig, rather than buy from rivals that include Sweden's Atlas Copco or Italy's Trevi Group, because of its safety features and also because "you need fewer people on the rig," said Allen Pais, a manager with Energy Drilling Australia. "This rig can move faster and drill deeper," Pais said. "It's got a high-tech kind of design, which makes it as easy as possible to run." Energy Drilling Australia spends about A$1 million ($940,200) every time it tears down and moves existing rigs, meaning that, in time, Schramm's walkable rig should help pay for itself, Pais said. Even so, the new rigs are expensive - nearly three times the cost of Schramm's earlier model, the TXD - and that has caused some prospective buyers to hesitate. Schramm, which customizes each rig it builds, has yet to ink new agreements to build more T500XDs. Still, Schramm considers the T500XD a big step up, technologically speaking, from its TXD model, which has far fewer electronic controls and weighs less than half than of its larger sibling, meaning it has far less power. Many contract drillers - companies like Ensign Energy Services Inc hired to do the actual drilling of wells for oil and natural gas producers - have a fleet of oil rigs that, while older, do the job perfectly fine. Rig companies are often reticent to make quick changes given the long life span of rigs and the immense capital that must be invested up-front. Ensign Energy, for instance, had 238 North American rigs operating at the end of 2013, compared with 356 for Nabors Industries Ltd, which operates the world's largest land drilling rig fleet. "The oil industry is saturated with old technology," Breiner said. "It has to, eventually, transition to new technology." In may ways Schramm's success during its 114-year history belies a series of modern myths about the inferiority of American manufacturing. Its breakneck growth in the energy industry since building its first natural gas rig in 2000 has shown how American dominance in the fracking sector extends beyond energy companies to include technology-driven manufacturers. Sales to the energy and mining industries are the largest chunk of the company's revenue, taking up roughly 48 percent each of the company's 2013 sales, though Schramm does have a small business building rigs for water wells. All of its rigs are built by its roughly 200 workers at a 26-acre suburban Philadelphia campus, nestled amidst a high school football field and cookie-cutter houses. The company achieved international celebrity when its drilling rig reached the trapped Chilean miners before two rival rigs, an achievement touted widely in company literature. GenNx360, founded by former General Electric Co executives, bought its majority stake in the company two years ago from the Schramm family, eyeing the company's "diverse blue-chip customer base" around the globe. Breiner and other executives retained a small stake. Terms of that deal were not disclosed. Schramm, analysts say, clearly punches above its weight-class, making it an attractive prospect either for a stock market listing or outright sale. Roughly half of the company's $100 million in revenue last year came from exports, a geographic diversity that many corporate leaders would covet. Now may be the best time for GenNx360 to make a move, as the market for niche suppliers to the rapidly growing energy market is white-hot. It was only last year, for example, that GE bought oilfield pump maker Lufkin for nearly $3 billion to bolster its shale business. Schramm isn't for sale today, said Breiner, who sits on the company's board along with several GenNx360 executives. GenNx360 did not return phone calls seeking comment. Schramm also retains value from its intellectual property rights, and it stores patent data and other material at offsite servers to keep thieves from eroding its market lead. While Schramm has applied for some patents, including one for a feature that allows pipe to be lowered into an oil well automatically, Breiner said the company strategy is to focus on innovation rather than suing potential copycats. "If somebody in China wants to steal a rig design, all they have to do is come to the United States and buy one on the secondary market," Breiner said. Schramm even commissioned a model of the rig used to save the Chilean miners from a Chinese artist, who crafted it with extreme accuracy using only a photograph. The model sits in Schramm's lobby. Breiner brushed aside concerns about the company's intellectual property and said the most effective defense against theft is a good offense. "The best way I know how to compete on the global market is to continue to advance our technology," he said. "If you think you've got it figured out and stop innovating, you've probably made a mistake." ($1 = 1.0635 Australian Dollars) (Reporting by Ernest Scheyder; Additional reporting by Zachary Goelman; Editing by Terry Wade and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex GrimmTraders react in front of their screens at the Frankfurt stock exchange September 30, 2008. The European Central Bank lent banks 190 billion euros in its latest weekly auction of euro funds, with strong demand pushing up the rates of interest paid by banks to a higher level than analysts had expected. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top topics about which traders are chatting today: Good Morning, and welcome to Tax Day!   The S&amp;P 500's 2nd worst session in 2013 was on "Tax Day” - We lost 2.3%.  It is “Turnaround Tuesday” however, and important to note we have rallied 12 of the last 14 Tuesdays, for an average gain of 60bp.  We also have VIX expiration today, so keep an eye on the contract structure as players roll from April to May contracts. US Futures are starting today slightly higher, resting near highs of yesterday’s session.    EU markets are rallying from Germany’s ZEW print, which knocked the DAX down 1%.   Focus remains on Ukraine, where their FX is bouncing sharply on the Interest Rate spike – but Stress remains in Russian Equities and Debt – with the Micex off 1.5%, and chatter about Russian Corporates “locked out” of global capital markets.    In Asia, China was hit for 1.5%, led by bank shares on weak loan growth data, and a big PBoC repurchase operation.  The Nikkei gained 60bp, ending a 7day losing streak, but futures are marked lower right now.   Aussie fins rallied on Citi tailwinds and upbeat minutes from the Aussie Central Bank.The 10YY is slightly higher this AM, taking out yesterday’s peaks ahead of 5 Fed Speakers today - Yellen at 8:45amET along w/Lockhart at 8:30amET, Plosser at 3pmET, Rosengren at 4pmET, and Kocherlakota at 8pmET.   The $ is flat to Yen, but rallying against the €, causing a headwind for commodities.   We have heavy pressure in precious metals, led by a 1.6% drop in Gold on headwinds caused from a WGC report on Chinese demand.   The Energy complex is red – with WTI retreating from a 5week high as a Russian Embargo seems unlikely.    Keep an eye on Earnings – as we have JNJ, KO pre-market, and INTC, YHOO after the close – Several of those names have been recipients of “covering” from Hedge Fund Deleveraging.  Aside from aforementioned, other Scheduled Catalysts include Empire Manufacturing and CPI at 8:30, Net Long-term TIC Flows from the Treasury at 9, NAHB Housing Market Index at 10 – the week’s largest POMO at 11, and API data for Crude at 4:30. FREE AppDownload
AP/Michael Probst BRUSSELS (AP) — The European Parliament on Tuesday was set to complete the biggest overhaul of the bloc's financial system since the introduction of the euro currency, passing laws to minimize the risk and cost posed by failing banks. Lawmakers were slated to sign off on the creation of a European authority with the power to unwind or restructure failing banks, as well as a system that will see banks' creditors — not governments — take losses first when lenders fail. The reforms aim to keep the cost of rescuing banks from overwhelming a country's public finances, said Elisa Ferreira, the leading lawmaker on the issue. Parliament was also expected to pass legislation that protects all deposits of up to 100,000 euros ($138,000) in case of bank failures across the 28-nation bloc. The votes bring to a close an ambitious reform agenda launched in the wake of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. Since then, European governments pumped some 600 billion euros (currently $830 billion) into saving ailing banks, according to EU figures. The EU — in particular the 18 countries that use the euro — has focused on creating a so-called banking union, a set of new institutions and rules meant to prevent another crisis by shaping a financial system as resilient and centrally policed as, for example, its U.S. equivalent. The euro currency, used by some 330 million people, was introduced in 2002 but its financial system remained a patchwork governed by different national rules, a situation that proved unworkable during the financial crisis. "Much progress has been made," said Bert Van Roosebeke of the Centre for European Policy, a Germany-based think tank. "Tuesday's votes are a huge step, but now the decisions will have to be implemented, the work isn't over," he said. Starting in November, the European Central Bank will directly supervise the eurozone's biggest lenders with binding powers over national authorities. A separate authority will have the power — and funds — to dissolve or restructure any failing banks. The parliament's approval of that authority, called single resolution mechanism, is the final building block of the banking union. The authority will have a 55 billion-euro ($76 billion) fund at its disposal, financed by bank levies, enabling it to handle cross-border bank failures. Some, however, question whether the fund's firepower will be sufficient to handle serious banking crises. "It isn't exactly unlikely that it won't be sufficient," said Van Roosebeke, adding European policy makers have yet to spell out a credible system of backstops in case of a systemic banking crisis. To that end, Parliament was also set to adopt a set of rules that spell out who will take losses first in case a bank fails. Under the rules, a bank's creditors — those with large deposits there or holding its bonds — will have to take losses before the government helps out. In the case of a major bank like Britain's Barclays, creditors would be hit to the tune of 140 billion euros before government help would be needed, or about 100 billion euros for France's Societe Generale, according to EU Parliament spokesman John Schranz. ___ Follow Juergen Baetz on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/jbaetz Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAfter a horrific 2013, gold has been among the best-performing commodities of the year. For the most part, Wall Street commodities analysts remain firmly bearish on the yellow metal in the near term. However, no one can ignore the economic rise of China, where the consumers' hunger for gold is only becoming increasingly voracious. "The next six years are expected to see China’s middle class grow by over 60%, or 200m people, to a total of 500 million," write the analysts at the World Gold Council. "Comparing this to the total population of the US, which stands at 319m, puts the size of this new market of affluent consumers, with the propensity to buy gold, in perspective. In addition to these newly emerging middle classes, rising real incomes, a deepening pool of private savings and rapid urbanisation across China suggest that the outlook for gold jewellery and investment demand in the next four years will remain strong." The WGC just published massive amounts of research on the supply and demand dynamics of gold in China. Here are six key facts that they highlight (verbatim: FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin was below $400 a few days ago. Now it's above $500. The bleeding appears to have stopped for now. https://bitcoinwisdom.com/ FREE AppDownload
That’s not a wonderful scenario for revenues growth, nor for earnings growth given that profit margins are at record highs. Yet S&amp;P 500 industry analysts are expecting earnings growth over the short term (STEG over the next 12 months) and long term (LTEG over the next five years) of around 10%. That seems a bit high to us, especially for LTEG. The ratio of the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 to LTEG (a.k.a. the PEG ratio) was at 1.4 during the week of April 3. That’s not far below previous cyclical peaks, which have all been around 1.5 since 1995. Those peaks haven’t always been associated with the start of bear markets. However, the PEG ratio confirms that stocks aren’t cheap. They are pricing in relatively optimistic earnings growth. Meanwhile, the bond market seems to be discounting much slower nominal economic growth than the earnings growth rate in the stock market. I view the 10-year Treasury bond yield as the fixed-income market’s assessment of current nominal GDP growth on a y/y basis. The latter rose 4.1% during Q4-2013. Yet the yield is currently around 2.65%. Again, it seems as though historically low yields should justify higher P/Es, but the message from the bond market isn’t upbeat about the prospects for higher nominal growth. Dr. Ed's Blog  Today's Morning Briefing: Curbing Enthusiasm. (1) Sentiment turns slightly less bullish. (2) Everyone is a value buyer for now. (3) A choppy year so far. (4) Are low bond yields bullish or bearish? (5) Long-term expected earnings growth is high. (6) So is PEG. (7) The bond market has a more subdued outlook for growth. (8) SMidCaps rerating? (9) Revenues and earnings growth rates likely to rebound from winter chill. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Consumer Discretionary Retailers. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Despite recent turmoil, gold hasn't been helped much. It just fell out of bed, and is flirting once again with $1300. Kitco FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCEO Karl-Johan Persson at the company offices in Stockholm.FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Hennes &amp; Mauritz (H&amp;M) &lt;HMb.ST&gt;, the world's second-biggest fashion retailer, supports higher wages for textile workers in Bangladesh, its chief executive said, but warned that higher costs could also prompt some companies to go elsewhere. "After all, many companies source from Bangladesh, not just us. The country needs to take into account that jobs could be lost to other countries," German daily newspaper Die Welt cited CEO Karl-Johan Persson as saying in an interview published on its website on Tuesday. "In Bangladesh, the clothing industry offers 4 million jobs that are relatively well paid compared with others. Textile workers earn about as much as teachers," Persson said. Faced with growing competition from even cheaper rivals such as Britain's Primark &lt;ABF.L&gt; and U.S. chain Forever 21, H&amp;M has been seeking to differentiate itself by stressing a commitment to sustainability, including using more recycled materials and organic cotton as well as campaigning for better wages. It said last week that Bangladesh needed to speed up inspections of its garment industry, almost a year after the collapse of a factory that killed more than 1,100 people. It has also been lobbying officials in Cambodia to raise minimum wages. Persson told Die Welt that the Swedish government and labor groups were also encouraging H&amp;M to source more from Africa. "We are testing countries like Kenya and Ethiopia. But those are still very small orders," Persson said. H&amp;M has said a drive to increase wages for Asian clothing workers was likely to dent its profitability as weak consumer demand and stiff competition made it hard to pass on costs to shoppers. It has been responding to competition by broadening its product offering, rolling out new mid-market brands such as COS and &amp; Other Stories and investing in its online offering. Persson told Die Welt that H&amp;M was "very happy" with margins at COS, that the online business was "very profitable" and that the company could expand into further new market segments after recently adding home textiles. "We have some ideas in the company. But it is too early to talk about them," he said. (Reporting by Maria Sheahan; Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO of General Electric appears at a news conference announcing the Head Health Initiative along with the National Football League (NFL) in New York(Reuters) - General Electric Co's &lt;GE.N&gt; Chief Executive Jeff Immelt may step down sooner than his expected 20-year tenure, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the company's thinking. Immelt, who has been at the helm of the industrial conglomerate since 2001, has led several board discussions about shortening the expected tenure for GE's next chief executive to between 10 and 15 years, the Journal said. (http://r.reuters.com/xek58v) Among the leading candidates identified to succeed Immelt are Lorenzo Simonelli, who took over the leadership of GE's oil and gas unit last year; and Steve Bolze, who leads power and water, GE's biggest unit, the newspaper said. GE was not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. The company said last month Immelt holds 1.96 million of GE shares. The CEO is the largest insider stakeholder, according to Thomson Reuters data, though his stake trails far behind those of the large institutional holders of GE stock. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The London property market is just wild. Up 17.7% in the last year according to fresh data from the UK government. ONS (Via Ed Conway) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningHeads up. There are four kind of big economic events coming up today in the US, which we will be all over. Via Calculated Risk, here they are: • At 8:30 AM ET, the Consumer Price Index for March. The consensus is for a 0.1% increase in CPI in February and for core CPI to increase 0.1%.• Also at 10:00 AM, the NY Fed Empire State Manufacturing Survey for April. The consensus is for a reading of 7.5, up from 5.6 in March (above zero is expansion).• At 8:45 AM, Speech by Fed Chair Janet Yellen, Opening Remarks, At the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Conference: 2014 Financial Markets Conference, Stone Mountain, Georgia.• At 10:00 AM, the April NAHB homebuilder survey. The consensus is for a reading of 50, up from 47 in March. Any number above 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as good than poor. We'll be covering each LIVE. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci The moon is seen as it begins a total lunar eclipse that will turn the moon red over Buenos Aires April 15, 2014.Yesterday, stocks staged a bit of a rally, bouncing back from heavy selling in the previous week. Today? Things are just looking so so. After being up more than 1%, Japan rose just 0.6%. China tumbled another 1.4% last night. Europe is in the red, with Germany's DAX index down 0.34% and the British FTSE 100 off 0.1%. These aren't dramatic moves, but there's not showing any impressive bounceback of follow through. US futures are basically flat. Not helping things is news that the Ukrainian acting President says that military operations have begun in the Eastern part of the country to crack down on pro-Russian rebels. Also, money supply data out of China was weak. FREE AppDownload
