SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices bounced back more than a dollar on Monday, after hitting 5-1/2-year lows of $60.28 earlier in the session, as traders began pricing in expectations of improving manufacturing data to be published later this week. Brent fell as much as 2.5 percent after the International Energy Agency forecast further price falls and OPEC's chief defended the group's decision not to cut its output target. Oil producers group OPEC can ride out a slump in oil prices and keep output unchanged, its head Abdullah al-Badri said on Sunday, arguing market weakness did not reflect supply and demand fundamentals and could have been driven by speculators, pulling down prices in early Asian trading. But the market recovered to $62.95 a barrel as traders said the market was pricing in expectations of improving global manufacturing data to be published this week. "With preliminary manufacturing PMI scheduled to release this week, it may give some support to falling oil prices," said Singapore-based Phillip Futures on Monday. "Expectations for this month's PMI are favorable which should prevent a further drop for the week. Provided manufacturing PMI figures are favorable, we expect to see a slight recovery to $61.81 for WTI Feb '15 and $63.26 for Brent Feb '15 for this week," it added. Brent crude for January delivery was trading up 90 cents at $62.75 a barrel by 0338 GMT (10:38 p.m. EST). The benchmark fell to $60.28 right after the start of the electronic session, the lowest since July 2009. U.S. crude for January delivery was up 0.64 cents at $58.45 a barrel, after hitting a low of $56.25, down 2.7 percent, the lowest since May 2009.   (Editing by Himani Sarkar) FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, Bloomberg caught up with Apple cofounder Ron Wayne, who sold his 10% stake in Apple for $800 in 1976 (via @TheStalwart). Wayne told Bloomberg that over the past 40 years, he had kept most of his savings in gold.  Since Apple went public in 1980, shares of the company have risen more than 20,000%; over the same period, gold is up 107%.  Said another way, 10% of Apple is worth about $65 billion, while $800 of gold purchased in 1980 would be worth about $1,750.  Here's the brutal chart.  Business Insider, data via Bloomberg Read the whole story at Bloomberg here »   FREE AppDownload
 It's now undeniable that Chinese President Xi Jinping's corruption crackdown will change Macau's casino business forever. Cheung Chi Tai, a powerful junket operator, is being investigated for money laundering. The FBI had been monitoring him as an alleged member of the Triad, China's fearsome mafia, since 1992. He was once the largest shareholder of one of Macau's biggest junkets, Neptune Guangdong Group, and continues to have ties to the company. As the investigation proceeds, Cheung's assets have been frozen, according to The Wall Street Journal. In other words, Hong Kong regulators are very serious this time, and if someone as powerful as Cheung can go down in flames, no one in Macau's junket world is immune. Junkets made $30 billion for Macau last year by providing financing for casino high rollers — mostly from mainland China. That's about 70% of Macau's casino revenue, according to Reuters. Investors give junket operators money in exchange for guaranteed returns of about 1% to 2%. However, since this spring, when one junket operator stole $1 billion in cash from the pool, investors have wanted higher returns for perceived additional risk. This has already started breaking down the island's casino industry. At first, analysts were hopeful, believing that a free fall in casino revenue that started this summer would somehow find a stopping point, or that a higher volume of retail gamblers would make up for lost high rollers. But none of that has happened.  Reuters Wall Street is coming to terms with the idea that Macau's business model is "near broken."  And, after this arrest, it seems the Chinese government doesn't have a problem with that. Even as the country's economy slows, Xi Jinping is still cracking down on the powerful and dangerous people who, like Cheung, make this moneymaking system work. This will eventually have an effect on American casino companies that have made more money from Macau than from Las Vegas the past few years.  Companies such as Wynn, Las Vegas Sands, and MGM Grand have created separate subsidiaries for their Macau businesses, but they're still subject to US laws, like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Regulators are investigating Sands over allegations of bribery in Macau, and Wynn has disclosed that it is being investigated for alleged violations of the FCPA. If found guilty, the Nevada Gaming Control Board could revoke their licenses. All these companies have ties to the junkets, of course. Some junkets have even brought revenue to Las Vegas. Cheung's Neptune is one of three Macau junkets that have been allowed to bring high rollers to Las Vegas, something Nevada regulators have been watching with mounting concern.  Wynn and MGM both used Neptune chairman, Lin Cheuk Fung, as an agent from 2005 to 2009. That means Lin arranged for wealthy gamblers to head to MGM and Wynn casinos to play. The problem is that it's not a very transparent process, and regulators don't have a full handle on who those gamblers are. "We're getting to understand the junkets and how the VIP rooms operate," Nevada Gaming Control Board member A.G. Burnett told Reuters in October. "We haven't decided whether that's offensive to the way we operate." In Cheung's case, Nevada may be much closer to coming to a decision. One of his companies has been connected to an illegal World Cup gambling ring that was busted in Las Vegas this summer. Eight people were arrested in the sting, and based on computers and cellphones that federal agents collected from the Caesars Palace villas where they stayed, Cheung's companies were helping the alleged ring settle up with gamblers. What all this means is that once-thought-untouchable junket operators need to be on their guard from now on, and Macau's VIP rooms will suffer for that.    FREE AppDownload
Good evening! The weekend is over, the futures markets are open, and crude oil is breaking lower. Near 9:00 pm ET on Sunday night in New York, West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures were down another 1% to around $57.15 a barrel. Earlier in the evening, WTI was down more than 2% to below $57 but has clawed back some losses over the last couple hours. Brent crude futures were also lower, hovering around $61 a barrel after breaching that level earlier in the evening. From here, every move lower in crude prices will be a new five-year low for the commodity.  Last week was a disaster for oil, and comments from OPEC ministers over the weekend implying that the cartel has no immediate plans to act in the face of plummeting prices are likely not helping matters shortly after the futures open.  Sam Ro has your big preview of this week's events, which are headlined by the latest Fed meeting on Wednesday.  But as we head towards the holidays, there will remain one thing on the top of everyone's mind: oil.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCars are parked to prepare for export at a port in YokohamaTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese big manufacturers' sentiment worsened slightly in the three months to December but corporate spending plans were strong, a closely watched central bank survey showed, highlighting the uneven recovery brought by premier Shinzo Abe's stimulus policies. The headline index for big manufacturers' sentiment worsened by 1 point from three months earlier to plus 12 in December, the Bank of Japan's quarterly "tankan" survey showed on Monday. That compared with a median market forecast of plus 13. Big firms plan to increase capital spending by 8.9 percent in the current fiscal year ending in March 2015, the survey showed. The tankan's sentiment indexes are derived by subtracting the number of respondents who say conditions are poor from those who say they are good. A positive reading means optimists outnumber pessimists.   (Reporting by Leika Kihara, Tetsushi Kajimoto and Stanley White; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP"I would crawl on broken glass dragging my exposed junk to get this deal." That's what an eager equities analyst at Needham &amp; Company wrote in an email to a colleague, upon learning that a rival firm would be gunning for some much-desired IPO business from Toys'R'Us. Crain's called that gem "the Wall Street quote of the year," but it was actually written back in 2010. That's when Toys'R'Us first started planning their IPO, and a handful of research analysts began pandering to the company in hopes of winning some business. We're hearing about it now because FINRA today announced it would fine Needham and nine other firms for the incident. The toy giant actually sponsored the 10 firms to compete for roles in the IPO. They didn't ask the firms to overvalue them, but nonetheless each firm chose to use research analysts in their bids — many of whom met with and made presentations to Toys'R'Us. This sort of behavior from equity analysts, who are meant to be unbiased researchers, is not unprecedented. But Eliot Spitzer made a solid attempt to wipe it out when he was New York's attorney general. Back in 2003, Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan were fined $110 million and $80 million, respectively, for similar brown-nosing incidents. This time around, they're being fined $5 million each for their Toys'R'Us coverage. (They must have learned something from those FINRA run-ins, because their violations were a bit less graphic than Needham's.) Altogether, FINRA will collect $43.5 million from the firms, which also include Barclays, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche, Merrill Lynch, and Wells Fargo. Jokes on them because Toys'R'Us never ended up doing the IPO. But they certainly did leave these guys – and their junk – exposed. FREE AppDownload
 The economics blogosphere is atwitter over an interesting thought experiment: Is it better to be middle class today, or much more wealthy in an earlier time. Here's Professor Scott Sumner: OK, so ask a millennial whether they'd rather live today on $100,000/year, or back in 1964 with the same nominal income. ... I recall getting cavities filled in 1964, without Novocaine. Not fun. No internet. Crappy TVs, where you have to constantly move the rabbit ears on top to get a decent picture. Lame black and white sitcoms ... Now against all that is the fact that someone making $100,000/year in 1964 was pretty rich, so your social standing was much higher than that income today. So it's a close call ... In which period does $100,000 buy more happiness? We don't know. And Professor Tyler Cowen, commenting on Sumner: I say I prefer $100k today to $100k in 1964... But here’s the catch: would you rather have net nominal 20k today or in 1964?  I would opt for 1964, where you would be quite prosperous and could track the career of Miles Davis and hear the Horowitz comeback concert at Carnegie Hall. And with a slightly different hypothetical, Bloomberg's Joe Weisenthal: Would you rather be middle class in the United States now, or be in the top 1% of income in 1900? I used to always think the answer was clear, that you'd rather be middle class now with all of our modern wonders. But now I'm not sure, and in fact I increasingly lean the other way, that relative wealth is the name of the game ... Relative wealth confers clear benefits. Relative wealth is likely to come with power and status and other things that humans strive for. Before you get too nostalgic for the past, the problem with all of these is that they evaluate economic choices assuming a linear societal structure (working backward). Only one group of people has had a consistent level of respect and rights over the past 115 years. Coincidentally, it's a group to which all the authors above belong. For them, perhaps, being wealthy in an earlier era would have brought power and prestige (also, still a world without toilet paper). For the rest of us — anyone who is not a white, heterosexual male — asking about utility in the early 20th century is a nonstarter. Money doesn't mean much when you don't have freedom of choice. Let's consider just a slice of what life was like for women and African-Americans in these two eras: This was the era of Jim Crow. There were more than 100 lynchings in the US. Just four years earlier, the Supreme Court upheld legal segregation in Plessy v Ferguson. Wealth doesn't make up for systematic disenfranchisement. Women did not even nominally have the right to vote. Birth control was illegal. As a wealthy women, life probably would not have been unpleasant, but would still probably be largely controlled by the men around you. For women, life was much better but still not great (I refer you to "Mad Men"). Would you rather be Betty Draper than middle class in 2014? At the same time, the civil rights movement was heating up. Segregation was still institutionalized. Consider this piece from Ta-Nehisi Coates' essay on the case for reparations: From the 1930s through the 1960s, black people across the country were largely cut out of the legitimate home-mortgage market through means both legal and extralegal. Chicago whites employed every measure, from "restrictive covenants" to bombings, to keep their neighborhoods segregated. What is the point of being wealthy if society doesn't allow you to choose how you spend your money? Nostalgia is useful only for those with freedom of choice in the past in question. And that is a very small group indeed. By all means, they should think about it — it's indeed an interesting economic question — but also consider the experience of those whose experience might be different. For another view, the ello user @richdhw had this really smart comment on Weisenthal's original post: This raises a big problem I have with these sort of questions: we could imagine an impersonal version: was group of people x happier/better off etc. than group y according to some criteria. Or you can ask whether a person in group y would want to be in group x. They're not nearly the same question.In this case, given the actual preferences of group y (i.e. ppl alive today) I think we can all agree no one would choose to go back to 1900. So, then we start abstracting away certain facts about ourselves, like desire for modern technology/medicine, beliefs about what constitutes a good life etc. And what quickly happens is you lose all grip on this being a question on what "you" would rather do.It rather reminds me of Rawls' veil of ignorance, and one of the major (and I think correct) criticisms of it as an intellectual device is that there's no principled basis to decide what should be put behind the veil of ignorance, or what decision criteria you should use to adjudicate the different possibilities. And what happens is that what does or does not get put behind the veil ends up being to do with what answer you are trying to get.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Petsmart store in WestminsterReuters) - Pet supply retailer PetSmart Inc succumbed to calls from some shareholders for a sale on Sunday with an agreement to be bought by a private equity consortium led by BC Partners Ltd for $8.7 billion, in the largest leveraged buyout of the year. At a time when a stock market rally has made private equity firms reluctant to take companies private for fear of overpaying, the deal illustrates how activist investors have the potential to drive corporate boards to explore such deals and accept a price that makes a leveraged buyout possible. Activist investor Jana Partners LLC began pushing for a sale after disclosing a 9.9 percent stake in PetSmart in early July. PetSmart said BC Partners, as well as some of its fund investors, including La Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec and StepStone, signed an agreement to buy the company for $83 per share. Longview Asset Management, which has a 9 percent stake in PetSmart, will roll a third of its holding into the deal. Jana paid less than $55 per share on average for its percent stake in PetSmart, according to regulatory filings. The buyout price represents a 39 percent premium to PetSmart's closing price of $59.81 on July 2, the day before Jana disclosed its stake and called for PetSmart to explore a sale. PetSmart shares on Friday closed at $77.67. Phoenix-based PetSmart, which has about 54,000 employees and operates 1,387 pet stores, said in August it would explore a potential sale of the company. PetSmart faced mounting investor pressure at a time when fierce competition from large retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc and Amazon, is squeezing specialty stores. Last month, PetSmart reported flat third-quarter net income of $92.2 million as net sales rose 2.6 percent to $1.7 billion. Buyout firms KKR &amp; Co LP and Clayton, Dubilier &amp; Rice LLC had also teamed up to bid for the company, Reuters reported last month. Apollo Global Management LLC, another buyout firm, had also vied for PetSmart, according to people familiar with the matter. Representatives for these private equity firms declined to comment. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz advised PetSmart. BC Partners and its partners were advised by Simpson Thacher &amp; Bartlett LLP and Ernst &amp; Young. Longview was advised by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom. Citigroup, Nomura, Jefferies, Barclays and Deutsche Bank have committed to finance the acquisition with debt. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Paul Simao and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThe holiday season means holiday parties, and if your schedule is anything like ours, you're going to be buying a lot of wine. We asked sommelier Jörn Kleinhans, owner of the Wine Elite Sommelier Company, to share some of his favorite affordable picks. FREE AppDownload
BMO Capital MarketsTechnological advances in hydraulic fracturing in recent years have enabled drillers to extract oil and gas from America's shale basins. The subsequent shale boom has been a big source of business spending, new jobs, and cheap energy for America's consumers. However, the shale boom has also added to the current global glut in oil supply, which is partially to blame for the recent crash in oil prices. While lower oil prices might be trouble for the energy sector, US economists and investment strategists have argue that trouble in the energy sector will not cause systemic problems for the economy or financial markets. BMO Capital's Brian Belski notes that while energy is a major portion of the S&amp;P 500's market cap and earnings, it's been shrinking in share for almost six years. From Belski's note: ...Another concern we hear from clients is the “contribution drag” energy creates, given its meaningful weight in the index. Here again, we think investors are misinterpreting the data. For instance, energy EPS contribution for the S&amp;P 500 has collapsed to roughly half its 2008 peak. Yet as Exhibit 5 (left) shows, S&amp;P 500 EPS have had no issues rising to record levels despite the drag from energy stocks. In addition, energy is no longer as meaningful a part of the overall index – its sector weight has dropped roughly 50% from its 2007 peak and now only represents about 9% of the S&amp;P 500 (Exhibit 5, right), ranking it sixth out of the 10 sectors in this regard. Therefore, we believe some investors are overemphasizing energy’s importance in this bull market... So, if you're heavily invested in energy, you should be concerned. But if you're well-diversified or indexed to the S&amp;P 500 — all things being equal — you should be okay. Separate, Belski expects the S&amp;P 500 to hit 2,250 by the end of 2015. FREE AppDownload
CBS News/screenshotA mystery man only known as “Secret Santa” has given thousands of dollars to the Jackson County Sheriff’s Department for officers to disperse to strangers in need this holiday season.It’s unlike any sting operation in the country — and it’s all orchestrated by a mystery man. Every year around Christmas, an anonymous, wealthy businessman hands out about $100,000 to strangers, according to the CBS Evening News. This year, however, he’s turned to the Jackson County Sheriff’s Department for help. The man, known only to law enforcement personnel as “Secret Santa,” gave officers earlier this month stacks of $100 bills to give away to those that the cops determined needed it most. “Let’s start with a thousand,” the mystery man said as he handed each officer cash to disperse to strangers in the community. The cops were then sent out into the Kansas City area, targeting those they thought were in need of some holiday magic. CBS News/screenshot“Merry Christmas,” one deputy said as he handed money to an individual he had just pulled over. “You’re kidding. Oh my God, no,” the driver replied in disbelief. A Jackson County Sheriff’s Department officer holds a $100 bill given to him by a mystery man known as “Secret Santa” to provide to a stranger in need. (Image source: Instagram/CBS Evening News) One driver, Jessica Rodriguez, was moved to tears. “How you doing, m’am?” the deputy asked her after pulling her over. “I’m good until you pulled me over,” she sternly answered. “Okay, well, on behalf of Secret Santa, he wants you to have this, OK?” the deputy said. The stunned mother of three expressed her gratitude toward the officer, telling him that she “wasn’t going to be able to get my kids anything” for Christmas. “Well, I hope you may be able to get your kids something with it,” he replied. The “Secret Santa” behind the scenes told the CBS Evening News that he wants officers to get “joy” out of being the bearers of good news for a change. “You know, as tough as they are they have hearts that are bigger than the world,” he said. — Follow Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) on Twitter FREE AppDownload

Morgan StanleyMorgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart says it's only a small part of the story.In the US, there are two basic  sides to the crashing oil price story. On one side, it's great because it means cheaper energy prices for consumers and businesses everywhere. And everyone's going to spend those savings on all sorts of goods and services that'll fuel economic growth. On the other side, it's horrible because it means energy companies may have to scale back their plans for spending on shale drilling projects if the price of oil can't cover the costs of production. This shale fracking boom the US has been experiencing has been a big source of business spending and new jobs. That latter matter has been a source of consternation and confusion for some folks. Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart offers some more color on that latter matter. Our Exploration &amp; Production industry analysts have concluded that “if oil prices remain low for a sustained period (12-18 months) there will be notable impacts to [industry] growth for 2015, but more meaningful for 2016.” They also believe that if Brent prices are sustained under $75/bbl, “the US capex cuts inflect more dramatically.” Finally, in the outlook for shale-related investment, they've noted that even as oil prices are declining, breakeven prices for shale producers have fallen “by up to $30/bbl since 2012,” with some major producers' breakevens in the $30-60/bbl (WTI) range... With Brent currently sitting at around $62 per barrel and WTI at $58 per barrel, it's looking more and more likely that the energy industry should look forward to a major cool down. This is a complex story. But based on what we've read and what the experts have told us, we can break down the implications three ways: 1. Fracking Profits Will Get Crushed. Small drillers will struggle to cover their costs. But they'll keep producing as long as it'll cover the interest expense on their high-yield debt. Nevertheless, default risk rises, which is why the prices of stocks and junk bonds in this sector are getting smoked. According to FactSet, analysts expect energy sector earnings to be down 11.9% year-over-year in 2015. 2. US Business Spending Will Be Impacted. Capital expenditures (capex) in the US oil business represents a growing, decent chunk of US business investment; currently just over 10% (see blue line in chart above). It's an even bigger chunk of the S&amp;P 500 spending; around a third. 3. The US Economy And Stock Market As A Whole Won't Even Notice. While oil and gas capex represents an increasing share of overall capex, it represents less than 1% of GDP (see yellow line in chart above). For the stock market, the 11.9% drop in expected energy sector profits will be more than offset by gains elsewhere. According to FactSet, analysts expect S&amp;P 500 earnings to rise 8.6% in 2015. FREDOil has only been going down lately.There's no getting around the fact that lower oil prices are bad news for the oil sector. But what's bad for the oil sector is more than good for the rest of the economy and the markets. "Consumer spending represents 68% of the US economy," Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders noted. "Oil and gas capex represents about 1% of US GDP and less than 9% of US total capex (which in turn represents about 12% of US GDP). Therefore, the benefit of lower energy prices to the consumer and many businesses greatly outweighs the significant hit to energy companies and/or energy-oriented capex, especially in energy-oriented states." So, that's the whole story in a nutshell. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Lionel BonaventureParisian taxi drivers have vowed to block major highways into the city to protest ride-sharing service Uber, joining a list of European countries that are fed up with the companyParis (AFP) - Parisian taxi drivers have vowed to block roads leading into the French capital on Monday to protest a court's refusal to ban urban ridesharing service UberPOP. Like their counterparts in large cities across the globe, Parisian taxi drivers are fed up with what they see as unfair competition from Uber's popular smartphone taxi service. UberPOP, which uses non-professional drivers using their own cars to take on passengers at budget rates, has 160,000 users in France, according to the company. A commercial court in Paris ruled on Friday that a new law making it harder for Uber drivers to solicit business could not be enforced until the government had published full details of the restrictions. "It's the straw that breaks the camel's back," said Ibrahima Sylla, president of France Taxis, whose organisation has joined several others in calling for the early morning protest on Monday.  They have urged taxi drivers to gather at the northern Roissy Charles de Gaulle airport and the southern Orly airport at 05:00 am before slowly converging on the city in a bid to block arterial highways. "This is a fight against Uber. We're fed up. Allowing UberPOP means leaving 57,000 French taxis high and dry, and thus 57,000 families. And that is out of the question," said Sylla. Reuters The Federation of Independent Parisian Taxis for their part wrote on Facebook: "It is about saying no to injustice, no to illegal work." San Francisco-based Uber is giving the US and European taxi industries a run for their money by hooking up drivers and passengers through a cellphone application. The company founded in 2009 is worth a whopping $40 billion (32 billion euros) and says it operates in 250 cities in 50 countries. However it is battling lawsuits in a string of countries for unfair competition and rising anger over drivers who are not properly vetted and beholden to no one. New Delhi last week banned Uber from operating in the Indian capital after a passenger accused one of its drivers of rape. Thailand, the Netherlands and Spain have ruled it illegal and Denmark and Norway have filed complaints against the company. Brussels also announced Friday it plans to file a complaint. The company argued in France that banning its service violates the practice of free enterprise and the principle of equality. FREE AppDownload
Mike Rowe, the host of "Dirty Jobs," tells some compelling (and horrifying) real-life job stories. Listen for his insights and observations about the nature of hard work and how it has been unjustifiably degraded in society. WATCH MORE: The Full Interview With Mike Rowe   Behind The Brand takes you behind the scenes at some of the coolest brands as well as talk with world-class thought leaders and entrepreneurs so you can get an inside look at how they do it.  Follow Behind The Brand: On YouTube Follow host Bryan Elliott: On Twitter
Boosted BoardNo one really wants another scarf this holiday season.  We polled the men of Business Insider to see what gifts would put the biggest grins on their faces, and then picked our favorite items to match their wishes. From kitchen gadgets to electronics, here are the gifts guys really want for the holidays. FREE AppDownload
Sometimes it feels like all anyone has time to do these days is work.  And thanks to decades of stagnant wages, a lot of people do have to work grueling hours, and multiple jobs, just to tread water. But as these charts from Max Roser at Our World In Data show, on average, in developed countries, people work a lot less than they used to. Max Roser, Our World In Data Max Roser, Our World In Data One caveat on these charts is that they show hours-worked-per-employed-person, not hours worked per-capita. The entry of many women into the out-of-home work force over the last five decades has meant that, in many countries, the percentage of the population counted as "working" has risen sharply. So in many households, the total-hours-worked-per-household has probably risen. (Of course, as anyone who has managed all the work around a house will attest—especially without modern shopping, cooking, and cleaning tools—women have busted their butts for centuries. It's only recently however that their work has been counted as "work.") SEE ALSO: No, Seriously, The World Is Getting Better All The Time FREE AppDownload

A GOVERNMENT television channel dubbed Vladimir Putin's latest state of the nation address "A Message from Above". Dmitry Kiselev, Mr Putin's chief propagandist, even likened it to speeches by Roosevelt, Churchill and De Gaulle. Mr Putin's sermon had both messianic and defensive overtones. He called Crimea a sacred place, rather like the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. "It was in Crimea, in the ancient city of Chersonesus or Korsun, that Grand Prince Vladimir was baptised before bringing Christianity to Russia ... this allows us to say that Crimea and Sevastopol have invaluable civilisational and even sacred importance for Russia. And this is how we will think of it--from now and forever." Andrei Kuraev, a Russian Orthodox deacon, noted in his blog that, although Mr Putin's statement had little basis in religion, it resembled Mussolini's 1930s assertion that "Ethiopia, from now and forever, belongs to Italy which has become what it was during the time of Julius Caesar." In fact, remarkably few Russians are even aware of Vladimir's baptism in Crimea. For them the peninsula is linked to hedonism rather than spirituality. It was a place for holidays, summer romances, state sanatoriums and dachas. It is also at the heart of Russia's post-imperial nostalgia, and it was to this that Mr Putin was appealing. Soviet ideology proclaimed a Utopian future; modern Russian ideology focuses on the past. But the key ingredient of confrontation with America remains the same. In his speech Mr Putin cast it as part of an existential struggle for Russia's survival as a sovereign state, likening the West to Hitler who "set out to destroy Russia and push us back beyond the Urals". Western sanctions, Mr Putin insisted, were a result not of his meddling in Ukraine, but of America's desire to weaken Russia: "If none of that [ie, Ukraine] had ever happened, they would have come up with some other excuse to try to contain Russia's growing capabilities." He blamed the West for supporting Chechen insurgents who launched an attack on Grozny on the eve of his speech. Russia, in this narrative, is not an aggressor but a victim and defender of its interests and values against America, which staged a coup in Ukraine in hopes of placing missile defences there. Had Russia not moved into Crimea, it would have become a military base for America. REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoA Ukrainian naval officer (C) passes by Russian special forces as he leaves the naval headquarters in Sevastopol, March 19, 2014. The main reason why people believe propaganda is because it resonates with their own feelings. As Mikhail Yampolsky, a cultural historian, argues, the dominant feeling, exploited and fuelled by the Kremlin, is of resentment: a sense of jealousy and hostility. People who are deprived of any say in their own fate turn their resentment on an imagined enemy, be it Ukrainian "fascists" or American imperialists. Yet, just as with Soviet propaganda, which blamed outside enemies for the country's failures, resentment is vulnerable to reality. When television pictures contradict people's personal experience, they stop working. "You can't really 'sell' anything to people, that they don't wish to buy," says one television boss. As the ratings show, Russians are tiring of news about Western aggression. "People now want to watch melodramas and fairy tales," says the TV boss. What most Russians really need is news about the unfolding economic crisis that Mr Putin's message from above largely ignored. The continuing fall in the rouble, eroding living standards and a sharp rise in food prices are worrying people far more than the fate of separatists in Ukraine. Now that sanctions are starting to bite, enthusiasm for war and isolation is diminishing fast. "Cognitive consonance between propaganda and people's self-feel does not withstand external shocks," says Mikhail Dmitriev, head of New Economic Growth, a think-tank.  BloombergThe ruble has lost about 42% of its value since January, battered by Western sanctions imposed over Ukraine and the oil crash. Over the past nine months opinion polls find that support for the presence of Russian troops in Ukraine have fallen from 74% to 23%. Many who dismissed Western sanctions as irrelevant now fret over Russia's isolation. "The sanctions are working," says Lev Gudkov, head of the Levada Centre, an independent pollster. The consumers who have emerged in Russia's big cities in the past decade are "not prepared to tighten their belts," he adds. This does not mean that such people are prepared to sacrifice their consumption for civic freedoms, either. Despite growing anxiety about living standards, Mr Putin's popularity rating remains at record levels. Yet, as the street protests in 2011 showed, this could change quickly. Polls show that the overall view of the state as corrupt and uninterested in the people remains as strong as ever. Mr Putin is aware of the dangers. To sustain his position, he needs the West to start lifting sanctions so as to induce more economic growth in Russia, but he also has to keep up the appearance of an enemy both within and outside. To achieve this Mr Putin might yet surrender the east of Ukraine while keeping Crimea. Novorossiya, an historic term that Mr Putin invoked to justify Russia's intervention in south-east Ukraine, was notably absent from his state of the nation speech. He is also hoping that he can entice businesses to invest more in Russia without any political liberalisation. Less than a week after his speech, in which Mr Putin proclaimed "freedom" as a necessary condition for the country's growth, Russian civil institutions came under renewed pressure. The Moscow School of Civic Education, one of Russia's oldest NGOs, which campaigns for the rule of law, was added to the list of foreign agents. Memorial, a noted human-rights group, is under threat. And Andrei Sakharov's centre is being harassed. Yet while this will further undermine civil society, it is unlikely to compensate most Russians for their declining incomes. REUTERS/Ahmad Masood Putin attends the inauguration of World Diamond Conference in New Delhi December 11, 2014. So far, it seems, Mr Putin's preferred method of dealing with Russia's crisis is to talk the country out of it. His message from above was meant to persuade the people and the elite that nothing terrible is happening and that Russia can weather both the West's sanctions and falling oil prices. Yet Mr Putin looked tired and anxious, betraying a lack of confidence. It was a sharp contrast with his question and answer session of four year ago, when a young Russian from Tyumen, an oil town in Siberia, asked him: "Is it true you are blessed with luck?" "Yes," Mr Putin answered confidently at the time. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
rachelpasch/flickrDecisions, decisions.We like to think that we're totally logical when we make decisions.  But over the past few decades, social science has uncovered a staggering number of cognitive biases that shape our behavior — whether we know it or not. We've collected a list of the most common ones.  FREE AppDownload
Most naturally occurring data sets follow a strange rule called Benford's Law. This rule allows you to predict how often each number 1 through 9 will appear as the first non-zero digit in the data set. Benford's Law can be used to analyze financial data and identify red flags. If the data doesn't look anything like the distribution predicted by Benford's Law, it may mean the numbers have been manipulated. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
WazeLOS ANGELES (AP) — When the people whose houses hug the narrow warren of streets paralleling the busiest urban freeway in America began to see bumper-to-bumper traffic crawling by their homes a year or so ago, they were baffled. When word spread that the explosively popular new smartphone app Waze was sending many of those cars through their neighborhood in a quest to shave five minutes off a daily rush-hour commute, they were angry and ready to fight back. They would outsmart the app, some said, by using it to report phony car crashes and traffic jams on their streets that would keep the shortcut-seekers away. Months later, the cars are still there, and the people are still mad. "The traffic is unbearable now. You can't even walk your dog," said Paula Hamilton, who lives on a once quiet little street in the Santa Monica Mountains in a neighborhood called Sherman Oaks. Hamilton's winding little road up the low-slung mountains that separate the city's traffic-clogged San Fernando Valley from its equally traffic-clogged west side is now filled each weekday morning with a parade of exhaust-belching, driveway-blocking, bumper-to-bumper cars. So is practically every other nearby street that parallels the busy Interstate 405 freeway. On the other side of the mountain, where cars cruise down roads into tony Brentwood, traffic has also been the hot topic of late, with several people telling each other they will fool the app with their phony accident reports. "I don't know if you could find anyone who would admit to doing it, but several people have said they will," longtime resident Joann Killeen said. If they have, they've obviously failed. Killeen said her four-mile commute to UCLA, where she teaches a public relations class, can take two hours during rush hour. "The streets on the west side are no longer a secret for locals, and people are angry," she said. That's because the app can't be outsmarted, Waze spokeswoman Julie Mossler said. "With millions of users in LA, fake, coordinated traffic reports can't come to fruition because they'll be negated by the next 10 people that drive down the street passively using Waze," she said. Besides, Mossler added, "people are inherently good," meaning most wouldn't really screw with the app, no matter what they might say. Indeed, of all the angry people interviewed for this story, none would admit doing so, although most said they heard someone else had. Many, however, have been complaining to local officials. "First thing this morning, my field deputy took an earful from a resident up there," said City Councilman Tom LaBonge, who represents Hamilton's neighborhood. AP/Nick UtIn this Thursday, Dec. 4, 2014 photo resident Paula Hamilton stands on a street outside her house in the Sherman Oaks section of Los Angeles. There are some things that can be done to mitigate the situation, said Los Angeles Department of Transportation spokesman Bruce Gillman, like placing speed bumps and four-way stop signs on streets. Lanes could even be taken out to discourage shortcut seekers, but a neighborhood traffic study would have to be done first. "Road diet, they call it," Gillman said. "It's to make streets so people can walk, people can bike." But the bigger problem, Gillman said, is that everybody is using smartphone apps these days and they will quickly find every shortcut out there. "I plead guilty to that," said Richard Close, who is president of the Sherman Oaks Homeowners Association that represents Hamilton's neighborhood. As soon as he gets over the hill to Killeen's neighborhood, Close said, he uses the app to find the fastest route to his office in Santa Monica. Killeen herself admitted she uses Waze and also Sigalert.com to get around town. Which seems to speak to Mossler's contention that the real problem facing LA residents isn't the traffic app. It's the traffic. Los Angeles County has 7.6 million registered vehicles, more than some states. The Interstate 405 Freeway that parallels the unhappy neighborhoods carries 379,000 cars a day. So while a shortcut down a sleepy street might not be a problem in a place like Des Moines or even Detroit, it's a different story in a city that last year was again ranked No. 1 for the nation's most time-consuming traffic jams. "Los Angeles is a powder keg of cars, construction and population that will only continue to get worse," Mossler said she wrote to a person from the 405 neighborhood who complained. "With or without Waze, drivers will be looking for alternatives to major thoroughfares." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Regular 10% returns per year in the stock market are a myth. So are 9% returns and 11% returns. In introductory finance courses, you might be taught that the stock market climbs around 10% per year. While this might be true historically when you're talking about long-run, annualizaed average returns, it's actually quite rare to have individual years that actually 10% returns. Even over extended periods, it's hard to see any pattern of stable annualized returns. US Trust's Joseph Quinlan illustrates this reality about stock market returns in the chart above. In the past five years, we've actually experienced stellar 15.6% annualized returns. That's certainly a nice surprise for anyone expecting 10% returns. "Interestingly, notwithstanding the robust returns of this decade, five-year annualized returns over the second half of the 1990s were even stronger—tallying +28.5% between 1995 and 1999," Quinlan noted in a Nov. 24 report. "Then, of course, the technology sector led the way, buoyed and fueled by the dot-com boom that resulted in the technology sector posting staggering +52.3% returns over the 1995 – 1999 period. However, the good times, as we all know, ended shortly thereafter." Over the two five-year periods before the current one, returns were between nil to negative. For investors, this is something to keep in mind. You might experience long periods of better-than-expected returns. And you might also experience long periods of horrific losses. Regardless, an expectation for 10% per year is just unreasonable, and it's likely to feed into bad short-term investing decisions. NOTE: Regarding the long-run future returns, there are some folks who expect little to no annualized returns for years, and others who expect high-single-digit to low-double-digit returns. Again, those are annualized returns. Both of those camps would probably agree that there'll be some years where returns will way outside of their long-run average forecasts. FREE AppDownload
This week's edition of Barron's looks toward 2015.  As Josh Brown highlighted, the magazine couldn't find one person who thinks stocks will go down next year. (For the record, we haven't found anyone to say that so far, either.)  But in looking back on 2014, Barron's included the handy graphic below. The highlights: it definitely seems like it's been more than a year since Janet Yellen officially took over as Fed chair, and remember $107 WTI crude? Barely.  Barron's You can read the full report from Barron's here » FREE AppDownload
Carl Richards / Behavior GapNew York Times columnist, author, and financial planner Carl Richards has made a career out of exposing and analyzing what he calls the "behavior gap" — the gap between what you should do with your money and what you actually do. Richards has boiled down his wisdom on wealth and happiness in a dozen sketches that he's giving away to his readers during the "12 Days Of Behavior Gap," and which anyone can receive by signing up for his newsletter. We've shared them here with his permission. FREE AppDownload
RobinhoodRobinhood goes live today. And it just launched today. Robinhood, a zero-commission brokerage app for iPhone, is unlike any existing stock-market app. For starters, it's mobile first. That has allowed the company to rethink traditional brokerage cost structures. With no human traders to pay – or ancient infrastructure running the trades – they're able to cut out those overhead costs. As a result, Robinhood doesn't charge a commission for standard trades, nor does it require any minimum deposits. "Imagine you’re a first-time investor in your early 20s. You have a few hundred dollars – maybe a thousand dollars – to put in the market. You want to learn how it works. Seven to 10 dollars eats into that quite a bit," said cofounder Vladimir Tenev. That's the going rate for most other apps. But Tenev and cofounder Baiju Bhatt think even a modest fee like that is prohibitive for younger, smaller-scale investors.  Their "freemium" model allows customers to buy and sell US-listed stocks and ETFs, place market orders and limit orders, track data in real time, and customize watchlists for free. The app will, however, charge customers for premium services like margin lending. RobinhoodThe co-founders were inspired by the Occupy Wall Street Movement. At the time, Bhatt, now 29, and Tenev, 27, had just built their first finance startup, an equities-trading software company based out of California. They saw their institutional customers placing trades at no cost, and wanted to help everyday customers do the same. "We kind of asked ourselves, ‘Could we do something bigger than this? Couldn’t we try to do something a little better than this?’" Bhatt said. Tenev and Bhatt, former roommates who met while studying physics at Stanford, used their new finance experience and tech backgrounds to build Robinhood. With it, they hope to inspire a new wave of investors. In the 12 months since Robinhood was first announced, nearly 500,000 people have joined a wait list to download the app. Nearly all of those people are in their twenties, and the co-founders know that most of them won't be coughing up for its premium features.  But they're okay with that.  "It’s true that a 20-something is going to have less funds than a 50-year-old, but they’ll become a 50-year-old at some point," said Tenev. He and Bhatt are confident they will still be there when that happens. Robinhood's angel investors are confident too. The company has raised $16 million from an array of investors, including Snoop Dogg, Jared Leto, and Andreessen Horowitz. "It’s really, really, important that this country as a whole trusts its financial system," said Bhatt. "I think it’s really important that there actually is a company that thinks like that." Though the app rolls out on iPhone first, the founders plan to expand to Android and web as soon as possible. You can go to Robinhood's website to join the waitlist. Once you make it to the front, it only takes a few minutes to download and set up. Here's what that process looks like: Business Insider/Portia Crowe Check out the app's pretty layout. This is where you'll need to enter your invite code. (They're being sent out in chronological order to each person on the waitlist.) Once you log in, you can link your bank account and transfer funds to your Robinhood account by selecting your bank and entering your online banking password. Business Insider/Portia Crowe You'll need to answer a few personal questions: Business Insider/Portia Crowe Then you're pretty much set to go. But before you can begin trading, you'll need to wait for your information to clear and your bank transfer to go through: Business Insider/Portia Crowe In the meantime, you can build a stock watchlist and start playing around with the app: Business Insider/Portia CroweRough day for the markets.      Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg.comDollar IndexThe US dollar's run stopped last week, but not before new highs were recorded against the euro, sterling, and the yen.   By the end of the week, the euro had risen 1.4%, sterling 0.9%, and the yen had risen as much as the two of them put together.  It was the biggest weekly gain for the yen in 16-months.  There is one pressing question that international investors will be mulling this weekend:  How far and how long is the dollar's correction?    Technically, the dollar has had a strong bull run that has been sustained for several months, and the pullback, thus far, has been quite modest in terms of retracement objectives.  While that could speak to the dollar's resilience, it may mean that the correction has more room to run. Market positioning is still very extended, and the technical indicators are consistent with additional near-term dollar losses.   This might not do sufficient justice to market sentiment.  Investors have a high conviction that diverging growth and monetary policies favor the dollar in a way that has not been experienced in many years.  This point will likely be driven home next week as the Federal Reserve continues to prepare the market for a rate hike around the middle of 2015.    The Federal Reserve will acknowledge that lower oil prices can feed through to inflation and inflation expectations, but this is a short-run impact.  It will look past it and focus on the more important and lasting stimulative effect on aggregate demand.   Ironically, the Fed's dual mandate and focus on core inflation appears to give it greater degrees of freedom than the ECB or BOJ enjoy.  Still, the price action needs to be respected.  Tactically, we want to look for potential inflection points.  That is to ask, what chart points could signal a deeper or acceleration in the correction.  Our working hypothesis is that the dollar is retracing the move that began on October 15.   The euro peaked near $1.2500 last week, which corresponds to a retracement objective.  A break of it would signal a move toward $1.,2565.  A move through $1.2640 would signal something more significant is unfolding.   On the other hand, a break below $1.2350 may indicate the top is in place.   The Dollar Index is heavily weighted toward the euro and currencies that move in the euro's general orbit.  However, it offers a handy even if only partially accurate, proxy for the dollar in general. The initial retracement level (corresponding to roughly $1.25 in the euro) is near 0.8760.  A break can spur a move toward 0.8700.  A loss off 0.8640 would force long liquidation.  On the upside, a move above 0.8880 points to a resumption of the bull trend.   The dollar found initial bids around JPY117.50.  The dynamic of weaker equities and stronger yen remains very much intact.  The 10% drop in oil prices saw bond markets rally and the US 10- year yield slipped below 2.10% before the weekend.  The premium the US pays over Japan fell by nearly 20 bp over the past week.  The JPY117.00 area corresponds with a retracement objective.  The dollar's rally was so sharp that should he JPY117.00 level go, there is not much support until closer to JPY115.50.  The JPY120.00-20 offers important resistance.  Sterling finished the week with three consecutive closes above the 20-day moving average. This has not taken place since July.  Immediate resistance is seen in the $1.5800-25 area and then $1.5860, which corresponds to a retracement objective and the 50-day moving average. A break of $1.5680 would suggest the upside correction is over.   The dollar-bloc got no reprieve last week.  Rather than get pulled up with the euro and yen, the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar fell in part as some operators were forced to unwind long positions that had been funded with the yen and euro.  The Australian dollar found support near $0.8200.  Technical indicators suggest it can consolidate in the coming days.  Look for a move toward $0.8400 to be sold into.  The Canadian dollar has yet to find a bid as the US dollar reached almost CAD1.16 before the weekend.   We have been looking for CAD1.1670-CAD1.1725, and this remains realistic even if there is some consolidation.  Look for the US dollar to find support now in the CAD1.1470-CAD1.1500 area.   The collapse in oil prices continues, but the focus shifted from supply to demand.  Both OPEC and IEA cut demand projections.  It is difficult to talk about meaningful support as prices sink to multi-year lows. With WTI convincingly breaking $60 a barrel, the next target is near $52.  Given the diverse challenges that Saudi Arabia faces from within OPEC, as well as with US shale, Canadian tar sands, and the increased use of renewables, it may have to allow the price to fall even further, perhaps toward $40 before its strategic objectives can be secured.   Moreover, it is one thing for the US to satisfy more of its own demand, but US energy exports are likely to increase.  US shale producer may bring their competitive challenge to third markets.   The S&amp;P 500 lost about 2.3% last week; its first weekly loss since October.  Technical indicators point to additional downside risks.  The break of 2020 on a weekly close basis suggests immediate losses could extend to 1980.  This is a retracement objective and corresponds to the 100-day moving average.  This represents another 2% decline, but in the context of the 14% rally since mid-October's lows, it is quite modest, from a technical perspective.   Observations based on speculative positioning in the futures market: 1.  There were two significant gross position adjustments in the reporting week ending December 9. The gross short euro position was trimmed by almost 10% of 21.3k contracts to 195.2k.  This brings the decline to 44k contracts since the gross short position peaked in early November.  About 10.5k yen contracts were covered, leaving 142.2k gross short yen contracts.   2.  Reflecting the diverging price action, speculators reduced gross short euro, yen, sterling and Swiss franc positions and added to the gross short dollar-bloc currencies.  Aside from the yen and sterling, gross long positions were grown.   3.  The net short speculative currency positions were mostly reduced.  The two exceptions were the Australian dollar futures where the net short position grew to 45k from 41.1k contracts.  The net short Mexican peso position rose to 48.6k contracts from 43k.   4.  The net short speculative 10-year Treasury futures position swelled to 201k contracts from 163k. This was clearly more about longs taking profits rather than shorts selling into the rally.  The gross long position fell to 305.7k contracts, a decline of 38.7k.  The gross short position rose by 100 contracts to 507.1k.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kham  Women walk next to a Louis Vuitton sign as they enter the luxury Trang Tien Plaza shopping mall in Hanoi July 19, 2013.AT THE TRANG TIEN PLAZA shopping mall in Hanoi, Vietnam's capital, on some evenings a curious spectacle unfolds. Couples in wedding finery pose for photographs in front of illuminated shop windows, with Salvatore Ferragamo, Louis Vuitton and Gucci offering the sort of backdrop for romance more usually provided by the sea or the mountains. The women are not wearing Ferragamo's Vara pumps, with their distinctive bows, or toting Vuitton's subtly monogrammed handbags. They cannot afford them. Tran Van Cuon, who assembles mobile phones at a Samsung factory, posed with his fiancée in a brown suit and bow tie that cost him the equivalent of $150. Some day he hopes to become a customer in the mall. Until then, he will proudly display the photos in his home. To stumble across an outpost of European luxury in a relatively poor and nominally socialist country is not all that surprising. Luxuries such as silk have travelled long distances for many centuries, and even modern luxury-goods makers have been pursuing wealth in new places for more than a century. Georges Vuitton, son of Louis, the inventor of the world's most famous luggage, showed off the company's flat-topped trunks (better for stacking than traditional round-topped ones) at the Chicago World's Fair in 1893. The oil-rich Middle East has been a magnet for expensive foreign trinkets since the 1960s. The Japanese became insatiable consumers in the 1970s. Today, two in five Japanese are thought to own a Vuitton product. And now it is China's turn to lap up luxury. As luxury-goods sales have expanded geographically, they have also spread across the social scale. When Coco Chanel created her No. 5 perfume in the 1920s she reserved it for her best couture clients, but in the following decade she sold it in smaller bottles so that more women could afford it. Cartier's "Les Must" jewellery in the 1970s put the brand within reach of consumers who could only yearn for Panthère necklaces and Tank watches. Many other brands followed Cartier's sortie du temple (descent from the temple), seeking to broaden their appeal while retaining their cachet. Not all succeeded. Over the past 20 years the number of luxury-goods consumers worldwide has more than trebled to 330m, according to Bain &amp; Company, a consulting firm. Their spending on expensive jewellery, watches, clothing, handbags and so on has risen at double the rate of global GDP. Most of these new buyers are not the very rich but the merely prosperous, with incomes of up to EUR150,000 ($188,000). Shares of listed luxury companies have far outperformed those of other companies (see chart). The Economist Consumers' rush to quality has created billionaires at a rate that Silicon Valley might envy, especially among the main shareholders of luxury conglomerates that have gathered together many of the best-known brands. They include Bernard Arnault, a French tycoon who controls LVMH, owner of Louis Vuitton, Moët &amp; Chandon champagne and a host of other brands, and his rival François-Henri Pinault, whose Kering group owns Gucci, a big Italian leather-goods maker. Nick Hayek's Swatch Group and Johann Rupert's Richemont (Cartier's owner) are powerhouses in watches and jewellery. Among the owners who have made fortunes from selling stakes to investors in the past few years are Brunello Cucinelli, whose eponymous company makes casual-chic clothing at serious prices, and Remo Ruffini, a fellow Italian who floated Moncler, a maker of down jackets. Personal luxury goods are just one small corner of this empire of opulence. Upmarket options can be found in industries from health care to banking, though most analysts leave such things out of their reckoning. Using consumers' own perception of what constitutes luxury goods and services, the Boston Consulting Group reckons that $1.8 trillion was spent on such items in 2012. The biggest category is travel, followed by cars and then personal luxury goods. Bain comes up with a smaller sum for a similar spread of sectors (see chart). But luxury's boundaries are fuzzy and hotly disputed. This special report will concentrate on personal goods, which face the tricky task of trying to achieve global scale while maintaining the artisan roots that give them rarity appeal. Ultra-expensive cars will make only a brief appearance, and yachts will just sail by on the horizon: globally, only 14,000 people are able to afford a really big one. But the report will include such fast-growing "experiential" sectors as hotels and wine, which are growing faster than things to buy and own. To view the world through the lens of luxury is to see it subtly altered. Some of the normal rules do not apply to luxury-goods makers, even though in many ways they are similar to other consumer-goods companies. The cost of production is not usually a prime concern and capital investment is generally modest, except for watches. REUTERS/Olivia HarrisA model poses for a photograph with a Faberge egg necklace at the Faberge shop in central London November 21, 2012.  A really prestigious item can be a "Veblen good", named after an American economist born in the mid-19th century who noticed that demand for some goods actually rises as they get more expensive because they confer yet more status. And the margins even on lesser luxury goods are much better than on mass-market items. Luxury companies like to set their own agenda. Their creative directors oversee both the development of new products and the way they are presented in magazines, shop windows and online. "We are not going to let people influence the vision," says Patrick Albaladejo, deputy managing director of Hermès, a French luxury house so august it claims not to have a marketing department. Luxury companies often get the most attention for the things they sell least of. Karl Lagerfeld, Chanel's creative director, made headlines this year by sending his models down a catwalk decked out as a grocery shop. But "the bread and butter of the company are chemicals," explains Armando Branchini of the Altagamma Foundation, which represents Italian luxury firms. Luxury perfumes and cosmetics are thought to account for over half of Chanel's business. Diageo, a big drinks company, has a "Reserve" division that gives special attention to its priciest tipples, such as Johnnie Walker Blue Label whisky. They are marketed through the patient cultivation of the coolest bars and influential "advocates". "You need to be a black belt in relationships when it's about luxury," says James Thompson, who runs the division. Luxury's lens does odd things to the map as well. Europe is still the pre-eminent maker; its brands account for 70% of the world's luxury consumption. Germany matters in cars and yachts, but the real powerhouse is Italy, which serves as the workshop for French fashion and leather goods as well as its own. Luxury is "one of the few industries where Europe has a sustainable competitive advantage", says Michael Ward, managing director of Harrods, a posh London department store. America is both an underexploited market, given its wealth, and a base for brash competitors such as Coach, Michael Kors and Kate Spade, which are challenging established European brands with a more affordable take on luxury. China, already a voracious consumer, is just beginning to stir as an exporter. REUTERS/Tony GentileItalian actress Cristina Capotondi attends the red carpet for the movie "La Rancon de la gloire" (The Price of Fame) at the 71st Venice Film Festival August 28, 2014.  Of late, though, the champagne has gone a bit flat. The war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed on Russia in response have put off rich citizens of that country, among the giddiest new consumers. The Japanese went on a spree early this year ahead of a rise in value-added tax, then stopped spending. The Ebola epidemic in Africa and pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, where Chinese mainlanders do much of their shopping, have unnerved consumers. Most important, slower economic growth and the anti-corruption campaign mounted by Xi Jinping, China's leader, have dampened the spirits of Chinese shoppers, who now account for nearly a third of the global demand for personal luxury goods. The share prices of recently listed luxury companies have fallen by a quarter this year. After two decades when annual growth averaged nearly 6%, the rate this year will be just 2%, predict Bain and Altagamma. These passing crises come on top of more profound changes. One of them is a shift from "having" to "being", especially in rich countries, where the well-off are becoming less keen on owning and more interested in experiencing things. Consumers in China are turning from monogrammed showiness to subtler elegance. Younger people everywhere have their own ideas about how to consume luxury, helped by social media and e-commerce. Inequality is a growing concern from Berlin to Beijing. Last year a pope whose red shoes were widely (but wrongly) thought to have been made by Prada, an Italian fashion house, gave way to one who shuns the Apostolic Palace for a guesthouse. That captures the mood and contributes to it. Sobriety has bypassed some sectors, including fine wine and expensive cars. Yacht sales, too, are buoyant again after a period in the doldrums in the late 2000s, and today's yachtsmen often add a helicopter or two to their order. But mostly substance is winning over style. In some ways, today's preoccupation with sustainability plays into the hands of luxury-goods makers. With their ample margins, they can afford to reduce the environmental damage they cause. "Luxury can show the path that answers the major issues of our century," argues Marie-Claire Daveu, Kering's sustainability chief. By and large, makers of luxury goods employ European workers rather than sweatshop serfs in Bangladesh. The key trend now, says Diageo's Mr Thompson, is "away from show for its own sake towards knowledge, appreciation, craft and heritage--something with a story." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban talked with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's IGNITION 2014. He told us what he considers to be the hardest thing to do as a sports team owner.Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook   IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
FarmedHereThank God for taxpayers ON A grey day in December Johnny Anderes, the head chef at The Kitchen, a trendy restaurant in Chicago, is checking out a farm in an unlikely place. FarmedHere, which claims to be one of America's largest "indoor vertical farms", occupies 90,000 square feet of former warehouse in a run-down Chicago suburb. It grows three types of basil, baby kale, micro-radish and arugula (rocket) in vertically stacked beds, lit with LEDs and fed with water from tanks of hormone-free tilapia. Mark Thoman of FarmedHere says the farm will be able to produce 1m pounds of leafy greens a year when it reaches full capacity. He concedes that his ultra-local, organic produce is costlier than food grown on the Midwest's megafarms. But wealthy foodies don't mind. "We have more demand than we can supply," he says. The EconomistCarl Zulauf of Ohio State University sees two trends in American farming. One is the growth of local microfarms for picky posh people. The other is the success of high-tech big farms that produce cheap food for everyone else, as well as plant-based fuels and chemicals. Farmers have just had five fat years during which crops such as maize (corn), soyabeans, sugar cane, cotton, rice and potatoes have generated record profits. Now the demand for (corn and sugar-based) ethanol is stagnant, the Chinese economy is slowing and the supply of most crops was bigger than demand this year. "We are now entering a boom-moderation period," declares Chris Hurt at Purdue University in Indiana. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) forecasts that net farm income will be $96.9 billion in 2014, down 23% from 2013. The forecast for this year is the lowest since 2010, but still 15% higher than the previous ten-year average. Income from crops is expected to fall 12.3%, mainly because of weak prices for corn and soyabeans. Many farmers, however, will compensate by raising more livestock, for which 2014 was a bumper year. According to the USDA, income from animal farming will increase by 14% this year, largely due to record prices for beef and milk. Low crop prices mean cheaper animal feed, which is excellent news if you have pigs to fatten. The Library Of Congress via Flickr Analysts expect crop prices to remain low this year, next year and maybe even longer. A bushel (25kg) of corn now costs $3.81, down from $8.49 in August 2012. This year, thanks to the taxpayers who were held down and fleeced by the latest farm bill, farmers will receive up to $5 billion in subsidies through a new model of crop insurance. No matter how rich they are, they get paid if their crops fail or prices fall too far. The payouts "will certainly be much higher than the $2 billion in direct payments that farmers received last year", says Vincent Smith of Montana University, who thinks crop farmers should buy their own insurance without subsidies. Crop insurers will adjust rates to the new crop prices, so the crop-insurance bonanza won't last for ever. Happily for farmers, they will still get subsidies through the commodity-insurance programme, another provision of the farm bill that protects farmers against "multi-year risk". Plenty of farmers also built up reserves during the boom years. The average wealth of a farm household is four to five times that of a non-farm household. At least 50 billionaires received farm subsidies between 1995 and 2002, according to the Environmental Working Group, a watchdog. One measure of the health of the farm business is the price of farmland, which rose sharply in the Midwest after 2009 but has now settled down, thanks to the fall in crop prices, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Fields in Indiana and Michigan became a little costlier in the year to October, but those in Illinois and Iowa got cheaper, and there was no change in Wisconsin. This could mean leaner days ahead. Time to hire more lobbyists? Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Advertisers spend a lot of time and money coming up with the right logo for their product. So it's no surprise that there's usually more to a logo than what you may notice at first glance. Many actually have some pretty cool hidden designs. Watch the video above to see subliminal messages in eight different logos that you've probably never made out before. Produced by Robert Libetti. Originally published in July 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
OPEC is not in control.  For the second time in a week, OPEC officials intimated that the recent collapse in the price of oil was not related to OPEC's actions or a fundamentally sound market. Speaking at an event in Dubai on Sunday, the secretary-general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Abdullah al-Badri, said the price of oil had fallen further than market fundamentals would have dictated, Reuters reports. "The fundamentals should not lead to this dramatic reduction" in price, al-Badri said, according to Reuters. Earlier this week, Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi told Bloomberg: "Why should I cut production? You know what a market does for any commodity. It goes up and down and up and down." But as Business Insider's Shane Ferro wrote Wednesday: "The whole point of OPEC is to use collective action, through tightly controlling the world's oil supply, to counteract the market forces that Al-Naimi is now saying should be allowed to move freely." Al-Badri added in his comments to Reuters on Sunday that OPEC's decision in November to maintain its production target was not aimed at anyone specifically. "Some people say this decision was directed at the United States and shale oil. All of this is incorrect. Some also say it was directed at Iran. And Russia. This also is incorrect," al-Badri said. And according to The Wall Street Journal's account of al-Badri's comments, al-Badri said OPEC did not have a "target price" it would seek for oil. Some, including The Economist, have speculated that OPEC's decision not to curb production amid tumbling oil prices was an effort to pressure US shale oil producers who have ramped up production significantly in the past few years. In the first week of December, US weekly oil production came in at its highest level since 1986.  On Friday, West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled at about $58 a barrel, while Brent crude oil was near $62, both five-year lows. According to Bloomberg, United Arab Emirates energy minister Suhail Al-Mazrouei said at the same conference in Dubai that, "We are not going to change our minds because the prices went to $60 or to $40 ... the market will stabilize itself."  Here's what the market has done to oil this year. Business Insider (Reuters reporting by William Maclean; writing by David French, editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSecurity guard stands in front of a screen showing Xiaomi mobile phones ahead of the launching ceremony of Xiaomi Phone 4, in Beijing MUMBAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - The court order that banned Chinese mobile maker Xiaomi from selling its phones in India has halted its breakneck expansion into the world's fastest growing major smartphone market and could be just the start of a string of patent challenges. Xiaomi Technology [XTC.UL] only started selling in India in July and quickly became the country's fastest growing smartphone brand; with minimal marketing, it is already outselling even low-cost smartphones running Google's Android One. Hugo Barra, the former Google executive now leading Xiaomi's international operations, told Reuters in November how rapidly the country had taken to his brand. All it took was a single Facebook post to draw dozens of superfans to a California Pizza Kitchen in Mumbai to meet him, he said. "It was far more than we expected. The community has really, really embraced us," he said. And then came Wednesday's court order to stop selling, after a patent infringement case was filed by telecom equipment maker Ericsson. The ban will last until at least Feb. 5, when the Delhi court hears the case again. But that is unlikely to be the end of the young company's battle over intellectual property (IP) rights. Sources close to Xiaomi say its leadership has privately acknowledged for years its vulnerability to patent entanglements. The higher risks of IP litigation in Western markets even played a role in shaping Xiaomi's strategy of expanding in India and Southeast Asia, the sources said. Xiaomi said in a statement that "it isn't easy" to build up a patent portfolio as a start-up company, but it aims to have filed 8,000 applications by 2016. On its home turf, Xiaomi has already been dogged by IP controversies with other Chinese firms, mostly over content rights for its streaming TV service. As its smartphone business, already number one in China, continues to grow, however, industry analysts expect greater pressure at home, particularly since two of its fiercest handset rivals, Huawei and ZTE Corp, are among the top telecom patent holders in China. REUTERS/Jason LeeXiaomi CEO Lei Jun shows the company's smartphone sales growth. Until it is lifted, the ban in India will be particularly hard on growth prospects. In a country where just one in 10 people use smartphones, the potential is vast. The market grew 82 percent in the third quarter, while China expanded at a relatively modest 10.8 percent, according to research firm IDC. Barra posted a message on the company's website on Friday apologizing to fans. "Rest assured that we're doing all we can to revert the situation," he wrote. "Stay tuned for more information." In China, Xiaomi already outsells Apple and Samsung Electronics in smartphones, and it became the world's third-largest vendor as of October, though it is little known outside Asia. Unlike Apple, which introduces a new iPhone just once a year, Xiaomi rolls out updated models frequently, usually in small batches that sell out in seconds. It sells only online, and with minimal advertising, relying on word of mouth to build anticipation for each new launch. In India, Xiaomi initially imported 10,000 devices a week but soon had to ramp that up to 60,000 to 100,000 to meet demand, India business chief Manu Jain told Reuters before the sales ban. It has chartered flights four times to rush in fresh supplies. Jain did not respond to a request for comment on the business impact after the order. Rushabh Doshi, an analyst at technology research firm Canalys in Singapore, said the ban would "leave a gap in the market, to be quickly filled by local or international vendors looking to increase market share". The court case will also make phone vendors wary about their current patent portfolio and require them to step up their spending on research and development, he added.  (Additional reporting by Jeremy Wagstaff in Jakarta and Miyoung Kim in Singapore; Editing by Emily Kaiser and William Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter Bader Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi.The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) lowered its projection for oil demand in 2015 to 28.9 million barrels a day — its lowest level since 2002, according to Bloomberg. The cut of about 300,000 barrels a day in expected demand comes after crude oil prices have collapsed by 40% since June. "The downward revision reflects the upward adjustment of non-OPEC supply as well as the downward revision in global demand," OPEC said in its monthly market report. The combination of slowing growth, particularly in energy-intensive countries like China, and the shale oil boom in the US has put significant pressure on oil prices over recent months. Brent crude has fallen to under $66 a barrel from a peak of $115 in June, while US benchmark WTI crude is down to $62.7 a barrel from over $107. EIABrent vs WTI crude prices in 2014. Last month OPEC decided against cutting production despite the price falls. In the statement following its decision the cartel said "although world oil demand is forecast to increase during the year 2015, this will, yet again, be offset by the projected increase of 1.36 mb/d in non-OPEC supply." What did they mean by that? Well in recent years non-OPEC supply has been increasing, meaning that OPEC's hold over global oil markets has been weakened. This means that the cartel, which controls about 40% of global oil production, is having to compete much more actively on price with non-OPEC producers to maintain market share. Here's OPEC's killer chart: OPECGlobal oil demand vs non-OPEC supply. As a demonstration of this trend, output from within OPEC actually fell by 390,000 barrels a day in November because of supply disruption in Libya, after rebels seized the country's critical Sharara oil field. However, those falls were more than compensated for by increases in non-OPEC supply, which has risen by 1.72 million barrels a day in 2014, about 580,000 a day more than OPEC's initial estimates, according to Bloomberg. This has left some analysts to speculate that for now OPEC is simply unable to halt further oil price slides. Bank of America's Francisco Blanch said the organisation was "effectively dissolved" after failing to cut production at its latest meeting over the protests of many of its members.
Carl Court/Getty ImagesRussell Brand has come a long way since showing up for work dressed as Osama Bin Laden on the day after the Twin Towers were grounded. The comedian-turned-political activist is now fighting for a much more radical change that involves scrapping international corporations and even abandoning the very idea of the nation state. Brand's recent book Revolution contains the core of his political manifesto: [Our] ultimate aim is to live in self-governing, fully autonomous, ecologically responsible, egalitarian communities. Where like-minded people, or people with compatible cultures (because all our minds are ultimately alike), can live together without fucking around with what other people are up to. The organs, both ideological and practical, are already in place: we have accommodation, hospitals, transportation and communication networks. All we have to do is disband the corruption that skews them for the advancement of an elite. To construct a roadmap for reaching this anarcho-utopian society, Brand looks to author and filmmaker Helena Norberg-Hodge. She suggests a three-point plan: 1. Rein in the power of big business by renegotiating trade treaties to insist that multinational corporations be place-based and accountable to nation states. 2. Re-localise food and farming by taxing food miles and removing subsidies for intensive agriculture. 3. Priorities life over profit by rejecting GNP in favour of indicators that measure [...] personal well-being. The plan would require a wholesale change the way we imagine 21st century business or, as Brand prefers to put it, we would need "to kill [the] corporation". He takes his inspiration for this idea from the Canadian anti-capitalistic media organisation Adbusters (emphasis added). Adbusters propose a return to the earlier corporate incarnation: with a limited function which expire at the completion of that function. This would mean a completely different cultural and economic landscape; corporations and brands would be relegated to a functional position in the society, where they serve us instead of dominating us. The idea is that a CEO should not work just to deliver a profit at the end of the year, like in the modern capitalist system, but instead focus on the function they were created for. As long as the iPhone is a great phone, Tim Cook should be happy regardless of how much money Apple makes. Unfortunately we are given precious few hints for how this would be achieved. But, then again, maybe that's the point. In a column for the Guardian written after his interview with then-Newsnight anchor Jeremy Paxman that he credits with beginning his journey from comedian to revolutionary, Brand makes clear he's only laying the seeds rather than delivering the victory: "As I said to Paxman at the time "I can't conjure up a global Utopia right now in this hotel room". Obviously that's not my job and it doesn't need to be, we have brilliant thinkers and organisations and no one needs to cook up an egalitarian Shangri-La on their todd; we can all do it together." So perhaps, given the lack of detailed proposals or even claims to leadership, what Brand is really selling here is Revolution-lite.
Oh boy. Barron’s is out with it’s 2015 Outlook issue this weekend and, of 10 major Wall Street strategists, they couldn’t find a single bear. Barron's Something tells me my friend Peter Boockvar is giggling to himself as he reads it. Full article at the link below: Outlook 2015: Stick With the Bull (Barron’s) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA crude oil train moves past the loading rack at the Eighty-Eight Oil LLC's transloading facility in Ft. Laramie NEW YORK (Reuters) - For the past 18 months, Americans from Albany to Oregon have voiced growing alarm over the rising number of oil-laden freight trains coursing through their cities, a trend they fear is endangering public safety. In at least a handful of places, the public is also helping fund it. States and the federal government have handed out tens of millions in public dollars to rail companies and government agencies to expand crude oil rail transportation across the country, a Reuters analysis has found. The public assistance in states like New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Oklahoma and Oregon comes as railroads are posting record profits, and as state and federal authorities press for safety overhauls that the oil and rail industries have opposed, following several explosive derailments. The Reuters analysis identified 10 federal and state grants either approved or pending approval, totaling $84.2 million, that helped boost the number of rail cars carrying crude oil across the nation. The funds are a fraction of total public funding for railroads each year, and look small compared to the $24 billion railroads themselves are spending annually on infrastructure. But with oil-train safety under heavy scrutiny, the public grants could be controversial and add to growing strains between the industry and some local communities who say they are ill-prepared to deal with oil spills or derailments. "Look at the towns. All they're getting are more trains in their backyard and all the risk with no financial benefits," said Dan McCoy, the County Executive in Albany, New York, where taxpayer funds have contributed to growing oil-train shipments. In May, Albany's sheriff, Craig Apple, warned that regional emergency crews weren't equipped to respond to any major derailment. "I am not seeing any increases in tax revenue, but I am seeing an increase in the cost of emergency services," McCoy said. Since 2008, there have been at least 10 major oil-train derailments across the U.S. and Canada, including a disaster that killed 47 in a Quebec town last July. Officials and rail executives offer a counter-argument: the funds help improve safety for an industry that is helping revive the economy in some places. Last year, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo awarded CSX Railroad a $2 million grant to add a second 3.6-mile rail line just south of the state capital in a county that now handles about a fourth of the Bakken's oil, a light, volatile crude whose vapors have exploded in several past derailments. CSX spokesman Rob Doolitle said the new line allows the railroad to idle fewer trains in the region, block fewer crossings, and serve at least 200 different businesses more efficiently. "Local communities benefit from increased capacity," Doolittle said. CSX posted record revenues of $3.2 billion in the third quarter. Transportation Safety Board of Canada The taxpayer dollars are going to a rail industry that has transformed the U.S. energy market: Amid a shale-drilling boom that has overwhelmed the nation's pipeline network, oil-train traffic has surged at least 42-fold since 2009, and 415,000 railcar loads of oil plied the nation's tracks last year. As oil-trains increasingly make up for a lack of pipelines, they share the tracks with passenger and other freight trains on some of the busiest U.S. rail corridors. Emergency responders in several regions have complained that they lack information to track them and quickly respond to accidents. While federal law now requires rail operators carrying Bakken crude to report routes and the number of trains that transit through each state, railroads have been reluctant to share specifics publicly, citing security risks. Philadelphia is one of the unlikely locales that has been both alarmed and enriched by the oil-by-rail industry. In 2012, The Carlyle Group led a rescue of the East Coast's biggest refinery, which had been slated for closure, aided in part by a state-backed aid package that included $10 million to build a new rail terminal. The 335,000-barrel-a-day plant is making money once again thanks in large part to the rail terminal, which receives six miles of oil-laden railcars daily from North Dakota’s Bakken. In September, Philadelphia Energy Solutions (PES), an oil refining complex controlled by hedge fund Carlyle Group, announced plans to sell shares in its crude-by-rail terminal, a move that may fetch hundreds of millions of dollars and reduce its corporate tax burden. Carlyle declined comment, but the company has previously said that government assistance helped to save at least 850 jobs at PES and boost Pennsylvania's economy. Earlier this year, six railcars transporting Bakken oil to the PES rail terminal derailed on a bridge over the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia’s Center City. No oil spilled from the CSX-operated train, but images of railcars teetering above the city's vital waterway shocked locals and prompted protests. "It spooked a lot of people in Philadelphia, and really raised the profile of the issue of crude by rail, an issue most people don't think about," said Matt Walker, a director with the local Clean Air Council. Citing high costs, oil and rail industry groups have resisted some of the U.S. Department of Transportation's recent proposals to enhance crude-by-rail safety, which include quick retirement or retrofitting of older, accident-prone railcars, lower speed limits, and mandatory electronic railcar braking systems. Railroads and local transport authorities say public grants are a public good. Since 2011, Oklahoma has received two federal grants worth $8.6 million that were used to fund privately-held FarmRail System, a regional rail operator, to move more crude by rail out of the state's Anadarko Basin. "We see these grants as improving public safety, much like you spend money on improving a highway," said Gary Ridley, the head of the Oklahoma's transportation agency. Trains are better than oil trucks, which clog up roads, he said. Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin recently announced a $100 million spending package to upgrade rail crossings in the state. In Oregon, oil terminal giant Global Partners successfully lobbied state and county officials to fund $8.9 million in upgrades to the Portland and Western Railroad, which runs next to the Columbia River. As a result, Global was able to increase the number of oil-trains to its private rail hub in the state by more than a third, to 38 per month. Global declined comment. "It really doesn't matter whether the train is carrying crude oil or cotton puffs, they have the right to pass through," Jerry Cole, the mayor of Rainier, Oregon, where oil-trains pass through daily. "All I can do is to make it as safe as possible." (Reporting by Jarrett Renshaw, editing by Jonathan Leff and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg.comDubai had the world's hottest stock market to start 2014; amid the crashing price of oil, Dubai's market has given it almost all back. Kuwait City (AFP) - Share prices in energy-rich Gulf Arab states fell sharply at the start of the week Sunday, dragged down after oil prices plunged to new lows. The decline was across the board on almost all of the region's seven bourses, as investors went into a panic sell-off soon after trading kicked off. Dubai's benchmark DFM Index lost 6.2 percent to 3,373.51 points, pulled down by market leader Emaar Properties, which shed 8.0 percent, and construction giant Arabtec, which lost 7.2 percent. The index shed 7.2 percent on Thursday. Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange recovered slightly at mid-session, trading down 3.6 percent at 4,212.07 points with energy stocks declining 5.3 percent and the real estate and banking sectors also falling. The Saudi Tadawul All-Shares Index, the largest in the Arab world, dipped 3.3 percent to 8,113.22 points, a 12-month low. Bloomberg.comA disastrous last three months for the Dubai stock market.Leading the decline was the petrochemicals sector, with Saudi Basic Industries Co. SABIC losing 5.6 percent. The main index on the Qatar Exchange, the second biggest bourse in the Gulf, dived 7.2 percent to 10,959.0 points, a level last seen in early January. Market leaders in banking and industry contributed to the slide. Kuwait Stock Exchange deepened losses, losing 3.2 percent to 6,254.62 points, a 22-month low, despite the listing of VIVA, a third mobile phone operator 26 percent-owned by Saudi Telecom. The Muscat Securities Market lost 2.72 percent to 5,649.49 points, while the Bahrain bourse was unchanged. Global oil prices tanked Friday to fresh five-year lows after a gloomy crude demand downgrade from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and more weak Chinese economic data. US benchmark West Texas Intermediate for January delivery plunged to $58.80 per barrel -- the lowest level since May 20, 2009 -- having already closed under the psychological level of $60 on Thursday. Brent crude for January meanwhile slipped to $62.75 in morning London deals, striking a low point last witnessed on July 16, 2009. The oil market -- which has shed almost 50 percent since June -- plumbed the latest lows after the Paris-based IEA slashed its 2015 demand outlook, despite plunging prices. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council -- Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates -- depend heavily on oil revenues which make up around 90 percent of their total income.Investing.com, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve would give the clearest signal next week that its easy money stance is ending if, as some expect, it drops its two-year long pledge to keep interest rates close to zero for a "considerable time". The Fed, which meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, first inserted that wording in its post-meeting statements in December 2012, promising then to maintain its highly accommodative monetary stance for a considerable time after its asset purchase programme ends and the economic recovery strengthens. Both have occurred. The U.S. unemployment rate slipped below 6.5 percent, a Fed mark of healthier recovery, in April and is now at a six-year low of 5.8 percent even as more people enter the labour force. Its asset buying ended in October, when all but one of its voting members opted to keep the "considerable time" language. The market has understood the term to mean at least six months, with current expectations for a first rate hike in mid-2015. Since October, the more hawkish Dallas Fed chief Richard Fisher has said the Fed should drop the pledge, while more moderate Cleveland counterpart Loretta Mester told Reuters the reference was "really stale". Some economists believe markets will take a change of wording in their stride, but others hark back to "taper tantrums" after the Fed first mentioned the idea of gradually reducing monetary expansion in May 2013. "It has to be done at some point, but it's like taking off a sticking plaster. It's going to hurt," said Rob Carnell, chief international economist at ING, who questions central banks' propensity to use set terms rather than just rely on data. Carnell believes U.S. headline inflation may well fall below 1 percent in the March-May period, when seasonal adjustments would give a greater weighting for a weak oil price than at present. "It's then a hard sales act to start hiking in May or June," he said. The week, for many the final working days before Christmas and New Year holidays, will conclude with a European Union Summit focussed firmly on the faltering economy. In an ideal world for some economists, France and Italy, the number two and three euro zone economies, would pledge more growth-driving reforms and budget restraint, providing cover for the European Central Bank to unleash new weapons to fight deflation. Pressure on the ECB to start printing money and buying sovereign bonds rose further last week as its offering of low- cost loans to banks drew only tepid interest. Banks have taken barely half the 400 billion euros ($497.4 billion) of loans on offer this year, implying they have little confidence in lending to the euro zone's backbone of small companies. ECB policymakers have dropped hints that it could move in the direction of money printing as soon as January, but a small group of countries led by Germany are opposed, fearing it would lead to reckless borrowing by debt-laden states. "(ECB President Mario) Draghi has seven weeks to get everyone in line. I don't think he'll pull it off before Christmas," said BNP Paribas Fortis Chief Strategy Officer Philippe Gijsels. "We're very much driven by central banks into next year." As a reminder that the euro zone debt crisis is not fully extinguished, Greece's parliament holds the first round of its presidential vote on Wednesday. A likely third and final round is expected on Dec. 29. If Prime Minister Antonis Samaras's candidate does not secure the required three-fifths of votes, more than the government majority, it would trigger parliamentary elections, which polls show anti-bailout party Syriza would probably win. Samaras warned on Thursday Greece risked a "catastrophic" return to the depths of its debt crisis if his government fell, his comments driving Greek stock and bond losses. However, while Greek 10-year bond yields have passed 9 percent, with shorter-dated paper even higher, the yield on 10-year Italian bonds was around 2 percent on Friday and for Spanish bonds just below. The prospect of quantitative easing from the ECB, whose president promised in 2012 to "do whatever it takes" to save the euro, means this is not a repeat of 2010-2012, when fears of contagion to other EU members raged. Those hoping for respite from concern over a China slowdown will have an eye on a private survey due on Tuesday &lt;cnpmif=eci&gt;. It is expected to creep back into growth territory in December after stalling in November.   (Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
PHILADELPHIA (Reuters) - A New Jersey college said on Saturday it has completed its $18 million purchase of the shuttered Showboat Atlantic City casino resort from Caesars Entertainment Corp. Officials from Richard Stockton College in nearby Galloway Township, said in a statement they plan to convert some of the 1.4 million square foot building into dormitory space. Four Atlantic City casinos have closed this year, and city officials have struggled find uses for the shuttered buildings. The former casino floor would be converted to administrative offices. Theaters at the building would, under the college's plans, house facilities for dance, music and drama programs, the school said. One of the three towers will remain a hotel holding some 479 rooms opening sometime in the spring of 2015. The college said dorm rooms could be used as hotel rooms during summer months, when demand is high and most students are away from campus. The college said the purchase price is far less expensive than new construction. The purchase was announced in November. Gaming companies, fearing new competition, have typically inserted deed restrictions prohibiting new owners from re-opening the properties as casinos. "The diversification of activities available in AC stands to benefit all of the city's stakeholders," said Caesars Entertainment CEO Gary Loveman in a statement. Caesars Entertainment closed Showboat in August, even though it was profitable, to try to consolidate Atlantic City's deteriorating gaming market. Stockton College purchased the Seaview Resort in Galloway Township in 2010 for $20 million. It uses part of the property to train students in hospitality and generate revenue for the college, and to house students.   (Reporting by Daniel Kelley in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Editing by Eric M. Johnson and David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Apollo Global Management &lt;apo.n&gt; is nearing a buyout of PetSmart Inc &lt;petm.o&gt; for about $8 billion in what would be the largest leveraged deal for a U.S. company this year, Bloomberg reported on Saturday, citing unnamed sources. "New York-based Apollo is in late-stage talks to buy PetSmart for about $8 billion following an auction process that has been under way for weeks, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are confidential," Bloomberg said. It said the pet-supplies retailer has a market value of $7.72 billion. A private-equity deal with Apollo would top Blackstone Group LP's &lt;bx.n&gt; $5.4 billion purchase of industrial-products maker Gates Global LLC in July, Bloomberg said.   (Writing by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's coalition cruised to a big election win on Sunday, ensuring he will stick to reflationary economic policies and a muscular security stance, but record low turnout pointed to broad dissatisfaction with his performance. NHK public TV said Abe's Liberal Democratic Party and junior partner the Komeito party were assured more than the 317 seats in the 475-member lower house required to maintain a two-thirds "super-majority" that smoothes parliamentary business. But the LDP was set to fall slightly short of the 295 it held before the poll, NHK figures showed. "I believe the public approved of two years of our 'Abenomics' policies," Abe said in a televised interview. "But that doesn't mean we can be complacent." Many voters, doubtful of both the premier's "Abenomics" strategy to end deflation and generate growth and the opposition's ability to do any better, stayed at home. Final turnout will be a record low of 52.4 percent, media forecast, below 59.3 percent in a 2012 poll that returned Abe to power for a rare second term on pledges to reboot an economy plagued by deflation and an aging, shrinking population. Market analysts said the widely expected outcome would be positive for shares and negative for the yen in the near term given expectations Abe will stick to a "Three Arrows" strategy of hyper-easy monetary policy, government spending and reforms. REUTERS/Yuya ShinoThe national flags of Japan and the U.S. are seen in front of a monitor displaying a graph of recent fluctuations of the Japanese yen's exchange rate against the U.S. dollar at a foreign exchange trading company in Tokyo."Since the Abe administration puts emphasis on share prices, short-term, this will be a tailwind for higher stocks and a weaker yen," said Tsuyoshi Ueno, senior economist at NLI Research Institute. "But medium-term, investors will be watching to see if Japan is changed structurally." Doubts persist over whether Abe will knuckle down on his "Third Arrow" of reforms in politically sensitive areas such as labor market deregulation and an overhaul of the highly protected farm sector. Progress has been limited so far, partly due to opposition from members of Abe's own party. Hopes for Abenomics were hit when Japan slipped into recession in the third quarter following an April sales tax rise. Wage increases have not kept pace with price rises and data suggest any economic rebound is fragile. Abe decided last month to put off a second tax hike to 10 percent until April 2017, raising concerns about how Japan will curb its huge public debt, the worst among advanced nations. "Between now and the delayed tax increase, we need to revive the economy and find a path to fiscal rebuilding," said LDP lawmaker Shinjiro Koizumi. "If you think about it in that way, even though we have won, there is no room here for celebrating." Abe, whose support has now sagged well below 50 percent, called the election after just two years in office to strengthen his grip on power before tackling unpopular policies. They include restarting nuclear reactors taken off-line after the 2011 Fukushima disaster and a security policy shift away from post-war pacifism. The LDP-led coalition victory could ease Abe's path to re-election in a party leadership race next September, boosting the likelihood, but by no means guaranteeing, that he stays in power through 2018 and becomes one of Japan's rare long-term leaders. The main opposition Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) was set to fall short of the 80 seats some predicted they would win, largely due to voters' memories of a 2009-2012 rule plagued by policy flip-flops, infighting and three premiers in three years. REUTERS/Yuya ShinoJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (2nd L) walks on the red carpet with Japanese actress Miki Nakatani (R) during the opening event of Tokyo International Film Festival.DPJ leader Banri Kaieda, criticized by many in his own camp for lack of charisma, lost his seat, NHK reported. The party's limp performance has raised concerns Japan is returning to one-party dominance that characterized politics for decades. The Japan Communist Party was on track to more than double its eight seats, winning support from protest voters loath to back the Democrats. Abe could turn his attention from the economy to a conservative agenda that includes laying the groundwork for revising the post-war, pacifist constitution and recasting Japan's wartime past with a less apologetic tone. That agenda raises hackles in China and South Korea, where bitter memories of Japan's past militarism run deep. "Revising the constitution has been our party’s long-time aspiration ... But the hurdles for achieving this are very high," Abe said on Sunday. "We need to continue efforts to deepen the public's understanding (of the need to do this)." Despite hefty wins, the LDP stumbled on the southern island of Okinawa, host to the bulk of the U.S. military in Japan, boding ill for a plan to relocate a controversial U.S. Marines air base that many residents want off the island altogether. LDP candidates lost in all four districts on the island, media said. (Additional reporting by Elaine Lies, Antoni Slodkowski, Leika Kihara, Kevin Krolicki, Daiki Iga, Sumio Ito and Noriyuki Hirata; Editing by Mike Collett-White) FREE AppDownload
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve would give the clearest signal next week that its easy money stance is ending if, as some expect, it drops its two-year long pledge to keep interest rates close to zero for a "considerable time". The Fed, which meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, first inserted that wording in its post-meeting statements in December 2012, promising then to maintain its highly accommodative monetary stance for a considerable time after its asset purchase programme ends and the economic recovery strengthens. Both have occurred. The U.S. unemployment rate slipped below 6.5 percent, a Fed mark of healthier recovery, in April and is now at a six-year low of 5.8 percent even as more people enter the labour force. Its asset buying ended in October, when all but one of its voting members opted to keep the "considerable time" language. The market has understood the term to mean at least six months, with current expectations for a first rate hike in mid-2015. Since October, the more hawkish Dallas Fed chief Richard Fisher has said the Fed should drop the pledge, while more moderate Cleveland counterpart Loretta Mester told Reuters the reference was "really stale". Some economists believe markets will take a change of wording in their stride, but others hark back to "taper tantrums" after the Fed first mentioned the idea of gradually reducing monetary expansion in May 2013. "It has to be done at some point, but it's like taking off a sticking plaster. It's going to hurt," said Rob Carnell, chief international economist at ING, who questions central banks' propensity to use set terms rather than just rely on data. Carnell believes U.S. headline inflation may well fall below 1 percent in the March-May period, when seasonal adjustments would give a greater weighting for a weak oil price than at present. "It's then a hard sales act to start hiking in May or June," he said. The week, for many the final working days before Christmas and New Year holidays, will conclude with a European Union Summit focussed firmly on the faltering economy. In an ideal world for some economists, France and Italy, the number two and three euro zone economies, would pledge more growth-driving reforms and budget restraint, providing cover for the European Central Bank to unleash new weapons to fight deflation. Pressure on the ECB to start printing money and buying sovereign bonds rose further last week as its offering of low- cost loans to banks drew only tepid interest. Banks have taken barely half the 400 billion euros ($497.4 billion) of loans on offer this year, implying they have little confidence in lending to the euro zone's backbone of small companies. ECB policymakers have dropped hints that it could move in the direction of money printing as soon as January, but a small group of countries led by Germany are opposed, fearing it would lead to reckless borrowing by debt-laden states. "(ECB President Mario) Draghi has seven weeks to get everyone in line. I don't think he'll pull it off before Christmas," said BNP Paribas Fortis Chief Strategy Officer Philippe Gijsels. "We're very much driven by central banks into next year." As a reminder that the euro zone debt crisis is not fully extinguished, Greece's parliament holds the first round of its presidential vote on Wednesday. A likely third and final round is expected on Dec. 29. If Prime Minister Antonis Samaras's candidate does not secure the required three-fifths of votes, more than the government majority, it would trigger parliamentary elections, which polls show anti-bailout party Syriza would probably win. Samaras warned on Thursday Greece risked a "catastrophic" return to the depths of its debt crisis if his government fell, his comments driving Greek stock and bond losses. However, while Greek 10-year bond yields have passed 9 percent, with shorter-dated paper even higher, the yield on 10-year Italian bonds was around 2 percent on Friday and for Spanish bonds just below. The prospect of quantitative easing from the ECB, whose president promised in 2012 to "do whatever it takes" to save the euro, means this is not a repeat of 2010-2012, when fears of contagion to other EU members raged. Those hoping for respite from concern over a China slowdown will have an eye on a private survey due on Tuesday &lt;cnpmif=eci&gt;. It is expected to creep back into growth territory in December after stalling in November.   (Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
