Thomson ReutersThe logo of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo (BES) is seen at their headquarters in downtown Lisbon LISBON (Reuters) - Portugal will spend 4.9 billion euros ($6.58 billion) to rescue its largest listed bank, testing the euro zone's resilience to another banking crisis just months after Lisbon exited an international bailout. The rescue of Banco Espirito Santo, which was unveiled after a frenzied weekend of discussions between Portuguese andEuropean Union officials, comes after weeks of increasingly bad news about the financial state of the lender, particularly its exposure to a cascade of companies headed by its founding Espirito Santo family. Under the plan, Banco Espirito Santo, or BES, will be split into a "good bank", renamed Novo Banco, and a "bad bank", which will house BES's exposures to the troubled Espirito Santo business empire, which last week tipped the bank in to a record 3.6 billion euros loss. The bad bank's losses will be born by the bank's junior bondholders and shareholders, including the Espirito Santo family, which has a 20 percent stake, and French bank Credit Agricole &lt;CAGR.PA&gt; which owns 14.6 percent. Novo Banco, or New Bank - will be recapitalized to the tune of 4.9 billion euros by a special bank resolution fund created in 2012. The Portuguese state will lend the fund 4.4 billion euros. All of BES's depositors will be protected as well as all of the bank's senior bondholders. Portugal's central bank, which only days ago said that BES could be recapitalized by private investors, said the plan would involve no cost to the public purse because the loan would be temporary. The Bank of Portugal expects the state to be reimbursed when Novo Banco is eventually sold to private investors. “The plan carries no risk to public finances or taxpayers,” Carlos Costa, the central bank governor, told reporters in a late night news conference in Lisbon.  The bailout is a setback for Portugal just months after the country emerged from a 78 billion euros, three-year bailout financed by the European Union (EU) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Portuguese bond yields rose to 3.78 percent on Friday on expectations Lisbon would have to rescue BES. However they were still far below rates of more than 15 percent seen in 2012, when there were serious doubts whether the eurozone would be able to survive a brewing debt crisis. The rescue, which comes a year after Greece spent 28 billion euros to rescue four of its banks, suggests that despite years of efforts to improve the euro zone’s financial and economic management, hidden problems still may lurk in the region’s banking systems. The Portuguese government loan will use up a large chunk of the 6.4 billion euros left over from a fund earmarked to aid the country's banks as part of its EU/IMF bailout. In a statement, the European Commission said the resolution plan complied with its rules on state aid. BES's shares lost 75 percent of their value last week alone, drying up market appetite in the bank and therefore making state aid inevitable. The spin-off of the healthy parts of BES, a household name in much of Portugal, is an attempt by authorities to shield the bank from the escalating troubles of its founding family. Much of the Espirito Santo group, whose activities include tourism, health and agriculture, have sought bankruptcy protection in past weeks in a remarkable fall from grace of one of Europe’s most prominent business clans. By using the bank resolution fund, Portuguese authorities hope to limit the political fallout of using taxpayer money to prop up a bank that until recently was majority owned by the Espirito Santos just as Portugal is emerging from a deep economic downturn. The scramble to save Portugal's largest-listed bank by assets comes after BES last week posted a deeper than expected 3.6 billion euro loss and said it was exposed even more deeply than originally thought to Espirito Santo companies. Notably, the bank’s new management — put in place by the central bank as a result of the Espirito Santo turmoil — said it had found new, hidden commitments made by the bank to family companies as late as June. Management said it suspected illegal behavior had taken place at the lender. ($1 = 0.7450 Euros) (Writing By Andrei Khalip; Editing by Alessandra Galloni and Carmel Crimmins) FREE AppDownload
Rick Scuteri-USA TODAY SportsThe weekend is over and U.S. futures are up. Dow and S&amp;P500 futures were up nearly 0.2%. The S&amp;P500 is coming off its worst week in two years. NASDAQ futures were up 0.1%. Meanwhile, Asian indexes were falling. Japan's Nikkei opened down 0.3%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is off 0.2%. Korea's Kospi declined 0.6%.  It'll be a quieter weak in econ data — click here for Sam Ro's full preview » FREE AppDownload
Mark Kolbe/Getty ImagesGood morning! It’s a big week ahead – let’s get started… 1. The focus will be back on the domestic economy in Australia this week. Today we get June retail sales, and ANZ job ads. Tomorrow there’s the RBA’s monthly interest rates announcement where we’ll get the board’s updated view on the state of the economy. Then on Thursday we get the July jobs data, with economists expecting 13,900 jobs added for the month and the unemployment rate steady at 6.0%. More here. The June half reporting season really gets underway this week too, with Transurban and Cochlear tomorrow, and Rio Tinto on Thursday. 2. Markets are down. ASX futures are down 26 points ahead of the start of trade. It follows falls in the US Friday trading session – the Dow and the Nasdaq were down 0.4%, while the S&amp;P 500 lost 0.3%, following the US jobs report which disappointed with 209,000 new payrolls added, against 233,000 expected. It’s looking like a grim start to the week following the 1.4% fall in the ASX on Friday. 3. The Australian retail sales data out at 11.30am AEST will be watched closely, following last month’s surprise fall of 0.5% in May. The record-breaking good weather in that month has been regarded as a major factor in that poor result for the sector, but there was also some concern that consumer confusion around the impact of the budget could have put a brake on spending. Consumer confidence has been recovering more recently following its cratering around the budget, however. The market’s expecting a rise of 0.4% for the month of June – we’ll have live coverage when the number’s out. 4. The US wants answers from Israel following another shelling of a school shelter in which 10 Palestinians were killed. Israel has indicated that is operation in Gaza targeting Hamas operations is nearing an end, after 27 days of conflict. Palestinian officials put the death toll at 1,775, most of them civilians. Israel says 64 soldiers have been killed in combat. 5. The government will co-opt Australian ISPs in its crackdown on internet content piracy. Attorney-General George Brandis has told The Australian that ISPs are unwitting facilitators rather than innocent bystanders. “We expect the ISPs to make a contribution to the cost of administrating the scheme. No side in this debate can pretend that it is uninvolved.” 6. Cloudflare, the cloud cyber-security company, is now a billion-dollar company and is handling 5% of all the traffic on the internet. Described as a “digital bouncer” which protects sites from hacking attacks, the service has been growing at at staggering 450% for the past three years. The founder and CEO, Matthew Prince, wrote his college thesis on “Why the Internet was a fad”. Their next target is Cisco. More on them here. 7. How Tinder started its user base. In the early days of the dating app, one of the founders went around to US universities and got sororities and their partnering fraternities to sign up on the service. It made the app an instant hit on campuses. We’ve got this and more marketing inspiration for startups here. 8. Running just five minutes a day could add years to your life, and be just as beneficial as running for much longer periods, according to new research. Elsewhere, doctors warnsitting around all day in an office is terrible for you anyway. 9. How about those Waratahs? The NSW team are the 2014 Super Rugby champions, having beaten the Crusaders 33-32, with a last-minute penalty goal from a monster 45m out sealing the win at ANZ Stadium in Sydney on Saturday night. Experienced rugby followers were saying it was one of the best games they’d ever seen. 10. They weren’t the only Aussie team  to bring down a New Zealand side at the weekend. Overnight women’s netball team the Diamonds won gold against the Kiwis at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. The Diamonds destroyed the Silver Ferns 58-40 with the side’s goal shooter, Caitlin Bassett shooting at over 90% accuracy missing just four shots out of 53. The win took Australia’s final medal tally to 137 medals including 49 gold. Bonus item: if anyone can explain Kylie Minogue’s outfit which she just appeared in for the closing ceremony at the Commonwealth Games, do let us know in the comments. Ian Walton/Getty Images Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Getting an internship with a large Wall Street firm is notoriously difficult. This year, Morgan Stanley accepted only 1.1% of applicants for its summer internship program. Similarly, Goldman Sachs only took about 2% of applicants in 2013. These are even lower acceptance rates than the nation's most exclusive universities. So if you're a student coming from a "non-target school," (not top tier school) you're going to have your work cut out for you. Wall Street's bulge bracket banks are known for recruiting from the most elite universities, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and other Ivy League schools. However, some of the biggest names in finance came from unexpected backgrounds. Alexey Loganchuk is the founder of Upgrade Capital, an organization that aims to change the way firms recruit new employees. Loganchuk told us about a couple ways to differentiate yourself, based on what he's seen. Here's how to give yourself an edge, regardless of your education. 1. Form relationships with any connections you have. No matter where you went to school, chances are you'll find some alumni who went into finance. Find those connections, and build them into strong and lasting relationships. This doesn't mean just sending them an email every now and then, but being on a personal, first-name basis. Go beyond just networking. One of the most valuable assets you can have is someone in the industry who is pulling for you. Loganchuk encouraged students to reach out to financial firms to learn more or create those contacts. Financial firms are usually very willing to send representatives to speak with students. Even if you are not from a target school, don't be afraid to call up some of these firms and show your interest. This also applies if you want to turn an internship into a full-time job. Having someone who sponsors and mentors you will help not only in grabbing a position, but for your future career advancements as well. "In general, it's an uphill battle for anyone," Loganchuk said. "In the end, it really comes down for everybody to making personal connections." 2. Practice for the job you want to have. Learn as much as you can on your own, and read everything you can about markets and investing. This should come from an intrinsic appetite for knowledge and figuring out how the market works. The legendary investor Bruce Kovner went from being a taxi driver to a hedge fund associate after proving he had read more financial works than those interviewing him. "The best student investors I've met so far, it's kind of absurd, they literally have read 50+ books on investing," Loganchuk said. "This one kid that placed into J.P. Morgan read 35 books just last summer."  3. Determine and cultivate a specific skill set. Figure out where you best fit into the industry, what skills you need, and then work on developing that set of skills. Loganchuk said many beneficial relationships with industry insiders come from demonstrating value in a unique way.  He said students have the tendency to treat internships like classwork, and focus on only following instructions. Then, they end up shooting themselves in the foot, by doing exactly what made them successful in school. "When you're dealing with the trading floor and investments, these people aren't your professors. They don't want to sit there all day and teach you, and spoon-feed you information," he said. "This might sound very simple, but it's something which the overall majority of interns fail at." 4. Focus on the way you present yourself to firms. Financial firms are also looking for someone who has intellectual humility, who can accept criticism and work through it, Loganchuk said. However, another part of success is knowing when to keep calm after a loss. Loganchuk said one intern he knew through Upgrade Capital lost a fair amount of money on a trade because of sudden geopolitical events. The student went around the entire floor apologizing, "basically being a bit of a wreck." "You're not helping yourself if you're actively presenting yourself as having failed in some way," he said.  Learn to walk the line between accepting bad trades and arrogance. 5. Get involved with firms and portfolio managers early. Loganchuk said one action students can take is emailing portfolio managers to ask for feedback. If you have an investing idea that's relevant to a certain firm, send the portfolio manager your work. "If the work is solid, a fair percent of the time the PM responds," he said. "And you can do this regardless of where you go to school." "Now, if your email reads @princeton.edu or @umissouri.edu, that might make a small difference," Loganchuk said. "But it's not as huge as people might think. Especially at smaller firms. Larger firms, from what I've seen, can be much more stubborn, much more elitist." Good luck out there. FREE AppDownload
Prudential Douglas EllimanDan Loeb's palatial penthouse at 15 Central Park West is valued at $90 million.The top dogs in finance are worth millions and even billions, so it's no surprise they flaunt their exorbitant pay checks on the places they call home. We found the most expensive homes belonging to bankers, hedge funders, and the kings of finance. From oceanfront mansions with more rooms than you could possibly know what to do with to ritzy Manhattan penthouses with panoramic skyline views, any one of these properties will make you drool.  To estimate the approximate current market value of the houses, we looked at public assessors' records and spoke to expert realtors in these homes' markets, including Kyle Egan, licensed real estate salesperson for Nest Seekers International, and Susan Breitenbach, licensed associate real estate broker with Corcoran Group.   FREE AppDownload
Esther Perel is a couples therapist based in New York and the author of the international best seller "Mating in Captivity." By Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
You remember it all too well. Dusting off those much-used cartridges and plugging them into that box that sat just below your TV. We combed through the best video games of the '80s, and discovered that those old games still have a ton of life left in them. Produced By Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
All of us know that putting on sunscreen is a priority when in the sun, but how does it work? We worked with Business Insider's science team to unlock the mysteries behind the chemistry of sunscreen. Here's what we found. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersThe corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on a building in San DiegoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Early this year, a New York State Lottery winner in Brooklyn approached Morgan Stanley with a problem: he needed to borrow hundreds of thousands of dollars before he collected his prize money. The man, a Russian immigrant, wanted money to help move his family to a secure location before he redeemed his ticket and possibly became famous, according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. He also wanted advice about what to do with his prize money, which was in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. The bank's wealth management unit decided to make the loan to win a new customer, a step it is increasingly willing to make as it builds up its brokerage unit. Making unusual loans is critical for Morgan Stanley. The bank has bet its future in large part on its wealth management business, which produces more stable revenue than the trading unit that nearly wiped out Morgan Stanley during the financial crisis. Providing unconventional loans is a reliable way to win customers, and keep them. Morgan Stanley is playing catch-up against rivals including JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, Citigroup Inc, Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, which offer loans collateralized by everything from art collections to cases of wine. Industry sources said they had never heard of a loan against a lottery ticket, though they cited other examples of atypical collateral that other banks have loaned against, including a client in Texas who borrowed against the future offspring of his prize bulls, and a client who borrowed against future ticket sales of a professional sports team he owned. "We've got 3 million clients, and they've got borrowing needs," Eric Heaton, who runs Morgan Stanley's private bank, said in an interview. Reuters attempted to track down the Lotto winner by the description provided by sources familiar with the matter but was unable to confirm his identity. Tailored loans are lucrative for the bank, which can help Morgan Stanley reach its profitability targets for wealth management. Morgan Stanley's pretax profit margin target is 22 percent to 25 percent by the end of next year, compared with a current level of 20.6 percent, assuming interest rates do not rise. To spearhead Morgan Stanley's efforts to build up what it calls "tailored lending," the bank hired a team from Deutsche Bank led by Marcus Mitchell. Although Morgan Stanley has been making these loans since 2010, it is ramping up its efforts now. It can make more loans now because it received extra deposits when it bought the portion of Citigroup's retail brokerage that it did not already own last year -- Morgan Stanley now has $130 billion of deposits.   SMITH BARNEY Morgan Stanley spent billions of dollars buying the Smith Barney retail brokerage business from Citigroup between 2009 and 2013, and adding it to its own wealth management unit. In public presentations, executives have continually trumpeted the reliable earnings that wealth management offers, as opposed to businesses like trading, where profit can oscillate wildly. Investment management and retail brokerage accounted for about 30 percent to 40 percent of the bank's quarterly revenue in 2007, a figure that grew to more than half in the second quarter of 2014. As its lending effort has gotten under way over the past year or two, Morgan Stanley has about $2 billion of tailored loans outstanding, which now account for about 5 percent of the total loans outstanding at its wealth management unit. Heaton and other executives who spoke to Reuters said they expect tailored lending to remain a relatively small sliver of the wealth management unit's loans. Mortgages in contrast account for about a third of loans at the unit. But tailored loans can be much more profitable-- for some, banks can earn 7.5 percentage points more than their funding costs, said one adviser at a rival firm, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Morgan Stanley said its profits are much lower on the loans. But even if the bank's margins on these loans are less than 7.5 percent, industry experts said they are likely much higher than margins on mortgages, which tend to be one percentage point or less. The wider margins on tailored loans come in part because the loans are so unique. Morgan Stanley mitigates its risk by making sure it has access to collateral that can be sold quickly to recoup the cost of the loan, or that loans have a guarantor with enough assets to repay. It hires appraisers to assess the value of assets it is lending against. Wealth management clients can borrow against one-of-a-kind assets like rare coins, but tailored loans can also be for assets like commercial real estate, which make up about a quarter of Morgan Stanley's tailored loan book. For loans that fall outside of the bank's comfort zone, like auto loans, the bank refers clients to other lenders, Heaton said. In the case of the lottery winner, while Morgan Stanley executives would not acknowledge having any relationship with such a client, they did stress that the bank usually has ample collateral, and would not rely on expected lottery winnings alone to back a loan. "We don't chase Lotto winners in hopes of establishing a relationship," said Heaton. "But if there's a client that comes in with a liability need, we'll look at their financial position and see what we can do to help."     (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
In Business Insider's latest Most Important Charts In The World feature, Gerard Minack of Minack Advisors alerted us to the following chart, which shows how much corporate debt has ballooned since the financial crisis. "One 'success' of Fed Policy has been to encourage an increase in corporate leverage," said Minack. Business InsiderMinack cautions that in the next economic downturn, companies could find their debt burdens overwhelming, the way that households found themselves in trouble in 2007-08. Companies, however, have not slowed their pace of issuing debt, however, with investment-grade corporate bond issuance currently at $375.5 billion year-to-date, up 7% from a year ago. This chart from Dealogic shows that companies are issuing debt at a torrid pace, more than offsetting the amount of debt coming due next year. Dealogic Even without a recession or economic downturn, the bill on these debt loads is quickly coming due. Dealogic notes that in 2015, $273.6 billion of investment-grade corporate bonds are due to mature, with 30% of this total due in the first quarter. And the amount of debt coming due is only set to increase in 2016 and 2017, with $310.2 billion and $341 billion worth of debt set to mature in those years, respectively. And this is the good stuff. According to market commentary from Frost Investment Advisors, data from Dealogic shows that corporate bonds rated "junk" have totaled $210.8 billion year-to-date, the highest level for the first half of a year since 2000. And in his latest weekly commentary, John Hussman of Hussman Funds cautioned on the quantity of this debt, writing that, "the major risk to economic stability is not that the stock market is overvalued, but that so much low-quality debt has been issued." Yesterday we highlighted, this chart from Dave Lutz at JonesTrading showing the recent divergence in the S&amp;P 500 and high-yield bonds. Most market headlines come from the stock market and economic data, but the bond market and the debt held by U.S. companies cannot be forgotten. FREE AppDownload
TekmiraRNA interferenceCHICAGO (Reuters) - The worst Ebola outbreak in history is heaping new pressure on U.S. regulators to speed the development of treatments for the deadly virus, which has killed more than 700 people since February. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday said in an emailed statement the agency "stands ready" to work with companies and investigators working with patients "in dire need of treatment." A senior official within FDA told Reuters the agency would consider proposals for providing treatments under special emergency new drug applications, if the benefits of the treatment outweighed the potential safety risks. "We take this very, very seriously," the source said. FDA's statement follow calls by doctors fed up by the lack of progress on Ebola treatments, a market deemed too small to gain much attention by large pharmaceutical companies. Earlier this month, the agency put a hold on a Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corp clinical trial of TKM-Ebola, one of the few Ebola treatments advanced enough to be tested in people. The hold prompted a North Carolina physician with family members in West Africa to say enough. "This should be the last Ebola epidemic without a cure," said Dr. Ahmed Tejan-Sie, an internist from Burlington. Tejan-Sie started a petition on Change.org to urge FDA to lift its hold on the drug. It now has 15,000 signatures. Shares of Tekmira rose sharply on Friday on news that the Ebola outbreak in West Africa has intensified, as investors expect the drug trial will be considered again by regulators. "I'm not advocating that they take it out of the lab and start using it in West Africa. What I'm advocating is that the trials be accelerated," said Tejan-Sie, who spent much of his childhood in Ebola-ravaged Sierra Leone. The director of the global charity Wellcome Trust last month took it a step further, arguing in favor of offering experimental treatments to people at high risk of dying from Ebola, saying the normal drug development process takes too long and should not apply in rapidly spreading outbreaks of diseases. Giving experimental drugs to people in an epidemic is not without precedent. "Usually when this happens, there are drugs that are further along in development," said Dr. Amesh Adalja, an infectious disease expert at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. In the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic, for example, BioCryst Pharmaceuticals' experimental antiviral drug peramivir was made available through emergency use authorization. But that drug had been tested in widely in people by that time. "With Ebola drugs, there hasn't been much work with them outside of animal models," Adalja said. "That makes it very hard to safely say we should use this in a compassionate use situation, although there is definitely a case to be made in these large outbreaks." Tekmira's drug has only been tested in a few dozen healthy people. The FDA stopped its study in July because of safety concerns among people taking the highest doses of the drug who experienced problematic immune responses. The hold means that particular study cannot proceed, but it does not prevent the company from submitting a new study proposal, say in people already infected with Ebola, for whom any safety risks from the treatment would be mitigated by the risk of dying. In that case, "the benefit-risk ratio changes completely," the FDA source said. "Anything that would shift the risk-benefit to a more favorable outcome could potentially allow the authorization of that study." What is not clear is whether Tekmira or any developers of possible Ebola treatments would choose to test their drugs in patients infected with Ebola, particularly in the midst of a raging epidemic in which emotions and expectations run high. Tekmira officials did not return calls or emails on Friday seeking comment. In a July 21 press release, the company said it is "mindful of the need for this important therapeutic in situations such as the ongoing Ebola outbreak in West Africa. "TKM-Ebola is currently an unapproved agent and the regulatory framework to support its use in Africa has not been established at this time," the company added. Dr. Thomas Geisbert of the University of Texas Medical Branch has done animal studies on the Tekmira drug and said there are few companies willing to develop Ebola treatments. There is "little financial incentive," given the small market potential for a drug that treats a rare disease afflicting developing countries, he said. Geisbert said the drug "works great in monkeys in the lab," but that is largely because it is given relatively early in the course of infection. "What if you start giving it to people who are almost dead and they die, but it's not the drug's fault? Then you blame the drug." Geisbert said given the widespread mistrust of doctors in West Africa, which has driven dozens of victims to evade treatment, such an event could jeopardize the drug's prospects. "It's a very delicate situation," he said. (Reporting by Julie Steenhuysen; Editing by Michele Gershberg, Martin Howell, Lisa Shumaker and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Amazon.comIf you're looking for something to read that will improve your ability as an investor, I'd recommend any of these books. All 12 of them are deeply informative and will leave an impact on you. Keep in mind that if investing were as easy as buying a book and reading it, we'd all be rich.           FREE AppDownload
apMEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico's lower house of Congress passed early on Saturday the last package of bills needed to implement a landmark energy reform, moving the reform one step closer to final approval. Following a marathon three-day extraordinary session, lawmakers made minor changes to bills setting out fiscal terms of the reform, returning the legislation to the Senate for final passage next week. The reform championed by President Enrique Pena Nieto ends the monopoly on crude oil production enjoyed by state-run company Pemex and promises to lure international oil majors like BP and Exxon Mobil back to Mexico after the assets of their corporate forerunners were expropriated in 1938. The so-called secondary legislation needed to flesh out the constitutional reform passed late last year includes some 30 bills setting out contractual and regulatory terms of the reform. The bills passed on Saturday include a provision allowing the federal government to absorb a portion of the roughly 1.7 trillion peso ($129 billion) pension liabilities shouldered by Pemex [PEMX.UL] and national electricity company CFE [COMFEL.UL] in a bid to improve the post-reform financial health of both.     (Reporting by David Alire Garcia; Editing by Gareth Jones) FREE AppDownload
BloombergThe U.S. lacks the resources to adequately respond to external shocks like a foreign relations crisis or climate change, former Federal Reserve Chair Alan Greenspan said Wednesday. In an appearance on "In The Loop With Betty Liu," Greenspan warned that the economy has almost no room to maneuver if faced with a security threat: We are running out of buffer in the economy. We don't have the capability should, for example, we run into a major conflict in the Middle East or elsewhere where it requires a major increase in our defense budget. Our defense budget is heading in a direction where in a couple, two or three years it will be at the lowest level relative to GDP since before World War II. We don't have the physical resources to respond.  Meanwhile, the government is going to have difficulty raising revenues to adequately confront longer-term threats like global warming:  We're seeing innumerable things going on in our climate which is going to require funding in order to get to, I wouldn't say cure, but to offset. And we have no - we don't have those monies. We're already fully committed in the budget. We have no way of finding new revenues. And one thing that what concerns me is that if in the context we're going to be getting and inflating a, I should say, pressure in the fiscal system at the same time we're doing major things in the monetary system. For context, here's the chart of year-on-year percent growth in current tax receipts. They've been declining since mid-2010.  FRED Finally, Greenspan believes a correction is likely given current valuations, but it's impossible to say when it will hit. ...the stock market has recovered so sharply for so long you have to assume somewhere along the line we're going to get a significant correction. Where that is I do not know, but I would not say that we are grossly overpriced at this point in a historical context.   Greenspan also discussed the resilience of the U.S. dollar and how there's no way of telling what the outcome of the Fed's unprecedented easing will be.   FREE AppDownload
KickstarterThe S&amp;P500 continues to hit new all-time highs, extending an epic five-year bullish run for stocks. But some market commentators believe we must be heading for a top. The signs are there if you want to look for them. As of Friday, the Dow had erased all of 2014's gains. Forward price-to-earnings ratios are well above both their five- and 10-year averages. Even Alan Greenspan has said a correction is inevitable given that the rally is now well into its fifth year.  There are other, less technical signs. We're talking about the signs of that make you think twice and wonder if irrational exuberance has taken over and investors are investing in things recklessly. We've pinpointed the 15 most ridiculous moments in finance of the year so far that might lead one to believe that this bull market has seen its top. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street firms led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; are close to buying a stake in chat and instant messaging startup Perzo Inc in pursuit of an alternative to a similar application from Bloomberg LP, sources familiar with Goldman's plans said. Banks are trying to cut costs as sluggish trading volumes and higher regulation weigh on revenues. Bloomberg has dominated messaging on Wall Street for years, but its application is part of a data, trading and news terminal that costs about $20,000 a year. The Perzo applications are free. Several banks and asset managers are considering an investment in Perzo, including Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt;, Deutsche Bank AG &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, HSBC Holdings PLC &lt;HSBA.L&gt;, BlackRock Inc &lt;BLK.N&gt; and the hedge fund Maverick Capital Ltd, said two sources briefed on the matter who declined to comment publicly. The companies, which have received term sheets for the deal and signed non-disclosure agreements in recent days, either declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment in time for publication. Goldman Sachs spokespeople declined to comment on its Perzo investment, its plans to develop a chat program or its use of Bloomberg terminals. Bloomberg declined to comment for this story. Perzo is a Palo Alto, California-based startup founded by David Gurle, who declined a request for comment. Perzo’s application differs from Bloomberg's in that it is "open-source," meaning customers can plug it into their systems and alter it as they see fit, whereas Bloomberg customers have to buy the entire terminal, and can't just buy the messaging system and adapt it. Banks have been looking for messaging alternatives to Bloomberg's closed system for years and have had limited success because the Bloomberg system is used by so many on Wall Street. One source compared Bloomberg to Blackberry, whose product dominated the smart phone market until Apple came out with its iPhone. Thomson Reuters &lt;TRI.TO&gt; &lt;TRI.N&gt;, which competes with Bloomberg in news, data and analytics, has a chat system with more than 200,000 users in its directory, compared with Bloomberg's 320,000. Thomson Reuters has also collaborated with price data provider Markit and banks including Goldman Sachs to create an open messaging network. Goldman Sachs spokespeople declined to comment on its use of Thomson Reuters terminals. Reuters spokespeople declined to comment. It's unclear what effect a successful new messaging system might have on Goldman's orders for Bloomberg terminals, or whether Goldman would use Bloomberg’s messaging system alongside the new application. "Bloomberg is a very tough ecosystem to break," said Jefferies analyst Dan Dolev. "People say it is the most expensive social network system in the world." Bloomberg's rise began in the 1980s when it became a prime source for data and analytics about bonds. Messaging applications play a critical role in the daily functioning of Wall Street. An underwriter will use messaging programs to tell investors where a bond has priced. Hedge fund managers use messaging applications to talk about trading ideas, and traders use them to talk to sales staff. To succeed, a bank messaging system must be secure, because of the sensitive information transmitted through the application. It must allow for central monitoring, so compliance staff and other officials can monitor conversations to make sure the bank is following securities trading regulations. PROJECT BABEL Goldman Sachs has been looking at alternatives to Bloomberg's messaging program for years, and launched a project internally called "Babel" in early 2013 to develop a competitor, according to two sources. As that project was underway, the bank learned that reporters in Bloomberg's news division had access to information about bank professionals that it assumed had been private, such as when an employee had last logged into his or her terminal, the sources said. The discovery strained relationships between Bloomberg and Goldman, as well as other large financial clients. Bloomberg publicly apologized and changed its policy to bar reporters from accessing client data. The Babel project has been led by Goldman’s Chief Information Officer R. Martin Chavez, who has spent much of his career building technology for the Wall Street bank, the sources said. Darren Cohen, who heads Goldman's principal strategic investments group, got involved when it was decided that it might be easier to simply buy a startup that already had technology that could help meet Babel's goals. Goldman recently reached out to other banks to get them involved, the sources said.       (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra and Jennifer Saba in New York.; Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Innovations in hydraulic fracturing technology have enabled the world's energy producers to extract oil and gas from North America's shale. This has sparked an energy boom, which has helped keep U.S. energy costs in check. Unfortunately, this has not led to the expected recovery in the more energy intensive domestic industries. Wells Fargo Securities economist Tim Quinlan alerted us to this jarring trend when he offered his "Most Important Chart In The World." "While manufacturing output has made a full recovery from the recession, output in the five most energy-intensive manufacturing industries remains 11% below its prerecession peak." Odd.Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongChina continues to be front and center on my list of concerns, even moreso than the latest Federal Reserve press release or fluctuation in the Dow (although you should pay attention). I believe China is the single biggest risk to world economic equilibrium, even larger than Japan or Europe. This week my young associate Worth Wray provides us with a keenly insightful essay on what is currently happening in China. I will admit to not having written about China very much in the past five years, primarily because, prior to Worth’s coming to work with me I really had no secure understanding of what was happening there. I know some readers may be surprised, but I really don’t like to write about things I have no understanding of. Worth has helped me focus. (It helps that he studied Mandarin and lived in China for a while, and is obsessed with China.) Worth has been working directly with me for over one year now. I have had the privilege of working with a number of impressive (lately mostly younger) people over the years, but Worth brings something extra to the table. He is one of the best young macroeconomic minds I have been with in years. He constantly challenges me to step up my game. And so without further ado, let me give you Worth’s thinking regarding our latest discussions on China.   Transformation or Bust, China Version The People’s Republic of China is running up against its debt capacity; and its consumption-repressing, credit-fueled, investment-heavy growth model is nearly exhausted. History suggests that China’s “miracle” could dissipate into a long period of painfully slow growth or terminate abruptly with a banking crisis and sudden collapse. That said, China’s modern economic transformation has defied historical precedents for decades. However unlikely, China could surprise us again. Miracles will happen in the Age of Transformation. What happens next depends largely on the economic wisdom and political resolve of China’s reformers, who must find a way to gradually deleverage overextended regional governments and investment-intensive sectors while simultaneously rebalancing the national economy toward a more sustainable consumption-driven, service-intensive model. The trouble is, their efforts may prove too little too late to slowly let the air out of a massive debt bubble. Even rapid productivity growth from “new economy” sectors may not be enough to overcome the debt equation. At first blush, China’s ruling elite do not appear to be in denial about the severity of the debt problem, the urgent need for structural reforms, or the opposition from vested interests within the Communist Party; but the jury is still out on whether President Xi Jinping and his allies will maintain the political capital necessary to complete, or even continue, the task. With little margin for error, he will either lead the Middle Kingdom through the greatest transformation in world history... or he will preside over one of the most spectacular busts on record. Before we dive into recent data and explore the transformation taking place across the People’s Republic, let’s step back and think intentionally about the conditions that often set “rich” developed economies apart from their “poor” developing peers. I am going to quote extensively in the next two sections from a recent blog post by Peking University Professor Michael Pettis. Pettis provides a CRITICAL foundation for understanding the transformation taking place and the reforms required to keep it going, so please bear with me. We will have plenty of time to delve into the recent data in the second half of the letter. Unless otherwise noted, all quotes are excerpted from his brilliant post, "The Four Stages of Chinese Growth." Becoming a Developed Economy Becoming a truly developed country depends on far more than just accumulating an abundant capital stock or a highly capable workforce. Durable growth and sustainable development depend on “social capital” – or institutional structures including property rights, the legal code and the justice system, the financial system, corporate governance, political culture and practice, tax structures, etc. – which establish and/or maintain the right incentives for economic resources to be used efficiently, creatively, and ultimately, productively. Pettis explains: “In a country with highly developed social capital, incentive structures are aligned and frictional costs reduced in such a way that agents are rewarded for innovation and productive activity. The higher the level of social capital, the more likely they are to act individually and creatively to exploit current economic conditions and infrastructure to generate productive growth.” Extending his argument, John and I would contend that high levels of social capital effectively incubate innovation and entrepreneurship so that, with disciplined savings and investment over time, the right incentives produce lasting wealth and ever-higher levels of development. I think MIT Professor Robert Solow would agree with us on this front. Solow’s work on the US economy – which has become a textbook economics lesson – explains that innovation has accounted for more than 80% of the long-term growth in US per capita income, with capital investments accounting for only 20% of per capita income growth. In other words, the United States and the rest of the post-industrial, developed world owe their epic rise in living standards to the underlying “social capital” that properly incentivized innovation, entrepreneurship, and thus technological transformation over the last two centuries. The lesson here is powerful. It is not enough just to mobilize resources and direct investments to the “right” sectors as China’s central planners have been doing for the last few decades. Once the basic building blocks of economic development are at hand, they still need to be used creatively, effectively, and productively. Pettis elaborates, “In developed countries … abundant social capital encourages residents and businesses to use available conditions and infrastructure in the most productive ways possible. Undeveloped countries, on the other hand, are poor because they do not have the often-intangible qualities that allow citizens spontaneously, and without planning, to exploit their economic and infrastructure resources most efficiently and productively.” Emphasizing the importance of incentive-aligning institutions, developing economies must not only strive to create (1) policies aimed at providing and improving the basic building blocks of production like adequate infrastructure, abundant capital stocks, and healthy, educated workforces but also (2) policies and institutions capable of streamlining the commercial incentives for using those resources as productively as possible with as little waste as possible. Like the USSR in the Cold War era, the People’s Republic has been wildly successful in mobilizing resources; but failing to use those resources efficiently may be its downfall. [As an aside, I would encourage anyone and everyone interested in these ideas to read this 1994 Foreign Affairs article by Paul Krugman. It’s one of those papers that has stuck with me since college and has dramatically informed my thinking about consumption-repressing, resource-marshaling, investment-driven growth miracles.] Today China enjoys access to an abundance of raw materials, a plentiful supply of human capital, a large and growing capital stock, and extensive infrastructure assets; but after decades of policies meant to build up the supply of those basic economic building blocks, the institutions and incentive structures underlying its socialist market economy are deeply and inherently skewed in favor of vested interests at various levels of government. And this is precisely why Xi Jinping’s widespread crackdown on corruption is SO important. Transforming China into a more developed, consumption-driven, service-intensive economy requires that China achieve, according to Pettis, “a dismantling of the distortions and frictions that create rent for the elite, thus undermining the ability of the elite to capture a disproportionate share of the benefits of growth.” Overcoming vested interests and reforming China’s underlying institutional structures to properly incentivize innovation is absolutely possible, but it demands strong and unwavering leadership. As we will see in the next section, Xi will have to channel his inner Deng Xiaoping to guide the People’s Republic through its next great transformation. The Four Eras of Chinese Growth &amp; Development In contrast to popular development narratives, Dr. Pettis thinks of China’s modern growth and development in four stages. Let’s see what he has to say… In the late 1970s and early 1980s Beijing forced through a series of liberalizing reforms that I would characterize as aimed at building social capital. By eliminating laws that severely constrained the ability of Chinese to behave productively, these reforms unleashed an explosion of economic activity that generated tremendous wealth creation. It became legal, for example, for Chinese to produce and sell as individuals, not just through the relevant and usually badly managed state-controlled collectives or organizations. A limited number of farmers were allowed to keep anything they produced above some quota, and agricultural yields doubled almost immediately. If a man believed there was a shortage of bricks in his town, he could create a company to manufacture bricks, and China’s hopeless jumble of soaring brick inventories in one part of the province matched by severe brick shortages nearly everywhere else was replaced with a system in which the more efficiently you made and delivered bricks, the richer both you and the country became. But the implementation of the reforms was not easy. It undermined a very powerful party structure (not to mention the managers of the old state-controlled brick manufacturer) that had been built up over the previous three decades around the ability of its members to constrain and direct economic activity, and so these reforms met with powerful elite resistance. It was only, I would argue, because of the credibility, prestige, and power that Deng Xiaoping and the men around him had, and the loyalty they had built within the PLA, that Beijing was able to overcome elite resistance and successfully implement the reforms. Even in the 1990s, Deng struggled with elite opposition and my understanding is that his famous 1992 Southern Tour was arranged mainly to outflank and defeat provincial opposition to continued economic liberalization. As Chinese productive activity swelled it soon began, however, to run into infrastructure and capacity constraints. This began the second phase of China’s astonishing growth, one characterized by the marshaling of domestic resources to fund an investment boom aimed at creating infrastructure and capacity. Like the many previous examples of investment-driven growth miracles, China embarked on a program to resolve the major constraints identified by Alexander Gershenkron in the 1950s and 1960s as constraining backward economies: a) insufficient savings to fund domestic investment needs, which had to be resolved by policies that constrained consumption growth by constraining household income growth, and b) the widespread failure of the private sector to engage in productive investment, perhaps because of legal uncertainties and their inability to capture many of the externalities associated with these investments, which could be resolved by having the state identify needed investment and controlling and allocating the savings that were generated by resolving the savings constraint. Because China’s infrastructure was far below its ability to absorb and exploit infrastructure efficiently and productively (its social capital exceeded its physical capital, in other words), it was relatively easy for the central authorities to identify productive investment projects, and as they poured money into these projects, the result was another surge in wealth creation from the early 1990s to the early 2000s. Although all Chinese benefitted from this wealth creation, the new elite benefitted disproportionately, in large part because of the constraints imposed on the growth of household income aimed at generating higher savings. Of course over time these new elites became politically entrenched. This elite today is famously referred to (in China) as the “vested interests”. But China was still an undeveloped economy with “backward” (in Gershenkron’s sense) social, legal, financial and economic institutions that sharply constrained its citizens from achieving the levels of productivity that characterize developed countries. Its social capital was still very low, in some cases perhaps even as a partial consequence of policies that had led to the earlier rapid investment-led growth by allowing elites to control access to cheap capital, land, and subsidies. As investment surged, China’s physical capital converged with its social capital (i.e. its infrastructure more or less converged to its ability to exploit this infrastructure productively), after which additional physical capital was no longer capable, or much less so, of creating real wealth. Instead, continued rapid increases in investment directed by the controlling elites (especially at the local and municipal levels) created the illusion of rapid growth. Because this growth was backed by even faster growth in debt, however, it was ultimately unsustainable. This period began around the beginning of the last decade, I would argue, and it is the period in which we currently find ourselves. What China needs now is another set of liberalizing reforms that cause a surge in social capital such that Chinese individuals and businesses have incentives to change their behavior in ways that generate greater productive activity from the same set of assets. These must include changing the legal structure, predictably enforcing business law, changing the way capital is priced and allocated, and other factors that determined the incentives, so that Chinese are more heavily rewarded for activity that increases productivity and penalized, or at least less heavily rewarded, for rent seeking. But because this means almost by definition undermining the very policies that allow elite rent capturing (preferential access to cheap credit, most importantly), it was always likely to be strongly resisted until debt levels got high enough to create a sense of urgency. This resistance to reform over the past 7-10 years was the origin of the “vested interests” debate. Most of the reforms proposed during the Third Plenum and championed by President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang are liberalizing reforms aimed implicitly and even sometimes very explicitly at increasing social capital. In nearly every case – land reform, hukou reform [note: household registration system or the removal of the distinction between rural and urban citizens and thus the freer movement of labor], environmental repair, interest rate liberalization, governance reform in the process of allocating capital, market pricing and elimination of subsidies, privatization, etc. – these reforms effectively transfer wealth from the state and the elites to the household sector and to small and medium enterprises. By doing so, they eliminate frictions that constrain productive behavior, but of course this comes at the cost of elite rent-seeking behavior. Drawing on this four-stage development framework, Pettis’ research reveals an insight that many economists and China watchers are simply missing. China’s current overcapacity and over-indebtedness is not just the unfortunate consequence of hurried post-crisis stimulus, but an inherent by-product of its command-and-control growth model.  After decades of marshalling resources, educating its workforce, and building out a modern infrastructure, China has amassed the building blocks for economic development. China’s central planners successfully overcame the country’s capacity constraints during the so-called Gershenkron Period, but the problem today is overcapacity and widespread misallocation. More investment in bloated “old economy” sectors like low-value-added manufacturing or construction may support employment and keep the economy growing at or above its headline growth target for a while longer; but as John and I explored in our last China letter (Can Central Planners Revive China’s Economic Miracle?) – the investment boom cannot go on forever. It’s time for central planners to take another step back in order for China to take a giant step forward. Mini-Stimulus &amp; Third Plenum Progress Report Among the various reforms set forth in last November’s Communist Party Third Plenum, ranging from financial liberalization to a crackdown on corruption and pollution, the most challenging is the gradual deleveraging of the Chinese economy while simultaneously rebalancing the national accounts toward a more sustainable consumption and service-heavy mix. As John and I have argued for several months, these kinds of liberalizing reforms will not be easy and may require a far greater slowdown than anyone in Beijing publicly admits – but they are China’s only hope of avoiding either a hard landing or a long, frustrating period of depressed growth. Debt has a cost, and that cost must be paid in one form or another. Although Xi and China’s State Council members seem to understand this dynamic, they are not following through with timely reforms. After a period of weakness in the first half of the year, the State Council announced what could be best described as a mini-stimulus in early April, which in the following months has turned into a full-blown stimulus package. Rather than encouraging the national economy to rebalance toward domestic consumption or allowing previously misallocated capital to seek out more productive uses in “new economy” sectors like services and technology, China’s State Council is responding to slowing economic growth with more of the same: (1) government spending on railway expansion and shantytown renovations (which may or may not be productive) to replace decelerating private sector demand, (2) “targeted” interest rate cuts to encourage additional credit growth (which will almost certainly be unproductive), (3) last-minute bailouts to prevent corporate defaults (which they told the world to expect a lot more of in 2014), and (4) tax breaks for small and medium-sized enterprises (which remain seriously disadvantaged relative to larger public or state-owned firms). Since the State Council’s announcement in early April and Premier Li Keqiang’s subsequent guarantee that 2014 economic growth would top 7.5%, the so-called “mini-stimulus” has led to another surge in lending activity,  slightly better real GDP growth (7.5% YOY in Q2 compared to 7.4% YOY in Q1 – according to the highly questionable National Bureau of Statistics),  and the strongest manufacturing PMI print in eight months (51.7 in July, compared to 51.0 in June, 50.8 in May, and 50.4 in April).  And, of course, Chinese stocks are SURGING on improving “old economy” indicators like industrial activity.  John and I believe this kind of stimulus-fueled “improvement” – although it is boosting China’s economy and lifting Chinese markets in the short term – is a very bearish sign that Beijing is afraid of the short-term pain associated with its admittedly urgent reform agenda. This kind of about-face may reveal one of two things: (1) the reformers’ resolve is fading, or (2) the economic reality in China is more unstable than we outsiders realize. A Few Final Thoughts [John here] As he did the last time he wrote on China, Worth actually ended up writing enough content for two letters. We’ll see Part Two next week. As I’ve been saying for some time, we think China looms as the single biggest risk to the world economy, if only because no one yet fully recognizes the substantial and I think principal risk that derives from the innumerable global interconnections – with almost everything of a financial nature – that the world’s second-largest economy has forged over the last two decades. I say that fully cognizant of the risks that both Japan and Europe create for the world, risks Jonathan Tepper and I explored at some length in our book Code Red. Next week Worth and I will pin down realities we all need to recognize regarding the global risks posed by the ongoing political machinations within China. Stay tuned. Montana, San Antonio, DC, Barefoot, and Boston That sounds like an ambitious schedule, but it is actually stretched over three months, which is the lightest travel schedule I’ve had in five years. Which of course means it will change. Who knows, I may show up in a city near you. My travel life takes some strange twists. In a few weeks I will go up to Flathead Lake, Montana, to be with my partner Darrell Cain for a very long weekend, trying to actually relax. Last year when I was there I was finishing my book Code Red (ergo massive deadline), so I really had no time just to sit and read and think and meditate. My full intention is for this year to be different. Tonight finds me in Grand Lake Stream, Maine, at Camp Kotok at Leen’s Lodge (highly recommended), where I’ve spent the first Friday of August for the last eight summers with my youngest son, Trey. This annual ritual has been a special time for me, marking the years as my youngest son has grown into a young man. And the reminder is made physical by the pictures in my phone. There are a few more tattoos and other things that make the old-fogey dad a little uncomfortable, but as we sit and catch fish I remember the 12-year-old kid who caught his first fish. He still has the same joy and facial expressions. Where did my little boy go? It’s hard for me to think back over how fast the time has flown. Philosophical moment. Most of us of with older children experience the phenomenon of how fast our children grow up. It is both thrilling and uncomfortable. But life around us has otherwise tended to flow on smoothly, for the most part. What if the life we experience also changes rapidly in the future, which I think is the likely probability? Does the difficulty we have dealing with how quickly our children grow and change suggest that we will also find ourselves challenged in dealing with accelerating change in the world around us? Just asking… I had the privilege here of sitting next to Paul LePage, who is the governor of Maine and running a very competitive and combative race for reelection. His problem is that the local media hates him, although he has won over a significant portion of the population with the substantial successes that he has had in the last four years. He has turned Maine around from being an economic joke and a disaster case into a state that is more than respectable. Maine’s unemployment rate has gone from being among the worst to being among the best. Taxes are significantly down. Growth is up. He’s reduced the welfare rolls from 27% to 19%. He is an interesting character. I’ve been around politicians for the last 35 years, at all levels. And while I’m not significantly involved in politics today, there was a time when I was really into it. After a while, it dawns on you that there are politicians on both teams who are there for the personal benefits they can grab as opposed to the passion they bring to the table. Sadly, the first group is much larger than the second. Paul is one of the passionate ones. Actually rather extremely so. Four years ago he was a businessman who got fed up and decided to run for governor, and in a very odd election year won as a Republican in a very deep-blue state. In the world of politics strange things happen. Paul is rather outspoken, which is what has gotten him in trouble with the media. (Besides the fact that he is a libertarian in a state with a very liberal media.) He tells a story about Barbara Bush, who was with him at a collegiate event last year and asked if she could speak to him in private. Who tells Barbara Bush no? She leaned into his ear and said, “Governor, it is very important to get reelected. Maine needs you. Zip it!” He said “Yes ma’am” and has been a good boy ever since (at least on a relative basis). Given his views and track record, if LePage were governing a state with a population of 10 million (Maine has 1.3 million), the media would be following him as a potential presidential candidate. As it is, he is off everyone’s radar screen. Unless you are in Maine. As I sat at the table and listened to him rattle off businesslike answers to question after question posed by members of the media (for the purposes of this dinner I got to sit with Bloomberg and a few of the other big dogs – go figure), I saw a man who translated his personal philosophy into practical solutions. Sometimes his solutions were nuanced, but he decided to simply override his Democratic legislature, which wanted to postpone what he felt was a needed nursing home subsidy until after the election cycle – a delay that would have meant even more much-needed nursing homes in Maine would be closing down. He mandated the expenditure in a somewhat Obama-like fashion (or at least that’s what it sounds like to me, but then I’m just a country boy from Texas). Governor LePage is an original. I’m not sure how he would play on a national stage, but he fits right into my image of Maine over the last 30 years. And I would make him an honorary Texan in about two heartbeats. That’s all the news from Maine, where the world is a perfect sunset, the fish are all biting (we caught 36 today), and all the children are forever young. Have a great week and enjoy the wild ride into the Age of Transformation. Your sometimes wishing things would slow down analyst, This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitBEIJING (Reuters) - An explosion that ripped through a motor wheels factory in the eastern China province of Jiangsu killed 71 people and injured 186, the official Xinhua news agency said on Sunday. Earlier it had said the blast, that occurred on Saturday, killed 69 and injured roughly 200. The accident at the Zhongrong Metal Products Co Ltd plant, which makes aluminum wheels for automakers including General Motors Co &lt;GM.N), was China’s worst industrial accident in a year. According to Zhongrong's website, the factory made wheels that are supplied to GM and many other carmakers. The blast at the Zhongrong workshop occurred around 7:30 a.m. on Saturday in Kunshan city, about an hour's drive from Shanghai. A preliminary investigation suggested the blast was triggered when a flame was lit in a dust-filled room, the local government said at a news conference on Saturday, describing the incident as a serious safety breach. (Reporting By Norihiko Shirouzu and Ran Li in Beijing; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVenezuela's President Nicolas Maduro and Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos attend a news conference at a hotel in CartagenaBOGOTA (Reuters) - Venezuela and Colombia have agreed to create a special exchange rate to boost plummeting bilateral trade between the two Andean countries, their presidents said. The exchange rate will be set at a later date and will enable each country to trade in its own currency and exchange any trade surplus into an international currency. "We have established a system, a mechanism for bilateral payments, to facilitate the financial aspect of trade," said Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos after a meeting with his Venezuelan counterpart Nicolas Maduro in the Colombian coastal city Cartagena on Friday. Trade between the two countries has fallen 70 percent over the last five years due to political disputes between the preceding leaders of the two countries, Venezuela's Hugo Chavez and Colombia's Alvaro Uribe. Venezuela's oil-based economy is heavily reliant on imports but the country is facing shortages as importers struggle to obtain dollars whose supply is controlled by the government through a tiered system of exchange rates.   (Reporting by Nelson Bocanegra; Writing by Peter Murphy, editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past the Bank of England in the City of LondonLONDON (Reuters) - After the Federal Reserve maintained its path towards raising U.S. interest rates next year, other major central banks will jostle for space on a crowded stage this week. The European Central Bank, Bank of Japan, Bank of England and the central banks of India and Australia all hold meetings. While imminent action is unlikely, the time when policy settings start pointing in different directions is nearing. U.S. growth rebounded in the second quarter and the Fed upgraded its assessment of the economy last week. It is on course to stop creating money in October but the expectation is that there will be no interest rate rise before mid-2015. That puts the Bank of England in pole position to be the first major central bank to push rates up from their record low 0.5 percent, perhaps before the year is out. Although the UK economy is expanding at an annualized clip in excess of 3 percent and unemployment is tumbling, the absence of wage pressure means there is no immediate reason to act. The consensus is that rates will not rise until early 2015 but polling by Reuters last week found economists expect a first voice or two on the nine-strong Monetary Policy Committee to call for a rate rise this week. The last time the MPC was considering raising rates was in 2006. In May of that year, one MPC member voted for a hike and it took just three months before a majority followed suit. "We expect the jobless rate will continue to fall rapidly, with the BoE hiking earlier and further than markets project," said Michael Saunders, chief UK economist at Citi. The voting pattern will only become public when minutes of the meeting are released two weeks hence. The Fed has just registered its first dissenter, with the hawkish Charles Plosser saying the commitment to keep rates near zero for "a considerable time" did not reflect the gains made by the economy. Lack of wage inflation has been a common theme in the United States and euro zone as well, though U.S. labor costs recorded their biggest gain in more than 5-1/2 years in the second quarter. That spooked Wall Street last week as it may hasten the Fed's first move. The European Central Bank, which also meets on Thursday, faces a very different problem to the Bank of England. Euro zone inflation has slipped further - to just 0.4 percent in July - and if it does not start picking up soon, the pressure to start printing money will grow despite strong reservations within the ECB's Governing Council. "(The inflation data) don’t give any assurance that the euro zone is already out of the deflation danger zone," said Peter Vanden Houte, chief euro zone economist at ING. "Moreover, with the escalating conflict with Russia dampening growth prospects, it seems unlikely that deflation fears will disappear any time soon." Having cut all its key interest rates in June and unveiled a new scheme to prime banks with cheap long-term money from September in the hope they will lend it on, the ECB will not act until it has had time to judge the impact of those measures. If the ECB won't consider more dramatic action until late in the year, it will have a small window of opportunity to act before U.S. rates start heading higher in 2015. Policymakers admit there is little chance of euro zone long-term interest rates decoupling from U.S. ones if they start rising.   NO CHANGE IN ASIA The Bank of Japan will deliver its latest policy verdict on Friday, following the sharpest fall in factory output since the devastating earthquake and tsunami of 2011. With the BOJ already having created money at a furious rate, any policy shift is unlikely. But it may have to temper its assessment that production is "rising moderately as a trend", toning down its upbeat language on the outlook as it becomes less sure about when or even if exports will rebound. The Reserve Bank of India will leave its key interest rate at 8 percent on Tuesday and won't ease policy until early next year on fears food inflation will spike if monsoon rains are below average, according to a Reuters poll. Growth is slowing and has stayed below 5 percent in the past two years, well below levels needed to create enough jobs for India's young and expanding workforce. The Reserve Bank of Australia is also expected to hold rates at 2.5 percent when it meets on Tuesday. Its next move is likely to be up rather than down, but not until next year. Chinese trade data are due on Friday, kicking off the monthly run of indicators. Latest survey evidence from the world's number two economy showed factories posted their strongest growth in at least 1-1/2 years in July, adding to evidence that the economy is gaining momentum after a spate of state stimulus measures.     (Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
