Flickr/deepphotoChina has accused major American consulting firms like McKinsey and Boston Consulting Group of spying, and has ordered its state-owned enterprises to cut ties with the companies, the FT's Jamil Anderlini reports.  The move appears part of the response to the U.S. Justice Department's recent decision to charge Chinese government officials with spying. Beijing’s response to the indictments was swift, with a propaganda campaign in Chinese state media describing the US as a “mincing rascal” and “high-level hooligan”. The decision to ban state enterprises from working with western consulting companies marks a further escalation in Beijing’s response. Along with McKinsey and Boston Consulting Group, Bain &amp; Co., and Strategy&amp;, formerly Booz Co. (and no, that's not a typo), all have extensive operations in China, Anderlini notes. Click here to read the full story on FT.com » FREE AppDownload
Japan's Nikkei opened up 0.9% in Monday trading. Korea's Kospi was down 0.2%. The big story tonight are the results for the European Union election, which saw Euro-skeptic parties make progress but the centrist, establishment retained a comfortable majority.  We have an insanely packed holiday-shortened week in econ data — here's the snapshot from Bloomberg: Bloomberg   FREE AppDownload
Jennifer Jane Mills/flickrUKIP supporters. European Union parliamentary election results show that centrist, establishment parties will maintain a comfortable majority. But the details of the votes suggest the future of the EU could be in deep trouble. In France, 30% of voters younger than 35 cast their ballots for the National Front, whose founder just suggested the country's immigrant populations be thinned by Ebola. Only 21% of voters aged 60 and up voted FN. Meanwhile, just 15% of voters 30 and younger went to the Socialist party, a brutal defeat for French President Francois Hollande, who'd promised in 2012 to make improving conditions for French youth "a priority." A similar phenomenon seems to be happening in the UK, where the UK Independence Party appeared to be racking up victories Sunday evening Eastern time. A recent poll showed 13% of those intending to vote UKIP for European elections were aged 18 to 24 — two percentage points more than for the country's Green party, according to The Spectator.  Europe's youth have a reason to be upset — nearly a quarter of them remain unemployed, and most their countries economies are in the tank. But even in the countries that aren't, like the UK and Germany, Euroskepticism is on the rise. Sunday's results seem to manifest feelings recently expressed by Philippe Legrain, a former economic adviser to European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso, in the New York Times last month: “That a remote, unelected and scarcely accountable official in Brussels should deny voters legitimate choices about tax and spending decisions is undemocratic and alienates people from the European Union.” At the head of UKIP is Nigel Farage, a career politician who just warned about having Romanians as neighbors  While Farage's views on immigration have drawn the majority of headlines about the party, his stance on the European Union — that Britain should leave it altogether — is equally extreme.  Farage believes British membership in the body is holding the country back, and that an exit would "open a door to the world."  Even in Germany, which, thanks to its size and booming economy, still enjoys the most sway in EU bodies, young Euroskeptics have made strides. The members of "Young Alternative", which is linked to the country's official Euroskeptic party, AfD, has a similar makeup to Ukip, according to the BBC — mostly male, college educated, and fed up with their country's current establishment. Last year, approximately 20% of voters under 30 voted for fringe parties, including the AfD, compared with just 7% in 2005, the BBC said, adding that research showed they'd performed well among youth. "The German Eurosceptics are highly critical of the EU's bailout policies, demanding the dissolution of the euro, a halt to EU expansion, and national immigration quotas," the BBC said. Results Sunday showed the AfD had won six of Germany's EU Parliament seats. It's difficult to compare sentiment among Europe's younger voters — who have access to a whole galaxy of political parties — and American ones, who don't. So you can't immediately say that anger about the lingering effects of the Great Recession is being directed at politicians on one side of the Atlantic, and at Wall Street on the other. But having now grown up through the continent's worst crisis since World War II, and given that the EU now enjoys more power than ever, young Europeans' distaste for their elected officials is quite understandable.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo CasilliItaly's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi speaks during a confidence vote at the Senate in Rome February 24, 2014.Europe held votes today for the European Parliament in Brussels and the big headline is going to be the strong showing for right-wing parties. Indeed in France and the U.K., Euroskpetic, rightist parties won big (the National Front and the UKIP respectively). But from a markets perspective, the rise of anti-Europe parties is only one story. The other story is that establishment parties did quite well in both Greece and Italy. In Italy, the liberal party of Italian PM Matteo Renzi scored 40% of the vote, winning handily. And in Greece, although the leftist SYRIZA party won the greatest number of votes, the coalition of New Democracy (conservative) and PASOK (traditional left) maintained a strong showing. As Nick Malkoutzis puts it, the current government has done enough to survive. So, while the Euroskeptic surge is an issue for the EU, in countries that are particularly vulnerable, the establishment parties are holding on. FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesEvery year, thousands of investors flock to Omaha to hear the wisdom of Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger. For as long as six hours, with only one break for lunch, the two business legends take questions from investors, the press, and analysts. Appropriately for a shareholders meeting, the focus is the business of Berkshire Hathaway, but it's not the only topic they discuss. This year, a young shareholder from New Jersey asked for advice on entrepreneurship. Below are my notes on the shareholder's question, along with responses from Buffett and Munger. Shareholder: Being a young person without an ability to code or build robots, I don't know technology. If you were 23 years old, what non-tech industry would you start a business in? Buffett: I'd probably do just what I did at 23. I would go into the investment business and I would look at lots of companies, talk to lots of people, and learn what I could about different industries. One thing I did when I was 23: If I got interested in a coal business, I'd go and see the bosses of eight or 10 coal companies. I'd ask a lot of questions. One question I would always ask: If they had to put all their money in a company in the industry and go away for 10 years, which would it be? And if they had to sell short under the same conditions, which company would it be, and why? And if I talked to everyone in the industry like that, I would know more about the industry than anybody. There's lots of ways to learn about the economic characteristics of companies, such as reading, personal contact, etc. ... But you need a real curiosity about it. It really has to turn you on. And what could turn you on more than asking questions about, for instance, coal companies? [Laughs] And in my case, the insurance industry was particularly interesting, and perhaps you could become well equipped to run such a business some day. If you just keep learning things, something will come along that will be very useful. But you have to be open to it. Munger: Try the trick that Larry Bird used when he wanted a new contract. He asked all agents what agent he should hire if he didn't hire that agent, and when they all came up with the same second choice, he went with that second choice. Buffett: We did the same thing for Salomon. I called in eight or 10 of the managers. We had to open for business, and I had to have someone to run the place. I said, "Who besides you would be ideal, and why?" And one guy told me no one could compare to him. He was gone within a few months [laughs], but it's not a bad system to use. You could really learn a lot just by asking. Sounds like a Yogi Berra quote, but it's true. People like to talk. You just have to be open to it, and you will find your spot. You may not find it the first day of the week, but you'll find what fascinates you. I found it when I was 7 or 8. Sometimes it'll take a while, but you'll find it. Munger: It's a very competitive business. When I was at Cal Tech and studied thermodynamics, there was a guy who was tremendously talented at thermodynamics. I realized that I'd never be as smart as him in that field. I tried other industries with the same results, so I just kept doing that until I ended up here. Buffett: I had a similar experience with athletics. [Laughs] FREE AppDownload
APAcross Europe today, elections are being held for the European Parliament in Brussels. The European Parliament is a continent-wide body with representation from each EU country. It appears to be a big day for right-wing parties and radical parties in general. In France, the National Front (FN), the anti-EU party of Marine Le Pen, appears to have won about 25% of the vote, handily defeating all other parties. Ominously, for the future of the EU, the party performed particularly strongly among the youth. The AP reported that French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said the result was "more than a news alert...It is a shock, an earthquake."  Meanwhile, the anti-EU UKIP was on top of Britain's polls late Sunday. With its anti-immigrant, heavily nationalistic views, many view UKIP as Britain's counterpart to the FN. Party leader Nigel Farage recently said he thought people would be concerned if a group of Romanians moved in next door. Farage, too, had boasted UKIP's showing would prove "an earthquake." Ultimately, the votes mean more for those two countries, as parts of their populations continue to drift right-ward. For the EU at large, not much will change, the FT's Tony Barber argues. The protest vote is not nearly big enough to be labeled a comprehensive rejection of the EU, its political values and its economic crisis management over the five years since the last European elections. Eurosceptics, broadly defined, are projected to win about 130 of the EU legislature’s 751 seats. Given that the EU has just gone through the biggest financial shock and recession of its 56-year history, the damage could have been greater. Indeed, Euroskeptics will only hold an estimated 130 of the 751 European Parliament seats.  At any rate, it's clear the first EU-wide vote since the Eurozone crisis ended, the level of anger towards the mainstream remains quite high. FREE AppDownload
Roy Luck/flickrEmpty cars head back to North Dakota for more Bakken crude.Where have all the anti-frackers gone? You may have noticed we haven't heard too much lately from groups opposed to the drilling practice, which involves sending millions of gallons of water and chemicals into the ground to free up oil and natural gas deposits trapped in rocks. Their last big push seems to have come last year, with the film "Gasland II," about the possible ill effects that fracking Pennsylvania's Marcellus shale could pose to the Delaware River basin at the vanguard. But since that time, we have only seen more development. Oil production is now at a 28-year high, while gas production is at all-time highs. There are now even plans to snake a new natural gas pipeline under the west side of Manhattan.  There is a lot of evidence natural gas production harms the areas around where it occurs. Last month, a Texas jury awarded a suburban Dallas family $3 million for health effects suffered as a result of natural gas production activity near their home. Countless other families have privately settled with drillers over similar claims. Scientists say injecting fracking waste water into the ground probably causes earthquakes. And the oil and gas boom has also led to an increasing number of literal booms on trains transporting crude, as well as ruptured pipelines.  Despite all this, it is now safe to say the debate is basically over: Fracking has won. At Energy Intelligence and the FT's Oil and Gas Strategies Summit Wednesday in Manhattan, Rhodium Group's Trevor Houser contended that the Great American Shale Boom has been America's best economic story, adding up to 50 basis points of growth since 2008, and with the potential to add a further 20 bps through 2020 through lower energy prices, capital investment and jobs. "It's worked like a government stimulus, " he said, but without anyone in Washington having to get involved.   EIAAnnual U.S. natural gas production. The Obama administration has recognized as much. Though the president has proclaimed an "all of the above" energy development strategy, the FT's Ed Luce argued this weekend that it's really been about "one of the above": gas. With the exception of stalling approval of the Keystone Pipeline — the debate around which is largely symbolic, and the importance of which the market is now finding ways to reduce — the administration has done nothing to impose federal regulations on fracking. What's more, the EPA's new carbon dioxide (CO2) regulations take direct aim at U.S. coal production, natural gas' main rival for electricity output. Combined with overall declining energy consumption and intensity in the U.S., coal production has declined 16% since 2008. Though the administration has vowed to revive nuclear, there have been more plant retirements than new plants built. Renewables have surged, but that's mostly been thanks to factors that either predate or have nothing to do with the Obama Administration.  Obama can reasonably argue that allowing the natural gas boom to unfurl is part of his plan to fight climate change. For all its apparent ill effects locally, most experts agree the rise of natural gas has lowered CO2 emissions by displacing coal. While there remains some debate about whether methane leaks from gas wells ultimately cancel out the coal displacement effect on the environment, many scientists now advocate the expansion of natural gas production technology, and natural gas exports, to places like China as a means of helping to end their coal. The debate over fracking is still simmering in some states. In New York, the oil and gas industry continues to urge Gov. Andrew Cuomo to open up the state for drilling. In Colorado, environmentalists are urging Gov. John Hickenlooper to impose a moratorium. But the issues have been before both leaders for years, and neither has shown much interest in making a decision either way — meaning New York remains the lone victory anti-fracking groups can point to. Even in California — where the EIA just slashed estimates of recoverable oil by 96% — Governor Jerry Brown, not exactly known for his ties to the oil and gas industry, was ready to allow fracking to proceed.  The EIA projects natural gas production to continue well into the future, though there's more uncertainty about how long the shale oil boom can continue, given outstanding questions about prices, demand, and depletion rates. (And some groups do question the EIA's gas production estimates.)  Either way, as long as the booms are able to last, the country seems to have decided that it is willing to tolerate their local impacts for their apparent greater benefit.  FREE AppDownload
Sandy Huffaker/Getty ImagesAll three levels of the dreaded Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam will be administered on June 7. That means those test-takers will probably be spending their Memorial Day weekend doing some last-minute cramming.  The CFA curriculum, which consists of three levels, is considered to be the hardest test on Wall Street. To put it in perspective, fewer than 20% of candidates pass all three on the first try. The average test-taker also spends a solid five to six months preparing for the CFA. And every test-taker hopes things go smoothly and according to plan on exam day. But we've heard some crazy horror stories ranging from bathroom disasters to concentration-breaking distractions. We've included them here.  Make sure this doesn't happen to you.  Also, if you have a CFA horror story to share, feel free to email jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We'll keep you anonymous.  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderOn a clear day last October, Bloomberg TV anchor Matt Miller stood on the corner of York Avenue at 79th Street, staring across the stream of traffic at the spot where five months earlier he had nearly died. “Crazy,” he muttered, limping back to the curb. The 40-year-old looked the part of a television personality: He wore a camel sport coat over a Brooks Brothers shirt, tennis racket cuff links, and Diesel jeans with an alligator belt. Only the hiking boots seemed off. “I need them for ankle support,” Miller said. A former anchor of Rewind on Bloomberg TV, Miller covers business (and increasingly Bitcoin). He is also an automotive-industry reporter, a gig with serious perks. He is rarely without a luxury sedan or sports car — think Aston Martins, Bentleys, and Ferraris — provided by the automakers for his segments. Weekends often find him test-driving these vehicles at the Monticello racetrack in New York and at Lime Rock in Connecticut. Last week, he raced Lamborghini Aventadors at the New Jersey Motorsports Park, and rode every model of Ducati motorcycle in the Catskills with the company’s head of North American sales. This week, he’s heading off to California to race Audi R8s against the U.S. CEO. Given Miller’s predilection for high-speed hobbies, the disaster that befell him on May 29, 2013, when a white pickup t-boned his Ducati motorcycle in a Manhattan intersection, may seem unsurprising. About 6:30 pm, Miller was commuting home to Bronxville on his Ducati 1199 Panigale, when a white Ford F-250 pickup made an illegal U-turn and collided with his bike. His left leg was instantly crushed. The driver of the pickup fled the scene, and although authorities believe they may have a suspect, the investigation is ongoing. Miller spent almost a month in the hospital, much of it in unbearable pain. After skin grafts, three surgeries, and a grueling program of physical therapy, he is on his way to a full recovery.   The psychological effects may be more long-lasting. A certain penchant for risk-taking was evident to me when Miller and I first met years ago on Fire Island, where our parents owned adjacent summerhouses. Even as a 10-year-old, I was well aware of my 20-something neighbor’s boisterous personality and appreciation for bourbon and German beer. Matt MillerMiller with Mike "The Situation" Sorrentino at a Victoria's Secret show in 2010.Now 15 years later, Miller’s accident appears to have interrupted a tailspin of malaise that had begun to affect his life and career. The lasting effects of his accident — psychologically and physically — are difficult to parse in a life filled with near misses, serendipitous happenings and audacious gambles that have always seemed to come out in his favor.   Raised in Granville, Ohio, by a professor mother and lawyer stepfather, Miller dropped out of Granville High School in 11th grade, in 1991. It was the sixth school he’d tried since age 13. Despite being a gifted student, he hated being in the classroom. His mother, Gill, a professor at Denison University, gave him an ultimatum: If he really wanted to drop out, he would have to go to three psychiatrists; she would pick one, he would pick one, and they would both pick the third. If all three said it was OK for Miller to quit, then he could. “I didn’t want him to be sitting on a shrink’s couch at age 40, blaming me for letting him drop out of school,” she says. All three doctors told Miller that he should drop out of school. He got his GED and took the ACT and SAT. His SAT scores — in the 1500s — earned him a scholarship from the state of Ohio. Miller tore up the letter and, after a brief stint at Denison, declared he would never set foot in a school again. When Gill moved to New York City, bringing Miller’s two younger stepbrothers with her, Miller followed. “He would go out all night,” she says. “He’d be getting in at 6 when I’d be waking up to work, and would get annoyed when I’d turn the light on.” Eventually, she says, she had no choice; she kicked him out, “with no money in his pockets.” Miller drifted among friends, sold tickets to comedy shows, and worked as a door-to-door salesman. He eventually found a steady gig at a record store in Greenwich Village called Generation Records. Meanwhile, he fell into a social scene he feels lucky to have survived. “I was in a dark, dark place,” he says. “A lot of partying, a lot of punk rock, a lot of death metal.” He had a tongue piercing until a Bloomberg producer recently made him remove it. One Christmas, in 1994, after getting a raise from $8.40 an hour to $9 an hour, he asked Gill and his stepfather, Dixon, about trying out college after all, eventually winning a spot at Antioch in Yellow Springs, Ohio. “That’s where I got my first footing in Austrian economics,” Miller said. “The true basis of capitalism.” Matt MillerMiller with friends at the Corps Burussia fraternity in Tübingen in 1999.While attending an economics course at Tübingen University in Germany during his junior year, Miller developed an interest in a bizarre and little-known facet of German cultural history — the fraternal institutions as Verbindungen. Private student groups that date to the 12th century, they are now viewed by many Germans as archaic institutions steeped in racism, sexism, and elitism. Among their more controversial practices is an ancient tradition called Mensur, a form of fixed-stance ritual dueling with swords. Fighters, clad in full body armor, endeavor to lacerate their opponent’s face, while a doctor stands ready to administer first aid. A scar from such a match, called a Schmiss, is considered a badge of honor. After Miller and a friend began visiting the Corps Borussia fraternity as part of a research project, he saw his first duel. The doctor was the father of one of the participants. After the son’s ear was severed by his opponent, he asked his father to reattach it. Instead, the man squished it beneath his boot and said, “Was ist verloren, ist verloren” (“What’s lost is lost”). Convinced he’d finally found his niche, Miller soon moved into the Borussia house and began dueling. During his second and last bout, he won by slitting his opponent across his entire forehead. The wound began spouting blood, and the fight was halted. “After, we had a beer and became friends,” Miller recalls. “He still says, ‘Miller, every time I look in the mirror I think of you.’ It really builds character, because after that, you can pretty much face any kind of physical danger.” Miller says wistfully that nobody had ever cut him deep enough to give him a Schmiss of his own. Miller credits his experience in Germany — holing up in a castle with the children of the country’s elite, having drinking competitions and sword duels and going on ice-climbing expeditions in the Alps — with straightening him out. “It was the beginning of my drive to be somebody,” he says.   After graduating, Miller interviewed at several banks in Frankfurt and tried for a trading position at Commerzbank. Then a Bloomberg reporter and old friend, Katherine Snyder, suggested he check out Bloomberg. “He was too big a risk-taker to become a trader,” Snyder says, mentioning the mock trades Commerzbank asked him to make as part of one interview. He started at Bloomberg as a print reporter in Frankfurt in January 2000, going on to cover telecoms at the height of the internet bubble, when companies like Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone were making major acquisitions. On Sept. 11, 2001, as the terrorist attacks reverberated around the world, Bloomberg decided to get a correspondent in every foreign bureau to report on live television. The headquarters in New York called the Frankfurt print bureau asking who wanted to go on TV, and nobody spoke up — except Miller. He proved to be a natural, and Bloomberg soon began to send him to report from the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Eventually, they asked him to come to London to sub for a European correspondent who was on vacation. On Nov. 5, 2003, his birthday, Bloomberg moved Miller to London and onto television full time. Soon after, he got his first bike, a Vespa 125. “I was living in Chelsea and I was working in the city. It was this 45-minute commute on the Underground that would just suck the life out of anybody,” he says. “When I got my Vespa, it changed everything because I would wake up in the morning and I would be excited because I got to ride my scooter to work.” The Vespa was Miller’s gateway drug. Soon, it led to a Ducati Monster 620 he picked up on eBay. The seller delivered the bike, gray with red wheels, to Miller’s office, and he drove it home, unlicensed, in his loafers. “It was terrifying at first,” he says. “But by the time I got home, I was a master.” In 2006, Bloomberg brought Miller to New York to groom him as an anchor, giving him a two-hour midday slot anchoring a newsmagazine as a sub for Deirdre Bolton, who was out on maternity leave in 2007. He started covering the automotive beat as a side project.Matt MillerMiller in a favorite T-shirt.  “Nobody cared about cars in 2008 and 2009 — except to cover the bankruptcy, which was from a financial perspective,” Miller says. “For me, it started when I was able to shift people away from the Greek debt crisis for a moment to check out this hot new BMW. Or away from Christine Lagarde or Dominique Strauss-Kahn for a minute to look at this sexy new Porsche four-door.” As car companies rebounded and began to spend more money on advertising, Bloomberg’s relationship with them grew. Miller’s first coanchor, Carol Massar, recalls their easy chemistry. “Broadcast is a funny thing,” she said. “Some relationships you just can’t fake. He remembers things. He’s wicked smart. Matt can just wing it.” She adds that women often trigger his provocative nature and penchant for mischief. “Ask me about the time he did a piece on Victoria’s Secret and brought me ‘presents’ on air.”   By early 2013, Miller was anchoring two shows, Rewind and Street Smart, and producing his own segments in the field several times a week, from playing squash with hedge-fund managers to visiting tailors for new suits. On the air all day, he systematically covered the car industry in Detroit and the New York Stock Exchange from opening to closing bell. He would leave his house at 7 a.m. to be on air from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m., after Rewind. But these responsibilities soon began to overwhelm him. He had been battling depression for almost a year and was still suffering from recurring effects of Lyme disease he had contracted in November at a friend’s farmhouse in Connecticut. Street Smart had been reassigned to Trish Regan and Adam Johnson in 2012, leaving Miller to focus on Rewind and his other segments. Miller’s bosses cancelled Rewind in 2013, replacing the show with Bloomberg West and Mark Crumpton’s Bottom Line. “I think they totally sensed I was overwhelmed,” Miller says. “I mean, I was skating on thin ice in a number of different ways.” Matt MillerMiller on a BMW R1000 at home in Bronxville with his dog, Steve.Finally, by May, Miller had just begun putting his life back together. “It was like someone let me off my leash,” he says about losing Rewind. “That really improved my outlook at work.” He began to focus his energy on covering Detroit and building better relationships with auto executives like Alan Mulally, Bill Ford, and Mark Reuss of General Motors. He felt better thanks to the help of antibiotics, a gluten-free diet, and a new psychiatrist who prescribed him an antidepressant. “Plus, it was summer,” he says. “I was loving riding the bike.” On May 29, 2013, Miller changed into leather pants and a motorcycle jacket that hardens on impact and put on his boots. Helmet in hand, he walked through the space-age lobby of Bloomberg’s Lexington Avenue headquarters, past a gauntlet of eye-rolls at his excessive gear. It was about 6:30 p.m., and he had a date that night with a new girlfriend, Mariu Tena, a pretty 22-year-old Spanish college student. In the parking garage, Miller hopped on his Ducati and began his commute home, heading north on York Avenue. As he crested a slight hill before the 79th Street intersection, a cab made a left turn without signaling, and he swerved right to avoid it. At that moment, a white Ford F-250 pickup truck heading south made an illegal U-turn into the intersection. Miller caught the truck in his peripheral vision; he veered to the right and clutched his brakes, causing his front tire to lock up and his rear one to lift into the air. The bike rotated clockwise slightly, and the truck struck Miller on the left side, crushing his left leg between the two vehicles. His helmet slammed into the truck. Matt MillerMiller with Ford's Alan Mulally at the Dearborn Truck Plant. At that moment, Jake Cohen, a college freshman, was staring out the window of his parents’ nearby apartment. He watched the white pickup make an “erratic turn” and slam into Miller. “There was a very loud crashing noise,” he says. “As soon as he hit him, he stopped for a minute. He obviously recognized that he hit somebody. Then he took off in the opposite direction.” People began to gather around Miller, who kept trying to stand up, all the while yelling obscenities at the fleeing pickup. Another witness recorded the license plate and described the driver to the police as a black male, bald, in his 30s or early 40s with a medium build and wearing a white shirt. Before long, paramedics arrived on the scene. They took off Miller’s helmet and jacket, then took out a pair of scissors to remove his boots and pants. “No, no, no! These pants cost, like, 500 bucks!” Miller protested, to little effect. As he was loaded into the ambulance, he fretted about his date, his career, and, finally, his leg. Next thing he knew, he was in the trauma center at New York Presbyterian, his head and neck rigid in a brace that made him feel paralyzed, an IV drip in his arm. Miller’s brother, Stewart, soon arrived at the hospital and began making calls. First he called Mariu, Miller’s girlfriend, then his mother, Gill. Meanwhile, as the drugs started kicking in, Miller began joking with the nurses. “You all deserve raises,” he told them, promising to do a story on what heroes they were.   Dr. Dean Lorich, an orthopedic trauma specialist, operated on Miller’s leg the day after the accident. After the leg began to swell uncontrollably, he told Gill and Stewart that there was a 50% chance it would have to be amputated. Better not to mention that to Matt, they decided. Matt MillerMiller in the hospital, shortly after his accident.By Thursday night, Miller was in so much pain that he was writhing, begging the nurses for more morphine. Eventually, the swelling in Miller’s leg reduced enough to permit a second surgery. Miller would keep his leg. On June 9, a plastic surgeon closed the final fasciotomy incision, which had grown to about three inches wide, with skin grafted from his upper left thigh; he expressed gratefulness that they didn’t take his tattoo of Skinny Puppy, the Canadian electro-industrial band, from his other thigh. His wounds now closed, Miller began gradual physical therapy. Therapists used a Continuous Passive Motion machine to bend his leg. He had to practice climbing stairs; on his first attempt he froze in terror, sat, and slid down the steps. On June 15, after almost three weeks in the hospital, Miller was discharged. Back in Bronxville, he worked to regain his independence. Two nurses made sure the house was handicap-accessible, and determined that he didn’t need any additional help. His family catered to his every need. The Millers also began working with a lawyer, Andrew “Duke” Maloney III — a former criminal prosecutor and a motorcycle rider himself — to track down the driver of the white pickup. Maloney was critical of the lack of progress the NYPD had made. It took him just a few hours to run the plate on LexisNexis research database. The vehicle’s owner was Osbourne Karl Henriques, 66. However, Henriques was in Federal custody in North Carolina at the time of Miller’s accident, awaiting a psych evaluation to stand trial for possessing with intent to distribute more than 200 kilos of marijuana. Maloney discovered that Henriques lived with two adult children and a grandchild in Queens. One, a 35-year-old son with the same name had served nine years in prison for attempted murder and intimidating a witness, before being released in 2011. On Google Maps, Maloney saw a white Ford pickup parked in the younger Henriques’ driveway. Despite these breakthroughs, the investigation stalled. Police contacted the younger Henriques, but he simply denied he had been behind the wheel. The traffic camera hadn’t been checked in time and the recording was taped over, Maloney says. Without proof, there could be no criminal liability. “Unfortunately, I don’t believe the NYPD put the resources and time and effort into the matter,” he says. “And I think if they had, there might have been a different result.” As for insurance liability, the most Maloney could get from the elder Henriques’ Geico policy was $50,000 — which Miller chose not to accept, opting to fight the insurance companies for more. “The irony is, when people get themselves insufficient insurance, they essentially make themselves judgment proof,” Maloney says. Meanwhile, Miller went to physical therapy up to three times a week for four months. His treatment included cryotherapy, massages, muscle stimulation, moist heat, whirlpools, isometrics, stationary bike, treadmill, swimming, and elliptical. He meticulously dressed his gaping wound, spreading moisturizer over his skin graft. By the end of July, he could walk with crutches and had returned to work. His camera angles were set up to allow him to wear shorts on the air. By October, after months of recovery and rehab, he was finally able to walk without a cane.   One Jan. 13, the sun has yet to rise as Miller stands in his hotel room, preparing to cover the first day of press week at the North American International Auto Show. He puts on a pair of business shoes for the first time since the accident eight months earlier — a small but telling symbol of a return to normalcy. “Alden Cordovan loafers,” he says. “The Wall Street kind.” His hotel room is tidy, but stacks of car magazines — Truckin’, Motor Trend, Automobile, and Road &amp; Track — litter nearly every surface. The Auto Show is his Super Bowl, he says with a smile, that’s why he can’t wear his hiking boots. He wears a blue suit with no tie and eye-searing red socks. He will be one of 5,212 journalists covering the event, more than the actual Super Bowl. Matt MillerAt the auto show.Miller is most excited to see the reveal of the new Ford F-150. “We’re interviewing Bill fucking Ford today,” he says. “Last year it was the Corvette, now it’s all about the truck.” At 5:23 a.m. Miller climbs into a 2013 F-150 Raptor, a loaner from Ford for his stay in Detroit, for the trip to the Cobo Center. “If you look at the accident as the worst thing that’s happened to me in the last year, this is the best,” he says. “I love these people. And I love Detroit, even though it’s fucking bombed out.” As downtown Detroit begins to stir, Miller explains the significance of the new truck, the future of Detroit, and what’s going to happen when he gets to the convention center (his producers are basically going to yell at him for a while). "That’s the fist sculpture from the movie '8 Mile,'" he says, pointing at the local landmark. Bloomberg didn’t spring for parking passes this year, and finding a spot for the massive truck proves difficult. At one garage, an attendant shakes his head. “You too big,” he says. “That’s what she said!” Miller shouts. Once inside the show, Miller interviews Bill Ford Jr., an exclusive for Bloomberg, and the chairman seems impressed by his knowledge. Miller spends the next hour inspecting the new Fords, opening car doors and checking out the ramps in the new pickups. He stands on a ramp. His height now significantly increased, he’s directly in the shot as CBS tries to interview Alan Mulally about 50 yards away. He waves at Ray Day, Mulally’s vice president of communications. “Come on, Matt!” barks Dan Barbossa, a PR manager for Ford. Later, Steven Curtis, who does PR for Toyota, strikes up a conversation with Miller. They talk in hushed tones about the new sports car that will be revealed today. The FT-1 will be a throwback to the Supra, connecting Toyota with its sporty heritage. “Is it gonna steal the show?” Miller asks. “Yeah right, Mr. Twitter!” Curtis responds. Off the record, Miller says. “I just want to know!” Later that morning, Miller, waiting to interview Mulally, explains his accident to a cameraman. “I got hit by a truck, dude,” he says. “Like one of these?” says the cameraman, pointing to the new F-150. “Actually, it was an F-250.” Mulally walks up to Miller, entering the circle of cameras and equipment with two directors' chairs in the center for the interview. “What’s happening?” the Ford CEO asks Miller with a smile, and then bows, reenacting the “I’m not worthy” shtick from the movie "Wayne’s World." The cameras roll. The interview goes well; it flows by, unforced, like a well-rehearsed dialogue, just a couple of gearheads shooting the breeze. Mullaly wants to know what Miller thinks of the F-150. “What do you think?” he asks. “You know trucks.” “I have to have an unbiased opinion as a journalist,” Miller says. “But I’ll say I’m incredibly impressed.  Obviously 700 pounds of weight saving. And you have built-in motorcycle ramps, which is a huge bonus for me.” “It’s all about you, Matt,” Mullaly says. Later, Mulally sings the anchor’s praises to Business Insider. “He’s true north,” Mulally enthuses. “We love him because he knows and loves automobiles, and we like to make him smile.” Miller’s producers give him an hour for lunch, begging him to be back at 11:30 and not to run off. Admitting he has a tendency to “get crazy and annoy people,” he asks if he’s doing OK. Assured that he’s doing fine, he rushes out for a pair of Detroit’s beloved Coney dogs. At 1 p.m., Miller is sitting in the front row at the Fiat press conference, where CEO Sergio Marchionne will announce the finalization of the Chrysler acquisition. Reporters barrage Marchionne with big questions about the acquisition, where the headquarters will be, and international ramifications of the deal. Then Miller chimes in. “I am old enough to remember lusting after Alfa Romeo Spyders when I was in high school,” he says. “You aren’t that old,” Marchionne interrupts with a smile. “When you came in and bought Chrysler,” Miller says. “I was so excited.” He asks Marchionne when Alfa Romeos will be reintroduced in America. “2014,” Marchionne says. “Then you can stop lusting after them, and redirect it for better uses.” “He has no problem doing that,” one of his producers says. Later, Miller slips away without Marchionne noticing. Another reporter asks a question about the international potential of Alfa Romeo. “I lost my guy,” he says about Miller. “The one with the hormonal imbalance. What word did he use?” “Lust,” says the crowd in unison. “Oh, he’s gone,” Marchionne says, with a touch of self-pity. “I feel used!”   A couple of weeks later, Miller steps into his driveway wearing a Held motorcycle suit — similar to the one that saved his life — and a gleaming white helmet. “Daddy’s going for a ride, Steve,” he says to his undersize rottweiler smiling from behind a wrought-iron fence. He stands confidently on both legs. If he didn’t eagerly tell you how he’d been hit by a truck, or proudly show you his 11-inch scar resembling, he says, a part of the female anatomy, you would have no idea that two titanium plates and 13 screws hold his left leg together. Bloomberg TVMiller on Bloomberg.Miller’s taking a ride along the Hudson Valley’s hairpin roads to Bear Mountain to take his bike to family-owned Rockwell Cycles in Fort Montgomery, New York, his favorite shop. He punches in the code and his garage door opens. Pausing a moment, he admires his red-and-white Ducati Multistrada Pikes Peak edition standing in its wheel chock. “Isn’t she beautiful?” he says, throwing a leg over the bike. With the help of “Duke” Maloney, he’s still pursuing Osborne Henriques to pay his medical bills, but the legal case seems a distant concern as the engine starts with a high-pitched whine. Miller backs the bike cautiously out of his driveway and into the street. He rolls through the first stop sign because nobody is ever there, but stops completely at an intersection. On a ramp for the Sprain Brook Parkway, he leans forward, tucking in his elbows, and takes off.   Ben Yeager is a recent graduate of the Columbia School of Journalism. He will head up to Alaska this month to report for the Cordova Times. He can be reached via Twitter @benbiggsyeager. Read more of Business Insider's long-form features » FREE AppDownload
Over on Flannel Guy ROI, blogger James has been talking about retirement. Specifically, he's discussing pretirement, which he defines as "a stepping-stone compromise between full-time work and full-time retirement." Basically, you stop contributing to your retirement savings and let them grow on their own until you actually retire, when you start using them. While pretirement sounds appealing, we're most interested in his calculations, which show how long you'd need to let your retirement savings grow before tapping into them if you stopped saving today. Technically, you could raid them any time after age 59 1/2, but James has calculated the waiting period based on your savings increasing enough to generate the income you expect to have in retirement. Check out the chart below. The bottom axis represents your current savings. Trace up to the colored line that represents how much income you want each year in retirement. Then look to the left axis to estimate how many years it will take your current savings to grow enough to support you during retirement. Flannel Guy ROI There's a table version, as well: Flannel Guy ROI Essentially, the chart tells us that if you have $200,000 saved today and wanted to have a $40,000 income in retirement without saving another penny, it would take 41 years to achieve your goal. Here's his methodology: There are a few caveats to this information. First, I’m assuming a 4% safe withdrawal rate and a 4% real rate of return. The rate of return assumption might be a little conservative for long-term, inflation-adjusted growth on a stock portfolio while the 4% safe withdrawal rate might be a little aggressive, depending on whom you ask. The idea behind the 4% withdrawal rate is that you could theoretically maintain it forever because investment growth will cover or outpace withdrawals … your $1,000,000 nest egg never really gets any smaller even though it keeps throwing off $40,000 in passive income per year. Some experts say that many modern-day retirees will need upwards of $1 million to support the retirement life they plan to lead, and James's calculations don't dispute that theory: His numbers find that if you retire this year with $1 million in retirement savings, you'll be living on a pretty conservative $40,000 annual income. And for the record, no one is saying you should stop saving for retirement — just the opposite. If your current savings could grow by this much, imagine how much more money you'll have if you keep contributing? Hat tip to Rockstar Finance. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaIn China, Putin said that "Russia firmly places China at the top of its foreign trade partners." Ukraine is in crisis amid Russian meddling, and Putin is looking East as the West threatens more sanctions. The situation is good for China, which can benefit from Russia's raw materials and Western inaction. Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group explained how Beijing is making the most of the climate. "[China is] the big winner from the Ukraine crisis — everybody wants to work with them," Bremmer told Business Insider in an email. "I’d say not only are they ignoring U.S./E.U. sanctions, they’re actually taking advantage of them." And strategically, China is in a position to make aggressive moves against the interests of nearby countries that are not strong U.S. allies — much like Russia is doing in Ukraine. "The U.S. has a treaty that directly commits the Americans to defend Japan in the case of an attack; that’s not the case with Vietnam. The U.S. isn’t as directly committed (the recent U.S.-Philippines announcement of tighter military cooperation notwithstanding), and China sees that they can push more militarily against non-U.S. allies (as the Russians have in Ukraine, for example) without much pushback. " Bremmer noted that while tensions in the South China Sea are deepening, the U.S. has had some success: President Obama's recent trip to Japan reaffirmed America's strong presence in the region at a time when relations between Beijing and Tokyo are becoming more functional. Obama accomplished this by emphasizing American support for Tokyo and "diminishing the opportunity for China to drive a wedge between Japan and the U.S," Bremmer said. "That’s what Obama needed to accomplish in Japan. I’d say the effort has been successful." Nevertheless, fundamental problems remain. America's indictment of five Chinese military hackers is the latest signal that relations may be contentious as events evolve in Ukraine and the South China Sea. "The biggest structural problem between the U.S. and China is that the two countries are at war with each other over cyber," Bremmer told BI. "That’s ebbed greatly of late given the change in the Obama second term administration (away from the pivot) and the Snowden scandal making it harder for the U.S. to play offense on China publicly on cyber. But the confrontation is surely growing. And this is an indication." FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Jason Reed Most new jobs since the recession have come from the energy sector. I and many others are still trying to digest the massive amount of useful and original information that was offered at last week’s Strategic Investment Conference. In this week’s letter I want to recap some of what I learned but do so in a little different manner. I find it quite instructive to listen to and read what other people have to say about their takeaways from the conference. I have come across several very good summaries and reviews that I am going to excerpt rather liberally, along with sharing some of my own thoughts. Nearly everyone noted that there was somewhat of a divide in the opinions as to whether things in the US and global economies are getting better or getting worse. Upon reflection, I think that John Nicola (my Canadian partner of the eponymous wealth management firm, who sent me his comments, which I will use freely below) had it right. If we all examine a glass that is filled up to the mid-level, some of us will describe it is half-full, and others will describe it as half-empty. And of course there is plenty of data to back up either the optimistic or the pessimistic position. The simple fact is that we are in what I call a Muddle Through Economy. Things aren’t terrible, but they are not great, either. We’ve come through a devastating Great Recession caused by a crisis in the financial sector. It is quite typical for the effects of such a crisis to linger for a decade or more. So compared to where we were at the bottom of the Great Recession, the glass is half-full. But compared to the expectations we have for economic recovery and the resumption of vibrant growth, half-full seems like an exaggeration. And for many people, the glass is simply empty, while for others it is spilling over. Steve Moore sent me a graph demonstrating that net new jobs since the onset of the Great Recession have come, in large measure, from the energy sector. Those are generally high-paying jobs, but the rest of the country and many industries have not done so well. According to a new report from the National Employment Law Project, the quality of the jobs that have been created since the end of the last recession does not match the quality of the jobs that were lost during that recession: Yes, unemployment is down, but so is labor participation, and the simple fact is that outside of the petroleum sector new jobs are not being created to anyone’s satisfaction. In my presentation at the conference I showed a chart that illustrates the fact that we are losing businesses faster than we are creating new ones — an unprecedented statistic. This is a glass not only half-empty but leaking:  Richard Lehmann and Marty Fridson attended the conference and wrote an exceptionally well-done review in Forbes. (I was honored that they attended.) They started with the optimistic note that my good friend David Rosenberg offered as the very first speaker at the conference: David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff, sees reduced unemployment as a positive sign for the economy, despite objections that the decline in the unemployment rate reflects an unusually low participation rate. For one thing, says Rosenberg, the number of discouraged workers is down by 40% from the peak. At the margin, he adds, people are choosing to stay out of the work force in response to government incentives to remain idle. The number of people collecting disability benefits, using food stamps, or collecting welfare payments is at a record high. Three-quarters of the reduction in the participation rate, says Rosenberg, is attributable to demographics, as the number of Baby Boomers reaching age 65 is rising dramatically. Rosenberg further notes that unfilled job openings are at a five-year high. The U.S. government is granting fewer visas, college students are graduating without marketable skills, and the skills of many workers who have been laid off for long periods have become outdated. If all of the current openings could be filled, unemployment would drop to 4%. The bottom line for Rosenberg is that the current recovery/expansion is in the fourth inning. Business cycles never die from old age, he maintains. He puts the probability of recession in 2015 at close to zero…. Richard Yamarone, senior economist at Bloomberg Economics, takes a less sanguine view on unemployment than David Rosenberg. He argues that the type of jobs being created makes a difference. Currently, job creation is skewed toward low-skill, low-income categories. To circumvent the Affordable Care Act’s requirement to provide health care to full-time employees, retailing, health care and food service employers are cutting workers’ hours. Consequently, new jobs are being created for people who now have to hold multiple part-time jobs, but that does not constitute a genuine increase in employment or GNP. Yamarone’s view of the labor market leads to a comparatively bearish outlook on the economy. Since GDP began to be reported in 1947, he points out, the U.S. economy has slid into recession every time GDP growth has fallen to 2%, a level below which it currently stands. Yamarone also reports unfavorable readings in four of five special data series that he has found to be accurate indicators of the economy — dining out, casino gambling, jewelry and watches, cosmetics and perfumes, and women’s dresses … Lacy Hunt, executive vice president of Hoisington Investment Management, contends that the Fed’s strategy for boosting the economy is not working. Little wealth effect (the tendency of people to step up their spending when their wealth increases) has been observed. Hunt explains that the monetary policy cannot influence the economy unless the market rate of interest (represented by the Baa corporate bond yield) is below the natural rate of interest (the nominal rate of GDP growth). That has not been the case at any point during the recovery. Until it is, Hunt contends, consumers will have no incentive to take on debt to finance spending and economic growth will consequently remain sluggish. Lacy believes all major developed countries are going to have deal with their “Minsky moments,” because not enough of their overall debt is productive. When all debt (government, corporate, and personal) is added up, it equals 350% of GDP in the US and 440% in developed countries on average. Lacy kept emphasizing his conviction that any number over 275% results in limited growth and eventual deflation. David Zervos expects the Fed to keep interest rates low until it gets either inflation or solid economic growth. In fact, the private sector has been growing at more than 3% annually since 2010. His view is that savers will continue to be punished, because the interest rates they receive will remain artificially low. Gary Shilling was decidedly more upbeat and felt solid economic growth is at hand. (Nicola) I noted an interesting theme in several speeches. Millennials, Jeff Gundlach noted, are different. They are less acquisitive. Neil Howe also talked about this and noted that we are in the middle of a “Fourth Turning,” which is a typically an isolationist period. He also notes that Millennials (1981-1994) like to rent (not just homes but cars, recreational property, clothing etc.) They have less stress, often live at home with their parents, and are looking for meaningful work where they can be mentored. Ian Bremmer echoed Neil’s theme and stated that one of the important geopolitical trends at play is that the US is becoming more isolationist. And Ian, who is a geopolitical analyst with the Eurasia Group and an NYU professor, also noted that the huge increase in US oil and gas production means much less dependence on Mideast oil and suggests that the US will eventually become a net energy exporter. As a result the US will not want to get entangled in the Middle East, and this reluctance will increase the risks in that region. Regarding the Ukraine situation, Ian feels the US made a mistake in trying to put sanctions on Russia that it couldn’t back up (a sentiment echoed by several speakers). He also expects Israel and the US to make a deal with Iran in the next twelve months – and if they do, Iran will bring 1.5 million additional barrels of oil to world markets. The big winner of the Ukraine crisis? Ian argued very cogently that it’s China. Ian continues to impress me every time I hear him or talk with him. Jeffrey Gundlach was quite negative on US housing but positive on multifamily rental real estate, because rentals increase as home ownership drops. Home ownership has dropped from 69% of households to 65%. One well-known US investor, Sam Zell, expects it to drop to 55%. A 1% drop means 1.2 million additional households are looking for rental accommodations. Another speaker had mentioned that over 1 million millennials are living with their parents, which is a major factor in the reduction of household formation. Jeffrey does not like the risks associated with high-yield bonds but does like emerging-market debt and mortgages on a risk-adjusted basis. He expects the US to see deflation before inflation makes a comeback. (Nicola, et al.) Grant Williams made a comment during a discussion about global markets that I thought was excellent. There is a bubble, he asserted, in complacency. He is very concerned with shadow banking in China (currently 60% of GDP) and with unaffordable housing. Many investors in wealth management products (WMPs) will lose a lot of money unless government bails them out. Overall there is a credit bubble in China. Japan is even worse at almost 250% of GDP for government debt alone. Grant feels Abenonmics is not working and that little structural reform is occurring. Notwithstanding that, Japanese 10-year bond rates dropped from almost 1% to 0.6% in the last year. Kyle Bass stated that he thinks Japanese 10-year rates will rise to 2.5%. There was a very consistent theme in a number of presentations: no one is sanguine about China. The comments ranged from quite concerned to worried to very alarmed. (Next week this letter will focus on China.) There was not much that was positive to be said about Europe and Japan. Thoughts on the emerging markets varied a great deal and at the end of the day were very specific to particular markets. John Nicola offered this summary to his clients: As you can see, there are definitely two camps but also some common themes. Let me wrap up with our own thoughts on what we learned and how it might change our investment strategies. There are still many headwinds to getting inflation to rise. One of the main issues is considerable slack in global labor markets. With emerging markets looking to improve their own standards of living, this spare capacity will likely be with us for many years. Overall it should continue to provide deflationary pressure on wages. For a large part of the twentieth century the developed world experienced real growth of 3%+ per year. Many countries now have flat or declining populations, and all of them are aging. Looking forward, the developed world would be doing well if it were to realize real growth of 2% annually. Global growth will be driven by developing nations. The impact of shale oil and gas is a game changer for the US both politically and economically. When this is combined with the US having the best demographic profile of any developed nation, it becomes an important part of any portfolio. Long-term interest rates have been in a relatively narrow range for the last couple of years, and this may continue for some time even as QE is reduced or eliminated. Even when rates rise they may not get to the “real” return levels of the past when long-term government bonds earned between 2-3% after inflation. At some point rates will rise, and we need to design portfolios to prepare for that. But the increases may take longer than many forecasters expect and be more muted as well. Now let’s turn to a blog by Chris Bailey, who gave his readers ten take-away thoughts from the second day of the conference. I thought his wrap-up was well-done and somewhat different from the views mentioned above. 1. Trust within the economic system was a sub-theme with Dylan Grice noting on the regressive/divisive nature of QE that Central Banks “can only cheat ... because people trust” and that a yield statistic should be considered a trust indicator ... but that the risk with QE was that “if you weaken the currency, you weaken society, you weaken trust.” 2. Talking about yields ... Lacy Hunt noted that we have not seen the spread between corporate bonds and nominal GDP be negative for over 30 years ... but there was a real risk that it would happen this year. He noted this was reflective of a world with declining money velocity and a nominal GDP number “not enough or top-line growth.” 3. Geo-political troubles and challenges in the world were well captured by Newt Gingrich who noted from a US perspective that the world is “much harder, denser than thought... we are more limited than we think we are ... our opponents get to play too.” Neil Howe noted that “the fourth turning” (which runs until c. the mid 2020s) generally sees a rise in isolationism. Dylan Grice showed some upturns in capital controls/protectionism (from a very low level) were occurring. 4. Debt levels around the world were a constant theme. Lacy Hunt noted that above a (combined) 275% public/private debt level “bad things happen” (guess where almost all large economies are...). Paul McCulley said that a sovereign country like the United States could not have a public debt crisis because it retained the capability to print... although clearly this could lead to other issues. 5. The role of government was much debated. John Mauldin said that one of his biggest questions was “can governments destroy ... quicker than humans can create.” Newt Gingrich divided everyone in both government and corporate life between pioneers, prison guards, champions and prisoners. Dylan Grice noted he is preferring companies in sectors with less government intervention capability. 6. Neil Howe noted many attitude links between the 1930s and this decade covering pessimism, worries about inequality, distrust in the elites, retreat from globalism, a new desire for community and declining personal risk-taking. 7. Still there is hope. George Gilder said that “creativity always comes as a surprise” whilst John Mauldin talked about the need to evolve yourself into a future-looking homo rationalis with the scope for positive trends across mobile internet, automation, internet of things, robotics, renewals and advanced materials (amongst others) building an exponentially more attractive future. 8. Attractive future themes and traits across all sectors were are those that speak digitally, virtually, from a mobile perspective or personally as per Newt Gingrich. Stephen Moore talked about the importance of “more oil and gas in North Dakota than in Saudi Arabia” and noted ex-oil/gas employment growth had been negative. 9. Whether there a rising capital shortage was a question posed by Dylan Grice, and in such a world “gold is capital” and a focus on high-ROCE companies makes sense. 10. “Millennial[s] come of age in the crisis” – and as new consumers. Neil Howe noted less risk-taking and independence plus a greater friends/social orientation has implications for most sectors from autos (fewer drivers) to housing (more multi-generational houses, less need for large personal space) to advertising strategies (“quantified self,” “blanding of culture”). And Martin Fridson and Richard Lehmann concluded with the following: To make sure we did not go away too happy, the conference wrapped up with Ian Bremmer, Anatole Kaletsky and Niall Ferguson giving a world geopolitical outlook that focused on the risks and uncertainties we still face. This nuanced much of the positive outlook given earlier in the conference by John Mauldin, Pat Cox, George Gilder and Newt Gingrich. No, the conference was not the World Economic Forum, but at times, it felt like that was where we were. And then, for those who don’t ski, San Diego in May is way nicer than Davos in January. This does not even take into account the fabulous and powerful presentation by Pat Cox, which took us back into the history of alchemy and showed that almost every major breakthrough in medicine and healthcare was initially opposed by the establishment and ignored by other doctors. Newt Gingrich’s argument about how the “prison guards of the past” are slowing the advances of healthcare and new life-saving medicines re-emphasized that point. George Gilder presented his ideas on a new model for economic theory (which I am enamored with). We extended the conference by one-half day to allow for a few more speakers, and I worked hard to pull together a wider set of topics and views. Each year we ask ourselves how we can make the conference any better, and each year we seem to do so. But this year set a very high bar for next year’s event, which by the way will be a little earlier in the year and once again in San Diego, April 28 – May 1. Set your calendar. You can buy a set of the 2014 audio CDs and/or MP3 files and listen to the speeches at your leisure by going to this link. I leave this Thursday evening for Italy. We will spend the first night in Rome, where, randomly, my very good friend Steve Cucchiara (of Windhaven Fund fame) will also find himself, and we will take our kids to dinner that evening. Then we’re off the next day for two weeks at the little hilltop village of Trequanda, where some friends will drop by for a few days and use the villa as a base to explore or work from. I will be starting to work on my next book. Seriously. Then I will again be in Rome June 14-17, where I will be joined by Christian Menegatti from Roubini Global Economics. We plan to spend time with various businessmen, investors, central bankers, and politicians to get a better understanding of what is really unfolding in Italy. We are actively looking for people to visit and especially for business associations with whom we can meet. Drop me a note if you’re interested. I was recently sent this note by Cliff Draughn, who will be joining me for a few days in Trequanda. File this under “you can’t make this up.” This shows the extremes to which politicians in Europe will go to “adjust” their accounting to meet treaty requirements. Greece used Goldman Sachs, but now Italy will look to hookers and drugs. This is just too juicy, and I will have fun discussing it in Italy. Drugs, prostitution and smuggling (ie Hookers &amp; Blow) will be part of Italy’s GDP as of 2014, and prior-year figures will be adjusted to reflect the change in methodology, the Istat national statistics office said today. The revision was made to comply with European Union rules, it said. Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, 39, is committed to narrowing Italy’s deficit to 2.6 percent of GDP this year, a task that’s easier if output is boosted by portions of the underground economy that previously went uncounted. Four recessions in the last 13 years left Italy’s GDP at 1.56 trillion euros ($2.13 trillion) last year, 2 percent lower than in 2001 after adjusting for inflation. The punch line: “Even if the impact is hard to quantify, it’s obvious it will have a positive impact on GDP,” said Giuseppe Di Taranto, economist and professor of financial history at Rome’s Luiss University. “Therefore Renzi will have a greater margin this year to spend” without breaching the deficit limit, he said. It will be interesting to see how much they think drugs and sex will add to the economy, and whether they publish the basis for their accounting. I suppose that next they will try to account for the rest of the massive underground economy in Italy. They are also quantifying other elements such as research and development costs and arms sales in the effort to increase nominal GDP. I wonder whether France will consider including the value added by the mistresses of politicians? Just asking … Have a great Memorial Day weekend. I hope that a few of my kids show up. And then it’s off to Italy. Ivo the Gardener will be cooking at least twice. Last time he came and made pasta and everything to go with it. I swear that his is the best lasagna ever. And we’ll enjoy other cooks and some fabulous restaurants. Of all the food in the world, countryside Italian is my favorite cuisine. Hard to find it anywhere else as good as it is in Tuscany. This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wedding invitations are cluttering everyone's social calendar right now as we move into prime wedding season. But dressing for summer weddings can be a challenge: You can't wear that tux to your friend's beach wedding or a seersucker suit to a black tie affair. Toby Bateman, the Buying Director at online menswear retailer MR PORTER, answered all of our summer wedding style questions.  For more on how to dress for a summer wedding, you can also check out the wedding style section at MR PORTER. From what to wear at the beach to deciding which tie is best, here is your definitive wedding style guide. MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($90-$1,990) "For a city wedding, I tend to keep my suit choice fairly sober — one that works as a summer business uniform in dark blue or a mid-grey wool that I then freshen up a bit with shoes and accessories," Bateman says. "The shirt should be classic in a crisp white or pale blue poplin and teamed with a smartly polished leather lace up shoe — oxford or derby, not a brogue." "Add a fresh colored plain or neatly patterned tie and a pocket square, neatly folded or with a flourish, to complete the look," he advises. (See how to perfectly fold your pocket square here.) MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($145-$2,345)  "For the country, a pale grey or a pale blue suit would be totally acceptable," Bateman says. "If you’re likely to be standing on someone’s lawn drinking PIMMS, this is your chance to be a bit more liberal with the fabrication of the suit – cotton or linen works and is more softly structured than your business suit." And don't be afraid of pattern in your suit or shirt choice. "Suits can be worn with either a plain shirt or one with a small scale pattern such as a small gingham or floral print," Bateman says. "If you have gone for a patterned shirt or suit then you might want to leave the pocket square at home or choose a subtle option to avoid too many patterns from clashing." "Shoes should be neutral but do not need to be as formal as the lace up worn for the city wedding, so a smart loafer works just as well." MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($85-$340) "Surely if someone is getting married on the beach, anything goes?" Bateman jokes. "Bring out the linen or opt for an unlined suit for a more casual and comfortable option."  "You can also mix the jacket and trousers, ditch the tie, or even adopt a sandal for a more laid-back look." MR PORTER Both items available through MR PORTER (Left: $1,950, Right: $665) "A single breasted jacket – one or two-button – is standard and typically the safest bet for weddings." Bateman says.  "The double-breasted jacket is also fine, but the thing about this style is that the fit is a bit more difficult to pull off," he says. "It should be tailored short in the body and fitted well around the waist, so I would only recommend it for those well-versed about style and fit." MR PORTER Ties available through MR PORTER ($190-$225) "Establish the dress code first — a Windsor knot is best worn with a spread collar for more formal occasions," Bateman explains. "The four-in-hand [standard knot] is best for casual settings." "Bow-ties don’t suit everyone and can sometime come off as cartoonish or a bit Pee Wee Herman, so I typically recommend them for a more formal wedding worn in black for a simple and sleek look," he adds. Still confused? Check out this handy infographic on correct tie proportion, length, and choosing the right knot for your collar. Get a tailor: An ill-fitting suit will ruin your look. Follow the groom's example (and the invitation dress code): If the groom is wearing a tux but the invitation says casual, go for a suit. If he's wearing something more casual like a linen suit, then you should too. Be bold with accessories: Pocket squares, ties, cuff links, tie clips, belts, and shoes can all make an outfit seem more interesting or original. It's the details that count! FREE AppDownload
Sales at Urban Outfitters' namesake brand are continuing to slide.  The retailed reported a decline of 12% at Urban Outfitters stores in the first quarter. Sales also fell last year.  The company identified several major problems in an earnings call with investors today.  Fashion misses. Urban Outfitters needs to sell hip, trendy apparel in order to bring in customers. But Urban Outfitters' latest offerings have been more obscure than hip. Take this bizarre bear coat from December, which retailed for $200. Urban's new fitness brand, created in response to the popularity of brands like Lululemon, was criticized for being overpriced and skimpy. Urban OutfittersOff-pitch marketing. Urban Outfitters markets to teen customers. Unfortunately, those customers are price-conscious and would rather shop at fast-fashion brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M, writes Miriam Gottfried at The Wall Street Journal. In order to turn business around, Urban Outfitters will have to resonate with older customers who are in college and beyond. Urban Outfitters CEO Richard Hayne said that the brand plans to improve store displays and advertisements.  Creative execution. Urban Outfitters is known for pushing the envelope. This year, however, the brand missed the mark. The brand was forced to pull a "Depression" t-shirt after customers expressed outrage. Urban Outfitters also pulled a shirt depicting "drunk" Jesus. These incidents eroded consumer perception in Urban's brand. Twitter/@MintyFreshLou Hayne said that the brand is working to fix fashion assortments and get customers back in stores.  Last month, Urban Outfitters appointed Trish Donnelly as president of its North American brand.  Hayne expects business to improve by the fall.  FREE AppDownload
 Facebook/Seminole Golf CourseSummer is around the corner, which means that golf season is about to go into full swing. We partnered with search engine FindTheBest to come up with a list of the 10 best golf courses in America. To create the rankings, FindTheBest looked at reviews from experts at Golf Digest, Golf.com, and GolfLink.com, and came up with an average rating for each course. It also factored in the USGA Course and Slope Ratings, which evaluate the difficulty of a course for bogey (more amateur) and scratch players (more professional) players. FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgJohn von Neumann's wartime badge photo from Los Alamos.Some would claim the smartest person of the 20th century worked down the hall from Albert Einstein at Princeton’s Institute for Advanced Study. John von Neumann, born in Budapest in 1903 and immigrated to the United States in 1930, was a seminal thinker in mathematics (foundations of mathematics, functional analysis, ergodic theory, geometry, topology, and numerical analysis), physics (quantum mechanics, hydrodynamics, and fluid dynamics), economics (game theory), computing (Von Neumann architecture, linear programming, self-replicating machines, stochastic computing), and statistics. Von Neumann's prodigiousness was apparent from a young age. By 8 years old, he could divide two eight-digit numbers in his head. By 19, he had published two major mathematical papers, and by 22 he had a Ph.D. in mathematics with minors in experimental physics and chemistry. The Hungarian-American joined Princeton University in 1930 and was a professor there until his death in 1957. A loud and sociable character, he sometimes annoyed colleagues, including Einstein, with his habit of blasting German marching music on his office gramophone. During World War II, Von Neumann would join Einstein and other leading scientists in developing the atomic bomb in the Manhattan project. Von Neumann was so bright that Nobel Prize-winning physicist Eugene Wigner would say, "only he was fully awake." He had "the fastest mind" that economist Paul Samuelson had ever encountered and was "the cleverest man in the world" according to head of Britain's National Physical Laboratory, as noted by Daniel Yergin in "The Quest." One of von Neumann's major accomplishments was his leadership in developing a way to make the enormous amount of calculations that went into making the atomic bomb. The earliest computers had to be "programmed" physically, with different components connected in different ways to solve a given problem. Von Neumann figured out instead how to store programs as software in computer memory, which would become the basic architecture for how modern computers work. He was also a pioneer of game theory, or the formal mathematical analysis of certain types of games, which has numerous applications to economics and other social sciences. Indeed, von Neumann's development of the theory of zero-sum games later led to his coming up with the Cold War strategy of Mutually Assured Destruction. Von Neumann also made numerous contributions to pure mathematics and physics. A big part of von Neumann's work in these areas was in developing the formal mathematical tools that describe quantum mechanics. Many of the strange aspects of quantum mechanics are implied by the mathematical structures used to describe the behavior of the universe on the smallest scales. But how did von Neumann compare to Einstein, the German-American theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity and some of the earliest ideas in quantum mechanics? The answer, which as been hotly debated on economics forums, favors von Neumann in some areas and Einstein in others. Certainly, Einstein obtained greater fame, however, and perhaps this is justified. Wigner may have said it best: "Einstein's understanding was deeper even than von Neumann's. His mind was both more penetrating and more original than von Neumann's. And that is a very remarkable statement." FREE AppDownload
The pour-over coffee is one of the freshest brews around, and it's popularity is rapidly growing despite its higher cost and longer brew time. Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway CEO Buffett throws a newspaper during a competition at a trade show, at the company's annual meeting in OmahaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Far be it from us to offer tips to Warren Buffett, the most celebrated stock picker of his age, but here goes: The Oracle of Omaha has suggested he will hunt for his next "elephant" - his favorite word for big acquisitions -- among energy companies. That could dovetail with the bet he made in 2009 when he bought Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad, which has turned into an indirect play on the U.S. oil production renaissance: BNSF moves about a third of oil-by-rail, a surging segment of freight rail. So, we have some ideas. Reuters screened for U.S. and Canadian companies with relatively low debt and market capitalizations above $5 billion, among other criteria. First, because Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway &lt;BRKa.N&gt; has about $49 billion to spend, he's said he's looking at capital intensive companies, which offer plenty of chances to put that money to work. He might like a hot niche like oilfield services or pipelines: good candidates could be Baker Hughes &lt;BHI.N&gt; in drilling services or Williams Partners &lt;WPZ.N&gt; in oil and gas distribution, which would also expand the scope of his recently rebranded Berkshire Hathaway Energy unit. Alternatively, he could opt for a safer play by scooping up another regulated utility to add to previous purchases such as NV Energy in Nevada and MidAmerican Energy, which serves customers in eleven states and added about $1.47 billion to Berkshire's profits in 2013. While not spectacular earners, regulated utilities tend to be steady, reliable cash generators, a feature Buffett likes. One candidate could be Pinnacle West Capital &lt;PNW.N&gt;, though it may be a little smaller than what he's looking for. None of Baker Hughes, Williams Partners and Pinnacle West responded to requests for comment. "Electric generation, electric transmission and long-haul pipelines - they're being about as blunt as they can be that they're going to grow" in that area, said Kevin Birzer, a senior managing director at Tortoise Capital Advisors, which specializes in energy investments. PINNACLE Check out Pinnacle West, owner of the Arizona Public Service Company, which provides electricity to about 1.1 million customers and trades at a discount to peers by several measures, including price-to-cash flow and price-to-earnings. Between the company's $6.1 billion market cap and its $3.6 billion in net debt, for an enterprise value of $9.7 billion, the company may be smaller than Buffett wants. Still, analysts from TheStreet Ratings noted Pinnacle West's reasonable debt and good cash flow from operations in calling the company a buy earlier this month. "We feel these strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had sub-par growth in net income," they wrote in a report dated May 18. BAKER HUGHES If Buffett wants a company more closely tied to oil production, he could opt for Baker Hughes. With a market cap of about $30 billion and net debt of about $3.9 billion, Baker Hughes' enterprise value of $33.9 billion comes in at the high end of what Buffett could spend while leaving himself the $20 billion cash cushion he's said he wants. Even so, that large a deal might require him to team up with an outside partner as when he bought H.J. Heinz, an option Buffett has said he may pursue again. Baker Hughes, which supplies oilfield services such as drill bits and fuel additives and has annual revenue above $22 billion, is trading at a discount to peers on several key metrics, including ratios measuring its enterprise value against both sales and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, according to Reuters data. Its first-quarter earnings beat expectations on a 7 percent increase in North American revenue, with better North American margins even as well count dropped. The company also has significant presence overseas, including the Middle East, Latin America and Asia, offering a chance to broaden Berkshire's geographic reach. One risk may be that Baker Hughes will be too closely tied to oil prices and the capital expenditure cycle for major petroleum producers for Buffett's taste. WILLIAMS In that case, Williams Partners could appeal. Williams, which focuses in part on natural gas and oil transportation, has a market cap of about $22.8 billion, but with $8.3 billion of debt, its enterprise value is not all that much lower than Baker Hughes, about $31.1 billion. Also like Baker Hughes, Williams, with total revenue of about $6.7 billion last year, scores well on a number of relative valuation markers, trading at discounts to peers on price-to-earnings and price-to-cash flow. The company keeps generating cash thanks to "the combination of a core interstate gas transmission system and a liquids-leveraged midstream business," according to Morningstar. That's an important attribute given its debt-to-equity ratio of 0.8, which is a bit above the industry norm. Negotiating a deal with Williams could be complicated, given its status as a limited partnership 70 percent owned by Williams Cos &lt;WMB.N&gt;. But the company has another advantage Buffett likes - a wide moat, or competitive advantage, thanks to its ownership of the Transco gas mainline, which runs from Texas to New York. "We think of the Transco pipeline system as a classic wide-moat asset, one that presents a highly attractive set of organic growth opportunities," the Morningstar analysts wrote. So, Warren, what do you think? If you wind up picking these companies and they work out for you, let me know! I'm at Luciana.Lopez@ThomsonReuters.com. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Dan Burns and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel during a news conference in Berlin on July 19.BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's national security council declined two-thirds of applications for arms export licenses at its most recent sitting three weeks ago, German news weekly Spiegel said on Saturday. The economy ministry had prevented a license application to export to Saudi Arabia 500 million euros worth of sight devices for armored personnel carrier guns from even being discussed in the council, it said. Spiegel said the sights were made by a unit of Airbus. A spokesman for Airbus said: "We have no information about any government decision. We hope however for a swift and positive decision." Such a move by the economy ministry could place Berlin on a direct collision course with Airbus Group after its chief executive Tom Enders warned of increased job cuts and factory closures over arms export curbs in an interview with Reuters on Friday. "I am concerned about the increasingly restrictive arms export policy of Germany. This might trigger additional layoffs in Germany, beyond our current reduction plans," Enders said. An economy ministry spokesman declined to comment on the Spiegel report and said all aspects of the security council's meetings were confidential. According to the report, the government risks demands for compensation by the affected firms. Projects in late stages were among those declined. German Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel, a Social Democrat (SPD), has promised a much more cautious approach to licensing arms exports, unnerving the sizeable defense industry and signaling a change in approach from the previous coalition government. The ministry was run until December 2013 by the Free Democrats (FDP), Chancellor Angela Merkel's previous coalition partners, before the SPD. German arms exports have come under scrutiny in recent years because of the increasing sums involved and because a greater number of arms are heading to non-European Union or NATO partners, and potentially unstable regions. Earlier this month German media reported Gabriel wanted to block two deals to sell arms to Qatar and Saudi Arabia worth billions of euros. Germany's national security council, which includes Merkel and the ministers of economy, defense, development and foreign affairs, has to approve licenses. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Germany was the world's third largest arms exporter from 2008-2012, behind the United States and Russia. (Additional reporting by Christoph Steitz in Frankfurt, Reporting by Alexandra Hudson; Editing by Lynne O'Donnell and David Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kacper PempelA woman casts her ballot during voting in a presidential election at polling station in the village of Kosmach in the Ivano-Frankivsk region of western Ukraine May 25, 2014. BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Draped down the side of the European Commission's headquarters, a 13-storey-tall banner urged citizens to vote in the European Parliament elections, proclaiming in English, French and Dutch: "This time it's different." Well maybe, but maybe not. The unwritten sub-text was that voters would be choosing not just their representatives in the European Union's legislature but also the next president of the executive Commission, which proposes and enforces EU laws. A swathe of politicians, including French President Francois Hollande and leaders of the main cross-border European political parties, have said so explicitly. But it ain't necessarily so. The banner is part of a power struggle in which parliament is trying to seize control - in the name of democracy - of the nomination of a successor to Jose Manuel Barroso from national leaders, based on an ambiguous clause in the Lisbon Treaty, the updated rules that govern the EU. The battle broadly pits those who want "more Europe" against those who want to rein in the powers of Brussels and keep the big member states in the driver's seat. The treaty says EU leaders propose a candidate "taking into account the elections of the European Parliament" and after appropriate consultation. The EU assembly must approve the nominee by an absolute majority of its 751 members. If not, the procedure starts again within one month. The tug-of-war begins in earnest on Tuesday when leaders of the parliamentary groups and EU heads of state and government meet separately in Brussels to consider the results of the 28-nation election. Jean-Claude Juncker, Martin Schulz and Guy Verhofstadt, the leading candidates of the center-right, Socialist and liberal political groups respectively, have been criss-crossing Europe for weeks addressing rallies and have agreed in principle to support whichever one of them tops the poll. "One of the candidates here will be the next president of the European Commission," Schulz said during a live television debate among the frontrunners or "Spitzenkandidaten", declaring that the era of back-room deals was over. BETRAYAL Juncker has said it would be a betrayal of the electorate if one of those candidates did not get the top job. "They might as well tell people never to bother voting again," he said. The parliamentary power grab is partly a reaction to perceptions that Barroso, a former Portuguese prime minister, has acted too much as the obedient servant of the big member states, notably Germany and France, over the last decade. Critics of the parliament's bid say national governments, elected on a far higher turnout, remain the primary source of democratic legitimacy in the EU. They also argue that politicizing the European Commission, which serves as Europe's impartial competition referee, sits in judgment on national budgets and prosecutes governments that breach EU rules, would be unnecessary and dangerous. Some warn that any perception that the Commission is in the pocket of a parliament led by federalists eager to raise EU spending and fund it with dedicated European taxes would run counter to the public mood and fan rampant Euroskepticism. Even some veteran integrationists have misgivings. Jean-Louis Bourlanges, a former French EU parliament member and ex-president of the pro-integration European Movement, branded the attempt to turn the parliamentary vote into a U.S.-style presidential election a "Euro-presidential hoax". Bourlanges compares the European election to a dimmer rather than a light switch. Because of its complex nature as a union of states and peoples, the EU does not offer stark left-right choices but different shades of consensus. In his view, the Commission president, whose powers are limited as chairman of a college of fellow commissioners - equals appointed by member states - needs to remain above party politics to build a broad policy consensus through negotiation. SUPRANATIONAL The outcome of this power struggle will likely set a precedent for the balance among the European institutions. In the eyes of federalists, the Commission, parliament and the European Central Bank are natural allies because they are to supranational bodies independent of national governments. That is precisely what the more skeptical governments, notably in Britain and the Netherlands, want to avoid. They are looking to German Chancellor Angela Merkel to support them on the principle of preserving EU leaders' right of nomination, even though she has given verbal backing to Juncker as the candidate for her political family. British Prime Minister David Cameron has told his French and German counterparts that neither Juncker, a former Luxembourg prime minister, nor Schulz, the German president of the outgoing European Parliament, is acceptable to Britain, diplomats say. Both are seen as traditional federalists, two sources familiar with Cameron's thinking say, and could be a liability in Britain, where the conservative prime minister has promised to negotiate a repatriation of some EU powers and hold an in/out referendum in 2017 if he is re-elected next year. Previous British prime ministers blocked Belgian candidates for the Commission presidency in 1994 and 2004. London no longer has a veto, but veteran Brussels diplomats say it is hard to imagine fellow leaders forcing it to a vote and isolating Cameron. One diplomat involved in past appointment processes forecast weeks of horse-trading in which parliament may well for the first time reject the first candidate put forward by EU leaders before an eventual compromise. In keeping with EU tradition, a package deal of top jobs will have to balance left and right, north and south, east and west, big states and small ones, and men and women. "Like a children's birthday party, everyone will have to get a going-home present," said the envoy, speaking on condition of anonymity because he is still involved in European negotiations. "The parliament will have to be promised something else as a consolation." (Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVladimir Putin meets with a group of foreign journalists on the sidelines of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum 2014 (SPIEF 2014) in St. PetersburgST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - You can't say Vladimir Putin lacks a pointed sense of humor. The entrée at the Russian president's dinner for news agency editors on Saturday night was "Crimean flounder." No kidding. As dinner was ending in the ornate Konstantinovsky Palace, Putin was asked whether he speaks regularly with U.S. president Barack Obama. "We have some contacts," he shrugged. "But now I have to go speak with Mr. (Francois) Hollande and Mrs. (Angela) Merkel," the French president and the German chancellor, respectively. With that he gave a champagne toast, and left. But before that he spoke at length on many topics during a three-hour interview before and during a seven-course dinner that included "soft smoked sturgeon salad" and "white asparagus soup with black caviar" as well as the recently Russified flounder. The topics ranged from the over-arching (Ukraine and the prospect of a new Cold War) to the less well-known (the status of four islands disputed by Japan and Russia, in response to a Japanese editor's query). The former communist quoted the Bible several times, dismissed suggestions that he wants to recreate the former Soviet Union, and said he doesn't want a new Cold War. He also declared himself "liberal" on social and sexual mores, but added that people should not be "aggressive" in foisting their values on others. Speaking in Russian, with simultaneous translation into seven other languages, Putin came across as a clever, articulate man, with a grasp of the intricacies of issues, big and small. But the strongest impression, which emerged time and again, was of Putin's strong sense of aggrievement over the West's relegation of Russia, in his view, to second-tier status. It's bitter. And it's personal. "I always treat our partners with due respect," he said at one point, "and I hope others treat Russia and me, personally, in the same way." Regarding Obama's denunciation of Russia's annexation of Crimea, Putin snapped: "No one should talk like that to Russia." At another point during dinner he declared: "If Russia is only allowed to sit next to someone and listen to what others say" at international conclaves, "that is not the rightful role for Russia." He also decried "rude, forceful action against Russian interests" that might have led to Ukraine joining NATO and deploying missiles within easy range of Russia. He added: "(The West) should have considered the consequences" of encouraging such behavior. When an Italian editor asked about his reaction to rising nationalism and right-wing radicalism in Western Europe, Putin replied: "I hope you are not blaming us for that!" The editor hadn't suggested, even indirectly, that Russia was to blame. And the notion that he is trying to re-create the old Soviet Union, Putin declared, was "a tool in the information war" fomented by Western media. The dinner for journalists culminated the three-day St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, a discussion and networking event, patterned after the annual talkfest in Davos. The forum's aim was to attract foreign investment, which Russia badly needs. Its economy is teetering on recession, and the Ukraine crisis has helped spark what the central bank put at almost $64 billion in net capital flight in the first three months in the year, almost as much as in the whole of last year. Putin pointed repeatedly to a recent commercial success: his new deal to provide China with $400 billion of natural gas over three decades. But most American chief executives stayed away from the forum, at the urging of the Obama administration. And despite Putin's desire to focus the conference on investment opportunities, the discussion kept returning to Ukraine. After his speech to the conference's plenary session on Friday, for example, Putin sat for an on-stage interview with CNBC Europe anchor Geoff Cutmore. At one point, when Cutmore kept pressing Putin on Ukraine, the president snapped: "Oh, come on, really. You are a difficult man to deal with!" During the dinner with journalists he declined to name the national leader, past or present, he admires the most. "There is a saying in the Bible, ‘Thou shall not make a graven image," he explained. "That said, I love history and read it a lot, and I surf the web a lot. I often ask myself what other leaders would do in my situation." But Putin expansively answered most questions, including one from a German journalist about widespread Russian revulsion at the recent winner of the annual Eurovision song contest: an Austrian bearded male drag artist wearing a dress. "The Bible talks about the two genders, man and woman, and the main purpose of union between them is to produce children," Putin explained. "For us it is important to reaffirm traditional values.... I personally am very liberal (on matters of personal morality). People have the right to live their lives the way they want. But they should not be aggressive, or put it up for show." On the sidelines of the economic forum there was lots of talk about moving past politics - as if the Ukraine crisis was akin to an everyday spat between Tories and Liberals, Democrats and Republicans, or Social Democrats and Christian Democrats - and getting on with business. The head of the Russian subsidiary of a major American manufacturer expressed hope that the current East-West crisis would pass within months. And a Russian journalist said he expected that the Russian-American tensions would ease after Obama leaves office. But asked for evidence to support their views, neither the businessman nor the journalist had much to offer. And the war of rhetoric shows little sign of abating. Commenting on Britain's Prince Charles, who compared Russia's seizure of Crimea to Hitler's aggression, Putin said: "It reminds me of a proverb: If you are angry, that means you are wrong.... This comparison is not acceptable. It is not what monarchs do." And at another point, the Russian president observed: "We have a saying: 'You cannot make other people like you'." (Editing by Timothy Heritage and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) — A billionaire businessman at the heart of a $2.6 billion state bank scam in Iran, the largest fraud case since the country's 1979 Islamic Revolution, was executed Saturday, state television reported. Authorities put Mahafarid Amir Khosravi, also known as Amir Mansour Aria, to death at Evin prison, just north of the capital, Tehran, the TV reported. The report said the execution came after Iran's Supreme Court upheld his death sentence. Khosravi's lawyer, Gholam Ali Riahi, was quoted by news website khabaronline.ir as saying that the death sentence was carried out without him being given any notice. Death sentences in Iran are usually carried out by hanging. "I had not been informed about the execution of my client," Riahi said. "All the assets of my client are at the disposal of the prosecutor's office." State officials did not immediately comment on Riahi's claim. The fraud involved using forged documents to get credit at one of Iran's top financial institutions, Bank Saderat, to purchase assets including state-owned companies like major steel producer Khuzestan Steel Co. Khosravi's business empire included more than 35 companies from mineral water production to a football club and meat imports from Brazil. According to Iranian media reports, the bank fraud began in 2007. A total of 39 defendants were convicted in the case. Four received death sentences, two got life sentences and the rest received sentences of up to 25 years in prison. The trials raised questions about corruption at senior levels in Iran's tightly controlled economy during the administration of former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Mahmoud Reza Khavari, a former head of Bank Melli, another major Iranian bank, escaped to Canada in 2011 after he resigned over the case. He faces charges over the case in Iran and remains on the Islamic Republic's wanted list. Khavari previously admitted that his bank partially was involved in the fraud, but has maintained his innocence. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
