China's annual trade surplus reached $259.75 billion in 2013, up 12.8 percent from the previous year, official data showed Friday. Exports from the world's second-largest economy rose 7.9 percent to $2.21 trillion, while imports increased 7.3 percent to $1.95 trillion, the General Administration of Customs announced. The country's total trade in goods for last year came to $4.16 trillion, an increase of 7.6 percent, just below the government’s target of eight percent. The European Union was China's biggest trading partner, Customs said, followed by the United States, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Hong Kong and Japan. Between them the traditional markets of the EU, US and Japan accounted for 33.5 percent of China's trade, down 1.7 percentage points, indicating that emerging markets' share of business was growing. For the month of December alone, China's trade surplus fell 17.4 percent to $25.64 billion, Customs said. Exports increased 4.3 percent to $207.74 billion, while imports were up 8.3 percent at $182.1 billion.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
According to the Center for Responsive Politics, a majority—268 of the 534 members of Congress—had an average net worth in 2012 of $1 million or more, marking the first time millionaires held a majority in Congress. The previous year, only 257 members had millionaire status. The median net worth for the lawmakers who were in Congress as of the May 2013 filing was $1,008,767, up from the previous year's $966,000. (Read more: Millionaires placing their bets on Europe) Of course Congress—and especially the Senate—has long been a wealthy club. But millionaires have always been in the minority. The Center for Responsive Politics said that this is a "watershed" moment and shows how removed Congress has become from the concerns of most, nonmillionaire Americans. "Despite the fact that polls show how dissatisfied Americans are with Congress overall, there's been no change in our appetite to elect affluent politicians to represent our concerns in Washington," said Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the center. "Of course, it's undeniable that in our electoral system, candidates need access to wealth to run financially viable campaigns, and the most successful fundraisers are politicians who swim in those circles to begin with." (Read more: QE: The greatest subsidy to the rich ever?) For all of Congress, Democrats are richer than Republicans. Congressional Democrats had a median net worth of $1.04 million, while congressional Republicans had a median net worth of almost exactly $1 million. In both cases, the figures are up from the previous year, when the numbers were $990,000 and $907,000, respectively. The Senate is much richer than the House. The median net worth for all senators increased to $2.7 million from $2.5 million. In the Senate, Republicans are richer than Democrats. Senate Democrats reported a median net worth of $1.7 million (a decline from 2011's $2.4 million), compared with Senate Republicans, at $2.9 million (an increase from $2.5 million). —By CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter @robtfrank. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
WealthTrack / YouTubeBill MillerLegg Mason's Bill Miller holds one of the longest known streaks for beating the market with his savvy stock picking (15 straight years). On Friday evening, Consuelo Mack WealthTrack will air an interview with Miller, which will include his outlook on the economy and the markets. Here's a teaser from Mack: "There's a Chinese proverb or statement, 'forget about waves and try to find the current'...The underlying current is it's a bull market...The thing I'm concerned about is if the economy grows too strongly, let's suppose we start seeing 4% plus quarters this year [n GDP growth] and then unemployment drops rapidly and capacity utilization rises pretty quickly and then you pull forward the Fed's first interest rate increase. I think that's where you are likely to run into some heavy going...As long as the Fed pins the short rate around zero and that's going to continue until around 2015, then the market's path of least resistance is clearly higher." After some rough years during and in the wake of the financial crisis, Miller impressed again delivering a whopping 67% return in 2013. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There Is No Safe Way Of Gaining Exposure To Stocks (Business Insider) Seth Masters, CIO for Bernstein Global Wealth Management, told Business Insider that there was a lot of bubble talk last year but that this was "misdiagnosed" because we should have focused on the "safety" bubble. This encompasses assets like cash, gold, and even high dividend yield stocks, that got very expensive because people thought they were safe at the time. The trickle into high dividend yields stocks has been more recent, but the problem here is that people overpaid for these stocks and "what they were really doing was risky simply because the price had gotten so expensive." "It's remarkable how little people talked about the safety trade and things like cash. Every once in while you hear about that, but there's very little. And what's interesting as the safety bubble deflates, what's happening is that people have suffered an opportunity cost. They haven't lost gobs and gobs of money, and that's because safe assets have one virtue: they are relatively less volatile. So, they don't go down by a lot when they do go down. And I think that means that that sort of damage — the economic damage and the psychological damage from the safety bubble beginning to unwind — are quite modest. So that's a good thing. It's still a bubble, but it's a less dangerous kind of bubble. If people do want to get back into stocks, recognize that they are taking a risk and don't imagine that there is a safe way of gaining exposure to stocks, there isn't." Big Exits In The Financial Planning Industry (Investment News) We're seeing some big exits in the financial planning industry. Craig Gordon, a top executive at RBC Correspondent Services since 2008, has left the firm. He was also a senior executive at RBC Advisor Serivces, reports Trevor Hunnicutt. Meanwhile, Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network, also known as FiNet, is shuffling its  top management. Ronald Sallet, a top executive at FiNet is reported to be leaving the firm, according to Mason Braswell and Hunnicutt. Finally, Chet Helck, CEO of Raymond James' global private-client group is retiring, reports Bruce Kelly. Two Investing Experts Reveal The Biggest Investment Risks In 2014 (Think Advisor)  Investing experts were asked to identify the biggest investment risks in 2014, at a web seminar moderated by Zachary Karabell of Envestnet. Milton Ezrati of Lord Abbett said bonds would be the biggest investment risk in 2014 but that we could also see "a shock from Europe this year," reports James Green of Think Advisor. Rob Arnott of Research Affiliates said demographics that affect growth in developed economies will be the biggest risk to investing. But he also said stocks will see more risk this year "because of our more leveraged economy” though he also thinks risk will rise in both private and public sector bonds. We're About To Witness The 'Second Gold Rush' In Global Solar (Deutsche Bank)  Deutsche Bank's Vishal Shah, Jerimiah Booream-Phelps, and Susie Min see a second global solar 'gold rush.' But this time around it won't be driven by subsidies, instead it will be driven by low prices, more financing and the absence of subsidies. "We believe upside demand surprises from the US, Japanese and Chinese markets could continue in 2014. We expect a combination of streamlined incentive programs in China, additional subsidy cut signals in end 2014 and decreasing financing constraints to act as catalysts for upside demand surprises." The New Bill Gross Trade Is Getting Creamed (Business Insider)  PIMCO's Bill Gross thinks investors shouldn't fight the Fed. He thinks the Fed will stick to its promise to stimulate the economy via zero interest-rate policy for the next two years even as is tapers its asset purchase program. He thinks investors should buy short end bonds and sell long end bonds. But this trade hasn't done so well recently on account of better economic data. Many think that as the economic recovery picks up the Fed will realize it doesn't need as much monetary stimulus. FREE AppDownload
My friend and guest contributor Chris Turner offered some analysis along those lines last year using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the market (When Warren Buffett Talks ... People Listen). For a broader measure of Market Cap, VectorGrader.com uses line 36 in the Federal Reserve's B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding) as the numerator. Since both GDP and the Fed's data are quarterly, the folks at VectorGrader.com do some interpolation and extrapolation to produce monthly estimates. Their latest chart is available to the general public here. The four valuation indicators I track in my monthly valuation overview offer a long-term perspective of well over a century. The raw data for the "Buffett indicator" only goes back as far as the middle of the 20th century. Quarterly GDP dates from 1947, and the Fed's B.102 Balance sheet has quarterly updates beginning in Q4 1951. With an acknowledgement of this abbreviated timeframe, let's take a look at the plain vanilla quarterly ratio with no effort to interpolate monthly data or extrapolate since the end of the most recent quarterly numbers. Here is a chart I created using the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) data and charting tool.     That strange numerator in the chart title, MVEONWMVBSNNCB, is the FRED designation for Line 36 in the B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding), available on the Federal Reserve website here in PDF format. For those of you who may have reservations about the Federal Reserve economists' estimation of Market Value, I can offer a more transparent alternate snapshot over a shorter timeframe. Here is the Wilshire 5000 Total Market Full Cap Index divided by GDP, again using the FRED repository charting tool.     A quick technical note: To match the quarterly intervals of GDP, for the Wilshire data I've used the quarterly average of daily closes rather than quarterly closes (slightly smoothing the volatility). The vertical axis in the chart above is the result of using an index scale for GDP set to 100 at the US Recession Peak in December 2007. I also used the 2007 date for the Wilshire index. Regardless of how you chain the index values, the chart contour is unaffected. Here is a link to the FRED page containing my calculations. What Do These Charts Tell Us? Both the "Buffett Index" and the Wilshire 5000 variant suggest that today's market is at lofty valuations. In fact, the latest quarter in the Wilshire version is the third highest in its history, fractionally topped by two quarters in 2000. FREE AppDownload
The online currency Bitcoin has shown unexpected success but its future as a broadly accepted exchange medium is limited, according to a report by a global banking group Thursday. The report by the International Institute of Finance, which represents more than 450 banks and financial institutions, said more regulation of Bitcoin exchanges and transactions could strengthen its legitimacy among consumers and ease regulators' doubts about it. But for the moment, the IIF report said, Bitcoin faces significant resistance in countries like China. And because most of the market is dominated by speculators rather than users, Bitcoin's value in other currencies is particularly volatile. In a market worth around $12 billion, the IIF said, "It is estimated that 50 to upwards of 90 percent of Bitcoin owners are speculators -- thereby contributing to the substantial price fluctuations seen recently." It pointed to the sharp fall of Bitcoin from a high of $1,240 to $576 in just three days in December after China banned its financial institutions from using the currency. Since then Bitcoin has rebounded, topping $1,000 earlier this week before falling to $915 on Thursday. "If it persists, this remarkably high volatility will compromise Bitcoin’s capacity to function as a medium of exchange, as it deters most large companies from accepting the digital currency as a form of payment," the IIF report said. Unlike other currencies, Bitcoin does not have the backing of a central bank or government. Instead, the units are generated by a complex computer algorithm designed by one or more anonymous people in 2009. Because of that, said the report, its functionality and ultimate success "is determined by programmers—and their goodwill is taken for granted." Thus the IIF characterized Bitcoin as effectively a "fiduciary currency" with no intrinsic value of its own and dependent on trust that it can be exchanged for a more common currency like the dollar. That makes it "inherently fragile," the IIF said. "Despite Bitcoin's 'ingenious features' it cannot provide a currency of stable value and its use as a broadly accepted medium of exchange appears limited," the report concluded. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungUniversity of Chicago professor Eugene FamaValueWalk obtained a letter where Third Avenue Management's chairman/founder Martin Whitman blasts Nobel Prize Laureate Eugene Fama.   "I am disappointed that a Nobel Prize was awarded to Eugene Fama, who studies only markets and prices; and whom, I daresay, does not focus on Form 10-Ks or the footnotes to a corporation’s audited financial statements," Whitman said in the opening of the letter to shareholders.  Fama, a professor at Chicago Booth, won the Nobel Prize in Economic Science last year with Lars Peter Hansen and Robert Shiller.  In the letter, dated October 31, 2013, Whitman proceeded to call Fama's work on Modern Capital Theory "utter nonsense", "sloppy science", "plain stupid" and "unscholarly."  From the letter (emphasis ours):  Dear Fellow Shareholders: Academics involved with finance restrict their studies to analyzing markets and securities prices. As far as they are concerned, the study of companies and the securities they issue are someone else’s business. I am disappointed that a Nobel Prize was awarded to Eugene Fama, who studies only markets and prices; and whom, I daresay, does not focus on Form 10-Ks or the footnotes to a corporation’s audited financial statements. In fact there is no way of determining whether any market is efficient or not in measuring underlying values unless the analyst understands, and analyzes, the specific securities that are the components of that specific market. Market participants make two types of decisions—market decisions and investment decisions. Market decisions involve predicting security prices and are, virtually, always very short-run oriented. Investment decisions involve, inter alia, determining underlying value, resource conversion probabilities; terms of securities; credit analysis, and probable access to capital markets particularly for providing bailouts to public markets at high prices (versus cost) for promoters, insiders and private investors. Modern Capital Theory (“MCT”) concentrates on market decisions and provides valuable lessons for specific markets consisting of Outside Passive Minority Investors (“OPMIs”) who deal in “sudden death” securities, i.e., options, warrants, risk arbitrage, heavily margined portfolios, trading strategies and performing loans with short-fuse maturities. MCT is of little or no help to those involved primarily with making investment decisions—value investors, control investors, most distress investors, credit analysts, and first and second stage venture capital investors. The most basic problem for MCT, and all believers in efficient markets, is that they take a very narrow special case—OPMIs dealing in “sudden death” securities, and claim, as the Nobel Prize winner does, that their theories apply to all markets universally. What utter nonsense! Most of the activity—and money—on Wall Street is in the hands of people making investment decisions, not market decisions. For the activist, and value investor, the market is a place for a bail-out at high prices (versus cost), not a place where underlying values are determined. MCT, in looking at Wall Street, concentrates on mutual funds which trade marketable securities. MCT seems oblivious to activists, not studying what activists do, and why they do it. MCT, not only misdefines markets, but also seems to be sloppy science. The theory embodies the correct observation that almost no one outperforms relevant market indexes consistently. Consistently is a dirty word; it means all the time. In justifying and promoting Index Funds, MCT points to this failure of actively managed funds to outperform consistently. MCT acolytes, however, forget that many managed funds do tend to outperform relative benchmarks, over the long term, on average, and most of the time, notwithstanding their higher expense ratios. It’s just plain stupid to state that the quality of money management is tested by looking at consistency. Insofar as MCT identifies what it describes as performance outliers, e.g., Berkshire Hathaway, no attempt is made to study what it is that outliers do that make them outliers, since this would entail the detailed analysis of portfolio companies and the securities they issue. How unscholarly! MCT cannot possibly be helpful almost all the time to those focusing primarily on investment decisions, i.e., understanding a company and the securities it issues. This is because in MCT four factors are overemphasized to such an extent that economic reality is blurred. 1. A belief in the primacy of the income account with some emphasis on cash flow from operations rather than earnings. (Earnings are defined as creating wealth while consuming cash). If there is a primacy of anything in understanding a business, at least subsequent to the 2008 financial meltdown, it is creditworthiness, not periodic cash flows or periodic earnings. 2. An emphasis on short-termism. I think it is impossible to be market conscious about publicly-traded securities without emphasizing the immediate outlook at the expense of a longer-term view. 3. Overemphasis on top-down macro-factors such as forecasts for the economy, interest rates, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, with a consequent de-emphasis of bottom-up factors such as the financial strength of an enterprise, the relationship of a security’s price to readily ascertainable net asset value (“NAV”), or the covenants in loan agreements. It is easy to appear wise and profound, for example, by forecasting outlooks for the general economy. Forecasting about the general economy almost all the time tends to be a lot less important for long-term buy-and-hold investors than are nitty-gritty details about an issuer. Indeed, it seems as if macro forecasts dominated in importance in the last 85 years only in 1929, 1974 and 2008-2009. Even in those years of dramatic down-drafts in the U.S., macro factors tended to be non-important (outside of immediate market prices) for adequately secured creditors seeking interest income or for well-financed companies with opportunistic managements seeking acquisitions. 4. A belief in equilibrium pricing. An OPMI market price is believed to value correctly and OPMI market prices change as the market receives new information. Such a view, though widely held, is ludicrous. The fact that the common stocks of many well financed, growing, companies sell at 25% to 75% discounts from readily ascertainable NAV is mostly lost on finance academics who believe in efficient markets. They do not believe that such pricing can exist, though it does. Read the rest of the letter via ValueWalk &gt; FREE AppDownload
However, while the promise of a continued bull market is very enticing it is important to remember, as investors, that we have only one job:  "Buy Low/Sell High."  It is a simple rule that is more often than not forgotten as "greed" replaces "logic."  However, it is also that simple emotion of greed that tends to lead to devastating losses.  Therefore, if your portfolio, and ultimately your retirement, is dependent upon the thesis of a continued bull market you should at least consider the following charts. It is often stated that valuations are still cheap.   The chart below shows Dr. Robert Shiller's cyclically adjusted P/E ratio.  The problem is that current valuations only appear cheap when compared to the peak in 2000.  In order to put valuations into perspective I have capped P/E's at 25x trailing earnings as this has been the level where secular bull markets have previously ended.  I have noted the peak valuations in periods that have exceeded that level.  The next chart is Tobin's Q Ratio.  James Tobin of Yale University, Nobel laureate in economics, hypothesized that the combined market value of all the companies on the stock market should be about equal to their replacement costs. The Q ratio is calculated as the market value of a company divided by the replacement value of the firm's assets.  With the exception of the "tech bubble" we are near the peak of every major bull market in history.  One argument that I hear made consistently is that retail investors are just now beginning to jump into the market.  The chart below shows the percentage of stocks, bonds and cash owned by individual investors according to the American Association of Individual Investor's survey.  As you can see, equity ownership and near record low levels of cash suggest that the individual investor is "all in."  Of course, with investors fully committed to stocks it is not surprising to see margin debt as a percentage of the S&amp;P 500 at record levels also.  It is important to notice that sharp spikes in this ratio have always coincided with market corrections of which some have been much worse than others.  Bob Farrell's rule #9 basically states that when everyone agrees; something else is bound to happen.  The next two charts show the level of "bullishness" of both individual investors (AAII Survey) and professional money managers (INVI Survey).  Surprisingly, professional money managers are more exuberant than individuals.  It is interesting to note that the 8-week moving average of bullish sentiment for individuals has declined prior to the eventual peak in the market.  As I stated above - professional investors are just plain "giddy" about the market.   Lastly, an important chart I have shown previously, the deviation of the S&amp;P 500 and the Wilshire 5000 from their respective 36-month moving average is at levels that have only been seen at four other periods previously.   As a money manager, I am currently long the stock market.  I must be or I potentially suffer career risk.  However, my job as an advisor is not only to make money for my clients, but also to preserve their gains, and investment capital, as much as possible.  Understanding the bullish arguments is surely important but the risk to investors is not a continued rise but the eventual reversion that will occur.  Unfortunately, since most individuals only consider the "bull case," as it creates confirmation bias for their "greed" emotion, they never see the "train coming." Hopefully, these charts will give you some food for thought.  Remember, every professional poker player knows how to spot a "pigeon at the table."  Make sure it isn't you. Why do I keep humming "Come'on Take The Money And Run." This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Years before he was accused of insider trading, former SAC Capital Advisors portfolio manager Mathew Martoma forged a Harvard transcript, falsified an email, and created a dummy forensic computing company to try to cover his tracks, according to a court document unsealed on Thursday. Martoma was eventually expelled from Harvard Law School over the incident, according to the document, which began with his forging a Harvard transcript to submit an application for a clerkship. The revelations, which date back to 1999, came as government and defense lawyers prepared to make their opening statements in Martoma's high-profile insider trading trial on Friday. Martoma's lawyers on Thursday lost a battle to keep the facts surrounding Martoma's expulsion from Harvard Law out of his insider trading trial. News of Martoma's Harvard troubles came to light in two orders issued by U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in which he said documents related to a disciplinary proceeding against Martoma in 1999, while he was a student at Harvard, should be unsealed. Martoma's lawyers had fought all the way to the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to keep the papers secret, arguing he would suffer embarrassment and his right to a fair trial would be violated. The 2nd Circuit denied his appeal Wednesday. Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for Martoma, declined to describe the event at Harvard, but said it occurred 15 years ago and has no bearing on the case. "Raising it now is a transparent effort by the government to unduly influence the ongoing court proceedings," Colasuonno said. According to one of the orders, which was unsealed Thursday, Martoma, then a Harvard Law student, used computer software to create a fake transcript which he then sent to federal judges in an attempt to secure a clerkship. Based on his beefed up transcript, he landed interviews with several judges. But the lie caught up with him and Harvard initiated disciplinary proceedings. During the proceedings, Martoma changed the date of an email before submitting it as evidence of his innocence. He also submitted a computer forensic report about the email with the falsified date, but did not tell the disciplinary committee that the company that produced the forensic report was his creation. A spokesman for Harvard, Robb London, said the school does not comment on disciplinary proceedings, although he said it had no record of Martoma graduating. In his ruling, Judge Gardephe noted the government "does not seek to introduce the law school evidence during its case-in-chief," but would instead use it "to rebut particular arguments made by the defendant." Specifically, according to the judge's order, prosecutors were planning to use the evidence to counter any point Martoma's defense team tried to make about the lack of forensic evidence in the government's case by proving Martoma understood the "importance of minimizing electronic evidence that could establish his guilt and his capacity to alter such evidence to fit his version of events." "It is undisputed that Martoma falsified the grades," Judge Gardephe wrote, as were the rest of the facts Martoma's team was looking to suppress. "The embarrassment Martoma will suffer if the law school evidence is disclosed does not trump the presumptive right to public access that attaches to substantive pretrial motions." CHOSE TO GO TO TRIAL Martoma, 39, is one of eight current or former SAC Capital employees to face criminal insider trading charges. He chose to go to trial rather than plead guilty and cooperate with prosecutors, an option six others took. Another,Michael Steinberg, was convicted on insider trading charges in December. Prosecutors accuse Martoma of arranging trades in Elan Corp and Wyeth based on nonpublic information he got from two doctors involved in a clinical trial for an Alzheimer's drug. Wyeth was later acquired by Pfizer Inc. The trades enabled SAC Capital to make profits and avoid losses of $276 million, a sum prosecutors say is a record in a U.S. insider trading case. SAC Capital pleaded guilty to fraud charges in November stemming from employees' insider trading. The hedge fund has agreed to pay $1.8 billion in criminal and civil settlements. Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital, has not been criminally charged but faces an administrative action by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission seeking to bar him from the financial industry for failing to supervise Martoma and Steinberg. He denies wrongdoing. In court on Thursday, Judge Gardephe and lawyers for both sides agreed on the seven women and five men who will hear the case against Martoma. The jurors range in age from 24 to 66 and include an employment lawyer, a city bus driver and a film professor who spent much of his time in court with an unlit cigar in his mouth. Four alternate jurors were also expected to be selected on Thursday afternoon. The judge said opening statements would start Friday. After leaving Harvard, Martoma went to Stanford University where he earned an MBA. The case is U.S. v. Martoma, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, 12-cr-00973. FREE AppDownload
The December jobs report — released Friday morning by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics — has the potential to move markets. After all, it's simply the biggest market mover of any economic data release on the calendar. However, that potential has arguably diminished in recent days as markets have repriced expectations in the wake of better-than-expected employment indicators, as the table below illustrates. Deutsche BankSeveral employment indicators released in recent days point to a strong December jobs report. Chief among them is ADP's monthly National Employment Report (released Wednesday), which estimated that 238,000 workers were hired to private-sector payrolls December — a number well above consensus expectations for a 200,000 print that also marked an acceleration in hiring from November's upward-revised 229,000 figure. Since then, the Treasury market has come under pressure, and short-term interest rates have risen dramatically as traders pull forward expectations for when and how fast the Federal Reserve will begin to normalize its key policy rate from current levels between 0 and 0.25%, where it's been since the crisis. In short, much of the damage a strong jobs number in Friday's report could inflict on the market may already be priced in. The median estimate of 90 economists polled by Bloomberg is for net nonfarm payroll creation of 197,000 in December. However, 69 of those estimates were submitted before Wednesday's ADP release. Of the 21 estimates submitted after the ADP release, the median estimate is 205,000 — a number that may provide a more accurate reflection of true expectations. Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna and Pantheon Macroeconomics chief economist Ian Shepherdson, who share Wall Street's most bullish nonfarm payrolls forecast (both calling for 250,000), revised their estimates higher following the ADP release. So, what sort of nonfarm payroll number actually could still move markets? CRT Capital government bond strategists David Ader and Ian Lyngen conducted a client survey in which they asked investors which numbers had the potential to influence the Federal Open Market Committee's decision on how to proceed with the winding down (a.k.a. tapering) of its quantitative easing program (the FOMC began this process at its December meeting). The survey revealed that on average, investors expect the FOMC will reduce its monthly rate of bond purchases by $10 billion again in January, as it did in December, unless the nonfarm payroll print comes in below 117,000. Meanwhile, if the number comes in above 285,000, investors surveyed by the CRT strategists believe such an upside surprise could prompt the FOMC to accelerate tapering at its January meeting. Wall Street's consensus estimate for the unemployment rate is for a reading unchanged from November at 7.0%. Average hourly earnings are expected to post growth of 1.9% from a year earlier, down from November's 2.0% year-on-year pace of growth. Average weekly hours worked is expected to remain unchanged from November at 34.5. We will have the full release LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Stay with Business Insider throughout the morning for full coverage of the data » FREE AppDownload
Aluminum giant Alcoa just reported earnings that fell short of analysts' expectations. Thanks to its size and global footprint, Alcoa is widely considered a decent bellwether of economic activity. Below are the key slides from the company's earnings presentation. Demand is expected to be up 7%, largely due to 10% growth in China. Excluding China, demand is expected to be up 4%. Areas of strength include aerospace and commercial building. Alcoa Alcoa
Sears, once America's golden retailer, is a company in crisis.  The company has shuttered hundreds of stores in recent years. The embattled company has been selling some its most profitable stores to raise money.  And now, shares are tumbling after Sears lowered guidance for the quarter and announced that comparable sales in the fourth quarter have slid more than 7%.  Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, took poignant photos inside of New Jersey  and New York Sears locations in October.  "To understand why Sears is in a 'sell stores mode' one must look no further than the stores themselves, where the truth is to be found," Sozzi writes.  His photos show the sad reality of what Sears is today.  Sears' mannequins are outdated in comparison with competitors like Macy's, Lord &amp; Taylor, and JCPenney, Sozzi says. "If you are living darn near paycheck to paycheck, does this presentation excite you about making a purchase with a couple saved up electronic dollars?" Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Sozzi points out that this display is confusing. "Huh? A random football themed carpet with no promotion around it?" he says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "What’s the deal in the back of this electronics department?" Sozzi asks. "Does Best Buy look like this? Or, how about the electronics sections at Wal-Mart, Target, Costco, and BJ’s Wholesale? Nope." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The shoe department isn't adequately stocked, with empty shelves. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "The team can’t find any way to repurpose abandoned portrait studios into something that drives traffic and sales?" Sozzi asks. "The consistently dark zones give a 'going out of business' feel to nearby departments that actually log some sales, which include appliances and baby." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Lights are out in the store. "This is not great for flattering a potential customer trying on merchandise," Sozzi writes. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "This is where the store underinvestment appears loud and ugly," Sozzi says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "Attack of the female basics? Look at the lack of organization," Sozzi says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Associates weren't on hand to help make purchases in this disorganized department, Sozzi says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors These displays are almost totally empty. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "Toys stacked on a shelf next to an escalator by the shoe department," Sozzi writes. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Again, Sears is disorganized. "Accessories are some of the only discretionary items selling in the mall with consistency these days," Sozzi writes. "Best of luck navigating this flea market experience." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The men's department is overwhelming. "Inventory excess…an entire department of it!" Sozzi says. "Who is in charge of planning and allocation?" Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The beauty department also lacks innovation in comparison with competitors. "JCPenney has Sephora. Macy’s newly remodeled stores have an array of associates at the ready to assist in cosmetics, ditto Lord &amp; Taylor," Sozzi says. "Ulta stores are popping up everywhere. Sears, well, yeah." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "Retail is detail? Not here," Sozzi writes. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The random clothing racks are confusing to customers and show a lack of organization. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors This mat appears to be shabby and stained. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Sozzi left the store with an empty cart. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andy ClarkSears Holdings is down 15% after hours after the company warned of Q4 losses. The retailer sees a Q4 adjusted loss of $2.01-$2.98. Analysts were looking for earnings of $0.26 per share. Quarter-to-date comparable store sales are down 7.4%. Year-to-date sales are down 3.9%. For the full year ending February 1, 2014, managements expects net loss will be between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion. Following the release, Brian Sozzi, CEO of Belus Capital Advisors told Business Insider's Julia LaRoche that "the most atrocious thing was that the CEO didn't have the courtesy to make a statement on this press release."  Once an iconic brand, it was reported in 2012 that Sears Holdings would close 120 Sears and Kmart stores in an effort to get the company back on track. Some argue that failure was built into Sears Holdings when billionaire investor Edward Lampert's decided to merge struggling retailers, Sears and Kmart, back in 2004. Lampert has sold real estate to generate cash for the retailer, but it has been argued that neither this, nor the efforts to create a member-centric retailer haven't been adequate. Here's the press release: ---------- HOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill., Jan. 9, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Sears Holdings Corporation ("Holdings," "we," "us," "our," or the "Company") (SHLD) today is providing an update on our quarter-to-date performance and financial position. During the quarter, we continued to proactively transform our business to a member-centric integrated retailer leveraging our Shop Your Way™ ("SYW") program and platform. As previously stated, we are transitioning from a business that has historically focused on running a store network into a business that provides and delivers value by serving its members in the manner most convenient for them: whether in store, in home or through digital devices. We are driving this transformation by investing in capabilities to enable members access to the broadest possible assortment of products and services, enhancing our membership benefits associated with SYW, developing digital and social relationships with our members, using data and analytics to make targeted offers and decisions delivered in real time and expanding our reach through Marketplace and delivery options.  We believe that we are making progress in this transformation, as we are seeing continued increases in our SYW member engagement metrics with 69% of our sales in the nine-week period ended January 4, 2014 derived from members as compared to 58% last year. We are intentionally transitioning business models in a thoughtful manner and are making the investments which we believe will demonstrate the value of SYW to our members. Throughout this transition, we have continued with traditional promotional programs and marketing expenditures while investing in our member-centric model, which has impacted our margin and expenses. For the nine-week period ended January 4, 2014 we spent $69 million more on SYW points expense compared to the same period last year. Comparable store sales for the quarter-to-date ("QTD") and year-to-date ("YTD") periods ended January 6, 2014 for its Kmart and Sears Domestic stores were as follows: QTD YTD Kmart -5.7% -3.7% Sears Domestic -9.2% -4.2% Total -7.4% -3.9% Total domestic comparable store sales for the quarter-to-date period declined 7.4%, comprised of decreases of 5.7% at Kmart and 9.2% at Sears Domestic. Kmart's quarter-to-date comparable store sales decline reflects declines in most categories including consumer electronics, grocery &amp; household and toys. Sears Domestic's quarter-to-date comparable store sales decline is attributable to decreases in most categories including consumer electronics, tools and home appliances. Sears Canada comparable store sales for the quarter-to-date period ended January 6, 2014 were -4.4%.  We currently expect consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes certain significant items as set forth below, for the fourth quarter will be between $(65) million and $65 million, as compared to $429 million in last year's fourth quarter. We expect fourth quarter domestic Adjusted EBITDA of between $(80) million and $20 million, as compared to $365 million for last year's fourth quarter. We expect that Sears Canada fourth quarter Adjusted EBITDA will be between $15 million and $45 million, as compared to $64 million last year. Please see the Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation below. For the full year, consolidated Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be between $(284) million and $(414) million, as compared to $626 million last year. We expect domestic Adjusted EBITDA of between $(308) million and $(408) million, as compared to $557 million last year. We expect that Sears Canada Adjusted EBITDA will be between $(6) million and $24 million, as compared to $69 million last year. We currently expect our reported net loss attributable to Holdings' shareholders for the quarter ending February 1, 2014 will be between $250 million and $360 million, or between $2.35 and $3.39 loss per diluted share. This includes $41 million of pension expense, $29 million for store closures and severance and $12 million from gains on sales of assets. Adjusted for these items, net loss is expected to be between $213 million and $316 million, or between $2.01 and $2.98 loss per diluted share. The ranges exclude the impact related to the Sears Canada real estate transactions previously announced, restructuring activities including severance, store closings and impairment charges, an estimated non-cash charge of approximately $145 million related to the establishment of an additional valuation allowance against our state separate entity deferred tax assets, as well as other tax related matters and any non-cash impairment charges for fixed assets. In the fourth quarter of the prior year, the Company reported a net loss attributable to Holdings' shareholders of $489 million, or $4.61 loss per diluted share, which included a non-cash charge of $455 million related to pension settlements, non-cash impairment charges of $330 million and other adjustments which can be found in our 8-K filed on February 28, 2013. Adjusted for these items, the Company reported net income of $119 million, or $1.12 per diluted share. For the full year ending February 1, 2014, the Company expects our reported net loss attributable to Holdings' shareholders will be between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, or between $11.85 and $12.88 loss per diluted share, which includes the fourth quarter-to-date items noted above, as well as the year-to-date adjustments disclosed in our third quarter 10-Q report filed on November 21, 2013.  Adjusted for these items, net loss is expected to be between $811 million and $914 million, or between $7.64 and $8.61 loss per diluted share. The ranges exclude the impact related to the Sears Canada real estate transactions previously announced, fourth quarter restructuring activities including severance, store closings and impairment charges, an estimated non-cash charge of approximately $145 million related to the establishment of an additional valuation allowance against our state separate entity deferred tax assets, as well as other tax related matters and any non-cash impairment charges for fixed assets. For the full year ended February 2, 2013, the Company reported a net loss attributable to Holdings' shareholders of $930 million, or $8.78 loss per diluted share, which included a non-cash charge of $455 million related to pension settlements, a non-cash impairment charge of $330 million and other adjustments which can be found in our 8-K report filed on February 28, 2013. Adjusted for these items, net loss was $215 million, or $2.03 loss per diluted share.  As of January 4, 2014, we had total cash of approximately $1.0 billion and availability under our credit facilities of $2.3 billion ($1.8 billion under our domestic facility and $0.5 billion under our Sears Canada facility, prior to taking into consideration possible reserves) and $6 million in commercial paper outstanding, with commercial paper capacity of $500 million. The cash balance does not include $300 million Canadian in proceeds from the Sears Canada real estate transactions announced on November 11, 2013, which are expected to be received January 10, 2014. As previously announced, we are evaluating separating both our Lands' End business and Sears Auto Center ("SAC") business. On December 6, 2013 we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement on Form 10 related to the spin-off of Lands' End through a potential pro rata distribution to Holdings' shareholders. We are considering strategic alternatives for our SAC business, any of which would be subject to approval by Holdings' Board of Directors and other conditions. In addition, we continue to reduce unprofitable stores as leases expire and in some cases accelerate closings when circumstances dictate. Finally, as previously announced in October, we also are continuing to work with the board and management of Sears Canada with a goal of increasing the value of our 51% interest and realizing significant cash proceeds to support our transformation and to create value for our shareholders. As of January 8, 2014, the market value of this interest was $670 million. Fourth Quarter Earnings Release The Company currently plans to release financial results for its fiscal 2013 fourth quarter and full year on or about February 27, 2014, before the market opens and hold an analyst and investor conference call on that date. Instructions for participating in the call will be provided in February in advance of the call. Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation millions Q4 2013 Range Q4 2012 • expected net loss attributable to Holdings' shareholders $(360) $(250) $(489) • plus other significant items not included in Adjusted EBITDA 70 70 878 • plus income statement line items not included in EBITDA consisting of noncontrolling interest, income taxes, interest expense, interest and investment income, other income/loss, depreciation expense and gain on sales of assets through January 4, 2014 225 245 40 Adjusted EBITDA $(65) $65 $429 Forward-Looking Statements  Results are preliminary and unaudited. This press release contains forward-looking statements about our expectations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, our transformation through our integrated retail strategy and possible transactions discussed elsewhere in this press release. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: our ability to offer merchandise and services that our customers want, including our proprietary brand products; our ability to successfully implement our integrated retail strategy; our ability to successfully implement initiatives to improve our liquidity through inventory management and other actions; competitive conditions in the retail and related services industries; worldwide economic conditions and business uncertainty, including the availability of consumer and commercial credit, changes in consumer confidence and spending, the impact of rising fuel prices, and changes in vendor relationships; our ability to complete possible transactions with respect to Lands' End and/or Sears Auto Centers on terms that are acceptable to us, on intended timetables or at all and the impact of the evaluation and/or completion of those transactions on our other businesses; the potential impact on our business and our relationships from any such transactions; our ability to successfully achieve our plans to generate liquidity, reduce inventory and reduce fixed costs; conditions and possible limits on our access to capital markets and other financing sources; vendors' lack of willingness to provide acceptable payment terms or otherwise restricting financing to purchase inventory or services; the impact of seasonal buying patterns, including seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions, which are difficult to forecast with certainty; our dependence on sources outside the United States for significant amounts of our merchandise; our extensive reliance on computer systems, including legacy systems, to implement our integrated retail strategy, process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, which may be subject to disruptions or security breaches; our reliance on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the administration of certain aspects of our business and the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge of such parties; impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets or fixed-asset impairment for long-lived assets; our ability to attract, motivate and retain key executives and other associates; our ability to protect or preserve the image of our brands; the outcome of pending and/or future legal proceedings, including product liability claims and proceedings with respect to which the parties have reached a preliminary settlement; and the timing and amount of required pension plan funding; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We intend the forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time made and do not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovAll eyes are on tomorrow's jobs report. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Incrementum"Financial markets have become highly dependent on central bank policies," argue Incrementum's Ronald-Peter Stoeferle &amp; Mark J. Valek. "We sincerely believe that grasping the consequences of the interplay between monetary inflation and deflation is crucial for prudent investors these days." That's why Incrementum put together a 50-slide presentation called Monetary Tectonics, illustrating the "tug of war between inflation and deflation." Stoeferle and Valek illustrate how these two forces act like the tectonic plates under the earth's surface, colliding in constant reciprocal pressure against one another. So what's the endgame? "The unintended consequences of these monetary interventions will result in increasing volatility, potentially further disinflationary/deflationary phases and eventually (highly) inflationary phases," they conclude. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank The median forecast of economists polled by Bloomberg is for tomorrow's jobs report to reveal that 197,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in December. The highest estimate is 250,000 — a forecast shared by Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, and Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. LaVorgna and fellow Deutsche Bank economist Carl Riccadonna note "a broad improvement in the latest labor data ... which led us to upgrade our December employment projections." In a note to clients, Riccadonna writes: We now look for +250K on nonfarm payrolls and 6.8% on the unemployment rate. It is worth noting that in our employment scorecard, there was really only one component which materially weakened last month — Chicago PMI employment. We are dismissing the signals from both initial and continuing jobless claims, because both series displayed erratic behavior throughout December. Aside from this, December was a pretty solid month for employment indicators. While much of the market focus on today's report will be on payrolls and the unemployment rate, there are a few other components of the report we will be monitoring. As always during the winter months, we will pay close attention to workers who could not work or worked reduced hours due to inclement weather. We do not anticipate a significant weather distortion in December, based on utility statistics, but if the payroll print is unusual this series could provide clues. Another underlying detail worth noting is the diffusion of job gains, because job creation occurring across a wide range of sectors generally suggests that the pace of hiring is more resilient. In November the employment diffusion index rose to an 11-month high of 63.5%. Lastly, the aggregate income tally from the employment report, which tells us about consumers' proclivity to spend in the near term, sometimes diverges from the tone of the payroll change — so it is important to evaluate the payroll change in the context of average hourly earnings and hours worked, as well. Following the release of ADP's stronger-than-expected monthly National Employment Report on Wednesday, Pantheon's Shepherdson says "the odds now favor a consensus-beating report on Friday." In a note to clients, he writes: The ADP employment report shows private payrolls rose 238K in December, above the 200K consensus and the revised 229K in November. This is the strongest ADP number since November 2012, and it means we need to revise up our estimate for Friday's official report. ADP is by far the best single advance indicator of the official number. Since the report was reconfigured in October 2012, the median absolute difference between the initial ADP number and the initial official estimate has been only 40K, which is remarkable given that the official data are only accurate to within about +/-90K. With friendly seasonals likely to support the official numbers too, we now look for 250K on Friday, up from our previous estimate of 225K. ADP has clearly strengthened in recent months after a softer spring/summer; we look for further H1 gains. The December jobs report is released on Friday morning at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the data LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesGround zero for the first global solar boom, which took off in the middle part of the last decade, was probably somewhere in the German countryside. That's where massive European spending on renewable energy subsidies most intensively took hold. But the broader continental boom produced worldwide ripple effect, creating a supply glut in China that helped send solar panel prices worldwide to unseen lows. But, for manufacturers at least, the boom came as soon as it went, as consolidation and contraction took hold. Now Deutsche Bank's clean tech team of Vishal Shah, Jerimiah Booream-Phelps, and Susie Min are calling a second global solar 'gold rush.'  Ground zero this time? Pretty much everywhere. But instead of subisidies, the second rush will be driven by three elements: ongoing low system prices, more robust financing and the looming absence of subsidies. DB: "We believe upside demand surprises from the US, Japanese and Chinese markets could continue in 2014. We expect a combination of streamlined incentive programs in China, additional subsidy cut signals in end 2014 and decreasing financing constraints to act as catalysts for upside demand surprises." If the first gold rush was all about the cost of solar panels themselves coming down, the second rush will be about lower costs for "balance of system" elements, which include all other parts of the supply chain: wiring, customer acquisition, everything but the module itself. This is mainly thanks to sheer experience or a more steady learning curve the surviving solar companies now have. And it will mainly impact "downstream" firms — the service providers — instead of "upstream" ones — the manufacturers. "Solar module prices are likely to remain at record low levels for the next 18 months ... overall financing costs have room to decline as solar moves down the risk curve and innovative financing structures drive down costs." Solar is currently competitive without subsidies in at least 19 markets globally, DB says, and the firm expects more to achieve that milestone this year. That leads us to the next element: financing. This one mostly applies to the U.S. There are two types of genuinely interesting financing mechanisms that are helping drive solar: solar bonds, and "yield cos." Solar bonds are being pioneered by SolarCity, the service firm chaired by Elon Musk, and as we discussed yesterday, they've received a huge response. Developer SunEdison, meanwhile, has announced it plans to form a yield co in the next few months. These are publicly traded firms that are spun off and pay dividends that are financed by the revenue from major projects. They pay a dividend and are not subject to standard corporate taxes. For comparison, the average U.S. household uses about 1,000 kwh per month. DB: "We believe the broader acceptance of yieldco type structures could lower solar financing costs by ~200-300 bps in addition to providing significant amount of liquidity within the solar sector. Every 100 bps reduction in financing costs results in 1 c/kWh reduction of LCOE, in our view." Finally, major policy changes will result in a surge of new installations coming online as government subsidies expire. We'll go to China first. "We see upside to consensus 2013 estimates of 6-7 GW and our 2014 estimates of 10GW in light of recent policy changes which will likely drive a rush of installations in 2H13 and 2014." The U.S. could see a similar jolt as its incentives sunset: "Current forms of federal investment tax credits are set to expire in 2016... Consequently, we expect to see a big rush of new installations ahead of the 2016 ITC expiration."  Japan too: "While ~1.1GW of solar was installed under the FiT scheme last year (April to December), ~2.8GW was installed in 1H 2013. This rapid acceleration will likely continue and into 2014 as projects start to run into a likely FiT reduction in April 2014 (announced in March)." India, Australia, and Mexico are also poised to see three straight years of solar growth thanks to friendly government policies. But China and Japan will be the real key to the rush: DB says they could represent ~45-50% of 2013 demand. "We expect demand from both markets to remain a major swing factor," the team writes. FREE AppDownload
If you work in banking or other sectors in financial services, you likely spend a healthy part of your day dealing with career-related stress. The hours, the responsibilities, the external pressures to deliver consistent compelling results – they all add up. But who has it worse? We decided to conduct an informal survey to find out, creating a list of a dozen sectors and roles. We then asked a host of recruiters and other experts in the field to rank them based on the stress levels employees tend to face, leaving it up to each voter to qualify “work stress” as they see it. Below are the composite results, along with some notes from those who chose to go on the record and explain their thought process. Do you agree? 1. Investment Banker: The runaway choice for the most stressful job on Wall Street and in all of financial services, finishing in the top three of every ballot. The main reason is that investment bankers are confronted with the two main triggers for career stress: the difficulty of the work coupled with the sheer amount of it, particularly for associates and analysts. “The life of a junior banker is one of the last forms of legalized slavery,” said Roy Cohen, a career coach and author of The Wall Street Professional’s Survival Guide. “It is a grueling survival of the fittest existence defined by all-nighters, no time to eat well or to exercise, and compensation that has remained flat for a number of years.” Within investment banking, the highest levels of stress exist in M&amp;A, said Richard Lipstein, managing director at Wall Street search firm Gilbert Tweed International. “The most stressful job is one where revenue takes longest to be generated,” he said. “In M&amp;A, you need to know the people, get the meeting, bring in the business, convince them to sell and then go out and get it done.” 2. Trader: Most traders don’t hold the hours of investment bankers, but they may have a sharper, more acute level of stress. “Trader stress is in real time and can happen instantaneously,” said Sal Khan, managing director at Dynamics Associates. Obviously the lives of some traders are easier than others. Sell-side traders live and die daily, said Cohen. Eyeing the current moment, fixed income traders are likely more stressed than ever, simply due to the conditions, Lipstein said. “Their business is shrinking – there will be triage, and they know it.” 3. Risk management &amp; compliance: Likely positions that wouldn’t finish this high years ago, risk and compliance personnel don’t get paid as highly as traders and investment bankers but they’re in a pressure cooker just the same. One reason risk and compliance didn’t finish higher is the dearth of qualified professionals able to fill all the openings (i.e. job security). “New regulatory requirements are constantly rolling in and regulators and those on the business side are always on you, breathing down your neck,” said Lisa Mogilner, executive recruiter at Dynamics Associates. Sitting in a non-revenue generating seats, risk and compliance staffers are often viewed as the enemy by colleagues who are desperate to get a transaction approved, said Cohen. But they also have skeletons like the London Whale, Libor and the credit crisis feeding their stress levels on the other side. Market risk and credit risk management roles are particularly stressful, said Khan. 4. Wealth manager/financial advisor: Finishing near the top on some surveys and further down on others, wealth managers and financial advisors deal with one particular vehicle for stress: they eat only what they kill. Wealth managers get fired nearly as often as they get hired. One WM who started five years ago said he is the only remaining member of his 30-person recruiting class still in the business. It’s a sales job, and your target is often friends and family. You start with a barely livable wage and you need to sell to remain employed. But, at its core, wealth management is a relationship business. Unlike institutional sales, your heart – not just your wallet – is on the line with each investment, said Lipstein. 5. Institutional sales: Any role that focuses on sales causes stress. Couple this with the fact that the job security and the ceiling on salary aren’t what they used to be, and institutional sales can be a grind. “As technology automates much of the function, there is simply no need for a human interface,” said Cohen. “Since the products are now not much more than commodities, sales people are seeing shrinking spreads and fewer opportunities to generate rich commissions.” 6. Management consulting: It’s all about hours, engagement and travel. Simply put, consultants always have to be “on.” And in between they are in airports and juggling complex business problems. “And the more senior you are, there are pressures to generate new business while continuing to execute,” said Anne Crowley, managing director at Jay Gaines and Company. “Some people are wired for this, and are motivated by the fast pace and variety of challenge.” 7. Private equity: You must be smart, hard-working and well-rounded, but the lifestyle doesn’t compare to investment bankers and the pay if often much better, particularly at the senior level. For the rest of the list, head to eFinancialCareers&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
As Americans attempt to thaw from this week's Polar Vortex, Wall Street analysts have stepped back and wondered whether last month's inclement weather had a material affect on the economy. Some economists have argued that employment, particularly construction employment, is harmed by cold weather. Here's Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey: Regarding the near-term data calendar, we expect that colder-than-normal weather during the survey period for the December payroll report probably pushed employment growth below its recent trend. (Our preliminary forecast is for a 175,000 gain in total payrolls to be released this Friday.) But in Wednesday's ADP private payrolls report, construction had its best month of job creation since December 2006. We'll of course get a better sense after tomorrow's official BLS jobs report, but today it looks like construction employment had a very solid December. So what gives? SocGen's Brian Jones says that precipitation has a bigger impact on jobs data than does temperature. And the continental United States has been fairly dry in mid December. From Jones: We expect weather conditions prevailing during the December canvassing period to have a limited impact on Friday's report. According to data compiled by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, temperatures nationwide were roughly 5½ degrees below seasonal norms over the 8-14 December span. Yet, conditions were unusually dry over much of the continental U.S. during that period. Yesterday's ADP report appeared to support our long-held view that precipitation has a much bigger impact on nonfarm payrolls than temperature. Indeed, the number of construction jobs counted by the private payroll processor jumped by 48,000 in December, after back-to-back 21,000 gains in October and November — the largest increase since February 2006.  Check out the map. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
On Wednesday, we told you about how a "fracking dividend" is taking hold of the U.S. economy thanks to the massive increase in U.S. fossil fuel production.  The EIA agrees. In a new "Today in Energy" feature, the agency highlights how global oil prices have been totally subdued by fracking. First they quantify the shale boom:  That's helped offset production cuts in the rest of the world (some of which were in response to the massive surge coming from North America). Here's the chart: EIA As a result, London-traded Brent oil contract prices have been kept at bay. They write: "Rising crude oil production in the United States contributed to relatively stable global crude oil prices in 2013, at around the same annual average levels of the previous two years...The North Sea Brent spot price averaged $109/bbl, down 3% from 2012. Brent prices came under downward pressure as rising U.S. light sweet crude oil production reduced the need for U.S. imports, thereby increasing supplies of Brent-quality crude oil available to the global market." The agency notes WTI prices came up a bit last year as the supply glut created by a previous lack of pipelines has eased.  Still, as you can see from this chart, the inexorable rise of oil has, for now, been reversed.  EIA Fracking remains controversial: evidence mounts that injecting fracking wastewater into the ground causes earthquakes, and complaints about water quality have spiked in areas where the practice takes place. But the benefits to oil consumers can now clearly be seen. FREE AppDownload
APNew Jersey Gov. Chris Christie gave a press conference today, addressing the release of documents showing one of his top aides was involved in the decision to close lanes on the George Washington Bridge last September. The press conference ran 1 hour and 49 minutes, with an opening statement of contrition and a great many questions from reporters. "I apologize to the people of New Jersey," Christie said. "I am embarrassed and humiliated by the conduct of some of the people on my team." He later added, "I am sick over this." Christie announced that he has fired Bridget Anne Kelly, his deputy chief of staff at the center of the new documents.  "I terminated her employment because she lied to me," Christie said, bluntly. Christie said that he was "heartbroken" that he had been betrayed by a member of his staff. He said she was "stupid" and "deceitful." "I am a very sad person today," Christie said. "A person close to me betrayed me. I am a sad guy standing here today." "I had no knowledge or involvement in this issue, in its planning or execution," Christie said. He said that until Wednesday, he was still convinced that the lane closures were part of a traffic study.  "There’s this reputation out there of me being a micromanager. I’m not," he said. Christie also said during the press conference that he has instructed Bill Stepien, his former campaign manager, to withdraw his name from his candidacy for state party chairman, as well as from his consulting position with the Republican Governors Association. Stepien was also involved in the emails. "I am responsible for what happens on my watch, the good and the bad," Christie said. A series of emails and text messages released Wednesday revealed that Christie's deputy chief of staff and two of his top appointees at the Port Authority were deeply involved in a decision to close a pair of access lanes onto the bridge from Fort Lee, N.J.  Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich (D) had declined to endorse Christie for re-election, unlike many other Democratic municipal officials in the state. Christie said Thursday that he will go to Fort Lee later in the day to apologize to the mayor and the people of the town, "face to face." Christie released a statement Wednesday, saying he was "outraged" and that he had been "misled" by a member of his staff. Today is the first time he will address the new revelations at length. Here's the video of the first part of his press conference:  FREE AppDownload
Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook tablet was once seen as a viable competitor to Amazon's Kindle, but now it's basically irrelevant.  Barnes &amp; Noble announced Thursday that sales of Nook products plunged 61% this holiday season. The company blamed its poor sales on competition from Apple's iPad and its own failure to release a new tablet.  We asked Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, to explain why the Nook tablet failed so spectacularly.  1. Barnes &amp; Noble's reputation as a bookseller got in the way. "Shoppers couldn’t get beyond Barnes &amp; Noble being a destination for something they no longer want or generally care about, books," Sozzi said. "Barnes &amp; Noble management perpetuated that by not investing aggressively enough in marketing to alter perception." 2. The company didn't illustrate the Nook's full value. While Apple and Amazon advertised their tablets as devices for reading books, streaming television shows and movies, and reading the news, Barnes &amp; Noble only played up the book aspect of the business, Sozzi said.  3. The Nook didn't have a place. The Kindle was seen as a cheaper alternative to an iPad. Meanwhile, the Nook "had no foundation to stand on to speak to consumers," Sozzi told us.  4. Barnes &amp; Noble dropped prices at the worst possible time. Because Nook tablets weren't selling, Barnes &amp; Noble dropped prices as they were investing tons of money into the product. "This is a lethal recipe for an entire division going up in smoke as the Nook has," Sozzi said.  Despite these challenges, it's possible Barnes &amp; Noble could go through a period of transformation soon.  Barnes &amp; Noble announced Wednesday its chief financial officer would be taking over as CEO.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithPeople relax in the Inada massage chair at the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada January 8, 2014.The stock market is moving lower in the first half of today's session. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 index is trading at 1833, down 0.2% from yesterday's close. If the losses hold today, it will mark the fifth day in the last six in which the index has closed lower. "High-beta names are getting hit sharply – seems like a 'sell the news' from CES," says Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus. Lutz points out that a lot of the momentum stocks — like Tesla, Facebook, 3D Systems, and Twitter — are now falling sharply after opening stronger. Treasuries are also slightly lower today after yesterday's session, in which a mix of better-than-expected economic data and hawkish minutes from the FOMC's December meeting caused a big sell-off across the complex. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesRepublicans we spoke to on Wall Street think the Gov. Chris Christie "Bridgegate" is a non-event when it comes to him possibly running for president in 2016. This is crucial as Christie has been very popular among the Wall Street set, and this crowd would likely provide a lot of money if Christie were to run for President. One senior level New York-based investment banker said it's "too early to matter."  "Better now than in 2015 for a story like this to come out. Will be old news when it matters," the banker said, adding that it's too early for him to decide who he might support for president in 2016.  Another hedge fund manager said he thinks Christie will survive this.  "Obama has survived his drug use, Bengazi, Fast and Furious, IRS, etc.  Clintons have survived Bill's infidelities, [Hillary's] commodity trading scandal and bungling of Benghazi, etc. People will forget Trafficgate in a few weeks [especially] if the responsible parties are dealt with," the fund manager told us.  Another conservative hedge fund manager we spoke with said he didn't have anything to say because he hasn't been following the whole "fiasco."  One Republican portfolio manager, who grew up in the same town in Jersey as Gov. Christie, called it a "non-event". The portfolio manager told us even though Gov. Christie is "well-liked in Jersey" he personally wouldn't vote for him because he think he's a "loud mouth, way over-weight and a good ole boy."  Another Wall Streeter from New Jersey, who has worked in finance for over 30 years and plans to raise money for Christie, called the story "a weak attempt at petty political bitchiness."   "If the Democrats think that a traffic issue is going to dissuade this Republican juggernaut on such a trivial issue they have already lost," the Wall Streeter told us.   "People are so tired or will be at the end of 2016—the next election—of Obama. This is the Democratic party trying to nitpick little things like the traffic argument. The bridge? What? Here's the worst thing you can come up with for Chris Christie? He's going to be the next Ronald Reagan. He's going to win by a landslide." New documents published this week showed that a Christie aide knew about a controversial plan to close two traffic lanes on the George Washington Bridge back in the fall.  It was believed that the traffic lanes were shut down in an effort to punish Fort Lee's Mayor Mark Sokolich (D) because he didn't endorse him for re-election.  Christie held a press conference today where he apologized saying he was "embarrassed and humiliated."  He also said he fired Bridget Anne Kelly, the deputy chief of staff, who was involved in those email discussions with the Port Authority.   Christie said he's going to try to meet with the Fort Lee mayor today.  FREE AppDownload
    Durand Guion, Vice President, Men's Fashion Director at Macy's Inc. explains what essential suit styles and cuts every self-respecting man should own. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow us on YouTube &gt; FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1.Citi's economic surprise index, which measures the actual outcome of economic data releases relative to consensus estimates, is at its highest level in nearly two years after a streak of stronger-than-expected data in the last few months has sent it on a tear. Now, the index is at levels often associated with a rolling over of this measure, as Chart 1 shows. If the index does roll over soon — as economists' expectations outpace actual further improvements in the data — it could provide support for U.S. Treasuries, which have been selling off since October, when Citi's surprise index turned upward. It would also bring to a halt a big theme in interest rate markets that has played out in the wake of the Federal Open Market Committee's December 18 announcement that the Federal Reserve will begin tapering down its quantitative easing program. Short-term interest rates have been rising as traders test the FOMC's commitment to keep its policy rate pinned between 0 and 0.25%, where it has been since the financial crisis. The idea is that continued improvement in the economic data of the sort we've seen since October will cause the FOMC to renege, normalizing its policy rate sooner than it currently says it will. "Since they've only started to taper, the idea of repricing the first hike does seem rather premature, but the logic does include the data itself," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "So when we hear people say things like, 'If the data strengthens…' we can only respond with, 'Indeed!' The issue is: what if the data just continues with the current sort of strength?" If that's the case, the big sell-off we've seen in interest rate markets may subside. FREE AppDownload
The polar vortex has only one upside — all the gorgeous pictures people have taken of our frozen landscape. Goldman Sachs just tweeted this picture of their view from downtown New York City. Goldman's building is at 200 West Street, right along the Hudson River. Check out the tweet below: And by the way, Roland Emmerich directed Independence Day, The Day After Tomorrow, Godzilla, and other films in which New York City (or the U.S. in general) gets totally destroyed. PHOTO FROM 200W: Polar Vortex makes Hudson/NY Harbor look like the Arctic Circle or scene in a Roland Emmerich film pic.twitter.com/Uv4TIftMkB FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniThere were 9.3 million U.S. residential properties deeply underwater in December 2013, according to RealtyTrac's latest U.S. Home Equity &amp; Underwater Report.  This represented 19% of all properties with a mortgage. Homes are in negative equity, or underwater, when homeowners owe more on their mortgages than their home is worth. RealtyTrac, identifies homes with a combined loan amount that is 25% higher than the property's market value, as deeply underwater. December's number was down from 10.7 million residential properties that were deeply underwater in September 2013, which represented 23% of all properties with a mortgage.  it was also down from a recent peak of 12.8 million residential properties that were deeply underwater, which represented 29% of all properties with a mortgage in May 2012. We saw a surge in negative equity following the housing bust. But, "now we are seeing the reverse trend: rising home prices resulting in falling negative equity, which in turn is giving millions of homeowners a lifeline to avoid foreclosure when they encounter a trigger event," writes Daren Blomquist at RealtyTrac.  "On the other end of the spectrum, the percentage of equity-rich homeowners is nearing a tipping point that should result in a larger inventory of homes listed for sale and give the overall economy a nice shot in the arm in 2014." But Blomquist did point out that for millions of those still underwater it could take years for them to regain equity. And that the longer they stay in negative equity they more likely it is that those homes will end up in negative equity. Florida has the largest percent of homes deep underwater at 34% or 1.7 million homes. Here's a look at negative equity profile since January 2012: RealtyTrac FREE AppDownload
APBill Gross.Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund at PIMCO, is out with his latest monthly investment outlook today. His advice: don't fight the Fed. Bet that it will keep its commitment to stimulating the economy via zero interest-rate policy for the next two years — even as it winds down its bond-buying program — by moving your money out of the long end of the interest rate curve and into the short end. Gross expects the curve to steepen (i.e., he expects interest rates in the long end to rise faster than those in the short end) as the Federal Reserve tapers quantitative easing throughout 2014 while at the same time keeping the commitment laid out by its forward guidance to hold its policy rate — to which rates on bonds in the short end of the curve are tied — at current levels between 0.00 and 0.25% for the next two years. This trade has not been doing so well lately — the curve is actually flattening, not steepening, as the chart shows. And there was a lot of chatter on bond desks across the Street yesterday about a big "west coaster" (referring to one of a number of big asset management firms like PIMCO based in California) doing exactly the opposite as Gross advised in his outlook today, as the trade seriously underperformed in yesterday's session. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)The spread between the yield on the 30-year U.S. Treasury bond and the yield on the 5-year Treasury note has been falling as investors buy bonds in the long end of the interest rate curve and sell bonds in the short end in the wake of the Federal Reserve's December 18 decision to begin tapering down its quantitative easing program.Part of the reason the trade got killed yesterday: stronger-than-expected payroll data from payroll-processing firm ADP, which estimated that 238,000 new workers became employed in the private sector in December, well above expectations of 200,000. These numbers caused the front end of the curve to sell off and short-term interest rates to rise as traders tested the Fed's commitment to keep those rates low for two more years — as Gross believes they will. Markets are increasingly betting that because the economy is perhaps heating up faster than the central bank expects, it could soon realize such extraordinary monetary stimulus for so long is unwarranted. The move in interest rates in yesterday's session was sizable. In fact, this sort of price action has been the dominant flavor in rates markets since Dec. 18, when the Fed announced it would begin to taper down quantitative easing. Gross has been vocal about this trade (buy the short end and sell the long end) for several months now, since tapering became a more-or-less assured eventuality in mid-2013. But now, the trade is moving against him, and it's falling out of favor elsewhere on the Street. "Along the curve we hate the 5-year," says David Keeble, head of fixed income strategy at Crédit Agricole. "The 30-year does relatively well when the 2-10Y flattens and when the 2-5-10Y fly sees a sell-off in the belly and this year we expect both." Indeed, this seems to be a major emerging storyline: Is the short end really a safe place, as Gross proposes? "What we think is going on is that after a tough year for the bond market, we start this year looking for opportunities — and the pain trade, or 3rd-standard-deviation event," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "Tapering has been well anticipated and while we believe rates will gradually rise as a result, the notion of rate hikes sooner versus later is an outlier idea. In a market where the concentration of the consensus view is disturbing the allure of grasping for something different, a pain trade that’s not in the narrow consensus realm is compelling. What could be farther from consensus than rate hikes?" If economic data keep coming in better than expected, the "Bond King" could find himself on the losing side of a king-sized trade once again. FREE AppDownload
Hartley Rogers, CEO of private equity firm Hamilton Lane gave a candid interview to finance career firm, OneWire. In it, he advises young people to go to big banks, get basic training, and then get out and do something else. "My primary message to young people is get the foundation... but then don't stay," he said. "I think businesses get too big, and when they get too big they aren't as good. And it's true look at Wall Street... Morgan Stanley's not the same place it was even 15 or 20 years ago. Goldman Sachs — not the same place. The big banks aren't the same places. That's why the private equity world is such a great world...It works because private equity funds know how to align the interests of the managers of the companies that they're buying with shareholders." Right now, after the turmoil of the financial crisis, big banks are worried about their retention rates, so 'to stay or to go' after a few years is a big debate going on on Wall Street. Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan have both instituted policies to makes weekends easier for their young analysts, and make their firms better places to work. But still, there's the size issue. The bigger your firm is, the less control you have over your destiny. Rogers continues:  "I don't want to pick on JP Morgan I love JP Morgan, they've done great service for us. But if you work there and you're dumped a bunch of stock and retention type stuff as part of your bonus, it's nothing. It's junk, because you can't do anything to influence that. There's nothing you can do to make that stock more valuable or less valuable. Unless you're the London Whale, in which case it's less valuable." Very candid. Watch the video below (from OneWire): FREE AppDownload
Gary Balter at Credit Suisse downgraded the stock to Neutral, from Outperform and lowered his price target to $78, from $85. Balter thinks the retailer is well-positioned but argues that "square footage growth is low at less than 2%, implying that growth needs to come from comps and margins." "Yet putting aside a better second quarter, the company has struggled to put those two variables together. We assume that comps next year will be in the low- to mid-single-digit range, but gross margins will continue to decline, although at a lower rate. At this time last year that may have been fine given the attractive valuation, but BBBY's strong performance in 2013 implies limited upside for this well-managed chain. Analysts at Canaccord Genuity lowered their pre ice target to $73, from $84. And Oppenheimer lowered its price target to $86, according to 24/7 Wall Street. The stock is said to have hit its short-sale circuit breaker. This is the point at  which there is a ban on short-selling after a stock has dropped a certain amount. FREE AppDownload
United Van Lines recently published its inbound and outbound moving data for the U.S. (This is different from the map from Atlas Van Lines we published last week, which actually shows slightly different data).  Seth Kadish at Vizual Statistix has compiled the data into a spectacular map that captures the migration flows. It looks at which states had the greatest share of inbound moves as a percent of total moves.  The winners: Oregon and the Carolinas.  The losers: New Jersey, Illinois, and New York Check it out: Vizual Statistix
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJanet Yellen (L), nominee to be the next chairperson of the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to meet with Senate Banking Committee member Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL) (R) in his office on Capitol Hill in Washington, October 31, 2013.(Reuters) - Janet Yellen, set to take over as head of the Federal Reserve next month, is "hopeful" that U.S. economic growth will accelerate in 2014 to reach 3 percent or more and persistently low inflation will move up toward the central bank's target, according to a Time magazine interview released Thursday. "I think we'll see stronger growth this year," Yellen said in the interview, released online ahead of the Time edition's January 20 publishing date. "Most of my colleagues on the Fed's policymaking committee and I are hopeful that the first digit (of GDP growth) could be 3 rather than 2." U.S. gross domestic product growth has averaged 2.6 percent through the first three quarters of 2013, but appears to have gathered momentum in the second half the year. Yellen, who will succeed Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on February 1, also said she believes that the persistently low level of inflation, a worry for policy-makers, will pick up. "The recovery has been frustratingly slow, but we're making progress in getting people back to work, and I anticipate that inflation will move back toward our longer-run goal of 2 percent," she said. (Reporting by Dan Burns; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA graffiti depicting European Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi is seen outside a fence surrounding the construction site for the new headquarters of the ECB in Frankfurt, May 16, 2013.European Central Bank president Mario Draghi spoke at his monthly press conference about the central bank's decision earlier today in which it announced no new change in policy, and the euro is now sliding against the dollar. The exchange rate peaked above $1.3630 just after 8:30 AM — when Draghi's presser began — and is now trading near $1.3560. Draghi said the ECB took steps to strengthen the language in its forward guidance on the future course of monetary policy by outlining two things that would make it take further action to ease monetary conditions: tightening via a rise in money-market rates and deterioration in the medium-term outlook for inflation. The risk of deflation in Europe is a growing issue. Earlier this week, the eurozone core inflation rate fell to its lowest level in its history. Fears that Europe is going to go down the Japan route of persistent deflation or disinflation has now supplanted breakup as the number once concern for the eurozone. As such, Draghi is putting more emphasis on forward guidance as a tool to commit to low rates, and that's caused the euro to dive today. "For the first time in nearly 2.5 years, 2-year Eonia is flirting with the ECB refi rate," said Société Générale interest rate strategists Vincent Chaigneau and Ciaran O'Hagan before the ECB decision today. "Will that bother the ECB? Not quite, as they probably see this as a hopeful sign that investors are looking forward to brighter economic conditions. At some point, the ECB may address the question of falling excess liquidity, but we see no urgency." FREE AppDownload
Pantheon MacroeconomicsThe latest weekly jobless claims figures are out. Initial claims filed in the week ended January 4 were 330,000, below expectations for a drop to 335,000 from the previous week's upwardly-revised 345,000 figure. Continuing claims filed in the week ended December 28 rose more than expected to 2.87 million from a downward-revised 2.82 million the week before. "The hiring side of the labor market equation seems to have improved markedly even as the pace of layoffs has been more or less static," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "We would prefer to see layoffs falling too, and in due course they will, but for now we'll take better payroll numbers no matter how they are constituted." FREE AppDownload
This week's Bloomberg Businessweek cover story features Bloomberg's Ashlee Vance and Brad Stone covering "The Bitcoin-Mining Arms Race." As usual, the cover of the magazine itself comes close to overshadowing the story. Check it out (the subhed reads: "Why are investors so crazy about a currency invented by a phantom?"). You can also learn about how the cover was conceived here. And check out artist Christian Riese Lassen's other work here. Bloomberg Businessweek FREE AppDownload
Instagram/dagirlamzThe number of planned layoffs at U.S. firms plunged by 32 percent in December to the lowest monthly total in more than 13 years, a report on Thursday showed. Employers announced 30,623 layoffs last month, down from 45,314 in November, according to the report from consultants Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas, Inc. The last time employers announced fewer job cuts was June of 2000, when 17,241 planned layoffs were recorded. The figures come a day ahead of the closely-watched U.S. non-farm payrolls report, which is forecast to show the economy added 196,000 jobs in December On Wednesday, payrolls processor ADP reported private employers added 238,000 jobs last month. That was well above market forecasts and has fed speculation of stronger overall U.S. growth in 2014. For all of 2013, employers announced 509,051 cuts, down 3 percent from the 523,362 seen in 2012 and the lowest yearly total since 1997, the Challenger data showed. "The recovery has been slow, but every year since the recession has been better than the previous one," saidJohn Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas. The December figure fell 6 percent from a year earlier, when planned layoffs totaled 32,556, and marked the third straight month that announced workforce reductions dropped year over year. The computer sector was the most active for planned cuts in December, with 5,578, followed by industrial goods with 2,470 cuts and retail with 2,269. For the year, the financial sector was hit hardest, with 60,962 job cuts, up 49 percent from 41,008 in 2012. Likewise, New York-based firms cut the most jobs - 82,952 - last year. California firms were second with 59,535 cuts. The health care sector announced 52,637 job cuts in 2013, up 45 percent over 2012's total of 36,212. (Reporting By Steven C. Johnson; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi testifies before the European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in Brussels December 16, 2013.As expected, the European Central Bank elected to leave the euro area benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.25%, the rate on the marginal lending facility unchanged at 0.75%, and the overnight deposit rate unchanged at 0%. Next up is ECB president Mario Draghi's monthly press conference and Q&amp;A with reporters beginning at 8:30. "We do not expect any action from the ECB on Thursday as macro indicators have remained consistent with a gradual recovery and tensions in interbank markets have eased in the New Year," says Frederik Ducrozet, a senior eurozone economist at Crédit Agricole. "Beyond January, the bar for radical action (negative rates; asset purchases) remains high, in our view, but the ECB will stand ready to counter any unwarranted tightening in monetary conditions. A further strengthening of the forward guidance remains on the radar. Fighting financial fragmentation – for example through a targeted LTRO – looks desirable despite significant implementation risks." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China Daily A high-speed train travelling to Guangzhou is seen running on Yongdinghe Bridge in Beijing, December 26, 2012.BEIJING (Reuters) - China will spend over $100 billion on more than 6,600 km (4,100 miles) of new railway lines this year, Xinhua news agency said, citing a senior industry official. The general manager of the state-owned China Railway Corporation (CRC), Sheng Guangxu, was quoted as saying that the bulk of the 630 billion yuan ($104.11 billion) investment would be in the underdeveloped central and western regions. It said CRC had already put 5,586 km of rail lines into operation since its formation last March following the dissolution of the Ministry of Railways. China abolished the ministry in March and transferred its regulatory duties to the Ministry of Transportation. The sector was plagued with allegations of waste and corruption that culminated in the sentencing of former minister Liu Zhijun in July on charges of bribery and abuse of power. CRC has already started construction on 49 new railway projects involving 663.8 billion yuan of investment. China had more than 100,000 km of railway in operation by the end of 2013, 10 percent of which was for high speed trains, Xinhua said. ($1 = 6 yuan) (Reporting by David Stanway; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIt's the fifth trading day of the year. You know what that means.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning, and welcome to Central Bank Thursday!   US Futures are higher, as chatter an Asian buyer of $1B US Equity futures came into the market around 4amET.  There is some focus on our 5day losing streak, but WSJ highlights it is a non-event.   E-Minis are up 30bp early, ahead of the ECB Rate Decision (No Change expected at 7:45, but loose chatter they may cut – BoE stood pat this AM).   The Euro Markets are on strong footing, with the Stoxx up 50bp, and DAX 40bp in heavy trading.  EU Banks are up another 1% - they have now surged 7% to start 2014 as Yields in the PIIGS continue to trend lower, and Basel gets watered down.   Over in Asia, The Nikkei was whacked for 1.5% as the Yen caught a bid, and China lost 1% as more focus on IPOs and the PBoC’s tightening policies.   Indonesia was flat as their Central Bank did not move rates, but Korea did to react well to no change, the Kospi hit for 70bp as the Won continues to catch a bid against Yen.  Single Stock movers in the US include M up 6% (earnings),  JCP up 4% (Piper Upgrade), MCD up 2% (MS Upgrade).  Losers include BBBY off 10% (earnings), and TWTR off 2%, and nearing y’day $58 lows as Cowen starts with a sell.  TWTR now has 11 “Sell” ratings, and only 6 “Buys”. The 10YY is off small, and remains under the 3% level into our NFP print tomorrow.   The DXY is under pressure against the Euro – but the Yen remains weak to the greenback.  Overall we have a tailwind for commodities – Lumber is gaining 1.5% (Has been crushed since Christmas), and Gold is up small, adding 20bp and near session highs (Despite Moody’s cutting forecasts and warning on the Miners).   The Energy complex is higher, with Brent jumping almost 1% as supportive headlines persist from Libya, Iraq and Sudan – while WTI’s discount has gone past $15, out $3 this year.  Copper is a standout loser, off 1% as China continues to cramp down on Shadow Financing.    Catalysts today include the ECB Decision at 7:45 (Presser at 8:30) – Challanger Job Cuts and Weekly Claims at 8:30 – Philly Fed and a House Monetary Policy Subcommittee Hearing on Fed Bond Buying at 10 – Natty Inventories at 10:30 – a very small POMO at 11 – 30Y auction at 1, and Fed's George Speaks on Economy at 1:30.   AA Kicks off earnings season post close. FREE AppDownload
TIME.comJanet Yellen has gone mainstream. The recently confirmed chair of the Federal Reserve is on the cover of Time magazine and Rana Foroohar has an exclusive interview. And Yellen sounds optimistic. "I think we'll see stronger growth this year," she said. "Most of my colleagues on the Fed's policymaking committee and I are hopeful that the first digit [of GDP growth] could be 3 rather than 2... The recovery has been frustratingly slow, but we're making progress in getting people back to work, and I anticipate that inflation will move back toward our longer-run goal of 2 percent." Fighting disinflation will be one of the tough tasks ahead for Yellen as she faces pressure to wind down the Fed's extraordinarily easy monetary policy. Read the whole interview at Time.com. *$16 trillion represents the size of the U.S. economy. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Khaled AbdullahNewly recruited members of the Yemeni military police force participate in exercises at their barracks in Sanaa January 8, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — The European Central Bank  and the Bank of England both left rates unchanged. The regions face opposite problems: there are now signs the Eurozone is at risk of deflating, while some analysts think the U.K.'s property market is overheating. Still, economists expected both banks to keep policy easy and rates unchanged at extraordinarily low levels. — European markets are up ahead of the announcements. Asian markets broadly fell in Thursday trading. U.S. futures were higher.  — U.S. energy secretary Ernest Moniz has canceled a planned trip to India in the most serious escalation yet over a diplomatic row over the arrest and detention of India’s NY deputy consul general . Devyani Khobragade was charged with Visa fraud, and her treatment while in custody was vigorously defended by NY Southern District U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Reuters: "While both sides have said their bilateral relationship is important and will not be allowed to deteriorate, the row over Khobragade, which should not have been more than an easily resolved irritation, has plunged the two countries into a crisis described by Indian media as the worst since New Delhi tested a nuclear device in 1998.  — Jobless claims beat, falling to 330,000 versus 331,000 expected and a revised 345,000 prior. The extension of federal unemployment insurance  remains in limbo, and Jeffrey Bartash at Marketwatch has a good write up of what happened when North Carolina cut its state unemployment benefits: "Last summer, North Carolina slashed the amount of cash it gave to people after they lost their jobs and the state also reduced the number of weeks they could receive benefits. Within several months, the unemployment rate fell a few ticks and by November it fell to a five-year low. Government data also shows that more than 22,000 North Carolinians found work since the cutoff and the number of unemployed sank by nearly 73,000 to 344,000. What the data doesn’t tell us, however, is what happened to all the people no longer classified as unemployed. While some found a job, others may have retired, ended up on welfare, moved in with family members, sought disability payments or fled to a nearby state with better benefits. We just don’t know." — The quarterly earnings season officially kicks off today, as Alcoa reports after the bell. Shares in the aluminum producer were up more than 2% in after-hours trading. In AM earnings, Family Dollar shares are down more than 1% after warning on Q2 and full-year earnings, while Supervalu is up more than 1% on strong profits.  — Bed Bath and Beyond shares tanked nearly 9% in after hours trading Wednesday after the retailer reported revenue and same store sales below expectations, as well as lowered full-year earnings guidance.  — Meanwhile, Macy's shares surged more than 5% in after-hours trading after that retailer reported same-store sales in November and December had climbed 3.6%. It also announced a round of job cuts and store closings.  — IBM now says it wants to build an entire business around Watson, its "cognitive" computer, and is fronting $1 billion for the project. FT: "While only a handful of customers have used the technology up to now, [Michael Rhodin, the IBM senior vice-president named to run the new Watson division] said many others were 'breaking down the doors' to get access to it and that IBM believed revenues from the business could quickly reach the 'billions'. IBM recently raised its forecast of the annual revenues it will make in 2015 from data analytics – of which Watson is a part – by $4bn, to $20bn." — BlackRock says it will stop surveying Wall Street analysts to gain information about company outlooks before research units  publish their views. NYT: "The decision was reached late Wednesday as part of a settlement with Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general. The settlement document filed in the case contended that BlackRock’s surveys “allowed it to obtain information from analysts that could reveal forthcoming revisions to their published views” on companies they followed. The firm will also pay $400,000 to cover costs of the investigation." — Norway's sovereign wealth fund, the world's largest, is struggling to meet its goals, and is now seeking authorization to expand the kind of assets it can hold. Bloomberg: "Investing in pipelines, roads and other infrastructure would be a good fit for the wealth fund as the government considers ways to get more out of the investor, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said yesterday in an interview in Oslo." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Bogdan CristelTrying to close out 2013 with a big lift.Fourth quarter earnings season unofficially kicks off this week. After months of anticipation, we finally get to see how companies closed out 2013. Here are some key metrics to watch, courtesy of Factset's John Butters survey of analysts: Butters also identified some global concerns to watch based on comments from companies that have already announced earnings: Earnings really kicks off this afternoon with aluminum giant Alcoa, a company often hailed as a bellwether for the economy at large. "We estimate Q4/13 EPS will be down from Q3/13 due to lower prices and premiums, unfavorable currency impacts, and negative [after-tax operating income] impacts in [Global Rolled Products] and EPS due to aerospace excess inventories, a softening in the global industrial gas turbine market, and seasonal weakness in packaging," RBC Capital Markets' H. Fraser Phillips wrote clients. FREE AppDownload
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics have agreed to attend a mediation session to be held on or before February 19, as they prepare to clash in court in March over smartphone patents. Apple CEO Tim Cook and Samsung CEO Oh-Hyun Kwon will attend the session with in-house lawyers only, according to a Wednesday court filing. Their legal teams had met on January 6 to "discuss settlement opportunities," the filing read. Neither company immediately return messages seeking comment. Apple and Samsung are embroiled in a legal battle over smartphone patents across several countries that mirrors their global battle for supremacy in the mobile device market. The technology rivals are facing a March trial date in the United States over Apple's claims that Samsung infringed its patents. In the last two years, Apple and Samsung have gone to trial twice in San Jose, California federal court, and juries have awarded Apple a total of roughly $930 million. Apple said in court documents filed in December that it has paid its leading outside law firm approximately $60 million to wage patent litigation against Samsung. The case is Apple Inc v. Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, 11-1846. (Reporting by Edwin Chan and Andrew Longstreth; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Five risks to our economic forecast Our central forecasts look for accelerating growth in the DM economies, against the backdrop of continued low inflation and low policy rates. The main risks to this view are: 1)  a reduction in fiscal drag is less of a plus than we expect; 2)  deleveraging obstacles continue to weigh on private demand; 3)  less effective spare capacity leads to earlier  wage/inflation pressure; 4)  Euro area risks resurface; 5)  and China financial/credit concerns becomes critical. Five risks to our market view Five key risks may affect the mapping of our macro views into the market forecast: 1)  long-dated real yields rise more sharply; 2)  markets doubt G4 commitment to easy policy in the face of better growth; 3)  low risk premia create valuation challenges; 4)  margins compress more rapidly as wage share recovers; 5)  and EM assets benefit more from the DM recovery or suffer more from local imbalances. The long version here (via ZeroHedge). FREE AppDownload
Efforts to shrink government deficits and debts have been economically painful and have held back short-term growth. But in 2014, that fiscal drag is expected to ease significantly in the much of the developed world. Here's Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd: Reduced Fiscal Drag in Advanced Economies Major advanced economies (with the notable exception of Japan) should in 2014 have significantly less fiscal policy drag on growth. Leading the way is the United States, where sequester-mandated budget cuts will decrease and the effects of higher payroll taxes should diminish. The euro zone should also benefit as budgetary austerity fades. Britain should also have a slightly smaller fiscal drag. Overall it’s a rosier picture for global growth in 2014, as economies around the world should benefit from faster growth, especially since demand is improving in advanced economies that make up over 40 percent of global GDP. It's one of the more significant factors that has experts bullish about 2014. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
Tupac Shakur"Tupac was a prophet, and I want everyone to see that."The long-awaited Tupac Shakur musical finally has an opening date. Holler If Ya Hear Me, which is inspired by the late rapper's music, will officially kick off its Broadway run on June 19th at the Palace Theater in New York, while preview performances for the program will begin on May 26th. Find Out Where Tupac Shakur Lands in Our List of the 100 Greatest Artists The production, which boasts an $8 million budget, will feature songs from throughout the rap icon's career, including classics like "California Love," "Keep Ya Head Up," "Me Against the World" and, naturally, the title song. However, unlike the long-delayed biopic that begins shooting this year, the story itself will not be directly based on Shakur's life or his drive-by shooting death in 1996. Instead, the script (written by Todd Kreidler) focuses on two childhood friends living in a poverty-stricken Midwestern industrial city, struggling to realize their dreams. In a statement, the show's producers call Holler a tale of "friendship, family, revenge, change and hope."   Holler If Ya Hear Me will be directed by Kenny Leon, who earned a Tony Award nomination for 2010's Fences. Along with television producer Eric L. Gold and theater producer Shin Chun-soo, the musical will be produced by Shakur's mother, Afeni. As Leon told Broadway.com, "Tupac was a prophet, and I want everyone to see that." Follow us: @rollingstone on Twitter | RollingStone on Facebook This post originally appeared at Rolling Stone. Copyright 2014. Follow Rolling Stone on Twitter. This article originally appeared at Rolling Stone.  Copyright 2014. Follow Rolling Stone on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIn the ever-complicated effort to form a true European banking union, policymakers closed out 2013 with a notable milestone: The Single Resolution Mechanism announced at a Dec. 18 meeting of national finance ministers in Brussels established a long-awaited framework for winding down failing banks in future crises. Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni and others hailed the agreement as the most important shift in euro-zone economic policy since the creation of the single currency. Critics lambasted the deal’s shortcomings, and Credit Suisse’s European Economics team called it “a convoluted step” toward a banking union. But it’s better than nothing. Under the agreement, the first line of defense against future bank failures will be a so-called “bail-in” shouldered by banks’ large depositors (those with more than €100,000 in their accounts), shareholders and bondholders. If enacted, that measure will take effect in 2016, and will require that shareholders and creditors take losses equivalent to 8 percent of a lender’s total liabilities before national authorities can step in to rescue a bank. Should that prove insufficient, policymakers also agreed to create a €55 billion fund that would rescue ailing banks, with the caveat that the fund would only be allowed to pay up to an additional 5 percent of an institution’s total liabilities. No more than 10 percent of the fund could be disbursed in a single year without special permission. The plan for the new resolution fund calls for it to be created gradually over the next 10 years through a levy on banks, thereby placing the responsibility for funding future bailouts squarely on the financial institutions that might need them, rather than on taxpayers and governments. At first, national governments will collect and administer payments from their own banks. Over the course of the decade, the national funds will be combined into one common pool that will then be available to banks throughout the region. “One good element of the agreement is that in the long run the Single Resolution Fund will be fully European,” Credit Suisse’s European Economics team noted last month. That’s not to say that national coffers will not be tapped in future financial crises. But having both strict bail-in rules as well as a resolution fund to call on ahead of government funds would have the effect of limiting the public’s financial exposure to future bailouts. The European Council has set a March deadline to negotiate the finer logistical points of how levies from banks in individual EU countries will get pooled into a common resolution fund. If approved, the resolution mechanism will go into effect next year. European officials have yet to decide what to do in case a bank fails before the €55 billion fund has been fully established. One suggestion is that if both a bail-in and whatever interim funds banks have already kicked in to the resolution fund are inadequate to wind up a failing lender, national resolution authorities would be able to use sovereign funds or borrow from the existing €500 billion bailout fund known as the European Stability Mechanism. The accord is far from perfect. The relatively small size of the resolution fund means it could prove too small to address big bank failures in a serious crisis, not to mention the fact that it won’t even be fully financed until 2025. The procedures proposed to actually access the fund will involve multiple decision-makers and approvals, making it potentially difficult to act in a timely manner during a crisis. Plus, the European Parliament can still delay the final approval of the SRM if individual countries have legal objections to the agreement. The powers of the new structure pale in comparison to those of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is responsible for paying out insured deposits, selling bank assets and repaying creditors during a bank failure. In Europe, the Single Resolution Board that will decide when a bank is failing or likely to fail would still have to cede authority for implementing the resolution plan to officials in the bank’s home country. Of course, the FDIC is lucky enough to answer to only one government and can count on a credit line from the U.S. Treasury. By contrast, European efforts have to wrangle an unwieldy bloc of 28 nations—including large countries and tiny ones, prospering economies and those that are struggling—that already have their own existing laws. It’s a group that has proven itself prone to prickly discord. Given that, it’s quite impressive that there has been any meaningful agreement at all, especially as there remains serious disagreement between member nations about what caused the crisis in the first place. Just a few weeks ago, the prospect of reaching a timely deal was in serious doubt, but now the European Parliament might even have enough time to consider the plan before its term ends in May. And a final agreement would go a long way toward building confidence that the region really is committed to preserving the euro. After the very real existential crisis of the last five years, finance ministers such as Germany’s Wolfgang Schäuble are right to see the increased possibility of actually doing so as an accomplishment in and of itself. One thing that nobody disagrees on is the fact that Europe found itself  ill prepared when the U.S. financial crisis spread to its borders in 2008. The region’s web of national regulatory systems was complex and inefficient, and European institutions were not equipped to govern the rescue of large, cross-border banks. That inability proved disastrous, as the fragility of some countries’ banking systems meant that lenders couldn’t meet their liabilities when their assets were devalued. It became apparent that if the euro was going to survive, the region needed to better govern its monetary union, ensure the resiliency of its banks through a system of guarantees and make sure taxpayers didn’t carry the burden of insolvent financial institutions. It also became clear that the euro zone needed new rules governing the detection and resolution of bank failures in order to jumpstart lending, improve investor confidence, and boost growth. Since then, the European Commission has flirted with proposals for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector, and in mid-2012 heads of state committed to a banking union. In addition to the just-approved resolution mechanism, the union also includes the so-called Single Supervisory Mechanism, which puts the European Central Bank in charge of supervising euro-zone banks. The SSM was approved by European finance ministers in October, and is expected to take effect in the latter half of 2014. Given the euro zone’s dim track record in recent years at a cooperative approach to detecting and fixing problems with bank balance sheets, naysayers had a right to be pessimistic about the probability of a comprehensive agreement to crisis resolution ever being reached. But those probabilities just rose substantially. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannCEO Brady DouganNEW YORK (Reuters) - Credit Suisse Group AG &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; is betting it can turn around its unprofitable U.S. private wealth business with new loan products and a focus on the ultra-rich, a strategy greeted with skepticism by some securities analysts and former officials at the bank. Bank executives say Credit Suisse Securities (USA) can make money by focusing on ultra-wealthy clients who use multiple investment banking and personal investment services, and by introducing products that generate relatively high and sustainable interest income even when rates are low. Profit margins can rise by cutting compensation costs through layoffs, training brokers internally rather than through expensive recruiting, and better use of technology to lower back-office costs and improve sales, they say. The U.S. wealth business is a small part of revenue at Switzerland's second-largest bank, but getting it into the black is becoming increasingly important to Credit Suisse. Wealthy investors worldwide have been closing their Swiss accounts as U.S. and European regulators investigate the complicity of financial firms in helping customers evade taxes, hurting the profitability of the private wealth business in Switzerland. Profit margin on Credit Suisse's $1.44 trillion (1.3 trillion Swiss francs) of private banking assets worldwide is 1.1 to 1.15 percent, bank officials said. The take would be closer to 1.5 percent if not for the U.S. unit that oversees about $110 billion (99 billion Swiss francs) of those assets, said people familiar with the U.S. brokerage's returns. Credit Suisse has given the U.S. private wealth business 18 months to turn around, at least temporarily sparing it from the death sentences it is handing down to small and unprofitable operations in 50 other markets, including in Africa, Central Asia and Europe. The business has not been profitable since Credit Suisse bought it as part of its purchase of U.S. investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette in 2000, according to a former Credit Suisse chief financial officer, who said it was ignored for many years but considered essential. As one of the largest wealth managers in the world, Credit Suisse needs "to have a presence in the world's biggest wealth market," the former CFO said. Last March, the bank named Philip Vasan, a 53-year-old executive whom it credited with reversing the fortunes of the bank's prime brokerage, to head private wealth in the Americas. Bank executives said that despite his lack of experience in retail brokerage, Vasan knows how to work with the very wealthy and how to run businesses efficiently. Vasan, who declined to be interviewed for this story, faces formidable challenges and lingering skepticism from analysts and within the industry. Chris Wheeler, a London-based bank stock analyst at Mediobanca, has a buy rating on Credit Suisse but thinks the U.S. brokerage should be shuttered. "There is no way the U.S. business is sustainable," he said. "They're not big enough there. That's the bottom line." The brokerage force at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) has declined to about 350 from close to 450 three years ago. That is much smaller than competitors such as Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, which had more than 16,000 brokers as of September 30, or the 7,000 at UBS Wealth Management Americas &lt;UBSN.VX&gt;. Several top brokerage teams have left since Vasan arrived. Many U.S. brokers said they worry that Vasan has no background in the retail brokerage business and fear they will be pushed to dump all but their wealthiest clients. Further, former executives said, the U.S. business would have been profitable if it had not been weighed down by global corporate expenses for operations, information technology, risk management and other costs allocated from Zurich. They also say that the cross-marketing strategy being pursued by Vasan has been tried before with little success. Investment bankers, for example, resist entrusting the personal wealth of some of their best clients to brokers. In the past, the parent bank has also offered financing on expensive terms, making loans in the U.S. uncompetitive. Credit Suisse spokesman Calvin Mitchell said the business under Vasan has been making progress. "We have focused on accelerating growth in our U.S. private banking client franchise to capture the opportunity in the U.S. market while adapting the business to improve scale and efficiency," Mitchell wrote in an email. Under Vasan, who spent much of the last decade dealing with hedge-fund tycoons and previously directed Credit Suisse's e-commerce investments, the client focus in the U.S. has turned from the merely wealthy to "ultra-high-net-worth" clients. In the bank's lexicon, that's either a household net worth of at least $25 million, or $50 million or more in Credit Suisse lending and investing accounts, according to bank officials. The average client household has roughly $20 million in accounts at Credit Suisse Securities (USA), according to a former executive. Mitchell declined to comment on the U.S. business, but said about 44 percent of private banking clients worldwide fit the firm's ultra-high-net-worth criteria. He also would not comment on whether U.S. brokers have been turning away less wealthy clients as a result of the focus on the ultra-rich. But Vasan, who has managed Credit Suisse's companywide cost-reduction efforts, is planning to run a tight ship in the U.S. He is devising plans to cut back-office costs and oversaw layoffs of about 35 brokers and other staff during the summer, Mitchell said. Rather than replacing experienced brokers who left, he is developing a retention plan for the ones he wants to keep and working on the training program, the former chief financial officer said. As part of his plan to build net interest revenue at the U.S. brokerage, Vasan at the end of 2013 introduced its first mortgage product for the hyper-rich. Analysts said Credit Suisse Chief Executive Brady Dougan's public support of Vasan suggests that the bank will allow the U.S. unit to take more credit risk than it has in the past, improving the chances that the lending strategy can work. SUPPORTING THE PARENT Vasan will never generate a profit without convincing Zurich to lower the costs it allocates to the U.S. wealth management business, the former brokerage executives said. The unit has been absorbing about $400 million of expenses annually for corporate services, many of which it rarely, if ever, uses, they said. Without these, the U.S. brokerage generated profit of at least $200 million annually since 2010, they said. For example, Credit Securities (USA) was routinely charged more than $100 million a year for products and back-office services from European headquarters that it actually purchased from Bank of New York's Pershing LLC, said a former executive who sought anonymity because of contractual agreements. Bank officials said costs for services ranging from corporate jets to legal expenses are assigned across the bank and is standard practice for multinational corporations. "Allocations come with being part of a big bank, which gives you benefits as well," said another former executive, Michael Campbell, who ran the retail brokerage business at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette and, briefly, at Credit Suisse. But if the business stood alone, he said, "it would be wildly profitable." (Reporting By Jed Horowitz; Editing by Linda Stern, Paritosh Bansal and Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Benimoto via FlickrFrom the U.S. to Europe to China and emerging markets, 2014 will prove a year of "tricky transitions," Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels in a new free newsletter. "Looking at the broader picture, 2014 will mark year five of a post-crisis global economic expansion that has seen bumpy, below-par and brittle growth," Fels writes. The first four years of the post-crisis paradigm has been characterized by deleveraging in developed markets, leveraging in emerging ones, expanding central bank balance sheets, and a "full-blown debt crisis in Europe." "If all goes well, 2014 could mark the transition to a sounder, safer and more sustainable second half of this expansion," Fels writes. "That means a DM expansion that is less dependent on monetary and fiscal stimulus, instead driven by private consumption and capital expenditures and supported by a normalization of the credit mechanism. It also means an EM expansion that is helped by structural reforms aimed at more sustainable growth models." But it won't be easy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachMarkets are modestly in the green early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. Germany's DAX is up 0.4%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.7%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.8%. There's a lot of talk coming out of the world's central banks this week. Later this morning, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will update us on their positions on monetary policy. Economists expect both banks to keep policy easy and rates unchanged at extraordinarily low levels. Some economists expect the ECB to get more aggressive as inflation continues to be below target and unemployment remains painfully high. Here's Societe Generale's previews for both meetings: Bank Of England In this first MPC meeting of 2014, the Committee will take stock of the radically improved state of the economy over the past year. Just over a year ago, in the November 2012 Inflation Report, the MPC predicted 2013 growth of 1.2% but then downgraded that to 0.9% in February 2013 but since then its 2013 forecast has been steadily increased to 1.6%. However, far more dramatic has been the increase in the 2014 forecast from 2.0% to 3.4% from November 2012 to November 2013. This states most eloquently just how much more optimistic the MPC has become about the outlook. But should that raise concerns about inflation pressures? Not in general - at the same time, the inflation performance has improved. The rate of inflation has fallen 2.1% yoy. This takes some of the pressure off the MPC to tighten policy.  European Central Bank After much talk of the ECB’s remaining options, expectations have settled down following the December meeting. Unless we see outright deflation risks, we expect no major changes in standard policy measures in the short term. Instead, the focus is likely to be on liquidity supporting measures, with focus turning increasingly to the Comprehensive Assessment (CA). While significant gains are possible from breaking financial fragmentation, we are concerned with the latest proposals for the Resolution Mechanism, in particular the lack of capital backstops which ultimately may compromise the credibility of the CA. The risk of fragmentation continuing after 2014 thus remains high. The January Governing Council meeting is likely to take stock of these challenges, while keeping policy rates unchanged. FREE AppDownload
