MtGox, once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, has gone offline. Sites tracking trading on the Bitcoin exchange are reporting no trading activity there.  Bitcoin prices were down as much as 14% to $465, a level not seen since mid-November.  Gox had halted withdrawals for more than two weeks amid what it claimed were software issues with its wallets. But  The Bitcoin Foundation has emailed BI a statement about the situation, saying it appears Gox may be insolvent: “We are shocked to learn about Mt. Gox’s alleged insolvency. While we are unable to comment on whether or not Mt. Gox's business operations employed operational best practices and reasonable accounting procedures, we can assure the public that the Bitcoin protocol is functioning properly.” A document unearthed by Bitcoin enthusiast Ryan Selkis that's been widely circulated estimated at least 744,408 BTC — about 6% of all coins in existence — are now out of circulation. The document asserts the coins have slowly been stolen over the course of several years. In an email to BI, Selkis said he confirmed the authenticity of the document with people close to MtGox. It's also been cited by the New York Times.  Meanwhile, the leaders of six major Bitcoin organizations have released a statement that points to the end of MtGox as a going concern. They pledge to work together to restore integrity to the Bitocin community. Here is the revised version of an earlier blog item in which they'd characterized Gox as "insolvent."  Feb 24th, 2014 The purpose of this document is to summarize a joint statement to the Bitcoin community regarding Mt.Gox. This tragic violation of the trust of users of Mt.Gox was the result of one company’s actions and does not reflect the resilience or value of bitcoin and the digital currency industry. There are hundreds of trustworthy and responsible companies involved in bitcoin. These companies will continue to build the future of money by making bitcoin more secure and easy to use for consumers and merchants.  As with any new industry, there are certain bad actors that need to be weeded out, and that is what we are seeing today.   We are confident, however, that strong Bitcoin companies, led by highly competent teams and backed by credible investors, will continue to thrive, and to fulfill the promise that bitcoin offers as the future of payment in the Internet age. In order to re-establish the trust squandered by the failings of Mt. Gox, responsible bitcoin exchanges are working together and are committed to the future of bitcoin and the security of all customer funds. As part of the effort to re-assure customers, the following services will be coordinating efforts over the coming days to publicly reassure customers and the general public that all funds continue to be held in a safe and secure manner: Coinbase, Kraken, BitStamp, Circle, and BTC China. We strongly believe in transparent, thoughtful, and comprehensive consumer protection measures. We pledge to lead the way. Bitcoin operators, whether they be exchanges, wallet services or payment providers, play a critical custodial role over the bitcoin they hold as assets for their customers.  Acting as a custodian should require a high-bar, including appropriate security safeguards that are independently audited and tested on a regular basis, adequate balance sheets and reserves as commercial entities, transparent and accountable customer disclosures, and clear policies to not use customer assets for proprietary trading or for margin loans in leveraged trading. The following industry leaders stand by this statement: Fred Ehrsam — Co-founder of Coinbase Jesse Powell — CEO of Kraken Nejc Kodric — CEO of Bitstamp.net Bobby Lee — CEO of BTC China Nicolas Cary — CEO of Blockchain.info Jeremy Allaire — CEO of Circle This all comes about 36 hours after Gox resigned from the Bitcoin Foundation and deleting all Tweets from their Twitter feed. Meanwhile, Bitcoin prices are sliding, briefly dipping below $500 for the first time since mid-November.   FREE AppDownload
Twitter, @GSElevatorThe man behind the popular @GSElevator parody Twitter account has been exposed in a new report from Dealbook's Andrew Ross Sorkin. John Lefevre — the 34-year-old former bond executive behind the account — never worked at Goldman, but his tweets hit home with his 600,000 followers, and even provoked an internal inquiry from the bank to find the employee behind the account. Lefevre, who recently landed a book deal, told Sorkin that "knew this day would come." Lefevre had worked at Citigroup for seven years in the bank's New York, London, and Hong Kong offices (and at one point had an offer revoked from Goldman). He now lives in Texas. Lefevre began the account as "a joke to entertain myself," he told Dealbook. And he maintained that many of the stories he put on Twitter were true banking anecdotes, albeit not from Goldman's hallowed elevators. From Dealbook: He said his intent was neither to mock nor glamorize Wall Street. “I do not have an agenda to paint the people or this culture one way or the other,” he said, adding that he was “always a cynical banker” when he worked on Wall Street but “I loved it. We did a lot of crazy stuff. It’s not like I had a great epiphany along the way.” Still, he said that working on Wall Street was an eye-opener. “I went into investment banking and I saw a group of people that aren’t as impressive as I thought they were — or as impressive as they thought they were. They defined themselves as human beings by their jobs.” A Goldman spokesman joked to Dealbook that the "official ban on talking in elevators will be lifted effective immediately." Read the full report at Dealbook » FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices broke below $500 for the first time since mid-November on the apparent insolvency of MtGox. Here's the chart: Coindesk FREE AppDownload
Renaissance Macro Research, Congressional Research Service This chart plots the share of household income in a given country spent on food against the level of household income in that country. Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro, warns that rising food prices may serve as an additional economic headwind to some of the emerging markets in the top-left region of the chart (India, China, Indonesia, and Nigeria, to name a few). "Food prices are climbing for a range of items including cattle, cocoa, sugar and coffee," says Dutta. "Broadly speaking, the rise in food prices will affect lower-income countries more than higher-income ones. There is a clear inverse relationship between incomes and share of consumption expenditures spent on food. Consumers in low-income countries spend a larger share of their income on food and a rise in food prices is akin to a tax hike, biting into disposable income." FREE AppDownload
asdcas Built for over a million people, the city of Ordos was designed to be the crowning glory of Inner Mongolia. Doomed to incompletion however, this futuristic metropolis now rises empty out of the deserts of northern China. Only 2% of its buildings were ever filled; the rest has largely been left to decay, abandoned mid-construction, earning Ordos the title of China's Ghost City. Last year I travelled to Inner Mongolia for myself, to get a closer look at the bizarre, ghost metropolis of Ordos... and the experience, as I would discover, was far stranger than anything I could have prepared for. China's property market is in a strange place. With a population reckoned at 1,351,000,000 and rising fast, the resultant boom in property development has led to scores of new-made millionaires and a rapidly growing elite class; at the same time however, analysts fear that this property bubble is set to burst. The country itself owes coming on for a trillion dollars in debt. Meanwhile, a billion people are waking up to the possibilities of fast cars, smartphones, broadband Internet and credit cards. Darmon Richter Some of China's most rapidly developing cities are virtually unheard of in the West; but for every overnight economic success story, there seems to be a hidden swathe of near misses, dead ends and bankruptcies. Out of all these phantoms however, nothing compares to the strangeness of China's 'Ghost City': Ordos. The city of Ordos is a heavily stylised population centre located close to the Ordos Desert, and it's one of the main cities of Inner Mongolia. This area is famed for its rapidly expanding population and developing urban areas – the region of Inner Mongolia boasting a higher GDP than even Beijing itself. Inner Mongolia is an interesting place. Once the birthplace of Genghis Khan, only 79% of the population belong to China's predominant Han ethnicity, while 17% are of Mongol origin. It was once a part of Greater Mongolia, though consecutive Chinese empires and the latter-day rise of the Communist Party saw Inner Mongolia moulded and cast, time and time again, as a subservient province of China. Interestingly however, Inner Mongolia is one of the only places in the world that still uses traditional Mongolian script. While Mongolia itself adopted Cyrillic during the communist years, perhaps the Mongols of China felt they had more to prove; clinging fiercely on to their heritage, and with it, the ancient characters that still now appear on street signs across Ordos and Kangbashi. When a conglomeration of property developers began planning a new urban centre just outside the existing city of Ordos in 2003, the Kangbashi New Area, Ordos seemed set to become the futuristic jewel in China's crown of city states. However, nobody quite anticipated how quickly this new development would fall flat on its face. Deadlines weren't met, loans went unpaid, and investors pulled out before projects could be completed – leaving entire streets of unfinished buildings. The ridiculous cost of accommodation in this dream city put off many would-be inhabitants, so that even fully completed apartments became difficult to sell. Darmon Richter According to one local taxi driver I spoke to, many of those who did make the move to Kangbashi were already abandoning their homes – and breaking out of the ghost town. While some developers still labour on with their thankless construction projects, others are busy slashing prices. Typical housing prices in Kangbashi have fallen from $1,100 to $470 per square foot, over the last five years alone. Nowadays the Kangbashi district, planned to accommodate a population in excess of one million, is home to a lonely 20,000 people – leaving 98% of this 355-square kilometre site either under construction or abandoned altogether. A November 2009 report on AlJazeera exposed the city of Ordos to a worldwide audience, and the story was run the next year by Time Magazine. Pretty soon, Ordos had earned the accolade of 'China's Ghost City'. Journalists and photographers representing a number of world-renowned publications have since been to capture Kangbashi's empty streets, its row upon row of apartment blocks abandoned mid-construction. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter However, none of these reports seemed to venture far from the city centre and its adjoining streets; resulting in broad, post-apocalyptic cityscapes that left much to the imagination. The more I read about Ordos, the more I wanted to know what lay beyond these hastily fitted doors and windows; to actually see inside, and under the skin of a city that never came to be. Last year, my dream became a reality. I teamed up with Gareth from Young Pioneer Tours – a man just about crazy enough to share my fascination for this otherworldly ghost metropolis – and together we started planning our journey into Inner Mongolia.   The city of Ordos is served by the newly-built Eerduosi Airport. From the moment we got off our plane, it was apparent that someone, sometime, had made grand plans for this city. Darmon Richter The futuristically sculpted terminal building is decked out with fountains and hanging baskets, chic coffee shops and sub-lit escalators glowing in shades of green and blue. While the population of Ordos is now just 10% Mongolian to 90% Chinese, nevertheless the airport was resplendent with proud icons of a Mongolian heritage; effigies of horses and minstrels gaze down across the central concourse, while the departure hall features a vast mural, a ring of painted scenes depicting the life of Genghis Khan. For all this opulence though, the airport was close to empty. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter We took the second of two daily flights from Beijing to Eerduosi; departing from the smaller, former military airfield in the suburbs of the capital. It brought us to Inner Mongolia after dark, and we hopped onto the transfer coach headed towards Ordos city centre. We were on this luxurious coach for around half an hour, enthroned in soft reclining seats replete with cup holders, leg rests and a movie channel... all the while, half-seen hulks of concrete and metal sped past our windows, distant, shadowy shapes appearing and disappearing out of the gloom. I felt hemmed in on all sides by invisible construction sites. It was hard to make out much of our surroundings, given the bright interior lighting on the coach. On the final stretch into Ordos however, we passed by the shell of a stadium-to-be; the vast, skeletal seating areas rose up in a ring around a central playing field, lit by industrial spotlights and the regular, telltale flares of several hundred welding guns. Never in my life have I seen anything so closely resembling the second Death Star. Darmon Richter We arrived in Ordos sometime in the early hours of the morning, checked our bags into a hotel, and grabbed a beer for the road. The city centre is not a long way off completion: it has shops and apartments, cafés, bars and restaurants. For all this seeming normality however, downtown Ordos is presided over by a series of doom-struck towers, grey office buildings, flats and shopping malls – and most of them are completely empty. We walked for a few hours, past restaurants, bars, casinos and sex shops. The lights were shining bright in every establishment, but the people were nowhere to be seen. Cutting through one backstreet, we passed the pink lights of a brothel. The shop front was lined in wide, glass windows, to expose a troupe of young girls stood as if on parade in a wardrobe of matching lingerie. These dozen-or-so prostitutes numbered more than any pedestrians we'd managed to count all evening. Darmon Richter Everywhere, there seemed to be a show of readiness; of establishments with their doors thrown wide open, not just to welcome guests but also, perhaps, to prove a point. To show this city for the functional, hospitable destination that it so desperately wants to be. We tried to get something to eat at a backstreet restaurant, approaching the doorway where local kids were fighting with a water hose. "Do you have food?" we asked. "Come in, come in," they said, gesturing at a dimly lit booth within, at the fridge beside it stocked with cold noodles and soft drinks. There was no sign of an adult on the premises, no sight nor smell of a chef at work. As with so much else in Ordos, the lights were on but nobody was home. By the time we got back to our hotel, to its luxuriously oversized beds and in-room bars that featured whisky, peanuts and gas masks, we were still struggling to get to grips with this place, to make sense of the city. Through and through it felt like a construction site: a builders' canteen stretched to accommodate a full city. For working men, there were primal comforts aplenty – bars, snacks and brothels – but while the fine restaurants and casinos made a show of being ready for tourists, delegates, or better still, investors, most of them were no more than empty fronts and meaningless displays. By the light of the following morning, we got our first impression of the sheer scale of abandonment. We stopped off for a fast-food breakfast, the restaurant cowering in the shadow of the city's CBD. In place of industrious office buildings however, a series of hollow fingers rose up to the sky; the shells of would-be towers, one after another, row after row, vanishing off into the distance. Immediately above us towered what could have been the headquarters of a bank – forty floors of office space, wrapped in a shell of mirrored panels. In its un-maintained state however, these reflective scales were falling away in great swathes, to expose the bare concrete beneath. Not even finished yet, and already it needed a makeover. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter We found a mosque near the city centre, a modern, cubist structure formed out of clean, white blocks. On closer inspection, it appeared as though the temple had never yet been used; peering through the glass doors we saw nothing inside but open space, while the doors themselves were still wrapped in plastic - as though fresh out of a warehouse somewhere, and hastily assembled. Before proceeding to our main destination, we decided to get a better look around this, the older, more densely populated centre of Ordos. We found an amiable taxi driver, who was more than happy to take us past some of the city's main sights. He drove us down a long boulevard, lined with ornate lamps crafted into 1930s-style art deco figurines; past an overgrown park, and row upon row of concrete shells. Eventually we came to a halt, before a grand statue of a horse set into the middle of a roundabout. Darmon Richter "Ordos," the statue's inscription proclaimed, to nobody in particular, "The Outstanding Tourism City of China." It was almost too much to process... but as it would turn out, so far we had only glimpsed the tip of the iceberg. Nothing could have quite prepared us for the unadulterated strangeness of the Kangbashi district.   The new residential zone of Kangbashi was built on the north bank of the Wulan Mulun River, where its spacious layout, innovative monuments and striking, sculpted skyscrapers look every part the 21st century metropolis; or they would have, that is, if anybody had been living in them. "They will come," our taxi driver kept insisting, on the drive over from the old heart of Ordos. "You don't think our city is beautiful? You'll see. The people will come." His confidence was to be paraphrased by almost every local that we spoke to on that trip; a blind assurance that these beautiful buildings couldn't stay empty forever. It was inconceivable that all of this hard work might have been for nothing. We drove back along the freeway, which links old Ordos to Kangbashi, before continuing northeast towards the airport at Dongsheng. On the way we passed by the stadium again, less dramatic by the light of day, while beyond that a forest of dusty, unfinished towers fanned out from either side of the road. Cranes stood sentry over some of these construction sites, many of them rising as much as forty, fifty stories high above the desert. In contrast, the road itself was smooth and well maintained; its shoulders and central reservation decorated with well-watered shrubs, and artistic horse motifs. The taxi dropped us off at the top end of Genghis Khan Square, from where we gazed out across the desolation of Kangbashi. Around us rose the figures of khans and their royal advisors, of men, women and horses dressed in traditional Mongolian finery. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter Roughly 600 feet to the south, at the heart of a wide, open courtyard reared up two colossal horses, perhaps the most iconic of Kangbashi's monuments. Beyond the horses, this vast central plaza fed into a park, dusty sand in place of grass and with paths that fanned out to form the shape of a sunburst. Residential and corporate towers rose up in all directions – a satisfyingly symmetrical alignment of blocks and skyscrapers – while before that, hemming us in, Kangbashi's most notable works of architecture lined the paths of Genghis Khan Square. Along the left hand side, past the two rearing horses sat the Kangbashi Theatre: a curious building, its shape supposedly inspired by a traditional form of Mongolian headwear. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter To our right, the library building resembled a cluster of leaning books while beside it, the Ordos Museum sat like... well, it's hard to say exactly. Mad Architects, the aptly-named firm behind the project, have suggested that the design reflects, "the crossroads faced by the surrounding community which is striving to interpret their local traditions within the newly constructed urban context." Make of that what you will. The square around us was not completely empty. A man watched nearby, as his son flew a kite; the bright sail drifting high above the heads of the noble khans. There was very little traffic about, but the occasional car or bike would cruise past us now and again, none of them seeming to be in any particular hurry. There was a steady trickle of people moving in and out of the Ordos Museum, and we spied a few more stood around the horses' hooves; though as we drew closer, we'd notice these were dressed in the drab uniforms of street sweepers. Over the course of the day, we'd find that maintenance teams in Kangbashi outnumbered pedestrians tenfold. Ambling around the paths that lined the city centre, we passed small speakers mounted on stems, which blasted out Mongolian folk music to no one in particular. Further down the plaza, past the horses and the theatre, printed signs advertised a café and we decided to have a look inside. We took the elevator up to the top floor, where the doors opened to reveal a gaggle of giggling, school-age girls stood in a line to greet us. It looked much the same as the brothel we'd passed the night before, save that this time the girls were fully dressed. A wave of surprise and curiosity rippled through the staff when two foreigners stepped out of the lift. We were shown to a window seat, from where we looked down across the vast expanse of Genghis Khan Square. Kangbashi, without a doubt, was the strangest city I'd ever seen. We had a coffee, then a beer, as we chatted excitedly about the empty streets, the bizarre monuments beneath us. This was everything we'd seen from the photographs, a surreal, desolate metropolis; ancient Mongolia spliced with scenes from the distant future, set against the swirling sands of the Mu Us Desert. Up until this point though, we'd only seen the city from the streets, from its roads and pedestrian paths ... It was time to go deeper. We finished our drinks, and set off to do some proper exploring. Darmon Richter It was time to see the real Ordos – to see what the BBC, Al Jazeera, the New York Times et al., had, in my opinion, failed to show. It was time to get off the approved footpaths, to start opening some doors and ignoring no entry signs, as we attempted to infiltrate the world's largest ghost town. From Genghis Khan Square we turned east, crossing a patch of scrubland that I can only guess had been intended to some day burst into green grass. Soon a long, square building rose up to our right, decorated with complex ridges and textured beams along its hull. We figured it for a supermarket – though from the outside there were few clues as to what the building might contain... if it even contained anything. Darmon Richter Along this main road, a steady trickle of vehicles passed us on their way towards Dongsheng and its airport in the east. We needed to get away from the cars though, get out into the forest of unfinished towers, the shells of apartment buildings that rose out of the sand like dead trees in a drought. Turning away from the road, weaving this way and that onto the smaller, narrower backstreets, we found our way into a residential estate. The buildings were linked here by a series of winding footpaths, the roads diverted around the block to leave a pedestrianised space at its heart. Paving stones formed a track through the shifting sand, looping from one building to the next amidst towering stacks of plastic-wrapped outdoor furniture; unassembled amenities piled in every corner, as if freshly tipped from the back of a lorry. Turning the corner into a courtyard between tall, concrete towers, we passed a capsized statue: a modern, stylised figure of a mother and child, lain forgotten behind a stack of building materials. Darmon Richter   It was clear how the small square had been envisaged, as comfortable, high-rise apartments facing in towards a communal garden area. Perhaps it would have featured flowers, fountains and benches when complete – perhaps it still will, some day. Impossible to tell. Here and there between the buildings, the occasional glass-panelled box rose up out of the ground; each one of them featuring an elevator shaft or a flight of stairs heading downwards. Soon enough we found a lift shaft with a broken glass panel at the rear, and, squeezing through the gap we made our way swiftly down into the bowels of Kangbashi. Beneath the street plan, a whole lower level of the city seemed to have been set aside for parking. It made sense, keeping the cars away from these residential zones by redirecting traffic underground instead. More and more we'd see just how much thought and planning had gone into the Kangbashi New Area. Darmon Richter The lights came on as we entered, and the long, wide tunnel ahead shone in shades of silver and green. There were two, maybe three parked cars in sight – and expensive looking ones at that. Despite these few lonely residents however, the whole place still had that freshly varnished look about it: not a footprint nor a tyre mark in sight. Here and there along the tunnels, between the series of subterranean parking halls that fed one into another through a network of identical bulkhead doors, we'd see elevators leading back up towards the surface. I tried one – the lights fired up immediately, and we rode a lift right up into the building above. If you're imagining a carpeted, stainless steel elevator, perhaps even fitted with a mirror, then you'd be wrong. This lift was little more than a plywood cage, a terrifying, creaking box that seemed to wobble as it rose... as if hoisted up by a rope slung over the branch of a tree. First we had a look around the ground floor of the building; bare concrete for the most part, though all the lights came on at a touch. In the corner of a corridor, a massive fuse box was set into one raw, unplastered wall. I popped it open, the creaking cover unlocked, to reveal a vast array of crude solder joins and trailing, loose wires. I quickly snapped the lid closed again with the back of my hand. Then, plucking up the courage, I knocked on the door of an apartment. No answer. I waited a while, knocked again, then slowly turned the handle. The door opened freely, and we took a look inside – at the dusty unfinished floors, the bare gypsum walls that formed the basic foundations of what had the potential to be a spacious family flat. In the largest room, beneath the window, a children's table and chairs had been arranged, set with plastic cups and bowls and chopsticks. We tried a couple more homes – all of them the same – before making our way up to the highest level. Stepping out of the lift onto the 12th floor corridor, I found myself instinctively tiptoeing... as if sneaking past the occupants of a normal, busy building. Of course, the chances of anyone being home were next to zero; but then, the cars parked down below had presumably belonged to someone. At the end of the corridor, around the corner, a flight of steps went upwards to a simple wooden door. It seemed too large to fit its frame, and so rather than being locked the exit was fastened tight with wire; a long tangle of stiff cable had been twisted around the door handle, looped about a stair rail and then tied up into a sharp and prickly mess. It took a few minutes of bending, twisting and bloody fingers before we were finally stepping out onto the roof of the apartment building. Up until this point we'd been sheltered; contemplating only one empty street after another. From this height though, we finally started to get a sense of scale. Row after row after row of towers spread out around us, many of them no more than skeletons attended by rusty cranes. I began to realise for the first time quite how large this city was supposed to have been. As good as the view was though, we were still shielded on all sides by taller builders. What we saw of the cityscape – the desert beyond – came to us in glimpses between the looming concrete shapes pressed in on all sides. I wanted to get higher still, to escape above the horizon and look down on the ghost city as a whole. Darmon Richter But for that, we were going to need a bigger building.   Heading back down to street level, we wandered for a while through the estates. Residential towers rose up around a series of consecutive dirt bowls, each one of them sown with the seeds of utopia, each one of them a doomed and withered crop. Reaching the end of the zone we hopped a fence and crossed the road; I guess by now we were heading northeast. Darmon Richter We walked along a main street, hemmed in on all sides by shops, apartment blocks, colourful school buildings and the vast bulk of Kangbashi Hospital. The occasional car or bike hummed past, but the pavements around us were empty save for the occasional crew of street sweepers. Even now, it was hard to get one's head around the idea that all of this was uninhabited. On our right, we passed a police station. It met the typical Chinese design: a square, officious building set back behind a courtyard, a sentry box watching over the folding fence out front. It seemed hard to believe that even this station was unoccupied. I didn't know which way to turn next, so consumed as I was with a desire to explore everything. Marching headlong into the police station seemed a leap too far, however... so we tried the hospital instead. It was impossible to tell whether the building had seen use, or whether, like so much of the city, it had so far only welcomed the boots of construction crews. We decided to put it to the test. Darmon Richter Approaching the side of the hospital building we tried a small door, found it open, and ducked beneath the curtain that hung across within. Before us a narrow, grotty staircase led down several levels under the ground. We strolled on in, beneath electric lights that burned for no one, onwards and downwards to who knew what. We never did find out. A babble of shouted words tumbled down the staircase behind us, hot from the mouth of an angry security guard. We tried reasoning with him – "just a few photos, yeah?" – but it clearly wasn't going to happen. After being frogmarched back to the street by a man who could have passed as a Triad tough-guy in any Hollywood thriller, we crossed over the road, and made a beeline for our next target. One of the signs on the building opposite said something about solicitors, though this concrete shell fell a long way short of a functioning office. The ground level was boarded up, but there was a small hole punched through the thin wooden veneer - so I ducked on through and slipped inside the building. It was silent inside, a still, dusty space that could well have grown into a shopping centre in time. This first room fed through a doorway into a larger space beyond, and I swung around the corner almost headlong into a work crew. In true Chinese style, two men operated heavy tools while another five smoked and watched them. One of them looked up, caught my eye: I smiled back warmly, then backed out fast the way I had come. By now we'd walked a fair distance from our last rooftop, and the towers now surrounding us rose significantly higher than the last batch – a good 20-or-so storeys. We decided to give it another go and so we nipped across the forecourt of a bare, plastic-fronted kindergarten, and into another residential estate. Darmon Richter There were roads between the buildings this time, a couple of cars parked on corners and even one in motion; its occupants eyeing us warily as they cruised on by. We made for one of the closest towers before trying the door, finding it open, and letting ourselves in. This building was in a much better state than the last apartment block. The walls were finished, and several doors were decorated with the Chinese symbols for luck and fortune. We made straight for the lift and rode it to the top. Upstairs, an open door led into a lavish apartment hung with chandeliers and textured wallpaper; an opulent penthouse suite. There were sounds of activity inside and so we crept past quickly, before taking the last flight of steps up to the roof. The door opened at a push, and we stepped out into the sky. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter   This rooftop was smaller than the last – just a square, open space, and a second door that opened onto the whirring, rusted mechanism that powered the lift. If the view from the top of the other block had been impressive though, this one was spectacular. Ordos fell away beneath us: a wide, sweeping wasteland of empty towers and silent, disused streets. I tried looking out for signs of motion, clues to life in the metropolis. The odd car moved slowly along the main road, where it looped around the centre of Kangbashi to cross the Ordos bridge, and out towards Dongsheng – but for the most part, from this height, Kangbashi looked like a model city; its radical architecture reduced to novelty ornaments, its unfinished towers scattered like broken bricks across a sandpit. Perhaps the biggest problem that presented itself now, was deciding on our next destination. We looked about us, turning in 360 degrees to take in the bridge, the high-rises, the city centre at Genghis Khan Square, the futuristic exhibition centre, the would-be residential estates fading off row after row into the desert... and then our eyes fell across the newly-built Kangbashi sports centre. Darmon Richter The green pitch seemed to glow through the heat haze, the brightly coloured seating unfolding around it like the petals of a strange desert orchid. We made a mental note of the direction, of the landmarks that would lead us – street by street – to the city's sports ground; and then we made our way back down to the street.   Coming out of the estate and back onto the main road, at first we retraced our footsteps; back past the hospital, the building sites and the police station, back in the direction of the colourful sports grounds. When we'd passed the police station earlier, we had still been courting disbelief – trying in vain to process the desolation, the utter emptiness of Kangbashi. It simply hadn't seemed possible. Besides, a lifetime's worth of social programming had told me not to attempt to trespass on what might turn out to be a live police station. By now though, we'd passed through the stage of tentative disbelief, and into one of absolute freedom – the slow-dawning realisation that virtually everything in Kangbashi was open to be explored. So, crossing the road to the open gates, we checked the empty street around us before stepping over the threshold into the police station's forecourt. It was just as empty as we'd expected, not a car nor an officer in sight. We were just ambling across to the main building, when a voice behind us called out something in Chinese. At first, we instinctively guessed we'd been caught... but as it turned out the voice belonged to a caretaker. More than anything else, the man was simply surprised to see foreign faces here in Ordos. My companion spoke reasonable Chinese, and so we were able to have a conversation with the man. He told us he was part of the maintenance crew, and offered to give us a tour of the place. It seemed like the novelty of showing visitors around his little corner of the Ghost City was just too exciting an experience to pass up. We walked, and our new friend took great pleasure in pointing out the elaborate features around us – while explaining how much each one had cost to install. "Four thousand Quai!" he said, laughing at a large ceramic pot inlaid with traditional Mongolian figures. That's about £400. It was clear that this man saw Kangbashi as one colossal folly. He would quote prices, then wave his arms about at the empty streets, his gestures doing much to communicate the madness of such grandiose investment in a ghost town. We followed him through the station compound, past glass panes that opened onto empty offices; between the virgin buildings and through to the rear, where the police station backed onto a school. Darmon Richter A series of colourful sculptures had been placed in one corner of the yard, apparently united by the theme of apples. Isaac Newton's face appeared engraved on one giant, metal fruit – another installation bore the familiar profile of Steve Jobs. "Ten thousand Quai!" laughed our guide. He seemed to find the concept of Kangbashi hilarious; although judging from his clean-cut appearance, his smart and comfortable clothes, the ghost town nevertheless kept its workers in decent money. The man led us through a courtyard, around the back of the school buildings, and suddenly there it was: the yard opened up into a wide, grassy playing field, flanked on one side by raised seating. Darmon Richter On the edge of the grass pitch – regularly mowed, yet never used – we were pointed towards a series of bronze statues. The figures showed children in traditional Chinese dress, frozen in play as the pink silk scarves tied about their necks flapped noisily in the wind. "Fifty thousand Quai!" the man giggled, ecstatic, before explaining to us that the silk scarves were washed and replaced on a weekly basis. At this point our guide suddenly bid us farewell, explaining that he had other duties to attend to. He told us to feel welcome though, and invited us to explore the rest of the facilities. We assured him we would, before making our way towards the raised seating and the building underneath. It was a strange feeling to walk past those rows of plastic seats and know that none of them had ever been sat on; past the green grass so neatly marked with white boundary lines and penalty zones, a well-kept pitch which had never yet known a ball. A passage opened beneath and between the rows, to lead deep within the seating block. We followed it through to a pair of glass doors, marked with a sign reading, 'Young Pioneers Activity Room'. My friend Gareth, the owner of Young Pioneer Tours, burst into a childish grin as he posed for a photo beneath. Naturally the door was open (we were yet to find a single locked door in Ordos), and so we headed on inside. The first room we entered, bizarrely, appeared to be a ballet studio. Light filtered in through pink, silken drapes, to cast the mirrored walls and polished floors in an almost supernatural aura of opulence. Next door, a trophy room – shelves lined one wall in miniature cast figurines, their bases left blank and ready for inscription. We wandered from room to room, admiring the facilities. This was a fully fledged sports centre, ready to open its doors at any moment. One room held a case of basketballs, all brand new and with the smell of freshly formed rubber still clinging to them. The next was a music studio – a computer sat in one corner was hooked up to a small indoor PA system, complete with microphones and an eight-track mixing desk. Scattered about the various tables lay an assortment of trumpets, drums and guitars. As we explored, I tried to estimate the total value of the items that lay scattered about the centre: I got into the thousands before I gave up trying. It was simply baffling to think that anyone could have walked in from the street, tried any one of the unlocked doors, and wandered straight inside; exactly as we had done, in fact. The lack of security around the sports centre – around Kangbashi as a whole – was like nothing I had ever seen. But then, there simply wasn't anybody on the streets to wander straight inside. Kangbashi is so remote, so isolated, that there seemed to be an general assumption that nobody could be here without a very good reason. After all, why would thieves and vandals travel to an empty city in the Ordos Desert? After the sports ground we headed north, past unfinished statues, their scaffold still attached, into a hidden courtyard where a vast monument reared up above us: a silver globe, adorned by a suspiciously Soviet-esque star. Eventually we emerged onto a main road, reaching the space-age silver domes of the Kangbashi Exhibition Centre. Taking a quick look inside, we stumbled across locals engaged in fierce pingpong tournaments. I picked up a brochure which touted Ordos as the 'Brave City of The Future'. Our last stop was a restaurant: we'd been walking for a full day, and it was time to refuel. A sign near the exhibition centre pointed towards a fast food restaurant and we followed it to a seemingly unfinished building, whose automatic doors nevertheless sprung open at our approach. We walked inside to be met by silence. The place was set up ready for service, tables laid and lights burning bright... but there was nobody to be seen. Gareth inspected the menu as I ducked behind the bar, checking out the wide range of beverages on offer. Amusing as it was to entertain the notion of a free bar, we were both painfully hungry – and so we resolved to try another floor. Darmon Richter The lift took us up one level, to an open-plan office: desks and computers, water coolers and potted plants, but not a sign of life. We had almost given up by the time we reached the third floor. The lift doors opened in silence, and then suddenly we were being welcomed in by a team of uniformed staff. I found myself wondering how long they had stood on ceremony, waiting like automatons for a customer to arrive.   As we waited for our noodles – and after that, the flight back to Beijing – we reflected on our time in the Ghost City. Over the course of our 24 hours in Ordos, we had tried every door within reach – and not one of them had been locked. We'd seen virtually no one out of uniform, and no sign whatsoever of the authorities. Even the few security guards we'd met had been so surprised at the appearance of foreigners, as to have more or less forgotten their duties. The homes and facilities, meanwhile, ranged from concrete shells to sheer luxury; and yet, in all that time we saw nothing with the appearance of having been lived in. The thing that really got me thinking though, was the sheer size of the city. If the freedom we'd experienced was anything to go by, it would take weeks – months, even – to explore the whole metropolis. Our day had been spent on rooftops, in office buildings and sports halls... but had we simply picked another direction, it could just as easily have been factories, colleges or law courts; churches, mosques, prisons, pools, shopping centres or train depots. I've been to ghost towns before, and large ones at that – just last September I took a tour of Pripyat, for example, in Ukraine's Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. Kangbashi is like nothing else, however. While perhaps this unfinished city is less elegant, less historical, less tragic, less decayed or moreover less photogenic than sites such as Pripyat, the sense of freedom it offers is unique. While I'm interested in every aspect of urban exploration, for me, the emphasis has always been on the exploration part... and not only is Ordos 200 times larger than the infamous city of Pripyat, but it is virtually unknown to foreigners. For an urban explorer then, Ordos is a vast, alien playground that offers nothing but discovery. Darmon Richter Suffice to say, I can see myself visiting Ordos again. This article originally appeared at The Bohemian Blog.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Bohemian Blog on Twitter.
Paramount Pictures/IMBDFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Reasons Investors Shouldn't Think Of Emerging And Frontier Markets The Same Way (BlackRock Blog)  Investors that have grown antsy about emerging market turmoil are even more anxious about frontier markets often dubbed pre-emerging markets. But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks there are at least three things that distinguish the two markets.  1. "Frontier markets have experienced more robust growth than emerging markets. …Economists expect this trend to continue due to frontier markets’ favorable demographics and the increasing investment in frontier markets’ vast untapped natural resources."2. "Frontier markets haven’t performed in lock step with the more developed emerging world. …Frontier markets have been relatively insulated from bouts of capital flight thanks to their robust growth, still low level of foreign ownership and pegged currencies."3. "Frontier markets have a much lower correlation with the global market than emerging markets." Warren Buffett's Five Rules For Investing (Fortune Magazine) Fortune Magazine has an excerpt from Warren Buffett's annual shareholder letter. Drawing on two of his own investments, Buffett highlighted five fundamental rules of investing. 1. ""You don't need to be an expert in order to achieve satisfactory investment returns." 2. "Focus on the future productivity of the asset you are considering." 3. "If you instead focus on the prospective price change of a contemplated purchase, you are speculating." 4. ""With my two small investments, I thought only of what the properties would produce and cared not at all about their daily valuations. Games are won by players who focus on the playing field -- not by those whose eyes are glued to the scoreboard. If you can enjoy Saturdays and Sundays without looking at stock prices, give it a try on weekdays."5. "Forming macro opinions or listening to the macro or market predictions of others is a waste of time. Indeed, it is dangerous because it may blur your vision of the facts that are truly important." Bonds Face An Uncertain Future (Gluskin Sheff) The future of bonds is uncertain writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. Citing a Financial Times article, he writes that the bond buying habits of China, Japan and Saudi Arabia "could shift in coming months." China's shift towards domestic demand driven-growth will likely see less demand for U.S. bonds. "And note that when the arithmetic is done, it looks as though outside of China, foreign government net buying of Treasuries was non-existent last year. Japan's shifting current account from surplus to deficit results in a similar conclusion," he writes.  "And the Saudis have already hinted that they are starting a diversification process away from T-notes and bonds. Then there is the Federal Reserve, as per the NYT column, which bought a net $542 billion of Treasury securities in 2012, absorbing 71% of the total net new issue activity (versus 61% with QE2 in 2011). And now we have the Fed on track to fully withdraw its support by the end of this year." Massachusetts Regulator Is Looking Into 401(k) Practices (Bloomberg) The Massachusetts Securities Division has sent a letter to 25 of the largest 401(k) plan administrators asking for the number of companies that have switched to matching contributions once a year, from more contributions during the year, reports Margaret Collins at Bloomberg News. The regulator is also asking for the information that employees were given about the switch.  "Employers are seeing the opportunities they have to take advantage of the flexibility in the system to short-change participants," William F. Galvin, Massachusetts chief securities regulator told Collins. "If employers can get away with making changes that help their bottom line and no one is going to complain about it, they’re going to do it." Fines Levied By FINRA Fell In 2013 (FA Mag) Fines by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) fell to $57 million in 2013, from $78 million the previous year, according to a report by Sutherland, Asbill and Brennan LLP, reports FA Mag. This comes even as the number of cases started by FINRA only fell by 6 last year, to 1,535. The restitution FINRA ordered fell from $34 million in 2012, to $23.9 million last year. The decline was attributed to the fact that FINRA had already finished the cases that stemmed from the financial crisis that had bigger fines than the cases it is dealing with now. Note: The attribution for the first piece was changed to reflect BlackRock Blog. FREE AppDownload
The harsh U.S. winter has turned natural gas into the second-best performing commodity year-to-date. But it looks like the run may be over, as prices saw their largest one-day drop in six years.  It happened after meteorologists predicted this week's "Polar Vortex" hit could be winter's last gasp. "A midday update to the National Weather Service’s Global Forecast System model showed higher temperatures than previously forecast in the Midwest from March 6 to March 10," Bloomberg's Christine Buurma reported, noting tomorrow is the last trading day for March natgas options Prices fell about 15% to $5.47/mmBtu. It was the biggest one-day drop since Aug. 20, 2007, according to Bloomberg. Here's the chart: FinViz FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk-chaired SolarCity shares are sliding after hours. The company failed to report full earnings on time due to new accounting delays from new acquisitions and changing overhead costs.   But the dip belies what is shaping up to be the total dominance of the firm in the U.S. residential distributed generation (D.G.) market. The firm said they'd installed 280 megawatts of solar power last year, the equivalent of up to 70,000 homes. According to their data, as of Q3, one-third of the rooftop panels you now see in the U.S. have now been installed by SolarCity. We haven't even seen Q4, due to the delay. SolarCity FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Umit BektasTurkish prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.The U.S. dollar is up more than 1.3% against the Turkish lira this afternoon in North American trading as political tensions resurface in Turkey. A tape recording that allegedly contains the voice of Turkish prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan discussing how to launder a large sum of money is making the rounds on the Internet. Erdogan's office has released a statement saying the recording is not real, calling it a "montage." Haluk Koç, deputy chairman of the opposition Republican People's Party, called on Erdogan to resign following the surfacing of the tape. This marks the latest episode in an ongoing corruption probe that has helped the lira depreciate to a series of record lows against the dollar over the past few months. The chart below shows the surge in the dollar-lira exchange rate this afternoon. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Sometimes the world turns on its head. This chart showing Blackberry's stock performance relative to Apple's is one example of that. Blackberry shares have almost doubled out of their December lows climbing from $5.75 to today's close of $9.14. The Street's noticed, and hedge fund managers like Dan Loeb of Third Point have revealed stakes in the company. Meanwhile, money is flowing out of Apple, which is down 6% since the beginning of the year. Hedge fund manager J.C. Parets of Eagle Bay Capital thinks that Blackberry still has room to double, and he sent us this chart showing Blackberry relative to Apple. Eagle Bay Capital "Sentiment is a beautiful thing,"  said Parets. "If everyone thinks something is going lower (in this case BBRY), there comes a point where anyone with that belief has already acted upon that belief (and sold). Eventually there just aren't any sellers left, and if all we have are buyers - epic squeeze. We saw it in BBRY and we saw it in S&amp;P500 in early 2009. The best part about these extreme sentiment unwinds is that the ensuing rallies last longer and go further than your standard uptrend." He continued: "In AAPL we're seeing the opposite. All of the great news was priced into the stock by the end of 2012." This could be the beginning of a big reversal from 2013. According to a recent report from Goldman Sachs, Blackberry was one of the of the 50 stocks with over $1 billion market cap that hedge funds liked to short the most. Conversely, Apple made Goldman's "hedge fund VIP" list. According to Factset, the 50 largest hedge funds increased their Apple exposure by 3.6% in Q4 2013. However, the research firm also points out that since Carl Icahn has backed off his effort to force Apple to buyback stock, hedge funds may be backing off the stock as well. So things can change, and this chart shows that the tide may be turning. What a difference a year and change makes. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Eddie KeoghNew studies say online dating is not only an efficient way of finding your would-be spouse, but also more cost-effective than the old-fashioned methods of seeking out love. Researchers tell us about one-third of new marriages in the U.S. begin with an online meeting. And now, according to market strategists at ConvergEx Group, a New York-based global brokerage company, online data can also save a person thousands of dollars. The ConvergEx folks, using data from statisticbrain.com, note the average courtship time for “off-line,” traditional dating ahead of a marriage runs around 42 months – or two years longer than the 18.5-month, average dating-to-marriage cycle for people who meet online. And using that data, they came up with a formula. Related: The Economics Of Valentine's Day: The Money Behind The Love “At a conservative estimate of one date per week and a cost of $130 per date – $100 for a meal and drinks at a nice restaurant, plus $30 for two movie tickets and popcorn – the dating phase prior to an offline marriage runs up a $23,660 tab,” ConvergEx said. “The average dating site customer spends just $239 a year for online memberships, which more than pays for itself to the tune of $12,803 in cost savings from fewer dates,” they continued. “Assuming you go Dutch, each party saves a touch over $6,400 in choosing the online route to marital bliss.” The online dating industry, meanwhile, reportedly brings in annual revenues of more than $1.2 billion. But just because it's become more acceptable, easier and less expensive for people to meet and woo someone online doesn't mean more U.S. residents are tying the knot. In fact, according to the Pew Research Center, only 51 percent of Americans were married in 2011, compared with 72 percent in 1960 – and those numbers continue to decline. So, what gives? Federal statistics say more people are living together before marriage, or as an alternative to marriage – a trend ConvergEx suggests could be in reaction to the high divorce rates seen in the 1970s and 80s. “Seeing their parents and/or friends’ parents go through a divorce has made today’s young people more cautious when it comes to finding a mate,” they say. A larger percentage of young people are also putting career ahead of relationships – which makes them less reliant on a spouse. And significantly, from a purely economic viewpoint, is the fact the marriage rates are reportedly dropping faster among people with less education. "Declining marriage rates among those with lower levels of educational attainment is a warning sign that is worth watching," says ConvergEx, "especially if the trend continues." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar Kujundzic China's Hebei province accounts for about 25% of the nation's steel output, but that fell to under 20% in the last two months of 2013, reports David Stanway at Reuters.  Beijing has said that it is serious about its crackdown on the pollution problem and has called for heavy industries to cut capacity. Environmental protection is expected to be one of top agenda items at the upcoming National People's Congress. This has caused many to shutter operations entirely and abandoned mills have been dubbed "zombie" mills. But steel is also one of China's sectors burdened by excess capacity. And Stanway writes that many of the mills in Hebei are close to bankruptcy, as demand slows and the price of steel falls. He thinks these mills were bound to close anyway.  Zhang Yiqian at Global Times reports that this hasn't just meant a loss of jobs but a loss of savings for many villagers who put their savings into these mills. In some areas, China has tried to turn the abandoned land back into farms, but some are untenable for farming.  Dozens of "zombie" mills have popped up in and around Tangshan, an industrial city in China's Hebei province. We drew on some images from Petar Kujundzic at Reuters, of one such zombie mill: Qingquan Steel Group. REUTERS/Petar Kujundzic Heibei which is home to seven million people, was asked to cut steel capacity in an effort to cut down on pollution. REUTERS/Petar KujundzicA deserted house with beds and a hearth is pictured inside an abandoned steel mill of Qingquan Steel Group in Qianying township. REUTERS/Petar Kujundzic But many of the mills are close to bankruptcy and would have had to be shuttered anyway. Workers at the Qingquan mill went on strike in October after they weren't paid for six months. REUTERS/Petar KujundzicNote we updated the post to reflect that these images come from the "dozens" of zombie mills popping up in China.
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc.SolarCity shares were off as much as 4% in after-hours trading after the company reported abbreviated earnings and said it would delay the release of its complete earnings announcement by a week.  "As a result of the accounting related to recent acquisitions as well as a change in overhead allocation owing to an increase in the volume of MW deployed, we will release complete GAAP financial results after the close of the market on Monday, March 3, 2014," the company said in a press release. They noted leasing revenue declined 11% quarter-over-quarter, which they attributed to "seasonally lower solar production during the winter quarters." The Elon Musk-chaired firm did say 2014 is on track. "For Q1 2014, we expect MW deployed of between 78 MW - 82 MW, up 74% year-over-year at the midpoint and consistent with our targets for the year," said the company. "For 2014, we reaffirm guidance for MW deployed of between 475 MW and 525 MW. We also expect to generate positive cash flow for the full year 2014 (though quarterly variability is possible)." They also noted costs per watt had declined 30% in 2013. Despite the delay, management will nevertheless hold its scheduled earnings conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Come June, New Yorkers will have access to sound-proofed bathrooms installed along the street, including luxury toilets and showers that attendants clean after each use. “I always found myself in a situation where I needed a restroom [while out in the city] and I knew I wasn’t alone in placing a high value on privacy and cleanliness,” Wayne Parks, founder of the company rolling out these new toilets, told The Wall Street Journal's Market Watch. But luxury comes at a price: a $15 annual fee, plus $24 for a three-day pass. That's way more than the $5 you could spend at Starbucks to get their bathroom code, or the 25 cents you pay to use one of the Bloomberg administration's public toilets.  Parks' New York-based company Posh Stow and Go says the first option lacks privacy and The New York Post points out only three basic facilities — at Madison Square Park in Manhattan, Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn and ­Corona Plaza in Queens — have been constructed since Bloomberg first announced the public restroom initiative in 2005, which called for 20 toilets.   Posh plans to open its first pay toilets this summer in Midtown between Grand Central and Penn Station. In addition to private bathrooms, the facilities will also feature storage lockers, laundry machines and a place to sit and relax. That's all included in the yearly membership and day-pass price. If the Midtown location catches on this summer, Posh will open another luxury storage and bathroom facility in lower Manhattan. But the emphasis on exclusive membership-based bathrooms in a city like New York, where wealth inequality is already so present, have some public restroom advocates in a tizzy. FREE AppDownload
Mirco Lazzari/Getty ImagesClearly, we haven't seen the top of the market just yet. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
lavandarfields via FlickrBOSTON (Reuters) - Cyber criminals have infected hundreds of thousands of computers with a virus called "Pony" to steal bitcoins and other digital currencies, in the most ambitious cyber attack on virtual money uncovered so far, according to security firm Trustwave. Trustwave said on Monday that it has found evidence that the operators of a cybercrime ring known as the Pony botnet have stolen some 85 virtual "wallets" that contained bitcoins and other types of digital currencies. The firm said it did not know how much digital currency was contained in the wallets. "It is the first time we saw such a widespread presence of this type of malware. It was on hundreds of thousands of machines," said Ziv Mador, security research director with Chicago-based Trustwave. Trustwave said it believes the crime ring is still operating, though it does not know who is running the group. The company said it has disrupted the servers that were controlling machines infected with Pony, but expects the group to launch more attacks on virtual currency users. A representative for the Bitcoin Foundation, a trade group that promotes adoption of the digital currency, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Trustwave's discovery comes in the wake of an unrelated cyber attack that spammed bitcoin exchanges earlier this month. That attack prompted at least three online virtual currency traders to halt withdrawals, causing bitcoin's value to plunge 33 percent over three weeks. Bitcoin is a digital currency sustained by software code written by an unknown programmer or group of programmers. It is not governed by any one company or person, and its value is determined by user demand. People who buy digital currency can store it in virtual wallets on their own machines or with companies that offer storage and security services. Mador said digital currency theft is still in its infancy, but that it is likely to grow. "If digital currencies become more popular, this type of campaign is likely to get much bigger," he said. Digital currency buyers can easily protect themselves from hackers by encrypting digital currency files, Mador said. "Most websites don't encrypt them by default, but you can turn them on," he added. Botnets are collections of infected computers that take orders from central "command and control" servers. The botnets steal data from compromised PCs and can also deliver other types of malware that force them to perform tasks. This is at least the third type of fraud to surface involving digital currencies. Criminals have previously hacked into marketplaces where digital currencies are traded by exploiting security flaws in those sites, then stealing those currencies, according to Trustwave. (http://bit.ly/1hphzRj) Cyber criminals have also developed botnets that force enslaved computers to create, or "mine", digital currencies, which the fraudsters then claim as their own. Bitcoin mining is a time-consuming process in which computers perform complex math calculations. The operators of those botnets are stealing electricity and data center resources when they use compromised machines to mine digital currencies. Trustwave in December uncovered a trove of some 2 million stolen passwords to websites including Facebook Inc, Google Inc, Twitter Inc and Yahoo Inc while probing a command and control server using a less sophisticated version of the Pony malware. Trustwave said on Monday that the new version of Pony compromised another 600,000 website credentials. (Users can go to these Trustwave sites to check if their bitcoin wallets and credentials have been stolen.) (Addition reporting by Emily Flitter in New York) FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockMiami is attracting the LeBron James of Wall Street, the Dwyane Wade of Greenwich equity, and the Chris Bosh of Boston — financial titans who are relocating to pay less in taxes and maintain a luxury lifestyle with a glittering social scene.  It's already the 2nd most popular financial hub in the country after NYC, and The Miami Downtown Development Authority is doing everything it can to make itself attractive to bankers through an initiative called the DWNTWN campaign. Lloyd Blankfein and Leon Black are rumored to have bought Miami condos recently, and the latest hotshot to move his business there is Mark Spitznagel, founder of hedge fund Universa Investments. “Florida’s business-friendly policies ... offer the perfect environment for us as we expand,” said Spitznagel. “I would expect to see more firms like Universa voting with their feet and relocating to a more hospitable business and tax environment, especially as many local governments are trying to tighten their grip on businesses.” The nightlife and beaches don't hurt either. FREE AppDownload
AFP A leopard was on the loose in Meerut, a city Northeast of India's capital New Delhi on Sunday, reports The Wall Street Journal. The leopard was first seen at a timber warehouse in the city but was startled as crowds started to gather.  It then ran into the Meerut Cantonment Hospital into a ward that contained three patients. The hospital is located in an army cantonment, and the leopard stayed inside a room till late on Sunday night. Sanjiv Kumar of forest department told The Hindu that the leopard then jumped through glass panes and a concrete wall to escape.  Leopard attacks have become common as India's burgeoning cities encroach on the natural habitat of leopards and other wild animals. It is believed that these animals come to cities in search of foods and prey on dogs and other animals as they lose their natural habitat. Schools and colleges were closed. The Meerut leopard is believed to have attacked at least two people and is said to still be on the loose. Here's a video from NewsX that shows the leopard on the loose in Meerut:  FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockHere's to 2014 and your New Year's commitment to being a savvier credit card holder. Here are 10 tips for managing a credit card. This is an easy way to keep your credit card balances under control and bills paid on time while helping to boost your credit score. By paying more often, overall balances stay lower, which helps your utilization rate for that card, a key factor in calculating credit scores. The utilization rate is the percentage of available revolving credit you use — such as credit cards. It's calculated for each credit card account and for all of them in aggregate. The lower the percentage, the better for your credit score. In fact, FICO found that those with the highest credit scores, above 785, on average used only 7 percent of their available revolving credit. Credit cards come in different flavors, from the traditional card with the magnetic stripe to virtual versions of cards in smartphones. And, they all come with their own security features, some better than others. The mag-stripe card is the most vulnerable to skimmers, which can pick up the encrypted information on the stripe and use it to counterfeit cards. Cards with EMV (Europay, MasterCard, Visa) chips, or microprocessors, are nearly impossible to clone because the chip encrypts transaction and card data uniquely each time it's used. It's also hard for fraudsters to skim contactless cards or virtual cards uploaded to smartphones because there is no swiping involved in completing a transaction. Even if your credit card is stolen, skimmed or lost, the federal law has your back. The maximum liability for a lost or stolen credit card is $50 under the Fair Credit Billing Act. If only your credit card account information is stolen — such as in a data breach — then your maximum losses are zero. The protections are not the same, or as good, for debit cards. You could have unlimited losses, depending on how long it takes you to report your card lost or stolen. If your company is giving out corporate cards, make sure to ask about the card policy. Companies can establish corporate credit card accounts based on their own credit rating and issue cards to employees for business expenses. In these cases, the company pays for the charges on the corporate cards and the card issuer will only ask the company for payment. However, a company can choose to make their employees jointly liable for the charges. Typically, the issuer of the corporate card will require an employee's Social Security number before it will issue a card. Then, the employee is responsible for payment, and any late payment can show up on the employee's personal credit report, hurting his or her credit score. The quickest way to lose the cash that you earned is by paying interest charges on credit card balances that you roll from one month to the next. For example, take a cash-back card that earns 1 percent back with a 16 percent interest rate. If you charge $500 and pay off only $100 of that, you incurred $6.67 in interest and earned only $5 in cash back. That's a lose-lose situation. The bottom line? Always pay off your entire balance every month to get every cent of your cash back. Are you carrying too many credit cards that you don't use? It's time to take stock of your credit cards and decide which ones should stay and which account you should close. Make sure any rewards cards match your spending habits so you get the most back from your most common purchases such as gas or groceries. If your cards don't fit your purchases, consider opening a new account or asking your current issuer to transfer your account to a new card. Close the card you don't need only after you find another card, so you maintain the same level of available credit to help your credit score. Feel free to dump any store credit cards you never use. They typically don't have high limits, so they won't hurt your available credit as much. Credit card issuers use your credit score to help determine your initial credit limit and any increases or decreases after your card is opened. They systematically review your credit report to see if your creditworthiness has changed and if your limit should be adjusted accordingly. Others will review your limit if you make a late payment. That means you should always keep your credit in tip-top shape. If you want a bigger limit, simply call your issuer and ask for an increase, if you have a good track record for at least a year. Many credit cards come with a loss and damage waiver or collision waiver policy for car rentals, which cover the cost of repair or replacement to a damaged or stolen car. But make sure to read the fine print. Many waivers don't include luxury cars, moving vans or trucks, passenger vans or car rentals in foreign countries. Others have rental time restrictions, in case you're renting for the long term. And, credit cards typically don't offer liability coverage for damage, injury or death that you may cause. You may need to purchase that coverage from the car rental company or find out if your personal auto policy covers rental cars. Want to help your kid or spouse build credit? Add them as an authorized user, or AU, to your account rather than signing up for a joint credit card. Your child or spouse will benefit right away because their credit report will immediately be populated with the account's history. This financial relationship also gives you greater control. While you will be the only one responsible for repayment of the debt — authorized users don't have this legal obligation — you can end the financial tie without needing the AU's permission. This can be especially helpful if the AU's spending goes wild or there's a separation or divorce between the spouses. Not happy with a purchase you've made and the retailer won't give you a refund? Under federal law, you can dispute the quality of goods and services for purchases made by a credit card in your home state or within 100 miles of your current billing address. The purchase must exceed $50 and the consumer must have made a good-faith effort to resolve the issue with the seller first. To withhold payment, send a letter and any supporting documents to your credit card issuer via mail, over the phone or online. FREE AppDownload
National Weather ServiceRecord-cold temperatures will return to the central and eastern United States by Tuesday night.After a relatively mild weekend that had many in the Northeast thinking that winter was coming to an end, the dreaded polar vortex is expected to return this week, bringing colder than normal temperatures to the central and eastern United States through the start of the work week, the National Weather Service warned on Monday. "A cold mass of arctic air will bring temperatures that are 10 to 30 degrees below normal across the northern third of the U.S. on Monday," the weather service said. The upper Midwest will be hardest hit, with temperatures of 20 to 40 degrees below normal for this time of year. By Tuesday night, many eastern states should be feeling the cold, which the Climate Prediction Center says is expected to last into the first week of March, according to USA Today. The term polar vortex first made headlines in early January when it brought tundra-like temperatures to huge parts of the nation. This weather phenomenon is caused when a huge mass of very cold air — normally trapped over the North Pole by spinning winds — splits apart and plunges toward the equator, bringing a blast of freezing air down through northern Canada and into the United States. FREE AppDownload
Euler Hermes is out with its top 10 economic "game changers" for 2014. "As the global recession from 2008-09 recedes further in our rear-view mirror, central banks around the world have begun to alter their respective monetary policies to adjust to a growth environment," Jochen Duemler, CEO of Euler Hermes said in a statement. Euler Hermes think the Eurozone will contribute more to global growth while emerging markets continue to dog the global economy. Check out the graphic from the report to see the 10 game changers: Euler Hermes
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartBitcoin is growing too fast for its technology to keep up IN MOST businesses, a small coding error is a minor problem. With Bitcoin, an online "cryptocurrency", a fairly simple flaw seems to have cost $5.3 billion. That is how much the value of all of the Bitcoin in the world has fallen over the past two weeks, after a bug caused several Bitcoin exchanges to halt withdrawals temporarily. The price of a Bitcoin, which peaked at about $1,200 in December, is now about $630 on Bitstamp, one of the exchanges that has resumed trading. On Mt Gox, another exchange based in Tokyo, coins that still cannot be withdrawn are selling for far less (see chart). The problems began with the discovery of a flaw in Bitcoin’s code at the start of February. Bitcoin is, in effect, a giant shared transaction ledger, recording who owns each individual unit of the currency at any one time. Everyone must use the same copy of the ledger--known as the "blockchain"--to prevent the same coins from being spent twice. The flaw, known as "transaction malleability", muddles up the ledger so that successful Bitcoin payments do not appear to have been made. This could make it possible for hackers to trick badly-coded software--such as the proprietary Bitcoin wallets used by some exchanges--into sending money repeatedly. To avoid any losses, most exchanges ceased all withdrawals while they checked that their software was secure. That sparked a panic as rumours spread that Bitcoin was fundamentally broken or that hackers had made off with customers’ money. And then on February 14th about $2.5m of Bitcoin was apparently stolen from Silk Road 2.0, a website which is used to trade mainly illegal drugs. The site’s administrators blamed transaction malleability for the hack. The EconomistMike Hearn, a prominent Bitcoin developer, says the flaw is far from fatal. Indeed, Bitcoin’s programmers have known about transaction malleability since 2011. What’s surprising is that big exchanges such as Mt Gox were unprepared for it. Fixing it is technically simple but harder in practice, as it means getting a large majority of those running Bitcoin to accept new rules at about the same time. In the meantime, vigilance--and safer wallets--can prevent hackers. Bitcoin’s weakness stems from its success: speculators flocked to it long before it was ready for serious use. "There are still plenty of ways you can interfere with the Bitcoin network" says Mr Hearn. Sending vast numbers of small transactions slows the network down, for example. Other vulnerabilities are sure be discovered. One strength of Bitcoin is that its programming is "open source", meaning anyone can check it for flaws and suggest ways of fixing them as bugs arise. Yet it is also unsettling to rely on the work of volunteers when large amounts of money are involved. Bitcoin has recovered from worse: since 2011 dozens of exchanges including Mt Gox have been hacked, and some have been robbed of millions of dollars. Its price has crashed by more than half several times. As crises go, this one is probably manageable. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
There's a lingering hope out there that America's corporations will unleash their cash hoards and replace their aging equipment. "The whole debate about the S&amp;P is about when this turns back up again," said Deutsche Bank's David Bianco back in November. "We forecast capital spending by S&amp;P 500 companies will rise by 9% in 2014 to $700 billion following a modest 2% growth in 2013," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in a new note to clients. Based on Kostin's reading of the recent earnings season conference calls, growth expectations are currently trending a bit below that 9% rate. "S&amp;P 500 companies that provided guidance plan to boost capex by 7% in 2014, [are] slightly below our forecast," added Kostin. "171 S&amp;P 500 companies provided capex guidance during recent quarterly earnings conference calls. These firms account for 50% of aggregate capex spending by the S&amp;P 500. All sectors plan to increase capex in 2014 with the exception of Telecom Services, which guided flat." For some context, Kostin provided this chart that breaks down how much each industry contributes to the capex story. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar The office of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) claims to have no record of written communications with the office of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) about the traffic jam at the center of the ongoing investigation into Christie's administration.  Some New Jersey Democrats have alleged lane closures on the George Washington Bridge last September were ordered by Christie's allies to exact revenge against Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich for declining to endorse the governor's 2013 re-election bid. Since the bridge is overseen by a bi-state agency, the Port Authority of New York &amp; New Jersey, and is staffed by executives appointed by both Cuomo and Christie, some observers have questioned what Cuomo knew and when he knew it. Port Authority Executive Director Patrick Foye, who was appointed by Cuomo, has said he ordered the lanes re-opened on Sept. 13 as soon as he became aware of the closures. Thus far, Cuomo has kept relatively quiet about the bridge accusations, which are currently being investigated by a committee in New Jersey's Legislature. I sent a request under New York's Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) to Cuomo's office on Jan. 17 asking for any communications between the two governors and several top aides concerning "lane closures on the George Washington Bridge and traffic in Fort Lee." The request covered the period from July 1, well before records subpoenaed by the committee in New Jersey show the closures were ordered, through Jan. 17. On Feb. 20, Cuomo's FOIL counsel and records access officer Justin Levin sent back a response that said the governor's office did "not possess records responsive to your request." In a separate FOIL request dated Jan. 17, I also asked for any records of communications between Cuomo, several of his aides, and four top Port Authority executives. That request also covered the period between July 1 and Jan. 17. Levin responded on Feb. 20 by providing a pair of emails dated Nov. 27. In the first email Foye forwarded a letter from a New Jersey state Sen. Richard Codey (D) calling for  the Port Authority's inspector general to investigate the closures to several of Cuomo's top aides. Codey's letter stated it was "disconcerting" that Foye claimed to have been unaware the closures were taking place. Foye forwarded Codey's letter without additional comment to New York's Director of State Operations Howard Glaser, former Cuomo chief of staff Josh Vlasto, and the governor's director of communications, Melissa DeRosa. In the second email Glaser forwarded Foye's message to Larry Schwartz, the secretary to the governor. These FOIL requests only covered written communications sent by the specific individuals named in the requests. This leaves open the possibility there were phone calls, in-person conversations, or communications between other staffers in the two governors' offices and the Port Authority about the closures. View the letters and records sent by Levin in response to the requests below. Some personal contact information has been redacted.    FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesWe're waiting, Tim!A gigantic global mobile conference is taking place in Barcelona this week: The Mobile World Congress. Everyone's there, from Samsung to Microsoft to Google to Nokia to WhatsApp. Well, everyone that is, except for Apple, which never appears at conferences like these. Not surprisingly, the announcements are coming fast and furious: * Samsung's launching two new smartwatches, and Google is about to launch one, too * A Chinese company is making a $35 smartphone * Nokia has launched 3 new Android phones, a startling thumb in the eye to its new parent Microsoft * Microsoft is teaming up with Qualcomm to make equipment and software for super-cheap smartphones, the fastest-growing segment of the market * Facebook's new WhatsApp acquisition announced that it will soon offer free voice calling, a direct threat to the telecom carriers that currently charge an arm and a leg for phone service Apple almost never shows up at events like these, so its silence this week isn't surprising. But Apple's silence in general these days is surprising — and frustrating for those who have gotten used to Apple being at the forefront of new categories of mobile technology. Apple says it is working on exciting new product categories, with a TV and smartwatch likely possibilities. But the company is certainly taking its time in releasing them. And, in the meantime, competitors are charging ahead. Apple does have the makings of a potentially powerful new service that few people talk about — payments. The company's "Touch ID" system on the iPhone 5S, combined with "Beacons" that allow stores to send messages to consumers in stores, could represent the dawn of a magical new payments system that would place Apple square in the middle of the consumer commerce game. But the company is being awfully quiet about this new technology, too. So many Apple observers are becoming increasingly convinced that the company is losing its edge. SEE ALSO: Apple Is Already Quietly Building Its Next Huge Business — But No One Seems To Have Noticed. FREE AppDownload
BIIPeople often discuss Bitcoin in terms of its price volatility: Is it up or down? Is it a good investment or a speculative bubble? But where Bitcoin's real value lies is as a payments technology that has the potential to revolutionize the legacy payments industry.  Bitcoin offers merchant and individuals an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system. Value can easily be transferred around the world without forcing merchants to pay extortionate transaction fees. In  a recent report from BI Intelligence, we explain how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared to the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: BII   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Bogdan CristelThe New York Federal Reserve has posted a job listing for a Gold Vault Custody Analyst.   This person "is charged with performing all of the critical responsibilities associated with safekeeping, accounting for, and displaying all gold entrusted to the FRBNY," the listing states.  One of the qualifications for the position is being able to lift approximately 50 lbs. worth of "valuables." Here's the job listing, which we saw tweeted by Matthew C. Klein: Federal Reserve Bank of New York Primary Location NY-New York City Full-time / Part-time Full-time Employee Status Regular Overtime Status Non-exempt Job Type Experienced Travel No Shift Day Job Work Hours 8:30 a.m. 4:30 p.m. (flexible) Area Overview The Financial Services Group (FSG) operates and oversees payments system processing for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The FSG provides depository institutions with various payment services, including electronically transferring funds and distributing and receiving currency and coin and other valuables, as part of its central banking mission to ensure an efficient, effective and accessible payments system. Its goal is to be the most trusted and respected provider of financial services in the world. An important and unique service provided by the New York Fed is safekeeping Gold. Various foreign governments, central banks, and international organizations entrust the FRBNY with safeguarding and storing their monetary gold reserves. The Gold Vault is currently the world’s largest accumulation of gold, is visited by over 25,000 members of the public each year, and is part of the Cash and Custody Function. The Gold Vault is currently looking to fill the position of Gold Vault Custody Analyst. A Gold Vault Custody Analyst is charged with performing all of the critical responsibilities associated with safekeeping, accounting for, and displaying all gold entrusted to the FRBNY. Job Responsibilities · Open &amp; close the Gold Vault on a daily basis · Account for all gold holdings using the Gold Vault System · Coordinate and facilitate periodic audits of gold holdings for various agencies and central banks · Administer the Public Window to receive/pay and account for limited currency and coin transactions · Maintain and update Gold Vault access rosters · Conduct periodic sales of new-issue coins and currency types · Coordinate all arrangements for gold movements and shipments as directed by Central Bank Services · Manage and coordinate allocation of compartments for storage of valuables for various Bank functions · Ensure the Gold Vault stays well-maintained and fully operational · Provide detailed tours of the Gold Vault for foreign dignitaries, VIPs, and Bank Officers and their guests; Coordinate and facilitate public tours given by economic education Qualifications FREE AppDownload
"Money Honey" Maria Bartiromo hosted her first show on Fox Business Network after leaving CNBC late last year. In case you missed her new show's debut, we've included some screenshot highlights below.   Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab Fox Business screen grab FREE AppDownload
Jeffrey Solomon, CEO of Cowen and Company, a New York City-based investment bank, moved to the city to eventually be an actor, but after a few years in banking he was hooked on Wall Street. In a recent interview with finance career site OneWire, Solomon explained that it was his time working on internal corporate finance at Sherson Lehman that gave him the bug. He realized he loved the inner workings of the business and started to build his own ideas about how to make it work. He told OneWire founder Skiddy von Stade that young people should spend a decade or so figuring out what really makes them tick at work — what makes them happy. Once they do that, it's time to evaluate what skills they have. Solomon said that to succeed at his firm, successful bankers need to have developed three traits. The first is about knowing themselves. “One, you have to have vision," he said. "You have to know how you’re independent personal franchise can impact our franchise in a positive way.” Then there's the ability to make that vision a reality. “Second, tenacity. It may sound obvious, but you’d be surprised. Sometimes people work in large organizations and the organization gives them so much that they lose the edge to create business because it’s there for the taking.” Lastly, Solomon said that bankers at Cowen have to be able to step outside of their own shoes and understand other people. "My big thing about what's happened on the Street is that somewhere over the last 20 years people forgot that this is a business about people, it's the interactions of those people that make the organization," said Solomon. "So while we're going to try to win business and we define success by revenue growth and serving our clients, it's important to know that we're only successful if the interactions of our people with one another are empathetic in nature." So start working on that. Watch the full interview below and subscribe to the OneWire’s Open Door interview series:  FREE AppDownload
Maria Bartiromo premiered her new show on Fox Business Monday morning, and it's off to a pretty slow start. We see two reasons for this: First, the former CNBC star known for her booking prowess failed to schedule any show-stoppers. Second the discussion-based format of the show isn't quite hot enough to keep viewers glued to the screen. Bartiromo shocked Wall Street when she left her decades-long home of CNBC for the less-watched Fox Business Network at the end of 2013. Being the scrappy kid nipping at Bloomberg and CNBC's heels, observers expected Fox Business and Bartiromo to pull out all the stops for her debut — ticker tape parade, 76 trombones, the works. The reason why a network hires a lifer like Bartiromo is for her fire (and star) power, after all. And what makes a big part of a great hour of informative news? The guests. Booking is crucial and it means everything to financial news consumers, especially in a world where information on stocks and breaking news can be found online. On day one Bartiromo booked Jon Hilsenrath, the Wall Street Journal reporter known for Federal Reserve scoops; Bank of America Head of U.S. Equity Savita Subramanian; Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher; and Mario Gabelli, CEO of GAMCO investments. All of these folks are interesting people with large followings, but they aren't necessarily market movers (read: headline-makers). Plus, Gabelli was on Bloomberg TV Jan. 22nd. Wall Street has seen him since the "hey, this ain't 2013's 30%-market anymore" discussion that's dominating headlines these days. Meanwhile, CNBC booked Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam (telecoms — so hot right now), former European Central Bank President Jean Claude Trichet (everyone's talking about eurozone inflation), and economist Larry Summers (he was a frontrunner for Fed chair) for Monday morning. Booking day one isn't something you can do over again, but our second issue with the show — Bartiromo's comfort with its slightly more discussion-heavy format — will likely improve with time. For now, it's not quite lively enough to keep viewers from switching back to their regularly scheduled programming. Here's an example: During her discussion with Hilsenrath and Subramanian, Bartiromo made a quick comment about the stock market, which people are getting into fist fights over on Wall Street these days. "The corrective action of the market is almost over," she said, citing a technical trader. It's a relatively bold statement to make in a year when analysts all over the street are predicting choppy waters. On Bartiromo's show though, it just rolled off the tongue and into the atmosphere without further debate. In fact, the S&amp;P 500 actually went green for the year this morning — so what is there to discuss? If you're trying to peel viewers away from channels that are muscle-memorized into their fingertips, it's important to take every opportunity to jump on the questions that are on everyone's mind. Guests and hosts alike have to stay on their toes and be vigilant for moments when they can turn things up a notch. All that said — hey, it's day one. Even a professional like Bartiromo needs time to hit her stride, no? Wrinkles, like the one below can get ironed out ("Maria" Gabelli). "Maria" Gabelli on Fox Business pic.twitter.com/UvNyYcNFbs FREE AppDownload
Do you consider yourself both a left-brain and a right-brain person? Do you geek out over Excel? Is your DVD or books collection alphabetized — or better yet, alphabetized and organized by genre and time period? Business Insider is looking for an experienced Project Manager with strong organizational skills to help manage the details of many multi-faceted campaigns simultaneously. This position will be part of BI Studios, which works with marketers on custom components of their advertising campaigns — everything from sponsor content and editorial sponsorships to custom ad units and other creative executions. The successful candidate will have about 3 years of project management experience at an agency, publisher, or other online media studio, have top-notch organizational skills (we can’t mention that enough), and know Excel, Basecamp, and other project management tools inside and out. The Project Manager will assemble content timelines; stay on top of deadlines; communicate with clients, vendors, and freelancers; process contracts and other paperwork; and make sure we are always on track to meet our goals in a timely and effective way. If you’re hyper-organized (there it is again), able to keep track of a million details at once, and an ace communicator, this is the job for you. There will also be ample opportunity to write, edit, and contribute ideas as part of the growing BI Studios team, so editorial experience and creative thinking are major pluses. To apply, please send your resume and a brief paragraph about why you should be considered for the Project Manager position to studiojobs@businessinsider.com. Thanks in advance for your interest. FREE AppDownload
Chinese GDP growth hit its lowest level since 1999 last year. Part of the slowdown is being driven by Beijing's efforts to rebalance the economy away from exports and investment-led growth to domestic demand driven growth. In a new report, Henry McVey, head of Global Macro &amp; Asset Allocation at KKR, writes "China must now appreciate that it 'cannot go on indefinitely' as the world’s low-cost manufacturer of low value-added goods." McVey cites two key reasons for this. First is wage inflation, which folds into Beijing's efforts to boost consumption. This has caused China "to price itself out of an increasing number of traditional low-end manufacturing and export mandate." Meanwhile, countries like Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos have gained competitive advantage when it comes to manufacturing. KKRMoreover, we've also seen a steady appreciation in the yuan against the greenback in recent years, and this has also hurt China's manufacturing competitiveness. Furthermore, this has come at a time when other emerging market currencies have been depreciating. KKR "We expect the impact of CNY appreciation in the past year to be felt this coming year, limiting the strength of China's export recovery in 2014. As such, the era of steady CNY appreciation may be drawing to a close," UBS' Wang Tao wrote in a note to clients. We've seen more yuan volatility in the last week and Tao thinks this could signal a change in China's exchange rate policy.  FREE AppDownload
Ted and Dani Percival/FlickrCoffee prices have seen a parabolic run-up in recent weeks as unprecedented hot and dry weather in Brazil has sucked the life out of what was expected to have been a record crop. Prices are at $1.75 per pound, up 3% today. According to Reuters, last week's 20% surge was the largest one-week rally since December 1999. January was the hottest month on record for parts of Brazil, and the drought was said to be the worst in 50 years. One estimate said 30% of the coffee crop may have been lost.   "Dry, unseasonably warm weather persisted in coffee areas of southern Minas Gerais and Espirito Santo," the USDA said last week.  Here's the map of those two regions. It's basically a direct hit — in contrast to much of the rest of the country, which finally got some rain. Wikimedia/Rob Wile Brazil produces nearly 40% of the world's coffee.  The impact on consumers is more uncertain. Coffee beans account for no more than 10% of a Starbucks franchise's operating costs, according to the Wall Street Journal, and service providers are usually insulated from short-term price run-ups thanks to futures contracts. But the drought has been so severe that elevated prices may persist and hit coffee fiends' wallets. Here's what RBC Capital Markets' Starbucks analyst David Palmer said last week about how it will impact that particular company:  "Arabica spot prices have risen ~23% this year and nearly 35% since early November. We believe this to be a near-term positive given 1) Starbucks practice of locking in coffee 12+ months forward, 2) other coffee companies pricing coffee closer to the inflation cycle (meaning more pricing power for Starbucks in the coming quarters), and 3) Starbucks input prices have a floor above current levels, meaning price movements at depressed trading levels have minimal impact on forward input prices. However, a protracted rise in coffee prices would require one or more of Starbucks investment opportunities (e.g. lunch, tea, juice, carbonated beverages) to fill in the gap left by the fading coffee cost tailwind in late fiscal 2015 and beyond." Last week, Goldman Sachs chief commodities analyst Jeff Currie had raised raised his 3- to 12-month Arabica coffee price forecast from $1.20/lb to $1.30/lb warning he saw "risks to the updated forecast as skewed to the upside."  But Currie noted that there were reasons why prices wouldn't have to go to the stratosphere. "Our forecast remains below the current forward curve for now as (1) high stock levels after several years of surpluses will help cushion this production shortfall and (2) the current rally has likely been exacerbated by large net short speculative positioning heading into this weather event," he said. In any case here's the chart from FinViz: FinViz FREE AppDownload
The Dallas Fed says its manufacturing survey came in at 0.3. Expectations were for a reading of 3.0 against 3.8 prior. About half of the industries surveyed cited inclement weather as a near-term headwind. "The extreme weather throughout the U.S. impacted our ability to receive components needed in our manufacturing process. Weather also impacted revenue, as customers are unable to deploy products, resulting in increased inventory in the distribution channels and reduced requirements for manufacturing," said someone in the fabricated metal manufacturing industry. Production actually ticked upward: Dallas Fed   FREE AppDownload
NASA Earth Observatory Flying over East Asia, astronauts on the International Space Station (ISS) took this night image of the Korean Peninsula. Unlike daylight images, city lights at night illustrate dramatically the relative economic importance of cities, as gauged by relative size. In this north-looking view, it is immediately obvious that greater Seoul is a major city and that the port of Gunsan is minor by comparison. There are 25.6 million people in the Seoul metropolitan area—more than half of South Korea’s citizens—while Gunsan’s population is 280,000. North Korea is almost completely dark compared to neighboring South Korea and China. The darkened land appears as if it were a patch of water joining the Yellow Sea to the Sea of Japan. Its capital city, Pyongyang, appears like a small island, despite a population of 3.26 million (as of 2008). The light emission from Pyongyang is equivalent to the smaller towns in South Korea. Coastlines are often very apparent in night imagery, as shown by South Korea’s eastern shoreline. But the coast of North Korea is difficult to detect. These differences are illustrated in per capita power consumption in the two countries, with South Korea at 10,162 kilowatt hours and North Korea at 739 kilowatt hours. You can view time-lapse videos of East Asia, as viewed from the ISS on January 30, 2014, by clicking here (standard resolution) and here (high-definition). Astronaut photograph ISS038-E-38300 was acquired on January 30, 2014, with a Nikon D3S digital camera using a 24 millimeter lens, and is provided by the ISS Crew Earth Observations Facility and the Earth Science and Remote Sensing Unit, Johnson Space Center. The image was taken by the Expedition 38 crew. It has been cropped and enhanced to improve contrast, and lens artifacts have been removed. The International Space Station Program supports the laboratory as part of the ISS National Lab to help astronauts take pictures of Earth that will be of the greatest value to scientists and the public, and to make those images freely available on the Internet. Additional images taken by astronauts and cosmonauts can be viewed at the NASA/JSC Gateway to Astronaut Photography of Earth. Caption by M. Justin Wilkinson, Jacobs at NASA-JSC. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockThe cost of ground beef could increase by as much as 15% this year, after rising 5% in 2013, according to the cattle research firm CattleFax. That means consumers will pay $1 more on average for two pounds of ground beef in 2014, and may soon see higher prices for burgers and other beef dishes at restaurants, assuming the projections are accurate. Consumers in the U.S. paid an average $3.50 per pound for ground beef in 2013, according to government data. Steak prices are also expected to rise, but at a slightly slower rate of roughly 5% to 10%, Kevin Good, a senior analyst with CattleFax, told the Wall Street Journal.  A decrease in the number of cattle in the U.S., coupled with a hike in the cost of grain, has been driving up beef prices.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesHedge funder Chris O'Neill shows off his daughter's footprint on his armPrincess Madeleine of Sweden and her husband, hedge funder Chris O'Neill, welcomed the birth of their first child. The couple had a baby girl in New York on Friday, February 21. The grandparents of the baby, King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia, are expected to announce a name for the child sometime this week, according to Page Six.  O'Neill, 39, is a partner and head of research at Noster Capital, a value investing hedge fund. He married Princess Madeleine last summer in Stockholm.  He did not accept a royal title.   FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 has just hit a new all-time high at 1851.55 this morning. The previous peak was on January 15, when the index hit 1850.84. After that, the market fell 6% through February 3. Since then, it has surged higher, erasing all of those losses and then some. This morning, the index is up 0.8%, trading above 1851. The chart below shows the move. "One of the main questions we have tried to address with investors over the past several weeks is whether contagion from the emerging markets can impact U.S. equities," says Adam Parker, chief U.S. equity strategist at Morgan Stanley. "So far we have been pretty dismissive. Why? Because complacency has become a learned behavior in the mini-crises that have periodically popped up since the summer of 2011. After all, every dip in the S&amp;P 500 caused by Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Spain, or Portugal was a dip to be bought. Every monetary policy decision, or fear of a hard landing, or Washington standstill, was an opportunity to load up. So, why should a 'little' cocktail of Turkey, Argentina, and Ukraine cause sustained fear? What really matters is that the dream of growth is still alive, and that the bear case in U.S. corporate earnings doesn't form. Without significant fear of an earnings pullback, the market really never goes down more than 10%." Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
This chart (below, by Dennis A. Porto, MD) is rising on Reddit right now. It shows the distribution of Bitcoin wealth among Bitcoin holders, put together based on survey data from the Bitcoin community. The gist: Bitcoin has a 1% minority that owns a massively disproportionate amount of wealth just like in real life. This is a logarithmic chart, so it's a little harder to read. But the blue line meets 1% at the 50 BTC mark. With one unit of the famous digital currency currently worth ~$570, it would take $28,490 of Bitcoin wealth to become a one-percenter in the world of Bitcoin. Imgur To give you a further idea of how imbalanced Bitcoin ownership is, consider that just 46 people own 30% of all Bitcoins, according to this analysis. FREE AppDownload
Ebay has released a response to Carl Icahn's brutal shred of its board this morning, writing that Icahn "cherry-picked old news clips and anecdotes out of context" to attack board members Marc Andreessen and Scott Cook, and CEO John Donahoe. Icahn, who took a stake in eBay in January, has recently been demanding that eBay spin PayPal into a separate company.  Ebay responded that it would prefer to discuss the reasons about why the two companies should stay together with its shareholders in a "constructive and substantive" way, rather than through Icahn's "mudslinging attacks."   Here's the full letter:  New eBay shareholder Carl Icahn has cherry-picked old news clips and anecdotes out of context to attack the integrity of two of the most respected, accomplished and value-driven technology leaders in Silicon Valley. Marc Andreessen and Scott Cook bring extraordinary insight, expertise and leadership to eBay’s board, which is scrupulous in its governance practices and fully transparent with regard to its directors’ other affiliations and businesses. And eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe is widely respected for his turnaround of eBay and leadership of the company over the past six years. As we are sure our other shareholders would agree, we prefer to engage in more constructive and substantive discussions of why, in our view, PayPal and eBay are better together. Instead, Mr. Icahn unfortunately has resorted to mudslinging attacks against two impeccably qualified directors. Mr. Icahn has nominated two of his employees to eBay’s board. As we have said, the board’s nominating committee will review the nominations of his employees in due course. Even if our board does not support the nominations, ultimately shareholders will decide whether they believe Mr. Icahn's employees are better qualified than directors such as Mr. Cook (Mr. Andreessen is not up for re-election this year) to sit on the board of a leading technology company. The board has been clear in its view that shareholders are best served by keeping PayPal part of eBay. The board regularly assesses all strategic options for the company; should circumstances change the board is entirely capable of evaluating alternatives for optimizing shareholder value. In response to Mr. Icahn’s specific claims, the facts are: 1) Skype: Skype was a great stand-alone business but had limited synergies with eBay’s global commerce and payments businesses. Consistent with its practice of regularly reviewing all of eBay’s operations, the Board determined that because of these limited synergies, it would be in the best longer term interest of stockholders to explore a divestiture of Skype.  The company explored all options for divesting Skype, including an IPO and sale to a strategic buyer, and pursued the option that offered the highest return at the time, which was the sale of a controlling stake. We retained a 30% stake upon the sale to a private equity group led by Silver Lake Partners. That stake meant that the company earned a total of  $1.4 billion when Microsoft acquired Skype. Because Mr. Andreessen’s fund had a small stake in the acquiring group, Mr. Andreessen was recused from all decision making.  This refusal was dictated by eBay’s published Board Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct, and Mr. Andreessen fully supported his recusal.  Separating Skype enabled eBay to invest in its core growth engines of e-commerce and online payments, while allowing for potential upside if Skype’s potential was fully realized. 2) Marc Andreessen: Andreessen Horowitz is one of the most successful venture capital firms in the world, and Mr. Andreessen’s track record of creating value and driving innovation makes him an extraordinary asset on eBay’s board.  Regarding other investments Mr. Andreessen and his firm have made, this sort of potential conflict exists whenever venture capitalists serve on a Board of Directors. This is true for many public companies which have found experienced venture capital investors to be extraordinarily valuable directors, especially in high tech. The eBay Board has guidelines to minimize the impact of any such conflicts. Also, in regards to Kynetic, any benefits from the terms of eBay’s purchase of GSI Commerce accruing to Kynetic would have been built into the price at which Andreessen Horowitz purchased their shares; as such, any relationship with eBay was irrelevant. eBay subsequently disposed of its note and equity interests in Kynetic and related Rubin enterprises at a profit. 3) Scott Cook: As founder of Intuit and chairman of the company’s executive committee, Mr. Cook also has an exceptional track record of creating value and driving innovation. He has been an enormous asset to eBay’s board for many years. The overlap between Intuit and eBay is small, fully disclosed and within the SEC safe harbor for interlocking directorates. Regarding hiring, this is old news, any  restrictions ended years ago, and Intuit historically had not been a source of talent for eBay Inc.   Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
(from my colleagues Dr. Win Thin and Ilan Solot) Israel central bank meets Monday and is expected keep rates steady at 1.0%.  CPI inflation eased to 1.4% y/y in January, the lowest since September.  The economy remains sluggish, with growth expected to slow to 3.3% this year from 3.8% in 2013.  With inflation near the bottom of the 1-3% target range, the central bank has cover to cut rates again if needed.  We think the deciding factor will most likely be the exchange rate.  For USD/ILS, support seen near 3.50 and then 3.45, while resistance seen near 3.55 and then 3.60. Mexico reports December retail sales and Q4 current account on Tuesday.  The former is expected at 0.4% y/y vs. 1.9% in November, while the latter is expected at -$4.7 bln vs. -$5.5 bln in Q3.  Today, it reported mid-February CPI at 4.21% y/y (vs. 4.29% expected and 4.63% in mid-January), while core also eased to 2.97% from 3.33% in mid-January.  January trade will be reported Wednesday, expected at $380 mln vs. $1.65 bln in December.  Q4 GDP growth came in weaker than expected at 0.7% y/y.  If weakness carries over into 2014 as we suspect, Banco de Mexico will have to acknowledge that its upbeat view needs to be adjusted.  For USD/MXN, support seen near 13.20 and then 13.00, while resistance seen near 13.40 and then 13.60. South Africa reports Q4 GDP Tuesday and is expected at 2.1% y/y vs. 1.8% in Q3.  It will then report January PPI on Thursday followed by money and credit growth, budget, and trade data on Friday.  Overall, we expect a continued mix of sluggish growth, high price pressures, and wide external deficits to continue in 2014.  If the rand remains relatively stable, we do not think that the SARB will be in any rush to hike again.  For USD/ZAR, support seen near 10.75 and then 10.50, while resistance seen near 11.00 and then 11.50. Singapore reports January IP Wednesday and is expected at 6.5% y/y vs. 6.2% in December.  The economy is showing modest signs of recovery, but price pressures remain under control as CPI rose only 1.4% in January.  If headwinds on the economy pick up, we would not rule out a move by the MAS to ease at its next meeting in April.  Otherwise, the MAS will most likely take a wait and see approach for now.  For USD/SGD, support seen near 1.26, while resistance seen near 1.27 and then 1.28. Brazil central bank meets Wednesday and is expected to hike rates 25 bp to 10.75%.  Brazil reports Q4 GDP Thursday (expected at 1.5% y/y vs. 2.2% in Q3) and then budget data Friday.  Mid-February IPCA inflation came in slightly higher than expected at 5.65% y/y, but price pressures do still appear to be easing.  That is why we think that BCB is near the end of its tightening cycle.  For USD/BRL, support seen near 2.35 and then 2.30, while resistance seen near 2.40 and then 2.45. Korea reports January IP on Friday and is expected at -1.8% y/y vs. +2.6% in December.  After markets close Friday (Saturday morning in Asia), Korea reports February trade.  This will be the first snapshot of global trade for the month, and comes after a disappointing January.  Consensus is for exports to rise 2.7% y/y and imports to rise 4.6%.  For USD/KRW, support seen near 1070 and then 1060, while resistance seen near 1080 and then 1090. Turkey reports January trade on Friday and is expected at -$7.2 bln vs. -$9.9 bln in December.  Given the weak lira and higher oil prices last month, we think the risks are tilted towards a gap that is bigger than expected.  With inflation likely to rise too, we see economic fundamentals worsening before improving, and may force the central bank into hiking again.  For USD/TRY, support seen near the 2.16-2.17 area and then 2.10, while resistance seen near 2.20 and then 2.30. India reports Q4 GDP Friday and is expected to slow to 4.7% y/y from 4.8% in Q3.  Price pressures are easing, and should allow the RBI to stand pat for the time being in order to give the economy some breathing room.  Growth is likely to remain sluggish this year, but we would not be surprised to see some fiscal stimulus ahead of May general elections.  For USD/INR, support seen near 62.00 and then 61.00, while resistance seen near 63.00 and then 64.00. Colombia central bank meets Friday and is expected keep rates steady at 3.25%.  The economy is showing some signs of life, which is likely to keep the bank on hold for now. The weak peso should help boost the economy as well, while price pressures remain under control.  CPI rose 2.1% y/y in January, right at the bottom of the 2-4% target range.  This will give the bank leeway to cut later this year if growth starts to slow too much.  For USD/COP, support seen near 2025 and then 2000, while resistance seen near 2050 and then 2075.       Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Joe TraverIn his new note to clients, Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere rolls out a new feature. "We have a colleague who always asks — what are the chances? What are the odds on the key issues we follow?" Here are Valliere's answers to some of the biggest market and political stories of the year: THE RECOVERY: Chances that the recovery will sputter, that the current soft patch is about more than bad weather: 30% and rising. FED TAPERING: Chances that the Fed will slow or reduce the pace of its tapering: 20% and rising. FRESH STIMULUS: Chances of new spending or a minimum wage hike: 10%, the House won't budge. HIRING INCENTIVES: Chances of a bill to provide tax incentives to train and hire workers: 40% and rising. TAX REFORM: Chances that the debate will heat up: 60%; chances of action this year: 10%. IMMIGRATION REFORM: Chances of passage in the House before this summer's GOP primaries: 0%; chances after the primaries: 40%. OBAMACARE: Chances that it will be killed by the GOP or radically reformed: 10%. TRADE LIBERALIZATION: Chances of an Asian trade pact: close to 0%, with congressional Democrats refusing to budge. FANNIE/FREDDIE: Chances of a privatization bill this year: 40%. BAILOUTS: Chances that Puerto Rico gets bailed out by Washington: 0%. Chances that Illinois or Chicago get bailed out by Washington: 0%. Chances that indebted students get their loans forgiven: 0%. SUPREME COURT: Chances that at least one justice departs this year: 60%.  KEYSTONE PIPELINE: With Barack Obama playing to his base and seeking confrontations with the GOP, chances of approval: 55% and now slipping. CYBERSECURITY: Chances of more data breaches this year: 100%.  Chances of legislation: 55%. FALL ELECTIONS: Chances the GOP will keep the House: 80% and rising.  Chances the GOP will take the Senate: 51% and rising. HILLARY CLINTON: Chances she'll run: only 65%, not a slam dunk. If she runs, chances she'll be the Democrats' nominee: 80%. Chances she'll be the next president: 55%. GOP NOMINEE: Impossible to handicap at the present time. GEOPOLITICS: Chances of an Iranian nuclear deal: 55% and slipping. Chances that Vladimir Putin moves troops into Ukraine to "preserve order": 25%. Chances of Leopoldo Lopez electrifying the world in Venezuela: 30% and rising. THE OSCARS: Chances that "12 Years a Slave" will win best picture: 60% and rising despite the buzz for the outrageous "Wolf of Wall Street." FREE AppDownload
Markit EconomicsTable 1.Just-released preliminary results of Markit's monthly U.S. Services Purchasing Managers Index survey point to a sharp slowdown in business activity this month, and respondents say it's largely due to bad weather. The report's headline index fell of business activity fell to 52.7 from January's 56.7 reading. The employment sub-index fell to 52.0 from 54.1, pointing to a slowdown in hiring as well (table 1). "Although the latest data pointed to a slowdown in service sector output growth since January, survey respondents widely cited the negative influence of recent weather-related disruptions," said Markit in the release. "Moreover, a robust increase in new business volumes and continued job hiring suggested that underlying demand remained resilient. February data meanwhile indicated one of the fastest increases in backlogs of work since the survey began in late 2009, which added to the signs that weaker activity growth reflected temporary weather disruptions." Weather has been a hot topic as economic data have come in worse than expected over the past few months. Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle estimates that unseasonally harsh winter weather this year accounts for a little more than half of the recent slowdown in economic activity. However, there are likely a few other forces at work as well, including payback from the outsized inventory accumulation by U.S. businesses in the second half of 2013, as well as the recent expiration of emergency unemployment compensation and the expiration of tax credits that encouraged businesses to pull capex investment forward into 2013. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
In the letter, Icahn describes the board's "transgressions," specifically targeting Marc Andreessen's "loyalty." He writes: Since Mr. Andreessen has been an eBay insider, he has engaged in several transactions that lead us to question his loyalty to eBay. During Mr. Andreessen’s time on the eBay Board he has purchased large stakes in two former eBay subsidiaries, reaping significant personal riches. In September 2009, an investor group that included Mr. Andreessen, preempted a planned Skype IPO (in which stockholders would have ended up making multiple billions of dollars) and bought 70% of Skype for less than what eBay had paid to acquire it(1). Mr. Andreessen basked in the purchase, saying that “Skype is the archetypal phenomenon: a breakthrough technology”(2). His partner was even more excited, stating that “Skype is on its way to becoming one of the most important companies in the world”(2). One cannot help but wonder what happened to Mr. Andreessen’s fiduciary responsibility to share his feelings with Mr. Donahoe and the board rather than preempt the planned IPO to further his own interests. Icahn continues: Additionally, during Mr. Andreessen’s time on the eBay Board – a time when he has been privy to nonpublic eBay Board information – he has made investments in and actively advised, no less than five direct competitors of eBay (four of which are competitors of PayPal), including Boku (mobile payments platform), Coinbase (Bitcoin wallet), Dwolla (secure online money management), Jumio (online and mobile credit card payments) and Fab (design e-commerce)(11). How can Mr. Donahoe and the eBay Board allow Mr. Andreessen to advise these competitors while he simultaneously possesses not only nonpublic eBay Board information but also intimate proprietary information about PayPal’s operations? But perhaps more importantly, how can Mr. Andreessen be trusted to objectively advise Mr. Donahoe and the eBay Board about the strategic direction of PayPal when he has vested interest in so many of its competitors? Regarding Square, another powerful PayPal competitor, Mr. Andreessen publicly lamented his regret in passing on the opportunity to invest in that company as well.(12) Read the full letter » Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnBillionaire activist investor Carl Icahn just released a new open shareholder letter regarding eBay.  Icahn, a major shareholder in eBay, slams the company for its corporate governance.  "We have found ourselves in many troubling situations over the years, but the complete disregard for accountability at eBay is the most blatant we have ever seen," Icahn writes.  He writes that the CEO John Donahoe "seems to be completely asleep or, even worse, either naive or willfully blind." He also calls out board members Marc Andreeseen and Scott Cook.  Icahn took a stake in eBay back in January. The company said in its fourth quarter earnings announcement that he held a 0.82% stake. He's been demanding that eBay spinoff PayPal into a separate company.  Here's the proposal:  We believe creating two dedicated and highly focused independent businesses would provide employees and stockholders the best opportunity to remain competitive over the long term. We believe that the separation of the traditional eBay and PayPal businesses will: (1) highlight the significant value of the disparate businesses currently shrouded by a conglomerate discount the market has afforded eBay; (2) focus and empower independent management teams to most effectively build two very different business platforms, make economic decisions independent of each other and, most importantly, foster innovation; and (3) provide an even more valuable currency for future bolt-on acquisition opportunities and for recruiting the top talent necessary for PayPal to remain the market leader in payment technology. Here's the full open shareholder letter:  --------------------------------- Dear Fellow eBay Stockholders, We have recently accumulated a significant position in eBay’s common stock because we believe there is great long-term value in the business. However, after diligently researching this company we have discovered multiple lapses in corporate governance. These include certain material conflicts of interest, which we believe could put the future of our company in peril. We have found ourselves in many troubling situations over the years, but the complete disregard for accountability at eBay is the most blatant we have ever seen. Indeed, for the first time in our long history, we have encountered a situation where we believewe should not even have to run a proxy fight to change the board composition. Rather, we believe that in any sane business environment these directors would simply resign immediately from the eBay Board, either out of pure decency or sheer embarrassment at the public exposure of the extent of their self-serving activities. How is it possible for the current board to engage in any meaningful discussions about long-term stockholder value while: (1) at least two board members are directly competing with eBay, (2) one board member is demanding eBay cease hiring the most talented employees, (3) another board member is routinely funding competitors while buying companies from eBay and reaping significant personal riches, (4) at least two board members appear to have put their own financial gain in ongoing conflict with their fiduciary responsibilities to stockholders and (5) the CEO seems to be completely asleep or, even worse, either naive or willfully blind to these grave lapses of accountability and stockholder value destruction? The Board’s Transgressions and CEO Mr. John Donahoe’s Ineptitude in Addressing Them Mr. Marc Andreessen – Independent Director Since Mr. Andreessen has been an eBay insider, he has engaged in several transactions that lead us to question his loyalty to eBay. During Mr. Andreessen’s time on the eBay Board he has purchased large stakes in two former eBay subsidiaries, reaping significant personal riches. In September 2009, an investor group that included Mr. Andreessen, preempted a planned Skype IPO (in which stockholders would have ended up making multiple billions of dollars) and bought 70% of Skype for less than what eBay had paid to acquire it(1). Mr. Andreessen basked in the purchase, saying that “Skype is the archetypal phenomenon: a breakthrough technology”(2). His partner was even more excited, stating that “Skype is on its way to becoming one of the most important companies in the world”(2). One cannot help but wonder what happened to Mr. Andreessen’s fiduciary responsibility to share his feelings with Mr. Donahoe and the board rather than preempt the planned IPO to further his own interests. A mere 18 months later, Mr. Andreessen’s investor group flipped Skype to Microsoft for $8.5 billion, a value three times what they paid for it(3), netting approximately $4 billion(3) at the expense of eBay stockholders. After the sale to Microsoft, Mr. Andreessen, a sitting eBay Board member and fiduciary to stockholders, stated: “one reason we were enthusiastic about buying Skype was that even though we thought it would be a tremendous standalone business, we also knew that for Microsoft and a number of other companies Skype would be an obvious thing to buy. We knew we’dalways have the fall-back of selling to strategic buyers”(4). Did Mr. Andreessen share this strong view with Mr. Donahoe? Was Mr. Donahoe completely asleep, or even worse, so naive and deferential to his “world-class board”(5) that he allowed a sitting board member and several private equity firms to walk away with over $4 billion in what was essentially stockholder’s money after a sale to a strategic that he obviously should have orchestrated himself? Many others have been vocally critical of the Skype transaction(2,6), but, until now, none have taken on the task of standing up to Mr. Donahoe and this board. Mr. Andreessen’s next eBay sourced grand slam was his investment in Kynetic. In March 2011, as part of eBay’s $2.4 billion acquisition of GSI Commerce, the eBay Board decided they no longer wanted the Kynetic portion of GSI Commerce and sold it back to the company’s founder for just $31 million in cash and a $467 million sellers note at below market interest.(7,8) In June 2012, Mr. Andreessen pounced, making a $150 million investment in Kynetic at a $1.5 billion valuation, leveraging the low sale price and below market financing which the eBay Board had recently approved.(9) Just a year later, Kynetic was valued at $3.1 billion, giving Mr. Andreessen a paper gain of more than 100%.(10) Additionally, during Mr. Andreessen’s time on the eBay Board – a time when he has been privy to nonpublic eBay Board information – he has made investments in and actively advised, no less than five direct competitors of eBay (four of which are competitors of PayPal), including Boku (mobile payments platform), Coinbase (Bitcoin wallet), Dwolla (secure online money management), Jumio (online and mobile credit card payments) and Fab (design e-commerce)(11). How can Mr. Donahoe and the eBay Board allow Mr. Andreessen to advise these competitors while he simultaneously possesses not only nonpublic eBay Board information but also intimate proprietary information about PayPal’s operations? But perhaps more importantly, how can Mr. Andreessen be trusted to objectively advise Mr. Donahoe and the eBay Board about the strategic direction of PayPal when he has vested interest in so many of its competitors? Regarding Square, another powerful PayPal competitor, Mr. Andreessen publicly lamented his regret in passing on the opportunity to invest in that company as well.(12) Mr. Scott Cook – Independent Director and Member of the Corporate Governance &amp; Nominating Committee Mr. Cook is the founder, former CEO and a current board member of Intuit Inc. Mr. Cook has retained almost $1 billion of Intuit stock (~100x the $9 million of eBay stock he owns). Intuit and PayPal are direct competitors in payment processing as Intuit Go-Payment provides virtually the same capabilities to merchants as PayPal Here(13,14,15,16,17). How can the board have a conversation about the strategy or performance of PayPal when a representative of a direct competitor who has so much at stake is in the room? Even worse, Mr. Cook also apparently believes he can tell eBay whom the company cannot hire. Unbelievably, according to a pending DOJ complaint, “eBay ultimately agreed to an expansive no-solicitation and no-hire agreement in large part to placate Intuit’s Mr. Cook, who was serving as a member of eBay’s Board of Directors and who, at the same time, was making several complaints on behalf of Intuit about eBay’s hiring practices”(18,19,20). Furthermore, according to the complaint, in an effort to placate Mr. Cook, eBay instructed its employees not to pursue potential hires from Intuit and to discard their resumes.(18,19,20) Is Mr. Cook wary of how a standalone PayPal could impact the company he founded? Is he worried that it would diminish the value of his $1 billion in Intuit stock? The best question, however, is where has Mr. Donahoe been when all of this has been going on? Mr. John Donahoe – Chief Executive Officer, President and Director While Mr. Donahoe is feeding information to competitors on the eBay Board and selling the company’s assets to board members, notable PayPal architects including Elon Musk and David Yammer are publicly questioning his strategy. David Yammer recently stated that “if you allowed PayPal to pursue its destiny there are moves it could make to become the largest financial company in the world”(21,22). Elon Musk has said “it doesn’t make sense that a global payment system is a subsidiary of an auction website…it’s as if Target owned Visa or something”(22,23) and that “(PayPal) will either wither or be spun out”(22,23). Mr. Donahoe has resoundingly highlighted the strength of his “world-class board of directors”(5), including Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Cook. In our opinion, world-class directors focus on creating long-term stockholder value, not furthering their own financial and professional interests at the expense of stockholders. Amazingly, Mr. Donahoe has also publicly boasted about eBay’s sale of Skype, claiming that it was an opportunity for eBay to “have its cake and eat it, too”(24). The facts, however, show that the transaction was disastrous for stockholders to the tune of more than $4 billion. Additionally, Mr. Donahoe has touted his record of creating stockholder value over handpicked time periods. The more applicable facts show that not only from the time Mr. Donahoe took over as CEO, but also since the beginning of 2013, the stock has dramatically underperformed its applicable peers. From March 31, 2008 through our initial involvement on January 10, 2014, eBay stock returned 75%(25) while Amazon, Visa and MasterCard returned 462%, 271% and 285%(25), respectively. For all of 2013 through our initial involvement on January 10, 2014, Amazon, Visa and MasterCard returned 60%, 48%, and 73%(26), respectively, while eBay stock returned only 2%(26). It is very sad to us that Mr. Donahoe appears to lack awareness about what is going on around him on his board and in the marketplace. It makes us seriously question his judgment and ability to make the crucial decisions that must be made concerning the future of PayPal. How can Mr. Donahoe be the right person to make the strategic decisions necessary to achieve long-term value creation when he relies on his “world-class board of directors”(5) with competing interests that challenge their fiduciary responsibility to eBay stockholders? We are convinced that not only has Mr. Donahoe failed to address eBay’s corporate governance crisis but also that his general stewardship of the company has been myopic. Elon Musk, one of the most preeminent technological visionaries of our generation, predicts that “(PayPal) will get cut to pieces by Amazon Payments, or by others such as Apple and by startups if it continues to be part of eBay” (22,23). It is time for us to address this critical problem that now faces the company. Our Proposal We believe creating two dedicated and highly focused independent businesses would provide employees and stockholders the best opportunity to remain competitive over the long term. We believe that the separation of the traditional eBay and PayPal businesses will: (1) highlight the significant value of the disparate businesses currently shrouded by a conglomerate discount the market has afforded eBay; (2) focus and empower independent management teams to most effectively build two very different business platforms, make economic decisions independent of each other and, most importantly, foster innovation; and (3) provide an even more valuable currency for future bolt-on acquisition opportunities and for recruiting the top talent necessary for PayPal to remain the market leader in payment technology. In an environment where an accomplished leader such as Scott Thompson, the former CEO of Yahoo, is dismissed for adding two words, Computer Science, to a degree from Stonehill College(27), it is incredible that so many blatant indiscretions at eBay have been tolerated by Mr. Donahoe and the other board members. We believe eBay needs fresh stockholder representation on the board to steer it towards long-term success and away from becoming yet another example of a technology company with a management team and board that refused to adapt (such as Nokia, Blackberry, Dell, Eastman Kodak, Polaroid, Nintendo, Xerox, Sony, Palm, and AOL, among many others). Our experience creating long-term stockholder value at companies such as Chesapeake Energy, Forest Labs, Motorola and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, among many others, has showcased our ability to influence boards to meaningfully enhance long-term stockholder value by, among other things, holding management, and in certain cases other directors, accountable. We hope you will VOTE FOR OUR SLATE OF DIRECTORS and afford us the opportunity to represent and serve all eBay stockholders as members of the eBay Board, just as we have successfully done at many other companies in the past. Even more importantly, however, we urge you to vote in favor of our precatory proposal in order to send a clear message to the eBay Board that eBay and PayPal must be separated – NOW. We hope that all eBay stockholders recognize that PayPal is at a critical point in its development and that the payments market is rapidly evolving around it. Particularly with respect to technology, business opportunities are either seized by those who truly appreciate their potential, or they vanish and are relegated to the dustbin of history. Do not allow PayPal to be, in the words of Elon Musk, “cut to pieces” because it remains part of eBay. VOTE FOR OUR PRECATORY TO SEPARATE PAYPAL FROM EBAY NOW. Sincerely,   Carl C. Icahn    FREE AppDownload
(1) Growing. Markit released January’s HSBC Emerging Markets Composite PMI on February 10. Despite all the unsettling headline news about EMs, the index remained above 50.0 at 51.4, down slightly from December’s 51.6 and the sixth consecutive reading above 50.0. The press release noted that manufacturing remained stronger than services. (2) Lagging. The Emerging Markets MSCI (in dollars) has been underperforming the All Country World MSCI since their October 2011 lows. Since then, the former is up only 15.4%, while the latter is up 54.4%. (3) Cheapening. The underperformance of the EM MSCI since the summer of 2011 is largely attributable to its forward P/E, which has been moving sideways around 10.0. Over the same period, the World P/E is up more than 30% (to 13.9), led by a 50% increase in the US (to 15.3). (4) Flat-lining. The EM MSCI stock price index also has been moving sideways with some volatility since the summer of 2011, along with both the CRB raw industrials spot price index and the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil. The close relationship between these three variables suggests that the EM MSCI is likely to continue underperforming as long as commodity prices remain flat. That’s the most likely outlook this year if global economic growth remains subdued, as I expect. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Flash Correction. (1) The rules of the game. (2) Mark to Markit. (3) Flashy and not-so-flashy M-PMIs of the month. (4) Accentuating the positives again. (5) Blaming the moon and the weather. (6) Regional surveys remained frozen. (7) Quick roundtrip for P/Es. (8) Melt-up is still on the table. (9) Discount traders are back in size. (10) A shortage of stock. (11) EMs are cheap, but may continue to underperform as they have since mid-2011. (12) “The Monuments Men” (- - -). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganFortune Magazine has an excerpt from Warren Buffett's always-anticipated annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. He discusses two past property investment he had made. The first was a 400-acre farm in Nebraska, which he paid $280,000 for in 1986. The second was retail property near New York University in 1993. Both investment were made after prices collapsed. "Income from both the farm and the NYU real estate will probably increase in decades to come," he said. "Though the gains won't be dramatic, the two investments will be solid and satisfactory holdings for my lifetime and, subsequently, for my children and grandchildren." Buffett bulleted five fundamentals of investing, which we paraphrase: Buffett open this excerpt with this quote from his mentor Columbia University finance professor Ben Graham: "Investment is most intelligent when it is most businesslike." Read the whole except at Fortune.CNN.com. FREE AppDownload
This coming Thursday Japan’s Ministry of Public Management will be releasing the January CPI figures. The report will be closely watched to determine the progress of “Abenomics”, as the nation tries to work its way out of the persistent long-term deflationary environment. www.tradingeconomics.com However, a number of analysts continue to be skeptical of Abenomics succeeding. Derek Holt/Scotiabank – Here comes another round of Abe-hype, only this time, CPI inflation is expected to fall from the recent 1.6% y/y peak and that would further feed impressions that Abenomics is stalling out. The upturn in CPI inflation by December was still being heavily influenced by utility prices that were up 5.5% y/y due to the effects of yen depreciation on imported natural gas and oil prices, and higher electricity prices in the face of Japan’s continued shutdown of all of its nuclear reactors. Take energy and food — which is also probably under upward pressure in part due to yen depreciation — out of CPI and it is only up 0.7% y/y as food prices themselves are up 2.2%.  Most of the CPI effects of the Bank of Japan’s efforts to depreciate the yen remain confined to a relative price shock to food and energy that crowds out spending power elsewhere in the economy on future second-round effects in the absence of a pickup in wage growth or credit access. In spite of high expectations, the boost to exports generated by weaker yen has been more than offset by the rising value of imports (see chart). With the sales tax hike looming and wages remaining stagnant, the risks of Abenomics “stalling out” remain high.  M1AC FREE AppDownload
The macro economic picture in the US is unlikely to be clarified.  Durable goods orders the main release, and with Boeing orders off, a second contracting month is likely, while the end of the week is likely to see Q4 GDP revised lower from the initial 3.2% annualized pace.  Weaker retail sales and net exports and less inventory accumulation could see growth marked down to something closer to 2.5%. The FOMC minutes were clear that the growth in H2 13 was due in part to transitory factors and that growth would be slower in H1 14.  The minutes also revealed that there was talk about the possibility that the first interest rate hike might be needed sooner rather than later.  Some in the media played this up.  We regarded it as noise, not the signal, and indeed, at the end of last week, one Fed official, St. Louis Fed President Bullard the weakness of recent data has pushed him away from expecting a hike this year. Fed Chair Yellen delivers her weather-postponed semi-annual testimony to the Senate. Her prepared remarks are unlikely to change.  The key message is that barring a significant economic deviation from Fed expectations, the measured tapering of long-term asset purchases will continue.  Yellen may be asked about the weather's impact on the economy.  Reasonable people may differ on trying to assess the impact of the unusually cold and snowy winter.   We suspect the a reasonable working hypothesis is that it is roughly evenly divided between weather and other economic factors, (e.g. inventory cycle, expiration of emergency jobless benefits and expiration of tax credit on capex).   The new home sales report will likely illustrate both:  They are likely to have fallen for the third consecutive month and are back to levels seen last summer.   Cleaner data, and less adverse weather impact is likely in the coming weeks.  Those who do not sufficiently appreciate the impact of the adverse weather, and perhaps play up the impact of the tapering, may be surprised how perky the economy appears in the early spring. The European Central Bank identifies two pillars of its monetary policy:  money supply and inflation.  Both are reported in the week ahead and the outcome is expected to be instrumental in the central bank's decision on March 6.  The final January CPI and the preliminary February estimate will be reported, Monday and Friday respectively.  There is a risk that the 0.7% of the preliminary January estimate gets rounds up to 0.8% in the final estimate, while the preliminary February estimate is likely to move back to 0.7%. The January money supply figures may show some recovery from the extra weakness that the last minute adjustments ahead of year-end, which is the period that will be assessment in the Asset Quality Review and Stress Tests.  However, lending to the private sector has been contracting for more than a 1 1/2 years.  It has not been arrested by Draghi's rate cuts.  Some soft of funding-for-lending scheme is still be advocated by many and Draghi shows interest in asset-backed securities, but neither seems imminent. Since the German Constitutional Court cast aspirations on the ECB's OMT program, Moody's upgraded its outlook for Italy's rating to stable from negative, and before the weekend, it unexpectedly upgraded Spain to Baa2 from Baa3 and maintained a positive outlook.  For the record, this is equivalent with Fitch's BBB rating and puts S&amp;P as the odd-man out with its BBB- rating. Separately, we note that Fitch maintained its AAA rating for Austria, with a stable rating.  We had thought there was a reasonable chance the outlook could have been cut due to the banking sector challenges.  Moody's is set to deliver its opinion on Austria at the end of this week.  It currently has a negative outlook for its AAA rating.  S&amp;P cut Austria to AA+ early last year. The third largest economy in the euro zone will have a new prime minister this week.  Florence Mayor Renzi will lead Italy.  On one hand, he has suggested he wants to serve through the current parliamentary session that ends in 2018,  which would be unusually long by Italian standards.  On the other hand, he has taken on an agenda that could help raise the PD's chances in an election next, perhaps next Spring, under new electoral rules. Italy becomes the rotating EU President in H2 and by then Renzi has promised nothing short of a revolution.  Electoral reform, largely already agreed upon with Berlusconi, is he first priority.  By then end of next month, Renzi has promised labor reforms.  By the end of April, public administration reforms and, by the end of May, tax reform. It is a full week for Japanese data, which includes industrial output, CPI, employment and real spending data.   The data is largely irrelevant for three reasons.  First, last week's news poor Q4 GDP, with the deflator remaining in negative territory, and a record large January trade deficit provides the more comprehensive sense of the state of the economy.  Second, the BOJ extended its low interest rate loan programs last week, seemingly taking it out of the picture.  Third, the pending retail sales tax increase on April 1, if anything, would be expected to boost economic activity ahead of it and a decline afterward. Turning to emerging markets, outflows, according to EPFR continued for the seventeenth consecutive week.  Equities continue to bear the burden of the adjustment.  However, the weekend news; both, developments in the Ukraine and news that Mexico captured an important drug cartel leader may help improve sentiment.  At the same time, the MSCI Emerging Markets equity index consolidated recent gains most of last week, but appears poised to move higher in the week ahead.  After finishing last week just above 959, there is potential toward 980, with only 966 standing in the way.  Recall the low was recorded near 913.5 on February 4.   Three central banks from the emerging markets meet in the week ahead:  Brazil, Israel and Colombia. Only Brazil is expected to move and a 25 bp hike (to bring the Selic rate to 10.75%) looks most likely. Over the course of the week, India reports Q4 GDP and industrial production figures will be reported by Taiwan, SKorea, Singapore and Thailand.    China reports its official manufacturing PMI figures on Saturday March 1.  It is expected to confirm the economic slowing, but may remain above the 50 boom/bust level.  The yuan was particularly soft last week, falling about 0.4% against the dollar.  The offshore yuan (CNH) was off more than twice as much, prompting some concern that that is where the pressure started.  The only thing that seems clear, though, is that the weakening of the currency was officially sanctioned.   The central bank, which tends to be among the strongest advocates of reform, has indicated it will increase the 1% band that the yuan-dollar is allowed to trade within (in "an orderly manner" this year). Some suspect that may do so shortly, and more likely in a softer yuan environment, or at least during a consolidative phase.   Investors will continue to be closely scrutinize the yuan's performance in the days ahead.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Your must-read of the day is Matthew Boesler's examination of the impact of retiring Baby Boomers on the Labor Force Participation Rate. Short-story: While it's true that the Labor Force Participation Rate of the Baby Boomer cohort has ticked up a bit, the overall shift from prime-age workers to Baby Boomers has been a big driver of lower workforce participation. This one chart shows why 12.6 million people have left the workforce since 2007. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Atlanta Fed, courtesy of Ellyn Terry)Why people have left the labor force. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Giorgio PerottinoJuventus player Carlos Tevez counts out today's 10 Things You Need To Know.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — Ousted Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych — who fled Kiev late Friday — is now wanted for mass murder of protesters."As of this morning a mass murder of peaceful citizens case has been initiated," NBC's James Novograd translated from a statement on the interior minister's Facebook page. "Yanukovich and a number of other officials were put on a wanted list." Violence between riot police and protesters killed 82 people last week. — Ukraine says it needs $35 billion in foreign aid over the next two years to keep the country afloat, Reuters reports. "Over the past two days, we have had consultations and meetings with the EU and U.S. ambassadors and other countries and financial institutions on the urgent delivery of macro-financial assistance for Ukraine," said acting Finance Minister Yuri Kolobov. British finance minister George Osborne said that the EU was ready to provide assistance. Meanwhile, Ukranian stocks have staged a 9% rally in the wake of Yanukovych's fall from power. — Egyptian interim Prime Minister Hazem el-Beblawi announced on Monday the resignation of his cabinet, Reuters reports. "Today the cabinet took a decision to offer its resignation to the president of the republic," he said in a televised statement. "El-Beblawi has often been derided in the media for his perceived indecisiveness and inability to introduce effective remedies to the country's economic woes," the AP reports. "A presidential bid by the popular el-Sissi [the defense minister] has been widely anticipated and leaving him out of the next Cabinet will most likely be accompanied by an announcement by the 59-year-old soldier that he is running." — Asian markets were pretty quiet, with Japan's Nikkei closing down 0.19%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.80%, and Korea's KOSPI down 0.45%. Shanghai was ugliest, finishing 1.75% lower. European markets were mixed, and U.S. futures were pointing slightly higher. — This morning at 10:30 a.m. ET, the Dallas Fed will release its manufacturing index. Economist estimate the regional activity index dropped to 3.0 from 3.8 a month ago. The big story lately is whether this winter's particularly harsh weather is to blame for tepid economic data. "We see much of the recent weakness as payback for unsustainably strong growth in the second half of last year," wrote JPMorgan economists Michael Feroli and Robert Mellman. — Chinese home prices rose 9.6% year-over-year in January, down from 9.9% in December. Home prices climbed in 69 of the 70 cities surveyed. As banks curtail lending to developers and hard commodity industries, prices in top tier cities have started to cool off. — Matteo Renzi was sworn in Saturday, becoming Italy's youngest Prime Minister at the age of 39. Renzi, the former mayor of Florence and leader of the Democratic Party, took over for Enrico Letta in a party vote last week. Renzi has tried to project a younger image than Letta (who hung on to power for less than a year), wearing shirt sleeves to meetings and riding around on a bicycle. — HSBC, Europe's largest bank, missed earnings expectations. The bank said 2013 profits rose 9% to $22.6 billion from $20.7 billion, but that was lower than the $24.6 billion expected by Wall Street analysts, according to Bloomberg. The stock fell as a result. — MtGox is resigning from the board of the Bitcoin Foundation. The exchange remains unable to restart operations after it claimed to have been hit by a bug, and the MtGox Twitter account deleted all of its tweets. Bitcoin prices on the exchange rallied over the weekend on reports that it would reinstate withdrawals, but have since come down to $170. The price of a Bitcoin is $58o on Coindesk. — Jason Collins became the first active openly-gay NBA athlete Sunday when he signed a 10-day contract with the Brooklyn Nets. Then he helped them beat the Lakers 108-102. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinA man plays golf as anti-government protesters walk on the grounds of the Mezhyhirya residence of Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovich in the village Novi Petrivtsi, outside Kiev February 22, 2014.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus talks about the big things traders are talking about today: Good Morning!    US Futures are slightly higher, but off best levels as E-Minis failed 1840 overnight.   Headlines from the G20 are equity supportive over the weekend, as they shift from Austerity to growth, while blessing the BOJ’s easing operations as ECB’s Draghi sparks a dovish tone into their next meeting.   Focus remains on EM, where Ukraine is in rally mode on bailout indications – which has CDS dropping for all the EM markets on my monitor.   UK/European markets are mixed this AM, with the FTSE under pressure as HSBC is hit (#s) – The DAX is off small, but volumes there are almost 30% below recent averages.   The EU fins are in rally mode, as Spain is upgraded by Moody’s, and Soros indicates he’s a buyer of the sector.    In Asia, Japan was off small – but Shanghai posts it’s biggest loss in 2 months as concerns about a cooling property market weighed.   While ever sector in China was under pressure, globally Banks staged a decent overnight, Industrials in Germany outperformed (better Ifo), and the miners down under continue their recent outperformance. The 10YY is lower in the US, and back below the 100dma, despite headlines from FT and Barron’s about the “cooling” sentiment towards the bond market.   While the Yen has a slight bid, the $ is in rally mode against € (Draghi Comments as EU’s CPI prints weak).   With the DXY flat, no impact on commodities- but fresh “polar vortex” headlines has Nat Gas surging 5% into Wednesday’s expiry as traders scramble to get inventory for March delivery.   The G20 growth headers have a bid under metals – with Silver adding 1.4% and gold hitting 4month peaks.   Copper is having it’s worst day in a month on headlines from China talking reduced credit for housing.   Coffee remains in moonshot, adding another 3% (up 55% over the last week) as Brazil drought continues the upward momentum.     Scheduled Catalysts today include Chicago and Dallas Fed at 8:30, Greenspan Speaks at 8:45, a decent size POMO at 11 – and EM eyes will be on Brazil’s Trade Balance at 1.   This week brings Multiple Fed Speakers, including Yellen at Senate; Heavy Japan Data – PMI, Employment, CPI, Retail, IP, Housing; Housing Data - Case Shiller, New and Pending Home Sales; the Monthly Russell Rebalance, and the MSCI Quarterly Review on Friday, ahead of China Manufacturing late Friday night FREE AppDownload
www.ExoticSpotter.comA Tesla roadster in GermanyBERLIN (Reuters) - German business morale rose in February to its highest level since July 2011, suggesting Europe's largest economy will grow faster in the first quarter after expanding only modestly last year. The Munich-based Ifo think tank's business climate index, based on a monthly survey of some 7,000 companies, increased to 111.3, beating the consensus forecast in a Reuters poll that it would hold steady at 110.6. Economists said the survey pointed to an economic upturn. "February's German Ifo survey suggests that the economic recovery has continued to pick up some momentum in the early months of 2014," said Jonathan Loynes, the chief European economist at Capital Economics. The upbeat reading sent the euro to a day's high and pushed German Bund futures down to a session low. German sentiment indicators have generally been upbeat in recent months, though a ZEW survey last week showed morale among analysts and investors dropping. Hard data have been more subdued, with exports, industrial output and orders all falling in December. That has prompted some economists to warn that the economy is not faring as well as the forward-looking "soft" surveys suggest. Loynes said the Ifo survey had been "consistently over-optimistic" compared with hard data. Combined with a drop in expectations, he said, that supported the case for "steady but unspectacular" growth in Germany. While Germany powered ahead early on in the euro zone crisis, its performance weakened over the last two years, and in 2013 it grew at its slowest pace since the global financial crisis. But Berlin expects 1.8 percent growth this year, with domestic demand compensating for weak foreign trade. The Ifo survey contained some positive signs in that regard, with retailers becoming the most upbeat about their current business situation since spring 2012. Their expectations also improved further. That tallies with the latest GfK survey, which showed consumers were their most upbeat in 6 1/2 years heading into February. Consumer spending is up - many Germans won strong wage hikes last year, employment is at record levels, and inflation is moderate, while low interest rates are discouraging them from saving. Ifo economist Klaus Wohlrabe said consumption remained the bulwark of the German economy, with strong orders in the manufacturing sector a key pillar of support. The domestic economy propelled growth last year, but a detailed breakdown of fourth-quarter gross domestic product (GDP), due out on Tuesday, is expected to show public expenditure was stable and private consumption slightly below its third-quarter level. Companies were the most positive about current conditions in almost two years, but they became slightly more downbeat about their future prospects. "German businesses are optimistic but not euphoric," Wohlrabe said, adding that the euro zone recovery would have an impact in the medium term but not in the next couple of months. He said the export outlook was hit by turbulence in emerging markets, which made firms more cautious. Some companies have expressed optimism of late, with steel distributor Kloeckner &amp; Co &lt;KCOGn.DE&gt; saying the year's first few weeks went well and fashion house Hugo Boss &lt;BOSSn.DE&gt; saying it is confident of stronger growth this year. Manufacturers, who had a weak start to 2013, became more optimistic overall for a fourth consecutive month, though they were slightly more gloomy about their export prospects. (Reporting by Michelle Martin; additional reporting by Jens Hack in Munich and Alexandra Hudson and Erik Kirschbaum in Berlin; Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
FlickrBritish finance minister George Osborne said Monday the EU stands ready to provide vital financial aid to Ukraine as the crisis-hit country moved to appoint a pro-Western interim leader after impeaching defiant president Viktor Yanukovych. "It is very, very early days, early hours, but the people of Ukraine seem to have demonstrated their wish to take their country into the future and to have stronger links with Europe and I don't think we should be repelling that, we should be embracing that," Osborne told reporters in Singapore. "We should be there ready to provide financial assistance through organisations like the IMF and of course a lot of this will take the form of loans and the like," said Osborne, whose formal title is Chancellor of the Exchequer. Fears that Ukraine's debt-laden economy is facing default have sparked panic on markets, with bond yields rising sharply and the hryvnia currency losing a tenth of its value in the span of a few weeks. Osborne, who is in Singapore for a two-day official visit after attending a G20 meeting in Sydney, said the European Union could provide financial aid alongside the International Monetary Fund. "It is very early days, we have to have of course a legitimate political authority that we can deal with, but there are very encouraging signs in that regard," Osborne said. The ex-Soviet state's three-month crisis culminated in a dizzying flurry of historic changes over the weekend that saw parliament impeach pro-Russian Yanukovych and call a new presidential poll by May 25. Ukraine owes nearly $13 billion in debt payments this year -- money it cannot drum up on financial markets because of prohibitively expensive borrowing costs. Former president Yanukovych in November spurned an historic EU trade deal and secured a $15 billion pledge from Russia, but Moscow now says the deal is on hold following his ousting. The British finance minister's gesture of support came after the US and EU said they stood ready to aid the Ukraine's battered economy. US Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew told the G20 meeting in Sydney that Washington now "stands ready to assist Ukraine as it implements reforms". EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton will fly to Kiev on Monday for a two-day visit that her office said will aim to work out "measures to stabilise the economic situation" in Ukraine. Lawmakers on Sunday moved to appoint Oleksandr Turchynov, an ally of pro-west former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko, as interim president, just a day after he was appointed parliament speaker in place of a Yanukovych loyalist. Tymoshenko, who was thrown behind bars less than a year after Yanukovych came to power in 2010, has also been released from prison. Yanukovych fled Kiev and went into hiding amid anger over a week of carnage. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichAn anti-government protester attaches Ukrainian and EU flags on a barricade that faces a cordon of riot police in Kiev February 2, 2014.KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine said on Monday it needed $35 billion in foreign assistance over the next two years and appealed for urgent aid following the overthrow of its president. The Finance Ministry said it had called for a donor's conference and needed the first aid in the next week or two. Acting President Oleksander Turchinov, appointed after Viktor Yanukovich was stripped of his powers by parliament on Saturday, said on Sunday Ukraine was near default and the economy was falling into an abyss. "Over the past two days, we have had consultations and meetings with the EU and U.S. ambassadors and other countries and financial institutions on the urgent delivery of macro-financial assistance for Ukraine," Acting Finance Minister Yuri Kolobov said in a statement. He said the international donor conference should involve representatives of the European Union, the United States and the International Monetary Fund. Ukraine faces state debt payments of around $6 billion in the remainder of this year. In an address to the nation, Turchinov on Sunday spelled out the enormity of the task facing Ukraine's new leadership, and identified stabilizing the economy as a priority. "Against the background of global economic recovery, the Ukrainian economy is heading into the abyss and is in a pre-default state," he said. "The task of the new government is to stop the country's slide into the abyss, to stabilize the exchange rate, guarantee the timely payment of salaries, pensions and stipends, and to regain the confidence of investors, promote the development of enterprises and the creation of new jobs." The Ukrainian currency, the hyrvnia, fell about 2.4 percent against the U.S. dollar in early trading on Monday. (Reporting By Pavel Polityuk, Editing by Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves Herman Russian President Vladimir Putin takes part in a news conference after an EU-Russia Summit in Brussels January 28, 2014.KIEV/MOSCOW (Reuters) - Ukraine hopes the price it pays for Russian gas will not change, Acting Energy Minister Eduard Stavytsky said on Monday, following the overthrow of Viktor Yanukovich as president. "We hope that the price (of Russian gas) will be stable," Stavytsky told Reuters by telephone. Russia agreed in December to reduce the gas price for Kiev to $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters, a cut of about one third from around $400 which Ukraine had paid since 2009. The reduction was part of a wider financial deal Moscow signed with Kiev after Ukraine spurned an EU trade deal. Two Gazprom sources told Reuters the company had no immediate plans of returning to the previous gas price for Kiev, which is seeking around $35 billion in foreign assistance over the next two years. "But this is not Gazprom to decide," one of the sources said. A Gazprom official declined to comment on the issue of price but said gas transit to Europe, which is getting around a quarter of its gas needs from Russia, is being pumped "in full volumes". The last dispute over gas pricing between Russia and Ukraine caused shortages in Europe over the winter of 2009. Russian President Vladimir Putin has so far been silent on events in Ukraine, keeping the question of the gas price - and the wider deal to offer $15 billion in Russian aid to Ukraine - open. Ukraine consumes about 55 billion cubic meters of gas each year, and more than half of this amount is imported from Russia. Gazprom exported 161.5 billion cubic meters of gas to Europe last year. (Reporting By Pavel Polityuk in Kiev and Denis Pinchuk in Moscow; writing by Katya Golubkova, Editing by Timothy Heritage and Elizabeth Piper) AFP FREE AppDownload
The recent data for housing has been weak, with new home sales and housing starts mostly moving sideways over the last year (with plenty of ups and downs, and I expect downward revisions to Q4 new home sales). Existing home sales have declined 14% from a peak of 5.38 million in July 2013 on a seasonally adjusted annual rate basis (SAAR), to just 4.62 million SAAR in January.There are several reasons for the recent weakness:1) Higher prices. Case-Shiller reported prices were up 13.7% year-over-year in November. Other indexes had smaller increases, but all showed significant price increases in 2013.2) Higher mortgage rates. 30 year fixed mortgage rates increased last summer from around 3.5% in May 2013 to 4.4% in July 2013. Since then, mortgage rates have mostly moved sideways, but some of the weakness since last summer is probably related to higher mortgage rates.3) Fewer distressed sales.   Although the decline in foreclosures, short sales, and mortgage delinquencies is good news, this has meant fewer overall existing home sales (this isn't a surprise - I've been predicting a decline in overall existing home sales for exactly this reason).  Even though overall sales have been declining, equity sales (aka conventional transactions), are actually up year-over-year.  Note: Of course fewer distressed sales should be a positive for new home sales, so this doesn't explain some of the recent weakness for new home sales.4) Less investor buying.  This is related to fewer distressed sales.  If we use cash buyers as an indicator of the level of investor buying, then the decline in cash buyers in areas like Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Sacramento suggests investors are pulling back.5) Limited inventory.  The sharp decline in inventory over the last few years was a key story for housing (I beat that horse into the ground).   There are several reasons inventory has been low: a) Most of the recent investor buying has been "buy-to-rent" and these investors aren't selling, Note: Economist Tom Lawler discussed this two year ago, and he concluded that a significant "share of the decline in the share of homes for sale reflects the acquisition of SF (and condo) properties by investors as multi-year rental properties", b) Is it difficult for people who are underwater (negative equity)  to sell,  c) Seller psychology: When the expectation is that prices will fall further, marginal sellers will try to sell their homes immediately. And marginal buyers will decide to wait for a lower price. This leads to more inventory on the market. But when the expectation is that prices are stabilizing (the current situation), sellers will wait until it is convenient to sell. d) Low inventory can keep some potential sellers from listing their homes because they can't find a move-up home to buy.6) Supply chain constraints for New Homes.   I noted at the beginning of 2013 "I've heard some builders might be land constrained in 2013 (not enough finished lots in the pipeline)." That was correct - some builders had limited entitled land and there were other constraints too (material shortages, skilled labor in certain areas) - and this limited the number of new home sales last year (sales were only up 16.3% in 2013).7) And some of the recent weakness in December and January (and February) might have been weather related.Here are a few graphs to show the recent weakness: Click on graph for larger image. CalculatedRiskTotal housing starts in January were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 880,000 - only 2% above January 2013, and single-family housing starts in January were at a rate of 573,000 - down 6% from January 2013.Although starts have been up and down over the last year, starts have mostly moved sideways. Of course starts were up 18.7% in 2013 compared to 2012, so there was little "weakness" on an annual basis. New home sales followed the same pattern has housing starts: up solidly in 2013 compared to 2012, but with sales mostly moving sideways all year (with ups and downs).CalculatedRiskNew Home Sales in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) of 414 thousand up only 4.5% from December 2012.New home sales for January 2014 will be released this coming Wednesday, and I expect sales to be down year-over-year, and to see some downward revisions for Q4 sales. Existing home sales in January were at a 4.62 million SAAR, and were 5.1% below the January 2013 rate.So what should we make of this "weakness"?CalculatedRiskFirst, the decline in existing home sales is not bad news. See: Home Sales Reports: What Matters. Fewer distressed sales - and more equity sales (conventional sales) - is a positive.Second, we need to put the recent "weakness" for starts and new home sales in perspective.   New home sales were up 16.3% in 2013 - a solid year of growth - and 2013 was still the sixth weakest year since 1963 when the Census Bureau started tracking new home sales.  For housing starts, even after increasing 28.2% in 2012 and 18.7% in 2013, the 927 thousand housing starts in 2013 were the sixth lowest on an annual basis since the Census Bureau started tracking starts in 1959 (the three lowest years were 2008 through 2012). Also, this was the fifth lowest year for single family starts since 1959 (only 2009 through 2012 were lower).These low levels of housing starts and new home sales, combined with a growing population and new household formation, suggests new home sales and housing starts should increase over the next few years. Also higher prices should lead to more inventory (the NAR reported inventory was up 7.6% year-over-year in January). More inventory should mean slower price increases (maybe even flat of declining prices in certain markets), and also more non-distressed sales.  For new homes, the builders are reporting more selling communities in 2014, and it appears some of the land constraints have diminished. As Lawler recently wrote:  First, fueled by low mortgage rates, low new and existing home inventories, and some “pent-up” demand, builders as a group experienced a significant increase in net home orders starting in the latter part of 2012 and continuing into the spring of 2013. While many builders responded by increasing significantly land acquisitions and development spending in 2012 and 2013, many builders were unable to meet demand, partly reflecting longer-than-normal development timelines related to “supply-chain” issues. Many responded by increasing prices substantially, in some areas at a pace seldom seen. When mortgage rates subsequently rose sharply, the combination of higher mortgage rates and substantially higher new home prices resulted in a significant slowdown in net home orders. While mortgage rates eased somewhat in the latter part of last year, orders did not rebound much (or for some builders at all), mainly reflecting potential buyers balking at the higher home prices. That slowdown did not dampen most builders’ optimism for the 2014 spring selling season, and most builders have the land/lots to increase substantially their community counts this year, and plan to do so. One reason for their optimism is that the previous hikes in prices have at many builders pushed margins up well above “normal” levels, meaning they can drive higher revenues with higher volumes without price increases, and in fact can be “quite profitable” by holding prices even if construction costs rise. As such, a reasonable assumption for new home prices from the end of 2013 to the end of 2014 would be “flattish.” The bottom line is the housing weakness should be temporary. There should be more inventory this year, price increases should slow, and sales volumes increase. FREE AppDownload
Traders seem to like the events of the past few days in Ukraine. Yanukovych's fall from power — and his escape from Kiev — coupled with the likely ascent of a pro-EU government is causing a massive, 9% rally. Here's the intraday chart from Bloomberg: Bloomberg Ukraine has all kinds of economic and budgetary issues, but for the moment, the turn of events is being welcomed. FREE AppDownload
ReutersAfter rising 3% against the U.S. dollar in 2013, the onshore yuan (CNY) weakened against the greenback last week. The offshore yuan (CNH) also fell. UBS' Tao Wang writes that "the era of steady CNY appreciation may be drawing to a close," and she thinks this "is likely government-guided and may signal a change in China's exchange rate policy." But she doesn't expect large depreciation either, in part because of international pressure on China and in part because Beijing is trying to accelerate the internationalization of the renminbi. This move away from steady appreciation could however unwind hot money inflows into China. 'Hot money' refers to non-foreign direct investment (FDI) capital inflows. Naturally, the first concern would be the impact on foreign exchange inflows and on China's liquidity and credit growth. From Wang: So what is exactly the risk of a potential unwinding of "hot money" on China's domestic credit boom? Contrary to what many people may think, the scale of inflows has been negatively correlated to domestic credit growth. That is, arbitrage inflows tend to increase when China is trying to slowdown domestic credit growth – when many borrowers face tougher credit constraints and higher interest rates in the shadow banking sector, and decline when the domestic economy seems to be weak or external turbulence increases uncertainty in general. In the latter case, the government usually decides and has been able to increase domestic credit growth. Therefore, the unwinding of FX inflows may not necessarily result in a sharp credit tightening in China, as the government can and usually does offset such outflows.The risk is perhaps more on liquidity management. A sudden and large unwind of FX inflows could tighten domestic liquidity unexpectedly, and the central bank needs to react quickly and decisively to offset such contraction either through open market operations, other liquidity-injection facilities, or by cutting the still high reserve requirements and relax rules on loan-to-deposit ratios. Such a reaction may not always be seamless and without glitch. As a result, we could see volatility in the interbank market and in overall credit growth.   Another risk would be that companies and sectors that have relied on overseas funding may suffer as a result of this unwind: First, they can no longer find the funding they need, as these borrowers typically face tougher credit restrictions onshore (for example, property developers); second, they may face losses related to higher funding costs (due to the weakening of the exchange rate or a change in exchange rate expectations). Losses related to the exchange rate should be relatively limited, however. Given China's more than $3.8 trillion in FX reserves and the government's desire to defend the stability of the currency, we do not expect a major depreciation even in the case of a large "hot money" unwind or outflow.  Wang thinks Beijing will now be focused on "increased flexibility of the RMB as the key objective of further exchange rate reform." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 1.At 39.8%, the labor force participation rate for those 55 years of age and over is the lowest it's been since April 2009 (chart 1). Millions of "baby boomers" — a generation typically defined as those born during the post-war baby boom that took place between 1946 and 1964 — have retired from the workforce over the past six years. This is putting massive downward pressure on the total labor force participation rate, which currently stands at 63.0% (chart 2). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 2.Of course, the labor force participation rate for those 55 years of age and over has only been falling for the last year, whereas the total labor force participation rate has been falling for over five years. This has led to some confusion. How can retiring baby boomers be the primary driver of the drop in labor force participation if the participation rate for those 55 years of age and over has been mostly increasing in recent years as the total labor force participation rate has fallen? Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 3.It's important to remember that, at 39.8%, the participation rate for those 55 years of age and over is still a massive 41.1 percentage points lower than the prime working age (25-54) participation rate, which currently stands at 80.9% (chart 3). Millions of Americans have been transitioning from the first bucket (25-54) to the second one (55+) over the past several years as the baby boom generation comes of retirement age. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 4.Since 2007, the prime working age population has fallen by 1.556 million, or 1.2%, whereas the 55-and-over population has risen by 14.063 million, a 20.2% increase (chart 4). Some quick arithmetic shows the effect this has had on overall labor force participation: Don't take it from us, though — take it from the retiring boomers themselves. The monthly Current Population Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (from which labor force participation data are derived) actually asks those leaving the labor force why they are doing so. In a recent article, Ellyn Terry, an economic policy analysis specialist in the research department of the Atlanta Fed, broke down the numbers. "In total, the number of people not in the labor force rose by 12.6 million (16 percent) from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2013," wrote Terry. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Atlanta Fed, courtesy of Ellyn Terry)Why people have left the labor force."About 5.5 million more people (a 16% increase) are retired, 2.9 million (a 23% increase) are disabled or ill, and 2.5 million (a 19% increase) are in school. An additional 161,000 are taking care of their family or house, and an additional 99,000 are not in the labor force for other reasons. The fraction who say they want a job has risen the most (32%) but has contributed only 11% to the total change." Dividing 5.5 million by 12.6 million suggests around 44% of the drop in labor force participation since 2007 is retiring workers. Add the 2.3 million workers over the age of 50 who have left the workforce because of disability in that time period and the numbers suggest closer to 62% of the drop in labor force participation over the last six years can be attributed to an aging population. The 2.5 million people who have left the workforce in the past six years to go back to school, meanwhile, account for another 20% of the drop in participation, and discouraged workers — those who have left the labor force because they couldn't find a job — only account for 11% of the decline, as Terry notes. It is true that, while the trends toward increased disability and school enrollment are being driven by important structural forces, they also probably have a significant cyclical component to them as well. In other words, a good number of people have probably left the labor force to go on disability or go back to school because they couldn't find a job. However, nearly 80% of those who have gone on disability since 2007 are over the age of 50. The struggles of older workers in finding employment in this job market are well documented, and to the extent that the causes were cyclical, the effects may largely be structural. Chart 6 zooms out a bit to make the simple point that America is getting older, a trend that will undoubtedly continue to have a profound impact on the labor market going forward. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 6. FREE AppDownload
Feng Li / GettyGood morning! It's the final week of the month, and things are pretty quiet. Japan ended its session down 0.19%. Shanghai is the one big red splotch on the board, with the Shanghai Composite dropping 1.75%. German stocks are essentially flat. Same with the UK US futures are a hair higher. This week will see a fair share of interesting economic data, including regional data from the Dallas and Richmond Feds. Also tomorrow we'll get the latest Case-Shiller housing data. For a preview of all that, see here &gt; FREE AppDownload
