Chip Somodevilla / Getty ImagesComcast CEO Brian RobertsComcast is set to buy Time Warner Cable in an all-stock deal that values Time Warner at $159 per share, CNBC's David Faber reports on Twitter. At $159, Comcast would be paying an 18% premium to today's closing price. It would value Time Warner Cable at ~$45 billion. Comcast is valued at $146.5 billion. This would make one gigantic cable company.  Comcast is the biggest cable provider in the U.S. with 23 million subscribers. Time Warner is the second biggest with 12 million subscribers. The next closest is Cox with 4.6 million subs. (All numbers from Wikipedia.) Satellite company DirecTV has 20 million subscribers. Time Warner Cable has been in play for months now. Charter has been trying to merge with Time Warner Cable. It even nominated a full slate of board members.  But Charter was only offering $132.50 per share for Time Warner, which Time Warner rejected as "grossly inadequate," according to The New York Times. Time Warner was holding out for a better deal, and it looks like it got one. However, this is far from a done deal. It will come under heavy government scrutiny.  This would create the biggest pay-TV business by a mile. There's not exactly a ton of competition in the world of cable, but this would effectively make it nonexistent.  Here are the tweets: Comcast to buy Time Warner Cable in all stock deal worth $159 per $TWC share- sources. Deal set for tomorrow morning. Ratio is 2.875 $CMCSA. Comcast will indicate willingness to divest 3m subs from combination with $TWC- sources. Comcast deal for $TWC does not face ownership cap restrictions, but sure to get tough review from FCC.$CMCSA wants to avoid consent decree. FREE AppDownload
This raises the question, how high could interest rates go from here?  Could interest rates move up to 3% per quarter? U.S. interest rates were that high back in 1981 when the yield on US 10-year Treasuries 15.84% while 30-year mortgage rates hit 18.63%.  What about 3% per month, per week, or even per day? We do have one case where the hyperinflation was bad enough to push interest rates up to unimaginable levels, but not so high that the whole concept of interest rates became meaningless. This occurred in Brazil in early 1990. Between 1981 and 1994, annual inflation exceeded 100% in all but one year, and over 1000% in four of those years, with 1989 and 1993 being the two worst years.  Inflation became institutionalized in the country.  Wages, salaries, prices, even bank accounts were pegged to the inflation rate, and the Banco do Brasil felt duty bound to set a daily interest rate so people could adjust to the hyperinflation as prices spiraled out of control. HYPERINFLATION AS THE NEW NORMAL Brazil was one of the worst of the Latin American hyperinflators of the 1960s to 1990s. New currencies were introduced in 1967, 1986, 1989, 1990, 1993 and 1994. The Real, introduced on July 1, 1994, put an end to Brazil’s addiction to inflation, but by the time the Real was introduced, the new currency, was equal to 2.75 Quintillion (2,750,000,000,000,000,000) Reis, the original currency Brazil had used as a Portuguese colony. The impact of these inflations on the currency is illustrated below in the log chart of exchange rates between the Brazilian currency and the US Dollar from 1950 to 2014. Global Financial Data The Banco do Brazil uses the SELIC (Sistema Especial de Liquidação e Custodia – Special Clearance and Escrow System) to set interest rates for the economy, just as the Federal Reserve uses the Discount rate in the United States.  The SELIC became the basis for all interest rates throughout the Brazilian economy as hyperinflation took over.  At first the SELIC was adjusted every few years, then every few months, then daily. Along with the exchange rate for the SELIC became the primary indicator of inflation on the Brazilian economy. The Banco do Brazil has a daily record of interest rates back to 1986 which is illustrated in the log graph below.  The daily interest rates have been annualized, compounding the daily interest rates into the annual equivalent. Global Financial Data What is most interesting about the graph is the exponential increase in interest rates from 1975 to 1993, rising steadily from around 16% per annum to almost 16,000% until the back of inflation was broken in 1993. Currency reforms are visible in the large drops in the interest rate as the government tried to reform the fiscal sector and stop the inflationary spiral, but the government inevitably returned to its inflationary fix to solve its problems. The highest interest rates occurred in February 1990.  During that period of time inflation was rising at such a high and unpredictable rate, that the Banco do Brazil would only quote interest rates on a daily basis.  The whole concept of annual or even monthly interest rates became meaningless, as prices steadily rose and the Cruzeiro steadily depreciated. Daily interest rates hit 1% in June 1989, rose to 2% by November 1989, 3% by the beginning of February 1990, and peaked at 3.626% by February 19, 1990. HOW TO BANKRUPT BORROWERS Although 3% may not seem like a lot, compounding that on a daily basis adds up very quickly.  If you take the 30 days from February 1 to March 2, 1990, the product of these interest rates comes to 167% in one month (inflation was 75.7% in February 1990).  If you extrapolate that on an annual basis, interest rates in Brazil hit a high of 790,799% on February 19, 1990.  In other words, if you had borrowed $100 on February 19, 1990, you would have owed the bank $790,799 a year later.  Payday loans sound cheap by comparison. Obviously, this situation was unsustainable.  The newly elected President, Fernando Affonso Collor de Mello, introduced his “shock” plan to cure the economy on March 16, 1990, closing banks for three days, the Novo Cruzado replaced the Cruzeiro, and 20% of overnight market funds were frozen for 18 months. A 30-day wage and price freeze, a new wealth tax, and a widening of the tax base were introduced. Although the currency reform slowed the rate of inflation, decreasing it from a monthly rate of 82% (135,000% annually) in March 1990 to 7.6% by May (140% annually), inflation picked up from there.  Monthly inflation began its steady increase as the government continued to print Cruzeiros rather than raise taxes.  Monthly inflation steadily increased to 47% by June 1994 when the introduction of the Real put an end to Brazil’s hyperinflation. Though the United States is unlikely to go the route of Brazil, it does show what can happen when quantitative easing becomes too easy. This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesGlobal assets under management will climb to $102 trillion by 2020, from $64 trillion in 2012, according to a report from PricewaterhouseCoopers.  In North America alone, AUM is expected to climb to $49 trillion by 2020, from $33.2 trillion in 2012. This is more than the AuM for Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East &amp; Africa combined. Assets held by mass affluent in North America, those with $100,000 - $1 million will rise to over $100 trillion, from $59 trillion in 2012. While the wealth of high net worth individuals with $1 million or more will rose to $76 trillion, from $52 trillion in 2012. The report also found six trends that advisors should watch: As the financial advisory industry moves ahead, advisors are already faced with generational changes in terms of both clients and advisors. They should be cognizant of these changes and try to capitalize on them as well. FREE AppDownload
This scatter chart plots the year-over-year change in average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory employees — a common measure of wage growth — along the x-axis and the monthly change in this measure (i.e., acceleration or deceleration) along the y-axis. It begins with data from October 2012, when wage growth was 1.28%, the lowest level on record. By February 2013, it had accelerated to 2.04%. Then, wage growth stumbled until turning up again in May, and by October, it hit a multi-year high of 2.27%. However, in recent months, it has decelerated slightly, and now stands at 2.21%. Going forward, wage growth could become a key input to monetary policy. Goldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius believes the Federal Reserve should place more emphasis on wage growth and less on consumer price inflation in its analysis of the amount of slack in the labor market. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Reasons Baby Boomers Are Unlikely To Withdraw Too Much Money From The Stock Market Or Drive Down Prices (Vanguard)  For some time it has been argued that as baby boomers retire stock prices will be pushed down. Daniel Wallick, a principal with Vanguard’s investment strategy group, doesn't think that's true. In fact he points out three key reasons for this.  1. The impact of the retiring baby boomer generation will be spread out. "It’s 1946 to 1964 in terms of birth years. So that means that as baby boomers start to retire, they’re not all going to retire on the same day."2. "The percentage of stock ownership by baby boomers as a cohort is very similar to previous cohorts. …So the fact that it’s baby boomers as opposed to previous generations or subsequent generations really hasn’t altered the amount of stock that that group owns."3. Finally we need to think of the concentration of wealth. "The top 10% of all equity owners own 88% of all the stock and the reason that that’s significant is if you have that much wealth concentrated, you’re not in a position where you need to sell. So, you have enough disposable income or additional assets that you’re not required to spend that down to live on." Global Assets Under Management To Rise Above $100 Trillion By 2020 (PriceWaterhouseCoopers) Global assets under management will climb to $102 trillion by 2020, from $64 trillion in 2012, according to a report from PricewaterhouseCoopers. In North America alone, AUM is expected to climb to $49 trillion by 2020, from $33.2 trillion in 2012. This is more than the AuM for Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East &amp; Africa combined. The report also found that "by 2020, the industry is likely to see the emergence of a new breed of global managers, one with highly streamlined platforms, targeted solutions for the customer, and a stronger and more trusted brand." These managers will not only emerge from the traditional fund complexes, but from among the ranks of large alternative firms as well. Barclays Is Changing How It Compensates Advisors And They're Not Happy About It (The Wall Street Journal) Barclays Wealth &amp; Investment Management division in the Americas is changing  the way it compensates advisors, according to Corrie Driebusch at The Wall Street Journal. Not only will their compensation be based on the amount of money they bring in, it will also be cut for misconduct. Driebusch says the new policy has already prompted some of the advisors to look for new jobs.  From Driebusch: "Barclays advisers will receive about half of their pay in the form of a monthly payment; the other half will be paid out every three months, according to people familiar with the new arrangement. While both payments will be are based on a production formula similar to that at other firms, the quarterly payment also takes into account values-based criteria that include professional conduct and customer complaints. Poor performance in these areas could lead to a reduced payout." It Turns Out John Maynard Keynes Was Also A Good Money Manager (The New York Times) John Maynard Keynes is universally known for Keynesian economics. But New York Times' John Wasik points out that Keynes was a money manager too. "What I found was that Keynes stumbled several times before he succeeded — he was almost financially wiped out three separate times — but he got back in the game and altered his thinking to build wealth long term," Wasik writes." After nearly losing it all, "Keynes went about-face in the early to mid-1930s to concentrate on a company’s “enterprise” value, which is also known as “book” or “breakup” value," writes Wasik. "This intrinsic view of a company’s true worth stripped out the overly emotional component that is often reflected in stock prices. As a result, he often picked companies that had promising futures, but were unloved at the time." Here Are The 4 Big Trends From This Quarter's Earnings Calls (Goldman Sachs) The Q4 earnings season at its halfway mark. And Goldman Sachs is out with its "Beige Book" of macro anecdotes from company conference calls. In the report David Kostin highlights four key themes to emerge from this earnings season.  1. Margin expansion will be difficult in 2014 but firms will continue to look for ways to rein in costs.2. Continued optimism for emerging market growth and are actively invested in  prospects for emerging market growth.3. Companies ready to spend record levels of cash even as they highlight dividend and buyback spending.4. FX is a common headwind to revenue growth. FREE AppDownload
No two emerging market economies are the same. Each country has varying growth prospects and risk profiles. Each country also has the potential to surprise in various ways. So, when investing in emerging markets, the best move may be to buy a portfolio of countries rather than pick the one you think will be the winner. The folks at US Funds put together this "periodic table" of emerging markets, which ranks the annual stock market returns of various developing economies. "Emerging markets, like all investments, can have wide price fluctuations over time," they write. "This table shows the ebb and flow of emerging market countries over the past decade and illustrates the principal of mean reversion — the concept that returns eventually move back toward their mean or average." US Funds
Here's a map from American Enterprise Institute's Mark Perry that puts America's $16 trillion economy in some global perspective. The map compares the GDP of U.S. states with other the national GDPs of other nations. "America’s largest state economy is California, which produced $2.003 trillion of economic output in 2012, just slightly below Italy’s GDP in the same year of $2.013 trillion," Perry notes. "In 2012, California would have been tied with Italy as the 9th largest economy in the world. And California’s population is only 38 million compared to Italy’s population of 61 million, which means California produces the same economic output as Italy with 37% fewer people. That’s a testament to the superior, world-class productivity of the American worker."  With 4.4% of the world's population, the U.S. produced 22.3% of world GDP in 2012. Not bad. Check out the map: AEI   FREE AppDownload
National Weather ServiceA major winter storm that battered parts of the South on Wednesday is expected to bring heavy snow to the Northeast as it moves up the East Coast Wednesday night, according to the National Weather Service. The Weather Service is calling for 8 to 12 inches in New York City, falling overnight and continuing into the day on Thursday before winding down on Thursday night. According to Weather.com, the snow will hit New York City after midnight.  "Sleet and rain will likely mix with the snow during the late morning and afternoon hours Thursday," the Weather Service said in winter storm warning that remains in effect until 6 a.m. EST Friday.  A huge swath of the United States from Virginia to Maine will be affected by the storm. There is a potential for five or more inches of snow in Washington D.C., Philadelphia, and Boston, with greater accumulations expected farther north in Connecticut, New Hampshire, and Maine, Weather.com reports. Accuweather.com senior meteorologist Henry Margusity said: "In some areas from parts of Virginia, northeastward to New England, it may seem like a blizzard at times." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoThe anti-government protests started on Monday, and even then Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said he had had it. "I've had enough," said angry Maduro, who has held a wobbly grip on power since he replaced late-President Hugo Chavez last year. "You can accuse me of what you want, I am obliged to defend democracy and the peace of the people." Two days later and the protests have turned violent.  When the demonstrations started, there were simply a few hundred protesters — mostly students — in cities around the country. Those students called for others to join them today as the country celebrates 'Youth Day', a holiday that commemorates students who participated in the struggle for Venezuelan Independence in the 19th century.  Now people are out in the streets by the thousands. The word in the Twitterverse is that helicopters fly over Caracas as armed motorists supporting the government ride through the streets. "I am in Caracas and there are fallen students in the streets and the media isn't saying anything," says one Twitter user. Reuters is reporting one protester dead. National Assembly head Diosdado Cabello, an ally of Maduro's, said that the deceased was a government supporter.  "He's a comrade assassinated by the right-wing fascist hordes," he said in a speech. Maduro has called the protesters "a Nazi-fascist" current. Careful with the picture below, it's not for the faint of heart. AP PhotoA student shot in the head is carried by other protesters inside a Police vehicle in Caracas, Venezuela, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2014. Thousands of Venezuelans opposed to President Nicolas Maduro took to the streets in Caracas in a show of force following two weeks of sometimes violent anti-government protests that have swept across the country. (AP Photo/Alejandro Cegarra) FREE AppDownload
ReutersIn 2009, a spokesperson for the U.S. Internal Revenue Service estimated that 8.2 million Americans owed over $83 billion in back taxes, penalties and interest (approximately $10,000 per person). Despite the threat of owing thousands of dollars to the U.S. government, millions of Americans continue to fall behind on their taxes. People get behind the tax eight ball for many reasons — but some of those reasons are more common than others, says Daniel Morris, a certified public accountant (CPA) with Morris &amp; D’Angelo, a Silicon Valley-based accounting firm. “There’s the ‘I’m too busy excuse,’ where the person’s life is out of control and was simply too overwhelmed to complete the paperwork,” he says. “Typically, that person believes they will get to it ‘next week.’” “Then there’s the life disruption excuse, which has more validity,” he adds. “There could be a death, illness, cancer, divorce, or a loss of job that derailed them from performing their normal compliance requirements.” Harlan Levinson, a Los Angeles-based CPA, says he gets numerous calls each year on late tax payments, both individually and for businesses.  “The reasons are myriad,” he says. “Some people say they didn’t feel like opening the mail, or they don’t have the time to do their taxes.” “Then there’s the Americans who just don’t have the money to pay their taxes, or who are overwhelmed by the whole tax filing process.” Whatever the reason, if you fall behind on your taxes for reasons other than financial hardship, you need to get your act together. The price of neglect is too high; the IRS will come after you and won’t stop until you either fight back or pay up (usually, that means both). Here’s a more “fleshed-out” list of reasons that otherwise conscientious people get behind on their taxes. One of the most common mistakes a taxpayer can make is failing to file a tax return. But if you live and earn income in the United States above a minimum threshold amount during a particular year, you are required to pay taxes and report that income by filing a federal tax return. To see if you have to file a return, the IRS uses three criteria: your age, your filing status and your income. Generally, once you reach a certain income level, the law requires you to file. The amounts are adjusted annually for inflation. For 2013 tax returns, individuals younger than age 65 must file if they make at least: The earnings threshold amounts go up a bit for older (age 65-plus) individuals: The earnings target is the same — $3,900 — for married couples filing separately, regardless of age. By law, employers typically withhold taxes from your paycheck. What you may not know is that if enough taxes are not withheld from your paycheck throughout the year, you, the employee, will likely owe the IRS when you file your tax return during tax season. The IRS calls this “underwithholding.” It’s usually triggered after an employee claims excessive exemptions on his or her IRS Form W-4 (completed at the time of hiring) that results in not having enough income tax withheld throughout the year. You can file a new W-4 at any time. And if you find that you’ve given too much to the government, you’ll get the money back when you file your income taxes. Another common form of falling behind on taxes is linked to business owners and entrepreneurs. People who are self-employed are responsible for paying their own taxes on a monthly or quarterly basis, depending on their income and estimated tax payments. Since they are self-employed, they do not have an employer to withhold taxes from their paycheck — that’s usually an effective backstop for people who might otherwise forget to file their taxes. But if you’re self-employed, and you fail to make your estimated tax payments throughout the year, you’ll likely incur a large tax liability at the end of the year. There are a variety of ways to calculate your quarterly estimated tax payments. Just be sure the method you choose doesn’t leave you struggling to make daily expenses or set you up with a huge tax bill and underpayment penalties. It’s not just self-employed Americans who are pressed for time — everyone is busy these days. Consequently, some other reasons people may owe the IRS are directly linked to what’s going on in their personal lives. For example, a taxpayer may have a family crisis or an emergency that occurs around tax season that prevents him or her from filing a tax return on time or from paying his or her tax bill in full. In that situation, the IRS will issue the taxpayer a bill for the amount still owed. Other taxpayers may simply misunderstand the tax laws and take exemptions, deductions and credits that they are not qualified to claim. In this situation, the IRS will usually contact the taxpayer and inform him or her of the reporting error. The taxpayer is then required to validate the exemption, deduction or credit taken. Without proof, the IRS will correct the taxpayer’s tax return and the taxpayer may incur a hefty tax liability, penalty and/or interest. One easy way to correct the majority of reporting errors is to use tax reporting software or to hire an accountant. These resources will alert you to the deductions relevant to your situation, and reduce the number of data entry errors. In any of the above circumstances, if the IRS thinks you owe past due taxes, they’re not shy about getting a hold of you. Usually, the IRS sends you an ominous-looking bill via snail-mail, but sometimes they might reach out to you via telephone. In serious cases, they may even attempt to visit you at work or at home. If the agency is unable to get you to voluntarily satisfy your tax debt, it may take collection action (i.e. liens, levies, garnishments, and seizures) against you. It will also tack-on penalties and interest while your debt remains outstanding. To avoid owing the IRS, focus on being self-motivated and educate yourself on your tax reporting and payment obligations. If you are ever unsure about your tax reporting and payment obligations, get a hold of a tax attorney, CPA or professional tax preparer and, in certain circumstances, the IRS. Above all, always be alert, and always file your taxes on time, no matter what you owe. “My best clients are planners,” notes Larry Pon, owner of Pon &amp; Associates, a Lawrence, Kentucky-based tax planning and financial advisory firm. “They are involved and aware of what was going on.” That’s good advice — just don’t be late in taking it. FREE AppDownload
andrijbulba via Compfight ccWhole Foods is down as much as 6% after hours, to $52.10. The retailer reported Q1 earnings of $0.42 per share, missing expectations for $0.44 per share. Q1 comp sales were up 5.4%, missing expectations for a 5.7% rise. The company also lowered guidance and now sees full-year EPS of $1.58-$1.65 per share, from $1.65-$.169 per share. This was also below expectations for $1.68 per share. It expects full-year comp sales up 5.5-6.2%, compared with expectations for 6.2% rise. This is lower than its prior outlook for 5.5-7%. The one positive from the earnings report was that the comps for the youngest stores were strong. "Comps for stores &lt;2 years old were +19.5%, the best since 2Q12. Comps for older stores continued to erode," writes Ken Goldman at JP Morgan. "The question we ask, though, is how poor investor sentiment was entering the print. If most investors were expecting comps below 5.4% -- and we think many were – then perhaps a small relief rally is in store tomorrow for the stock. But this is a tough one to call in terms of the stock reaction, and overall we have little doubt at this point that fundamentals are decelerating. We expect sell side numbers to drop tomorrow." Click here for the full press release » FREE AppDownload
Flickr/World Economic ForumCisco CEO John ChambersCisco just reported its quarterly earnings. A lot of eyes are watching Cisco this quarter because it set the bar very low for itself. It warned that revenues would decline by 8-10% over the previous quarter. Cisco reported: Q2 Revenue: $11.2 billion (decrease of 8% year over year) and Q2 EPS of $0.27 GAAP and $0.47 non-GAAP. Analysts expected 46 cents earnings per share on revenue of about $11.03 billion for the second quarter. So that's a beat and good news for Cisco. But the cup is half empty considering the decline from year-ago revenue. Cisco will also pay a $0.19 per common share dividend, a two-cent increase over the previous quarter's dividend. Here's financial charts from Cisco's press release. FREE AppDownload
Rupert Murdoch, billionaire CEO and very serious man, took BuzzFeed's 'Which Billionaire Tycoon Are You?' quiz. His chief of staff Tweeted it out this afternoon. This means one of two things: BuzzFeed quiz's are actually designed for titans of capitalism or that the titans of capitalism are just like you and me. Oh, and for what it's worth, I just took it and I got George Soros. Check out the tweet below:   Dear @BuzzFeed, @rupertmurdoch took the quiz and confirmed that he is in fact Rupert Murdoch. Phew. pic.twitter.com/sKknuiRG1H FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesStocks did nothing and the Senate passed the debt ceiling bill. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
YouTubeGeorge Soros' former girlfriend slapped him Tuesday afternoon during a break in a deposition over whether the billionaire owes her money, according to multiple reports. Adriana Ferreyr, a 30-year-old South American soap actress, is suing Soros, 83, for breaking his promise to give her a $1.9 million Upper East Side condo. He ended up giving it to his current wife, Tamiko Bolton, whom he recently married. A judge has ruled that Ferreyr could press her case against Soros for inflicting emotional distress.  Here's how it went down, according to court documents cited by the New York Daily News: When the lawyers agreed at 1 p.m. to break for lunch, Singer said, Ferreyr "suddenly and without warning ... lunged at Mr. Soros -- who is 83 years old -- and struck his head with her hands, knocking off the headphones he was wearing to amplify the audio in the room." "Ms. Ferreyr pulled back her arm to strike Mr. Soros in the face. I was able to grab both of (her) arms to move her away....I let go of her arms. Ms. Ferreyr immediately swung at my face, knocking off my glasses." Three years ago, Ferreyr filed a $50 million lawsuit against Soros, whom she dated on-and-off again from 2005 to 2010. She alleges that during a "romantic reunion," Soros whispered that he gave the apartment he allegedly promised her to another woman, who would become his wife. BI's Julia Roche covered this at the time » She went on to claim that Soros slapped her across the face, and attempted to choke her and strike her with a glass lamp. He missed and she ended up cutting her foot. she claims. Last Spring, Soros countersued, alleging that it was in fact Ferreyr who threw the lamp, hitting him on the forearm, that he did not hit her, and that she cut her foot when the lamp broke.  You can read the full details of Tuesday's skirmish on the News' website » FREE AppDownload
Sandy WeillFormer Citigroup chairman Sandy Weill is out to top his $88 million payday from the sale of his 15 Central Park West penthouse. He is now unloading his maid’s quarters in the posh building for more than six times what he paid in 2007. Weill slashed the $6.25 million ask for the property, which originally hit the market in January, to $5.65 million two weeks later. But that’s still well beyond the $980,000 he paid back in October of 2007 for the 1,079-square-foot pad. It’s also twice what a similar unit two floors up, slightly smaller and with no terrace, sold for in May. “Just think of how well ‘yeah, I spent $6 million to live in somebody’s old maids’ quarters’ is going to go over at the cocktail party,” one broker quipped to the New York Daily News. Still, the pad boasts a 111-square-foot terrace, a bedroom suite situated off the main vestibule, a marble bathroom and chef’s kitchen with top-of-the line appliances, according to the listing, which is in the hands of Brown Harris Stevens’ Kyle Blackmon. A spokesperson for the brokerage declined to comment to TRD on the listing. The taker will have plenty of high-profile neighbors, including Sting, Denzel Washington, Lloyd Blankfein and Russian oligarch Dimitry Rybolovlev, who picked up Weill’s pricey penthouse for his daughter. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockAmericans still love the suburbs, and are still moving there from big cities. According to the Census Bureau's most recent release on inter-county migration shows that in some of the nation's largest cities, the trend is to move out to far-flung suburbs. The Census keeps track of population flows between different counties by using data from the 2007-2011 American Community Survey. Here are the 25 largest net annual population flows — that is, the pairs of counties with the largest number of people moving from the origin to the destination, minus people moving in the other direction:   For nearly all of these, the move is from a county containing a large city to a nearby, less urbanized county. Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, New York, and Houston all show up more than once — they all have nearby suburban counties with large flows of people going from city to suburb. The flows that are not going from cities to suburbs are in Southern California, in which people are shuffling between different suburbs of Los Angeles, and New York, which is complicated by the fact that the city itself is made up of five separate counties. The Census bureau also has a handy mapping tool to see where people are coming and going.  Here's a screengrab. Census FREE AppDownload
With the stellar run in the U.S. property market in 2013 and the economic recovery, all eyes are now on Europe and emerging markets. In a new report titled "Investing In Dysfunctional Markets: Why Emerging Markets Could Crash Further," Societe Generale Patrick Legland, Daniel Fermon, and Laure Fauchet point out that this is a three step crisis.  Europe is seeing a nascent recovery but now we're seeing a real rout in emerging markets.  Here's their chart of the three-step crisis: Societe Generale
REUTERS/Gary CameronThe Senate narrowly voted to advance — and, eventually, pass — the House of Representatives-passed debt-ceiling increase, after Democrats spent a long time on the floor trying to wrangle more Republican votes. In the end, the measure cleared rather easily, 67-31. The vote on final passage was 55-43. The legislation suspends the debt ceiling through March 15, 2015. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) voted to break a potential filibuster on the bill, leading to final passage. Ten other Republicans ended up joining them. The Senate vote started at 1:56 p.m. ET. More than 40 minutes later, only three Republicans had supported the legislation. It needed 60 "aye" votes to advance to a final vote. Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) tweeted her frustration during the vote: Only 3 Rs so far willing to avoid the default of America on its obligations. Need 2 more. Sad it is this hard. The cloture vote ended about an hour after it started. McConnell and Cornyn, the two highest-ranking Senate Republicans, followed the lead of House Republican leadership in providing the votes needed to advance the bill. Both McConnell and Cornyn face primary challenges this spring, and the procedural votes will almost certainly be fodder in the campaigns. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) demanded a 60-vote threshold to advance the bill, and had urged Republicans to stick together to block its passage. The bill now heads to President Barack Obama's desk, where he is expected to sign it into law. You can see Republicans conferring on the floor in the middle of the cloture vote here: C-SPAN FREE AppDownload
CNBCBud Konheim, CEO of luxury-fashion company Nicole Miller, has a message for the 99% — stop whining. "We've got a country that the poverty level is wealth in 99 percent of the rest of the world," Konheim said on CNBC's Squawk Box this morning. "So we're talking about woe is me, woe is us, woe is this." "The guy that's making, oh my God, he's making $35,000 a year... Why don't we try that out in India or some countries we can't even name. China, anyplace, the guy is wealthy," said Konheim, donning a floppy bow tie. "Our 99% are the 1% in the rest of the world," echoed CNBC host Joe Kernen. "I agree, thank you." After taking a brief hiatus as the hot-button concern, income inequality has had a major resurgence among elite consciousnesses. And Konheim isn't the first one-percenter to raise eyebrows on the issue. Last month, former Silicon Valley VC guy Tom Perkins wrote a letter to the editor in the Wall Street Journal arguing that vilification of the 1% was akin to Nazi persecution of Jews during the Holocaust. Then there was millionaire "Shark Tank" host Kevin O'Leary, who took to his Canadian television show to say that the unequal distribution of global wealth was "fantastic" because "it inspires everybody... to look up to the 1% and say, 'I want to become one of those people, I’m going to fight hard to get up to the top.'" Watch Konheim's clip below:  FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: Thanks to Kyle Torpey and CryptoCoinsNews.com for letting us republish this piece. Check out Kyle at @kyletorpey.  When visiting Coin Market Cap, you can get a clear picture of the current cryptocurrency market. Bitcoin is still the clear frontrunner in this new industry, but there are now more than 100 cryptocurrencies listed on the website for cryptocurrency market capitalizations.It’s no secret that I don’t see a bright future for most of the altcoins currently on the market, although there are a few coins that actually do bring something new to the table.  As I lookover most of the altcoins listed on coinmarketcap.com, I can’t help but feel like there is a $600 million altcoin bubble waiting to pop. Any of the altcoins that don’t offer some kind of new advantage over Bitcoin will really have a hard time making a case for their existence once Bitcoin reaches a stable price. Why would anyone use litecoins, dogecoins, quarks, or anything else when bitcoins are a stable store of value? Litecoin The largest chunk of the altcoin market is held by Litecoin. While this coin is often referred to as the “silver to Bitcoin’s gold”, the reality is that there’s really no need for it to exist as an alternative. After all, bitcoins are divisible down to eight decimal places. The altcoin’s inventor, Charlie Lee, even talked about marketing as one of the main components of Litecoin’s success in his recent talk in Miami. He also didn’t completely distance himself from the idea of Litecoin being a “copy and paste” of Bitcoin. Once bitcoins become usable as a currency and are viewed as a stable store of value, there will be no reason to speculate on the price of litecoins. The one bit of underlying value that could be there is a situation where Bitcoin fails on a technical level, but the problem with that is Litecoin is based on the same code. There aren’t many situations where Bitcoin failing would lead to success for Litecoin. It seems the Dogecoin community has shown that their coin has more value than litecoins because it’s actually being widely used for tips and donation campaigns around the Internet. Having said that, this is more of an argument for litecoins to decline in value rather than seeing dogecoins increase. You can view Charlie Lee’s Litecoin presentation from the North American Bitcoin Conerence below:  Dogecoin Let me start off by saying I actually love Dogecoin. This altcoin has brought many new people to the world of cryptocurrencies, and that can only be viewed as a net-positive. Having said that, I still think this coin is highly overvalued. I don’t have a problem with people using it to send tips over the Internet, but I do have a problem with the total valuation closing in on $100 million. It seems that the recent price rise is due to increased interest from China. Dogecoins were recently made available for trade on BTER, which led to a $40 million increase in the Dogecoin market cap. I know the community around this cryptocoin is all about having fun, but we’re getting to the point where some people could end up losing a lot of money in this bubble. Dogecoins are the ultimate coin for sending someone a tip online right now, but no one is going to want to be tipped in dogecoins once bitcoins become a stable store of value. Why would you want to be tipped in something as volatile as dogecoins when you could get tipped in bitcoins? Some people like to make this same argument when comparing bitcoins to fiat currency, but the difference there is that bitcoins hold a countless number of advantages over paper money. Those same advantages to not exist when comparing dogecoins to bitcoins. Quark, Megacoin, Worldcoin, and Others These cryptocurrencies are basically the “Wolves of Altcoins”. These are the penny stocks that have hype men touting them all over the Internet, even though they don’t really offer any tremendous advantages over Bitcoin. Newcomers in this segment of the cryptocurrency market can easily lose their shirt in minutes as part of a pump and dump scam. These coins are a great example of people thinking about future profits rather than the underlying value of the cryptocurrency as money. If you’re trying to get in on one of these pump and dump groups, please realize that you’re the one getting scammed. The ones running the group will buy up the altcoin before they tell everyone else about the start of a new pump. If you join one of these groups, you’re not getting in during the pump phase; you’re getting in during the dump. Coins That Aren’t Altcoins I’ve been spending a lot of time bashing altcoins lately, but I still think there are some interesting experiments out there. Mastercoin and Protoshares are attempting to implement variousBitcoin 2.0 variations of blockchain technology, while NXT is a completely proof-of-stake coin that is also trying to take us to the “next generation of cryptocurrency”. Even Namecoin is an interesting option with its upcoming features as a general form of online identity. Basically, you don’t want to put your money in anything that is competing against Bitcoin right now. Bitcoin is the best app for money when it comes to using a blockchain, but there are plenty of other uses of the blockchain that will offer interesting investment opportunities. Note: I left Ripple out of this article because I plan to write a full breakdown of Ripple vs Open Transactions in the coming days. This article originally appeared at CryptoCoinsNews.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Most modern men accept that there’s a limit to suffering for the sake of style. Once the weather turns really lousy, we tend to agree that fashion can go out the window — we’re wearing whatever keeps us warm and dry! All well and good, but have you ever wondered how functional your fashion can get? Dedicatedly sharp dressers have managed to look their best even in the worst weather conditions for generations, and you can too! A truly all-weather wardrobe takes a while to build. Weather-specialized gear that’s also stylish enough to pass muster in a business or high-society setting is a niche market, and most of the shoppers in it are affluent. But with the purchase of a few key pieces, you, too, can stay sharp-looking even when the men around you have given up and thrown on their puffy coats and snow boots. One key piece of the cold-weather stylist’s wardrobe: the cold weather dress boot!  I would like to thank ShoePassion for the sample winter boots I used in the below video. Dress boots in general are an interesting meeting of qualities: the utilitarian function of a sturdy, ankle-supporting boot blended with the elegant lines and polished leather of a dress shoe. Add in the need to endure deep snow, slippery ice, and biting cold, and you have a piece of footwear with some very specific needs. Here are all the characteristics that make a boot both a “dress boot” and a useful piece of cold-weather gear: That’s quite a laundry list for one boot (well, all right, two boots, unless you’re sporting a peg leg) to achieve. An ideal cold-weather dress boot needs to be so sleek and simple that it can go with a business suit, but also so insulated that it can keep you warm in below-zero temperatures, and so sturdy that the sole can grip and the sides can give you ankle support on slick ice. Tall order — but achievable. The key to looking sharp in extreme cold is finding a manufacturer that specializes in boots, and specifically in dress boots and cold weather boots. There are a couple of styles that perform particularly well in the extreme cold. We’ll take a look at the main ones here. Keep in mind that many of these overlap — good cold weather dress boots often fall into more than one of these categories, or have more than one of these features. The boot starts with its exterior. If this is cheap, or poorly constructed, the rest of it doesn’t matter. “Box calf” (calfskin tanned with chromium salts) is an ideal material for cold weather boots. It combines durability with a smooth surface and a high gloss. Some top-grain leathers perform comparably well, while full-grain leather adds extra durability at the cost of a rougher exterior surface. Be wary of anything labeled “genuine” or “bonded” leather. Neither has the thickness or durability to block out cold air and melting snow or slush. In addition to a high-quality leather, exteriors should also be dark and smooth enough to resemble a dress shoe. As with your basic oxford or derby shoe, a bit of seaming or brogueing on the cap is fine in most circumstances; the more decorative elements you have, the less dressy the boot becomes. Once you start shopping higher-end dress boots you’ll be pleasantly surprised to see how easy it is to stay business-formal with them. Most are indistinguishable from traditional dress shoes except for the height of the boot, or, in some cases, the closure method (a zippered side instead of laced eyelets, for example). If you’re going to be wearing them outside in sub-zero temperatures, your boots need a lining. Period, end of story — unlined just isn’t going to cut it. That said, you can go a couple different ways here. Some have only a very light cloth liner to wick moisture away from the foot, while others use animal fleece or synthetic padding for a thick, insulated layer. You can even get by with a boot that has a hard leather exterior and a softer leather interior, though these tend not to keep moisture (including self-generated sweat) away from the foot as well. But whatever lining you go for, you want something on the interior that will help trap body-warmed air in by the foot, instead of leaking it out into the cold air outside. Lambskin and shearling fleece are both excellent thick linings, while moisture-wicking polyethylene or polyester work well for lightweight but less insulating linings. Soft calfskin can also be used for those that prefer an all-leather construction. Talk to a dress shoe purist, and odds are he’ll tell you that leather soles are the only option for a gentleman. All well and good in the summer, but try that when there’s a foot of snow on the ground plus months of thaw/freeze cycle ice built up underneath the latest dusting! Leather soles are sturdy, comfortable, and easy for a skilled cobbler to replace as many times as needed. They’re fantastic — when you can sacrifice a little bit of traction in exchange for all those other benefits. In the winter, you can’t. You want a rubber outsole with gripping treads. And that can still be dressy. The best-looking winter dress boots achieve this by using relatively thin rubber outsoles welted onto leather soles beneath them, sometimes even with a square of leather still visible between the rubber padding on the heel and toe. Because they aren’t as thick as the all-rubber sole of a work or hiking boot, these rubber outsoles will need to be replaced more often than others — every two or three years, say, give or take a few depending on frequency of use. But that’s a relatively low investment to make for shoes that work well in the snow and are still discreet enough to wear with a business suit. If you’re serious about extending your dress boot wearing into the worst winter months, be willing to consider the rubber outsoles. There does come a point where pure leather won’t cut it anymore, and at that point you’re better off wearing a leather boot with discreet rubber padding on the soles than you are switching to winter ski or hiking boots. A good winter boot — dress or not — needs to be high enough to stomp through the occasional bit of snow. Most dress boots aren’t made with the assumption that you’re going to be wading across unplowed fields or anything like that. They end around the upper ankle, which is just fine for men walking on regularly-shoveled city sidewalks. Realistically you won’t be doing anything more rugged than that in your dress slacks or business suits anyway, so more height usually isn’t needed. But men who want snow protection all the way up to mid-calf or beyond can always invest in a pair of “half-boots” — a misleadingly named style that’s actually taller than most other boots. The name comes from “half” of the high-boot style, a mostly-obsolete form of men’s boot that rose above the knee. High-sided boots tend to be pull-on, sometimes with elasticized sides, simply because it takes too long to lace a boot that large up. Some military boots give you the height of a half-boot with a lace-up front, but their chunky soles and oversized eyelets are decidedly non-dressy. For most men, a high-ankled dress boot, with or without elasticized sides, is ample. Laced boots with a closed (oxford) lacing system are generally considered dressiest, followed by pull-on styles, open (derby) lacings, and finally side or front zippers. Make no mistake about it — one pair of true winter dress boots is an investment. If you’re savvy about sales and discounts you might find one for as low as $100-200, but in most cases it will be more like a $250-$1000 layout for new boots. And that’s fine, if you take care of the boots. Properly cared-for, good leather will last multiple decades. But if you neglect that care, the lifespan shortens dramatically. What do I use to take care of my leather boots and dress shoes? Products I rec are:  Leather Honey, Chamberlain’s Leather Milk, Saphir Polish, Meltonian Shoe and Boot Cream, Lincoln Stain Wax Shoe Polish, and Obenauf’s Heavy Duty. Winter boot care revolves around three basic principles: Always clean your boots off when you come in from the winter. A quick wipe-down with a handkerchief or a paper towel before the slush and ice melt on the sides of the boots has time to drive can be a game-changer. That gets the salt and any other chemicals contained in the melt off the boot before it has time to sink into the leather, where it can damage the fibers and in some cases react with the dyes to make the color bleed and run. So get in the habit of pulling a handkerchief out of your pocket and giving the boots a quick wipe once you’re on your own in the office, or wherever else you work. When you get home at night, go one step further and give them a quick wipe with a warm, wet washcloth, and then towel them off on something clean and dry. It sounds fussy, but it’s the most important maintenance you can give a pair of good leather boots, especially in city settings where everyone’s dumping salt and melt pellets all over the sidewalks at the first sign of snow. Leather conditioner helps keep shoes supple and strong. It adds moisture to the fibers that make up the leather, which seems pointless on snowy, slushy days — until you realize that your boots spend most of those days inside, being dried by artificial heat. Just as people’s noses and lips tend to dry and crack in the winter, so too does the natural, fleshy material of leather. Make a point to condition it at least once each winter and you’ll extend the lifespan of the boots by years. Applying conditioner is simple: wash the leather off with warm water and a clean cloth, then let it dry and work the conditioner in with a soft rag. Let it stand for a day to soak in completely and then polish the surface to seal the conditioner in. On that subject: polish is good for more than just a bright shine! Use shoe polish every few months to keep a smooth, hard surface on your boots that repels water and grime. A basic wax polish works fine for most calfskin and top-grain or full-grain leathers. If you’re wearing something like suede, look for a specialized polish that won’t affect the surface texture. If you’re ever in doubt, test a small patch somewhere out of sight (the heel down near the sole is a good spot) to make sure it doesn’t cause any discoloration. Some men also like to apply a waterproofing spray to the seams or surface of their boot along with polish, but be aware that many of those are formulated for the synthetic materials or treated leathers used in high-tech outdoors gear. They may cause staining or discoloration on plain leather, so again, test a small amount in an unobtrusive spot first. Properly cared-for, a cold weather dress boot should keep you warm and stylish, even in the worst winter weather — and it should do it for years.  This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
We met at the Avion Embassy, a townhouse in Midtown Manhattan where Young Jeezy had just thrown his Super Bowl Party. Ken Austin, Marquis Jet CEO and founder of the tequila that's about to change the way your drink — Avion — played host along with Avion President Jenna Fagnan. It was time to taste. Let me preface this by saying I am not a tequila drinker. I drink gin. That gin is served up and with a twist. But after tasting Avion, I know it isn't your normal Spring Break-lime-and-salt-Cinco-de-Mayo tequila. You want to taste it. When you taste it, you enjoy it. You do not make the — "oh-my-God-I'm-too-old-for-this-crap-face." I don't know how else to describe it. Besides, who can resist an invitation from a smiley CEO who decided to chase his dream of making tequila after getting Warren Buffett's blessing over a game of poker in Vegas? It was at an execs-only kind of bash, and "the only guy in the room without a bodyguard was Buffett. He was just wearing a Hawaiian shirt and smiling," said Austin. Buffett bought Marquis jet in 2010, so the two men had worked together closely. Austin told Buffett there was no number two tequila in the world, and Buffett agreed that that was an opportunity. The next day Austin was calling distilleries in Mexico. The day after that he was on a plane to Mexico. Eventually, Austin found a spot where he would make the tequila he had dreamed of at a high altitude where the roots of the agave plant (that's what tequila is made of) would have to work to go deep into the ground and survive. It makes for a lighter flavor, he says. You'll understand that when you try Avion, a liquor on which no expense has been spared. For example, the "heads and tails" (top and bottom) of the agave are cut off before the plant is turned into liquor. That's part of what takes away the "I-need-to-squint-my-eyes" feeling you get after drinking most tequila. But of course, that means there's less tequila. "Our yield sucks, but I'm good with that," says Austin. For the record it's hard to believe the New York native wouldn't be good with just about anything these days. He's rocking the established, but relaxed executive look — think suede driving loafers and cashmere sweaters. Not that Avion is a play-project for Austin. He has real investors like AOL CEO Tim Armstrong, YouTube founder and CEO Chad Hurley, and Coach CEO Lew Frankfort. Businessmen like that want real returns. So Austin put together a really fierce team, helmed by Avion President Jenna Fagnan. When Austin came knocking, she was making her way to the top of French luxury brand LVMH where she worked as a VP-marketing and sales for LVMH's TAG Heuer. "This was the greatest coup ever," Fagnan said of Austin's approach. At first, after discussing the project over lunch, Fagnan planned to simply live vicariously through Austin and stay at LVMH. Then one day Austin invited Fagnan to Marquis's office where he had about 30 shots of tequila lined up. It was time to taste. About a third of the way through Fagnan got the picture. Avion TequilaAvion Reserva 44"I thought, holy cow, this is going to be the next big lifestyle brand," says Fagnan, a frank-talking brunette who grew up in an Alaskan fishing village.  With that, she quit her job and joined the team. Together, Fagnan and Austin have created 4 different Avion tequilas — a Silver, a Reposado (aged for 6 months in Jack Daniel's casks), an Anejo (aged for two years), and the Reserva 44 (aged for 44 months and then put in a crystal bottle signed by Austin himself). Yup, every bottle is signed. "Are you going to complain about it again," Fagnan asked. "It sucks," Austin said with a smile that clearly said 'yes, but I love it.' Pernod Ricard, the French liquor giant, loves it too. The company signed its first ever joint venture deal in order to distribute Avion. Austin says it's like being the little guy trash talking at a bar while his huge friends stand waiting behind him, daring anyone to take a swing. Seems like a solid way to take over the world, especially when you can back it up with taste. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
China is projected to install 12,000 megawatts of solar power in 2014, giving it the "gold medal" in the figurative 2014 Solar Olympics, according to GTM Research. That amount will be greater than what the United States has installed in all of its solar history. Japan will take "silver" in 2014 with 7,500 megawatts forecast. The U.S. will take bronze at 5,300. "China's rise to the top in global PV installations has been impressive, to say the least," GTM Research solar analyst Adam James said in the release. "Although transparency continues to be a problem in accurately sizing the market, GTM sees the shift to production-based incentives and increased downstream financing support driving deployment to new heights over the next few years." For the first time in the past four year period, no European country will feature on the podium. "While European feed-in tariff markets have been great at the short-distance events, the global solar market is clearly aiming toward the long-distance contenders in Asia and North America," said Shayle Kann, senior vice president at GTM Research. "But don't count out emerging markets. By the time the Summer Olympics roll around in Rio, Latin America will be a PV force to contend with." Here are the 2014 projected results, along with past quadrennial standings going back to 2006: GTM FREE AppDownload
Nicholas EckhartKmart is in trouble. Sears Holdings, Kmart's parent company, has closed more than 300 Sears and Kmart stores since 2010, and the company has announced plans to close at least another dozen Kmart stores within the first half of 2014. Photographer Nicholas Eckhart has been tracking Sears and other struggling retailers for years on his blog Dead And Dying Retail. We compiled his images of Kmart stores that have been abandoned or appear to be struggling. FREE AppDownload
Dogecoin priced in dollars is up 10% in the past 24 hours, and 911% over the past 30 days, as the popularity of alternative digital currency continues to grow. One Dogecoin is now worth about $0.0019. The immediate cause may be because the largest Dogecoin exchange, Bter, appears to have been unaffected by recent attacks on the digital currency ecosystem.  That's in contrast to nearly every other major cryptocurrency on the market, which have seen major price declines as the Bitcoin ecosystem underwent an assault from an unknown source, causing major Bitcoin exchanges to suspend withdrawals. Dogecoin has also garnered headlines for helping send Indian and Jamaican athletes to the Olympics. Here's a price chart in Bitcoin, showing volume levels increasing. Dogecoin has also climbed 69% against Bitcoin over the past five days: CryptoCoinCharts Here's the Dogecoin price chart, in thousandths of a dollar: Coinmarketcap.com FREE AppDownload
YouTube/movieclips"Lasers"High-frequency trading. Is it a nuisance hell-bent on squeezing as much profit as possible while adding no value to society writ large? Or does it provide markets with unprecedented liquidity, acting as a kind of stabilizer? Either way, now it has lasers. Here's a story from the Wall Street Journal's Scott Patterson on Anova, a company working to edge closer to "zero" — as in, zero seconds between when crucial information becomes available (e.g., the Fed tapers!) and when the computer knows to execute a trade. From the Journal: In March, a small Chicago communications company plans to switch on an array of laser devices linking the New York Stock Exchange's data center in Mahwah, N.J., with the Nasdaq Stock Market's data center in another New Jersey community, Carteret. The lasers, perched atop high-rise apartment buildings, towers and office complexes along the 35-mile stretch between the communities, are the first phase of a grid intended to link nearly all U.S. stock exchanges this way, zipping market data and rapid-fire trades. Lasers! Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gus RuelasGeraldine SundstromIn case you haven't noticed, two of the most powerful women on Wall Street working on two different sides of the Atlantic could soon be out of a job. The two women are JP Morgan's Blythe Masters, the New York City-based head of JP Morgan's commodities unit, and Geraldine Sundstrom the emerging markets chief at European hedge fund behemoth Brevan Howard. Masters, an economist, is widely credited with creating the credit default swap, and was the youngest woman to become a managing director at the bank at age 28. She could leave the bank entirely when her unit is sold due to regulatory concerns surrounding the banks' ownership of physical commodities. That ownership is a development that only transpired in the five years since the financial crisis, when banks were in a regulatory limbo that allowed JP Morgan to pick up commodities businesses from failing banks at fire sale prices. Now that the dust is settling, the Fed is requiring banks that have retail businesses to sell these assets, and JP Morgan is complying. JP Morgan is currently in discussions to sell the business to Mercuria Energy Group Limited. YouTube/ColumbiaBusinessBlythe Masters, Head of Global Commodities at JPMorgan ChaseA JP Morgan spokesman declined to comment on what that would mean for Masters, though Bloomberg reports that she likely won't join Mercuria. What seems clear is that Masters' future is uncertain. Over the last week she joined and then quit a Commodities Futures Trading Commission advisory group, if that's any indication. In Europe, Geraldine Sundstrom is leaving Brevan Howard as the hedge fund shuts down its emerging markets fund after a dismal year of losses. This summer, when the fund was down 11%, Bloomberg reported that Brevan Howard had no plans to close the unit. With Sundstrom at the helm, it had made money in 2008 when everything else was bleak. But Bloomberg also reported that Brevan Howard's master fund, with nearly $28 billion in assets, has never recorded an annual loss since starting in 2003. So Sundstrom's 15% loss on her $2 billion fund this year is simply not in Brevan Howard's DNA.  Wall Street should worry about all this. Aside from having two brilliant bankers on the loose (try competing with Blythe Masters for a job, I dare you), taking women out of the boardroom can turn it into an echo chamber.  Companies do not innovate having the same kinds of people spew out the same kinds of ideas from the same perspective. Diversity is a challenge, and the best ideas are ones that can take a test and pass — that are challenged and proven. Former Bank of America executive Sallie Krawcheck said as much in an interview with Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle today. She says that women in corporate America haven't gone sideways, they've gone backward. "The numbers speak for themselves," said Krawcheck. "What I've seen a lot of is, 'I gotta have this person in this job because it's so important.' And what we find and the research shows when we're under periods of stress, that person who you feel like, I see how that person can do the job, is typically someone who looks like you." We'll be watching very closely to see where these ladies land.  FREE AppDownload
There was a funny moment between them that perfectly encapsulated the power struggle that every exec has with the the purse-string holder. Ebersman was being asked by the Goldman Sachs interviewer about how he decides to pay for Facebook's new projects because that stuff "costs money." Sandberg interrupted, saying, "David never asks us about that. He's always like 'No.'" The audience laughed and the question was posed again. Ebersman said with a smile, "I have to digest Sheryl's insult first." APFacebook CFO David EbersmanLater in the conversation, Sandberg, clearly trying to make it up to Ebersman, told another story, and he was able to slam her back: I remember when David joined four and half years ago and he wanted to do a three-year budget. We looked at him like he was insane. I'll be glad if I could predict three weeks. ... But he got me there by saying 'We're going to do it as hackathon project.' We have these hackathons where people stay up all night. It's the first and only one I've ever done in my six years at Facebook. I went home at like 10:30, which was late for me. By morning we actually had a draft of something that became a really rigorous three-year budget. To which Ebersman responded: "I'm tempted not to mention that the hackathon started at 9." In other words, Sandberg skipped out pretty quickly, which defeats the purpose of a hackathon. "I still had to stay up past my bedtime, but it's true I only stayed for an hour-and-a-half.  I gave great insight in that hour-and-a-half," she joked. FREE AppDownload
    Valentine's Day is a tricky holiday. Some people take it seriously. Others think it's a joke.  Here at Business Insider, we take Valentine's Day very seriously. We also take bacon very seriously. So, we combined these two very serious elements to create a bouquet of bacon roses — perfect for that special guy or gal in your life. Produced by Will Wei &amp; Dina Spector
The EconomistIF BRAZILIANS find themselves in a tight spot, they say they are in a saia justa (a tight skirt). Although she usually prefers trouser suits, that is precisely where Dilma Rousseff finds herself. Later this month she will launch her campaign to win a second term in a presidential election due on October 5th. Normally at this stage of the political cycle, as in the run-up to elections in 2006 and 2010, the government would be ramping up spending. But when Ms Rousseff spoke to the World Economic Forum in Davos last month, with the São Paulo stockmarket and the real dipping along with other emerging economies, she felt impelled to stress her commitment to being strait-laced. Brazil’s economy has disappointed since she took office in January 2011. Growth has averaged just 1.8% a year; inflation has been around 6%; and the current-account deficit has ballooned, to 3.7% of GDP. Her government has some good excuses. She inherited an overheating economy, the world has grown sluggishly, and cheap money in the United States and Europe prompted an exaggerated appreciation of the real. But Ms Rousseff has scored some own goals as well. Her predecessor, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, left monetary policy to the Central Bank and mostly stuck to clear fiscal targets. By contrast, Ms Rousseff chivvied the bank into slashing interest rates; her officials tried to micromanage investment decisions with subsidies and to cover up the fiscal damage through accounting tricks. Rather than the promised recovery of growth, the result was that Brazilian businessmen and foreign investors lost confidence in the economic team--and just at the wrong time. When America’s Federal Reserve last year announced a possible "tapering" of its bond-buying, the real began to slide. Against the dollar, it is now 17% below its value in May. A weaker currency is just what Brazil needs if it is to balance its external accounts and its manufacturers are to thrive. But it also risks adding to inflation, the upward creep of which was one factor (along with poor public services) in mass protests that shook Ms Rousseff’s government last year. This has prompted a change of mind. Alexandre Tombini, the Central Bank governor, has been allowed to raise interest rates (from 7.25% to 10.5%). At Davos, Ms Rousseff for the first time said that her aim was to bring inflation down to 4.5%; she previously seemed content merely for it to stay below the ceiling of the target range of 2.5-6.5%. Lula, her political mentor, "surely told Dilma that interest rates won’t lose her the election, but inflation might," says a senior opposition economist. The Workers’ Party, which has ruled Brazil since 2003, expects to fight and win the election on its record of job creation and of lifting 40m Brazilians out of poverty. Unemployment is low and real wages are still rising (see chart). This explains why Ms Rousseff remains the clear favourite for October. A Datafolha poll in late November gave her 47% of the vote, compared with 19% for Aécio Neves and 11% for Eduardo Campos, her main challengers. Some market analysts include Brazil as one of five "fragile" emerging economies, but the government rightly counters that it does not belong in the same company as Argentina or Turkey. As Mr Tombini points out, Brazil has a strong banking system and the reserves ($376 billion) to smooth a gradual exchange-rate adjustment. While talking of fiscal responsibility, the signs are that the government thinks it can get away with postponing belt-tightening until after the election. But what if a mixture of outside events and fiscal fudging at home (and even a possible downgrade by credit-rating agencies) prompts a bigger decline in the real? So far the pass-through of devaluation to domestic prices has been low, but the history of price-setting in Brazil suggests that this might suddenly change if the currency weakens further, says Monica Baumgarten de Bolle, an economist at Rio de Janeiro’s Catholic University. "This is what really worries the Central Bank," she says. It would have to respond with a monetary squeeze, killing growth. In the same Datafolha poll 66% of respondents said they want the next president to act differently from Ms Rousseff, a generic yearning for change that suggests her support may be less solid than it seems. By allowing inflation to become a campaign issue, she has strayed on to the opposition’s ground. Her past mistakes have led her to a situation in which her promise to spend more on public services is uncomfortably dependent on the humours of international investors. That is the tight skirt she has donned. The next few months will show whether she can wriggle out of it. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Mike Blake2013 was a banner year for stocks, but 2014 has started off on a relatively sour note. Markets are down so far this year, but that's actually "helped re-establish more reasonable valuation metrics," according to Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. In a new note to clients, Rosenberg says clients should keep in mind "that after a year in which the S&amp;P 500 outpaced earnings growth by a factor of four, we were due for a pause and for the economic and profits to play some catch-up to what Mr. Market had already priced in." Rosenberg outlines the nine reasons why we have seen a stock market correction this year. From his note: "So the big problem was sentiment and valuations, but both have started to move towards more attractive points," Rosenberg writes. "Liquidity and economic growth remain the big-picture fundamentals that will once again render this brief corrective phase as another in the long list of buying opportunities we have seen for the past four-plus years." FREE AppDownload
The USDA says profits for American farmers will plunge 27% in 2014, to $95.8 billion in 2014 $130.5 billion. It will be the lowest level since 2010, though above the $8 billion above the previous 10-year average. The reason: The run-up in prices seen in recent years resulting from extreme weather reducing yields and driving up prices has largely ended. Here's the chart. Net cash income includes receipts from 2013. It will also decline, 22% to $101.9 billion. You can see how the period from 2009 to 2012 saw a huge boom in income: USDAHere's what we mean, in chart form: corn prices are set to decline 30%, as the USDA predicts 2013 will see production only slightly below records seen in 2014. Everything else but cotton will also see declines.  USDA"Both sales receipts and value of inventory change for corn in 2014 are expected to decline significantly, reflecting a large forecast decline in the average price of corn for grain," the USDA said. "The world corn market has become much more competitive. Use of corn for ethanol is expected to rise. Hay receipts are expected to increase reflecting increased production, but a decline in the annual price of hay is expected to result in a small decline in hay’s overall value of production in 2014. In its earnings deck today, Deere projects a similar decline in overall revenue: Deere FREE AppDownload
I’ve been getting some emails and read a few articles recently about the strength in Europe. And sure, since the summer of 2012 (when the Eurozone was actually being called an “experiment”) European stocks have rallied very nicely. But when looking at a longer-term chart, it appears like just a counter-trend bounce. Here is the chart of Europe compared to the United States. We’ll use the Euro Stoxx 50 Fund ETF $FEZ relative to the S&amp;P500 ETF $SPY. All I see here are lower highs and lower lows. All Star ChartsCan this recent consolidation since the 2012 lows be a base where a breakout can confirm a change in that downtrend? Sure anything is possible. But for now, I’ll stick with the trend which clearly down. I’m not one to fight a strong trend if I don’t have to. And for now, I think this chart shows very clearly how much better US Stocks are compared to European stocks. Now remember, we are generalizing here big time. There are areas in Europe that are exploding  higher – Ireland has been and continues to be my favorite place to be in that region of the world. But overall, the US is still the better place to be from a longer-term perspective. Here is a closer look at this Europe/USA comparison over the last two years. We can see this well-defined consolidation with converging trendlines. Until this resolves itself to the upside, the benefit of the doubt still goes to the United States. All Star Charts *** If you like this kind of analysis, register here for more information on how to receive weekly technical updates on International Stock Markets FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderAndrew Ross Sorkin, Ray Dalio, Mario Batali and Bob RothBillionaire Ray Dalio, the founder of hedge fund behemoth Bridgewater Associates, has been practicing Transcendental Meditation (TM) for 42 years.  "Meditation, more than any other factor, has been the reason for what success I've had." Dalio spoke at a Transcendental Meditation Town Hall last night at the AXA Equitable Building in Midtown Manhattan along with other leaders and celebrities. Money from the event, which was hosted by the David Lynch Foundation, will go toward teaching at-risk youth and veterans meditation. Dalio said he got into the Transcendental Meditation because of The Beatles.  "The Beatles were doing it and so it caught my attention and sounded good. I started it and it worked." It's widely known on Wall Street that Dalio incorporates the practice of Transcendental Meditation into his investing. He says that the benefits of TM are centeredness, calmness and creativity.  Other people have been catching on because of Dalio.  The moderator for the evening CNBC anchor/ New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin said that Dalio is the reason he started practicing TM.  "Ray runs the largest hedge fund in the world. Lives a pretty stressful life I would think with the markets," Sorkin said, adding, "Most people I know on Wall Street are a bit neurotic."  Most practitioners of TM do it for twenty minutes, twice a day.  "You don't do it in truth twenty minutes a day, twice a day, everyday," Sorkin said to Dalio.  "No, I do it probably two-thirds of the days, twice a day," Dalio said, adding, "It's like yoga. If you practice it, it become easier to get into."  If he stress even during market hours (9 a.m.-4 p.m. EST) Dalio will meditate. "If there's stress, I'll just break off and go into the meditation. It will just wash off of me."  If Dalio is seeing anxiety and he can't get himself out of it, he'll use meditation to produce calmness which allows him to deal with it like "a ninja in a fight." "I would say that generally speaking, I feel like a ninja in a fight. In other words, when it comes at you, it seems like slow motion. OK, it is what it is. Because there's a calmness. So when there's a calmness, I can deal with it in a better way. Whereas, when there's that anxiety, it all seems so fast and less I am in control." In addition to creating calmness, meditation sessions help with generating new ideas, Dalio explained. "It's like when you take a hot shower and you get that creative idea and you just grab it. That's what it's like. Meditation brings you that kind of thing," he said.  He says you can't muscle it or wrestle with it. You have to allow yourself to go "into the void."  It he says this gives you relaxation and creates access to these new ideas.  At Bridgewater Associates, Transcendental Meditation has become part of the culture with many of the fund's employees practicing it now. For his staff, Dalio offers to pay half of the cost associated with learning Transcendental Meditation from an instructor.   He says meditation has been integral to the fund's success.  Because meditation helps produce calmness, the employees are able to have thoughtful disagreements without emotion.   "In our business, we want to have independent thinking. In order to beat the markets, you can't be with the consensus, so you have to have independent thinking," he said. And you have to be a ninja. FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderThere's no denying the importance of coal in America. The combustible black rock provides about 40% of the United States' electricity and plays a vital role in the economy of places like West Virginia. But there's also no getting around major health and environmental concerns. One increasingly popular mining method, mountaintop removal mining, could be the most destructive yet. While traditional coal mining extracts coal from underground, the mountaintop removal method blasts away chunks of mountains to get at the coal beneath. It also controversially requires fewer workers than other methods of mining coal. On a recent trip to West Virginia to cover a chemical spill that shut down water for 300,000 people for a week, we rented a plane to take it all in. Flying above ancient Appalachian mountains that looked from high like snow-dusted moguls, it was jarring to see large sections that had been leveled off flat. Mining operations have radically disrupted massive areas, in an incredibly diverse ecosystem, and there is significant doubt about whether they will truly recover. For all we saw, it was only a small part of 800 miles of mountaintop removal mining in the region.
APKeynes hangs out by the pool with his wife in 1946.John Maynard Keynes is known mostly for, well, Keynesian economics. His academic work has become essentially synonymous with every major spending program from the New Deal on through the post-financial crisis stimulus plan. But as the New York Times' John Wasik writes, it turns out Keynes was something of a money manager too (for himself, friends, two British insurance companies, and more). "What I found was that Keynes stumbled several times before he succeeded — he was almost financially wiped out three separate times — but he got back in the game and altered his thinking to build wealth long term," Wasik writes. From the New York Times: After the war, Keynes speculated heavily in currencies, but lost most of his capital in 1920 when several European currencies he was betting against recovered. Undaunted, he broadened his portfolio to commodities and eventually common stocks, which at the time was a rarity for institutional investors, who preferred safe bonds and real estate. Keynes was riding the wave, but he didn't see 1929 coming and almost got completely cleaned out. He changed up his strategy and started focusing on management at different companies: ...Keynes went about-face in the early to mid-1930s to concentrate on a company’s “enterprise” value, which is also known as “book” or “breakup” value. This intrinsic view of a company’s true worth stripped out the overly emotional component that is often reflected in stock prices. As a result, he often picked companies that had promising futures, but were unloved at the time. As a result, Keynes died as one of the richest economists ever. In 2013 dollars, he was worth more than $30 million. Read the full report at the New York Times » FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of The Standard When The Standard Hotel was built in 2008, New York City and the world was in the midst of a terrible financial crisis. That meant clubs and restaurants were closing right and left. Investors scoffed at anything lux as consumers pinched pennies and watched wallets. But all that's over, and five years later The Standard — known for its exclusive clubs, late-night upscale dining, and Sunday night bingo games where people dance on tables — is about to be sold for the highest price of any hotel since the financial crisis, the WSJ reports. Investor Steven Kantor could shell out over $400 million to owners Dune Real Estate Partners and Greenfield Partners. That's $1.2 million a room. Part of this success has to be attributed to the hotel's management company owned by Andre Balazs. It was he who turned the hotel into an adult playground. Downstairs you have upscale bro'd out beer garden and the Standard Grill, an "American Bistro" that's open late enough to cater to insomniac guests and NYC partiers. The super-exclusive Boom Boom Room upstairs is known for its near 360 degree views of the Hudson River, and Le Bain, its hipper sister club brings in some of the best DJs in international dance music (and has a killer roof... and a hot tub). The other part of this success has to do with the hotel market right now. As you may have noticed from Hilton's wildly successful IPO, it's booming. Back in December, when we talked to Ryan Meliker, a senior analyst, Equity Research for investment bank MLV &amp; Co. about Hilton, he said the hotel industry in general is in a really good place right now. As the global economic recovery continues, demand will increase. At $22 billion, U.S. hotel transactions in 2013 were 10 times higher than in 2009. What's more, during a recovery, it's easier for hotels to raise room rates than it is for office or residential buildings. That means they're in a better position to take advantage of the money floating around, which investors love. While some major players are taking this opportunity to buy — like Lowes which is looking to buy about half a dozen properties, according to CEO Paul Whetsell . Others are taking it as an opportunity to sell.  Blackstone is planning to IPO another hotel chain it owns, La Quinta.  Another way companies are investing in the industry is by franchising — ramping up the number of hotels it manages but doesn't own. Companies like Starwood and Marriott have already headed in that direction. Sounds like this is an industry to watch in general. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Remo CasilliMatteo Renzi leaving a meeting with Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta in RomeItaly is preparing for a possible intra-party government shake-up. In April, Prime Minister Enrico Letta came to power after forming a coalition headed by the country's Democratic party (PD). But the PD leader (and mayor of Florence), Matteo Renzi, has since criticized Letta.  With pressure mounting for Letta to step aside for the younger and more energetic Renzi, the two had a "chilly meeting at Mr. Letta's office to discuss a possible takeover," the BBC's David Willey writes. From the BBC: Italian politics remains sclerotic and Mr Renzi, who attends meetings in shirt sleeves and travels around in a small car or on a bicycle, tries to project a different image. The question remains: can he offer a more viable solution to an economic crisis that has left over 40% of young people unemployed? In the midst of all this, Letta is set to present his new reform program called "Commitment 2014," which focuses on the economy, the BBC reports. Italy is still very much in the economic doldrums, with industrial output down 0.9% in December. Markets were up late in the European trading session. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.5%. FREE AppDownload
Intuitively, a default on debt is a bad thing. But in a market that has seen no defaults, it can be a good thing because suddenly investors will have more information to better price risk. In January, we saw a resurgence in concerns over Chinese trust default risk. That was when Industrial &amp; Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) said it would not repay a 3 billion yuan ($495 million) trust product that was expected to mature on Jan. 31. ICBC, China's largest state-owned bank, distributed "2010 China Credit/Credit Equals Gold #1 Collective Trust Product" to raise funds for coal-miner Shanxi Zhenfu Energy Group. This wasn't the only trust product that raised red flags.  There was the product sold by Shaanxi International Trust Co. Ltd. and AnXin Trust &amp; Investment Co. Ltd was in trouble after a property developer missed the deadline to repay its debt. However, fears about systemic risk (in terms of wider defaults) and investment risk (in terms of the loss of investor confidence) forced policymakers to intervene. In each of these instances a last minute plan was cobbled together to make sure investors got their money back. By preventing these defaults, China arguably did more harm than good. "If you talk to anyone in China, if you talk to them about the prospect of a financial crisis, the first thing out of their mouths will be that the government will never let that happen," Patrick Chovanec at Silvercrest Asset Management told Business Insider in January. "And until you shake that belief you won't have efficient allocation of resources." "At some point the financial system does have to turn the corner, where there's real risk and there's real pricing of risk," Chovanec added. Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik thinks by failing to allow Credit Equals Gold to fail, China missed a key opportunity to reform its financial system.  "A default, which encourages lenders to price in credit risk, would be a positive development," Orlik wrote in a Bloomberg BRIEF note late last month. From Orlik (emphasis added): "Credit Equals Gold was an ideal product to be allowed to fail. An 11 percent return made clear to all but the most knuckle- headed investors there was a significant risk. Problems at the borrower — a coal mine whose boss was arrested — have been public information since 2012, removing the element of surprise. That should have limited the fallout to the rest of the financial system. ...The situation today is very different. Nominal growth has more than halved to 9 percent in 2013 from close to 23 percent in 2007. Borrowers from trusts and other parts of the shadow financial system face interest rates in excess of 20 percent. An explosion in lending has increased the burden of repayment to more than 30 percent of GDP at the end of 2013 from about 19 percent at the end of 2008. Lower growth, higher borrowing costs, and mounting repayment costs mean defaults by borrowers and even bankruptcy at some small lenders are likely. After an initial period of turmoil, that may actually be beneficial for China’s risky assets. In a market that better distinguishes between high- and low-risk assets, yields on low- risk assets like Ministry of Finance bonds should fall. That may push investors into riskier assets like equities as they look to keep returns high. Fear of an overstretched financial system is one of the reasons China’s equity markets were amongst the worst in the world in 2013. By pushing greater discrimination in lending, a default may help turn that around." The sort-of silver lining, though, is that regulators will have more such opportunities going forward. "Conditions in China’s financial system have changed, significantly raising the risk of investments turning bad," according to Orlik. FREE AppDownload
New York FedShort-term unemployment has come down significantly, while long-term unemployment remains elevated.According to a new study conducted by M. Henry Linder, Richard Peach, and Robert Rich, researchers at the New York Fed, the short-term unemployment rate is a better predictor of wage growth than the headline unemployment rate. The short-term unemployment rate has already recovered to pre-crisis averages. While the long-term unemployment rate has fallen as well, it remains significantly elevated from pre-crisis averages, as the chart illustrates. Janet Yellen honed in on long-term unemployment yesterday in her first Congressional testimony as chairman of the Federal Reserve, suggesting that it may be a source of slack in the labor market that is not captured by the headline unemployment rate, and is therefore worth watching closely. This reasoning is at the core of the Fed's insistence on continuing its campaign of extraordinary monetary stimulus by keeping short-term interest rates pinned at ultra-low levels until sometime next year, or perhaps even longer. However, the findings of Linder, Peach, and Rich, posted on the New York Fed's website, suggest that this may be a dangerous approach. New York FedA forecast of wage growth using short-term unemployment is closer to the mark than one using total unemployment.The researchers construct two forecasts of wage growth — one that uses short-term unemployment as an input, and another using total unemployment. They find that since the recession, the forecast using short-term unemployment has been closer to actual wage growth than the other, as can be seen in the next chart. Because total unemployment is just long-term unemployment plus short-term unemployment, the implication of these findings is that the focus on long-term unemployment may cause the Fed and others to underestimate wage growth. One reason why there is so much confusion about this is the experience of long-term unemployed in the wake of the financial crisis is historically unprecedented. Before the crisis, short-term unemployment closely tracked total unemployment (because there were fewer long-term unemployed), so either measure could be used to forecast wage growth reasonably well. "It is only since the last recession and its aftermath, when the composition of the total unemployment rate deviated from its historical pattern, that we can observe the differential effects of unemployment duration on compensation growth," say Linder, Peach, and Rich. The view advanced by Yellen and the FOMC — that long-term unemployment is a hidden source of labor-market slack — does not hold up against this analysis, and is beginning to come under fire by market economists on Wall Street. Following her testimony on Tuesday, UBS economists Drew Matus and Kevin Cummins called Yellen's an "odd view of labor market slack," suggesting that high long-term unemployment was a structural issue, not a cyclical one that could be improved by monetary policy. "As expected, she downplayed the progress of the unemployment rate and the importance of the unemployment rate itself arguing that the long-term unemployed and the number of workers who are part time but who want full time are also important to gauging the amount of slack in labor markets," said Matus and Cummins. "We do not view the long-term unemployed as necessarily 'ready for work' and therefore believe that their ability to restrain wage pressures is limited." A recent survey of consumers by the New York Fed showed that expectations for wage growth over the next year surged in January. Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius argues the Fed should be focusing more on the behavior of wages and less on persisent low consumer price inflation, suggesting it may help them avoid policy mistakes in the future. Elevated long-term unemployment is still an important social and economic issue. However, the Fed may be forced to abandon its view of labor market slack if short-term unemployment continues to improve and wage growth continues to rise. FREE AppDownload
There is a tide in the affairs of men, which taken at the flood, leads on to pork sausage. And we must take the current when it serves, or lose our profitability. If Europeans do that, it’s classical from Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar. If Russians do it, it’s trade war. Oleg Tyagnibok, the Ukrainian oppositionist whom the US Government is promoting into power in Kiev, hasn’t been asked yet what he thinks of the Russian ban on European pork imports. But he’s bound to blame the “Moscow-Jewish mafia” because he’s blamed them before, though not exactly for trying to enforce the kosher code. The pork business is a sensitive one – not so much because it’s large in aggregate Euro or dollar trade value, but because the Russian market is the second largest consumer of pork imports in the world (Japan comes first) and the largest consumer of European Union (EU) pork; because pork production keeps farm voters happy in corners of Europe where their votes count in close elections; because in Russia itself the price of pork sausage is as sharp a trigger for voter discontent as the price of bread; and finally, because there has been a steady concentration of Russian pig farming and pork production into a handful of corporations and the men who own them, the porkligarchs. For the story of how unhappy they were at the loss of profitability inflicted on them since 2012, when Russia joined the World Trade Organization (WTO), read this. In the line-up of EU member-states with the biggest herds of pigs, Germany is the largest slaughterer, as well as the largest consumer and the largest exporter. Spain, France, Poland, and Denmark are also big producers and exporters, and thus vulnerable to the Russian market. To feed the Russian appetite for pork, the alternative producer-exporters are China, the United States, Canada, Brazil, and maybe Vietnam. Since January 2013 US exports of pork to Russia have been banned for failure to eliminate residues of the growth chemical ractopamine. TOP 10 PORK PRODUCING COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD Daily Livestock Report African Swine Fever (ASF) is a highly infectious, highly lethal disease which passes from wild to domestic pigs, and through the pig food chain. Its first detection in Russia was in 2007 (the disease originated from Georgia); since then the international Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) has charted the history of its recurrence in this report. The charting was good through December 2012. The report predicted worsening outbreaks in western Russia during the seasonally warm months of backyard production, June through November. These materialized in mid-2013. MAP OF ASF OUTBREAKS AMONG WILD BOAR, DOMESTIC PIGS, IN RUSSIAN REGIONS, 2007-2012 FAO As the maps show, the incidence was particularly acute in the western regions of Belgorod and Tambov near the Ukrainian border. When the outbreaks occurred, the EU issued a blanket ban of pig and pork product movement into the EU from all of Russian territory, including Siberia – which is off the FAO charts because there was no ASF outbreak. The EU immediately offered €2.5 million to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland for what was reported at the time as aid to prevent the Russian infection crossing the border, moving westwards. No action was taken by the EU towards Ukraine. Wild boars can migrate over distances of 200 kilometres or more, and though the boar map shows they are relatively scarce in Russia, they grow increasingly more common in Belarus, the Baltic states, and central Europe. Whither the boar, thence ASF. WILD BOAR CONCENTRATION IN EUROPE FAO   Until last month, the Europeans believed themselves clear of the infection – except for Sardinia. Then late in January ASF infection was discovered in Lithuania. The US Meat Export Federation describes what happened next: “Lithuanian officials recently confirmed the country’s first cases of African swine fever (ASF). These are the first ASF cases to be detected within the boundaries of the European Union, with the exception of the Italian island of Sardinia. The EU veterinary certificate states that the EU is free of ASF with the exception of Sardinia. With this no longer being the case, EU veterinary officials requested that Russia allow them to continue to sign export certificates if they guaranteed exclusion of products from the affected regions of Lithuania. Russia’s Veterinary and Phytosanitary Surveillance Service (VPSS) did not agree to this request, so exports were effectively suspended on Thursday when certificates could no longer be signed.” On February 8, according to a notice issued by Rosselkhoznadzor (RSN), the Russian veterinary and phytosanitary agency, the EU certificate was no longer accurate, and all of the EU was at risk until a new certificate can be issued. “The disease outbreak in Lithuania,” announced RSN, “radically changed the epizootic status, not only of this state, but also the entire European Union, which according to the principles and objectives enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty, is a single economic, social, territorial, and therefore epidemiological and epizootic space… the status of the European Union on this disease has changed from safe to underperforming.” RSN was critical of the European Commission for doing too little to stop the eastward spread of ASF, too much to protect the EU’s pig farmers and pork exporters. “The European Commission in a hasty manner, without adequate scientific justification and without inviting experts of the Customs Union [Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan] , held its own ‘regionalization’, and proposed to limit the isolation [quarantine] only in Lithuania, located along the south-eastern border with Belarus at a depth of 20-30 km.” RSN then introduced new import regulations, allowing pig-meat products heated to destroy ASF and pork covered by a new EU certificate. This was not a ban on EU imports, but it did set conditions for imports which the EU has until now refused to implement. The impact was momentous for the EU exporters. Belarus and Ukraine exports were unrestricted. US Meat Export Federation Tonio Borg, a Christian Democratic politician from Malta who became the Health Commissioner for the European Commission in 2012, attacked the RSN action. Borg first blamed Russia for infecting the boars who, he claimed, took their infection over the Lithuanian frontier. Borg, a lawyer by training, claimed “latest scientific evidence shows that these two Lithuanian cases of ASF are linked to the unsuccessful attempts to control the prolonged presence of ASF in the western regions of Russia and the recent introduction of the disease in Belarus. No information or evidence has been provided by the Russians about measures taken to contain any risk of further spread of the disease into the EU.” In Borg’s political past at home on his Mediterranean island, he has attacked the EU for failing to do enough to help Malta cope with waves of illegal immigrants landing from Libya and other conflict zones in northeastern and northwestern Africa. The EU should accept a proportionate share of the immigrants, Borg claimed just before he took his Brussels appointment, and contribute more to naval patrols and other measures to turn back the flood. But Africans landing in Malta are a different story from boars landing in the EU. According to Borg’s statement of February 7, “Russia has imposed unprecedented trade restrictions on the export of pigs and pig meat from all 28 EU Member States, even though the occurrence of the disease is restricted to only a limited area of Lithuania. These restrictions, apart from having a serious economic impact on European business operators, are also disproportionate and contrary to international trade principles. Imposed two weeks ago by Russia, this trade embargo continues to apply despite an as yet unsuccessful request to meet my Russian counterpart… I repeat that in view of the reassurances provided, the surveillance and control efforts made, and the outstanding health status of all non-affected EU regions, a blanket ban is completely disproportionate”. RSN’s response was to remind Borg that it was maintaining the same “commitment to the principle of equivalence of the measures taken” as the EU had taken against Russian products during last year’s ASF outbreaks in western Russia. Borg had been the commissioner in charge then and since. In the interval RSN accuses the Europeans of failing to negotiate the new terms for the EU’s veterinary certificate and for the regionalization required on both sides of the border to curtail the infection risk. For voter consumption, Poland’s prime minister Donald Tusk has publicly accused the Russian government of starting a new trade war over pork. This is despite Tusk’s earlier success in negotiating the lifting of the two-year Russian embargo on imports of Polish meat products from 2005 to 2007. Polish, Lithuanian and other eastern European politicians claim the RSN action on swine fever is retaliation for the EU’s support of the anti-Russian opposition in Ukraine. Other European supporters of the Ukrainian opposition also accuse Russia of waging trade war on imported chocolates, dairy products, and tulips. Lithuania has applied for $6 million from EU headquarters to erect a new fence to stop Russian boars from crossing. Latvia and Poland are also expected to put in for fencing money. Alexei Portansky, Professor of the Department of Trade Policy at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, dismisses the allegation of disproportionality in RSN’s action against EU pork. “This is a matter for [phytosanitary] investigation. And until the parties have agreed on a mutual procedure for investigation, there is no investigation. Until there is, it is difficult to say who is right and who is wrong. This is a situation where one side thinks the other is wrong. That’s normal — that happens a lot in the WTO.” Sergey Yushin, head of the executive committee of Russia’s National Meat Association, rejects the trade war claims. “I’ll start with the fact that there is no ban. Pay attention to this. There is no new harmonized veterinary certificate to reflect the prevailing reality on ASF in the European Union. In the current certificate it is written that in the EU for the last three years there was no ASF except for Sardinia. But, as we now understand, after the ASF discovery in Lithuania, this statement is untrue. Therefore, there is no ban on the part of Rosselkhoznadzor. It did not impose a ban. It’s just that the certificate which exists today, and is agreed between the EU and the [Russian] Customs Union does not correspond to reality. Therefore it is necessary to revise the certificate.” “But to review [the obsolete certificate] is possible only on the basis of comprehensive data about what really is the situation in the EU at the moment. And the ball, it seems to us, is now in the EU’s court. It should provide comprehensive, detailed and full information, in particular, on the monitoring carried out for ASF in the wild or on farms or factories, in the different countries; and what tools of control there are over the [inter-regional] movement of animals.” According to Yushin, the problem of infection in Lithuania isn’t as fresh as Commissioner Borg has been claiming. “The corpses were found already decomposed,” so the timing of the boars’ movements and the direction from which they have come are “a very technical issue.” Borg’s claims that Russian measures have been disproportionate fly in the face of EU protectionism to keep out Brazilian pork, argues Yushin. The EU record shows that for years now the EU has refused to accept Brazilian proposals for regional containment of veterinary infections, on the basis of which the European Commission has imposed import bans. “Therefore, the [Russian and EU] measures are exactly symmetrical,” says Yushin. “The last case of ASF in Brazil was in 1981. [The European] ban on the import, in particular pork, from Brazil is still active, and for the whole country. So the ban is already in force for almost thirty years.” For independent evidence of Brazil’s efforts to contain and eradicate ASF, read this. RSN spokesman Alexei Alekseyenko is emphatic that RSN’s measures “are absolutely proportional. The fact is that the EU introduced approximately the same measures when we had an ASF outbreak and when the scope of their measures hit the entire country, including areas where there was no ASF (Kamchatka, Sakhalin, etc.). From the Kaliningrad region, although there was no ASF, the EU allowed product supply only after serious heat treatment. We have set them the same conditions… With the EU, the case is complicated by the fact that they do not have tracking systems for products over the territory of the European Union. That is, what is produced there can be circulated freely throughout the territory. The ASF virus persists in meat over many months. From bitter experience we have encountered this in Russia when [infected] products were distributed illegally from areas of outbreaks, causing secondary outbreaks sometimes at very far distances.” A North American meat trader at this week’s ProdExpo industry convention in Moscow concedes that the Russian are giving the EU tit-for-tat. “At the Food Expo it was noted that part of the current EU problem is the fact that the EU refused to recognize Russia’s program of regionalization [last year] So if a disease is discovered in one region of Russia, the entire nation is considered infected. Russia’s ban on the entire EU is a way of saying ‘two can play at that game.’” European prices on the pig slaughter market have been falling for two weeks now as the volume of unsold meat is counted which must be disposed of on the European side of the Russian frontier. On the Russian side, two of the largest domestic pork producers are Cherkizovo, which is listed on the Moscow and London stock exchanges and controlled by Igor Babaev (right); and Miratorg, which is privately owned by the Linnik brothers. The share price of Cherkizovo started rising in December and peaked in early January, before the Lithuanians announced their infected boar corpses. Market capitalization for Cherkizovo is currently $766 million. It has been higher – $1.2 billion in September 2010. Alexander Kostikov, head of investor relations and communications at Cherkizovo, makes this forecast: “In the short term the ban on imports will cause some increase in prices. In the longer term, it can contribute to the revival of investment interest in Russia’s industrial pig production. After the price shock of the 2012-2013 years most of the big agricultural companies froze their investment in pig farms. Restrictions on imports may return interest in these investment projects.” Dmitry Sergeyev, spokesman for Miratorg, says his company is “firmly convinced that biosecuriy issues must take first priority. In the Russian Federation the large-scale fight against the spread of African Swine Fever (ASF) has already caused, by estimates of Rosselkhoznadzor, direct and indirect damage to different sectors of the economy amounting to about 30 billion rubles [$860 million]. It is totally unacceptable to accept the risk of introduction of this dangerous disease on our territory from the European Union. The rejection of European imported pig products is a necessary and adequate measure until the situation is fully clarified.” Yushin of the National Meat Association points out that the impact of the current measures will be offset for Russian consumers. “Europe is an important trading partner in the supply of pork, but not the only one. Its share increased markedly [in 2013], but before Europe’s share was not as significant. Take, for example, 2009. The EU accounted for 38%of deliveries; in 2010, 45%; in 2011, 51%. So the EU has been increasing [market share] gradually while others lost. In 2012 [the EU share was] 40%. And in 2013 it was 60%. But then again, who have lost large shares – Canada, which used to account for 25% of supply, and the US, which accounted for 12% in 2012. Now take 2013: the US imports were closed due to ractopamine; they managed to import just 1.2%. For the same reason, Canada fell from 25% to 12%. But at the moment, US and Canadian enterprises have provided enough information that they can produce meat without ractopamine. Accordingly, Brazil, Canada and the US could potentially increase their shipments to the Russian market.” Domestic production will also grow, the association is calculating. “The EU should bear in mind that Russian production increased in 2013 by 340,000 tonnes deadweight. And the first forecasts for this year [indicate that] growth may reach an additional 150,000 tonnes. Accordingly, we do not expect any sudden negative changes. We have had about ten days since European delivery was not allowed on the Russian market, but the dynamics of prices at wholesale, and so far in retail too, are practically unaffected. So I think the possibility of supplies from other regions of the world and our own production will keep prices stable. In addition, it is necessary to note that the prices in the summer of 2012 and the summer of 2013 were approximately 20% higher than they are now in the wholesale market. Even if there is a price increase, it is unlikely to reach the historical peak of summer 2012.” The North American trade source anticipates that European pork will be replaced in the Russian market by Canada, Brazil and “soon the USA — supposedly they are about to finalize their deal with RSN. I believe this ban will remain in place for a month or two. In the meantime Russian hog producers (and non-EU exporters) will reap the benefits of higher prices, providing a major incentive for at least those constituencies to support the status quo. Plus if enough time passes, Russia will re-allocate European quota to other countries, as they do with beef every year. This means that the Russian importers will not suffer and lose quota whatever happens. So don’t expect any universal outbursts of indignation; the Europeans are likely to be on their own this time.” This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Interestingly, even Nouriel Roubini, who had been a perma-bear during the first four years of the current bull market, was relatively relaxed about the current crisis in a 1/31 article, though it was titled, “The Trouble with Emerging Markets.” He started his analysis ominously, warning: “This mini perfect storm in emerging markets was soon transmitted, via international investors’ risk aversion, to advanced economies’ stock markets. But the immediate trigger for these pressures should not be confused with their deeper causes: Many emerging markets are in real trouble.” Near the end of his article, Roubini turned more upbeat for some of the same reasons that we didn’t get panicky about the current crisis: “Nonetheless, the threat of a full-fledged currency, sovereign-debt, and banking crisis remains low, even in the Fragile Five, for several reasons. All have flexible exchange rates, a large war chest of reserves to shield against a run on their currencies and banks, and fewer currency mismatches (for example, heavy foreign-currency borrowing to finance investment in local-currency assets). Many also have sounder banking systems, while their public and private debt ratios, though rising, are still low, with little risk of insolvency.” Last Wednesday, I offered a “too-important-to-implode” analysis of the EM crisis: “Obviously, a widespread emerging markets crisis would be a calamity for the global economy. However, it is precisely because EMs have become so much more important to the global economy that such a crisis might be less rather than more likely. Capital flows aren’t likely to dry up to companies operating in EMs that are doing more and more business in those economies and the rest of the world.” The Emerging Markets MSCI (in dollars) has been highly correlated with both the CRB raw industrials spot price index and the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil. While the EM MSCI is down 5.0% ytd, it is encouraging to see that commodity prices remain surprisingly stable. That suggests that the global economy is carrying on. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Another Relief Rally. (1) What a relief! (2) Breaking 50-dma isn’t so bad. (3) Big correction in BBR sentiment indicator. (4) Keeping calm and carrying on despite half-a-dozen anxiety-provoking uncertainties. (5) Even Roubini isn’t that bearish on EM crisis. (6) EMs: Too important to implode? (7) US consumer income measures at record highs. (8) The Fairy Godmother of the bull market speaks. (9) Raising the debt ceiling without drama. (10) German court passes the case. (11) Europe still muddling. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
APSen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) is going to force at least five Senate Republicans to vote for the "clean" debt-ceiling increase that passed the House of Representatives on Tuesday if the legislation is to become law. Cruz will seek a 60-vote threshold to advance passage of the bill in the Senate, he said late Tuesday in a statement. "Historically, the debt ceiling has proven the most effective leverage for reining in spending; 28 times, Congress has attached meaningful conditions to debt ceiling increases," Cruz said. "We should do so again to address the real problem. I intend to object to any effort to raise the debt ceiling on a 50-vote threshold. I will insist instead on a 60-vote threshold," Cruz said. That means Cruz is going to slow down proceedings in the Senate. Ultimately, if all 55 senators who caucus with Democrats vote for the debt-ceiling hike, five Republicans will have to join them to cross the 60-vote mark. Of course, an "aye" vote on a debt-ceiling bill isn't one that Republicans are jumping to cast, but no one expects that this move will ultimately threaten passage of the legislation. But Cruz said in his statement that he hopes every Senate Republican joins with him in blocking passage of the measure. "If Republicans stand together we can demand meaningful spending restraint to help pull our nation back from the fiscal and economic cliff," Cruz said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Jim YoungIn the wake of Q4 earnings season, Goldman Sachs is out with its "Beige Book" highlighting the macro anecdotes from company conference calls. Goldman's David Kostin extracted four key themes: Theme 1: Margin expansion will be difficult in 2014 With S&amp;P 500 profit margins hovering near record levels for more than three years, firms continue to look for ways to control costs and increase profitability. In most cases, however, expansion looks unlikely in 2014. Theme 2: Continued optimism for emerging market growth Managements cite mixed results in some emerging markets but remain actively invested and confident in the prospects for future EM growth. Theme 3: Companies ready to spend record levels of cash Firms continued to highlight dividend and buyback spending but also highlighted intentions to pursue capital expenditures and selective M&amp;A. Theme 4: FX a common headwind to revenue growth Many companies pointed to unfavorable FX moves as a headwind to revenue growth in 4Q 2013 and as a likely challenge in early 2014. The note about profit margins is interesting. While management still believes margins could get fatter, that conviction appears to be waning. And that's worrying for profit growth and ultimately stocks. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus passes along what traders are chatting about this morning. Good Morning! Futures are unchanged, after being up as much as 50bp earlier – Wind coming out as the Yen continues to gather steam on Kuroda comments saying he will adjust policy if risks from easing materialize, and the € hit as ECB’s Coeure says "the ECB is very seriously considering negative deposit rates”. Many feel S&amp;P futures will retest the 50dma, down about 50bp from here at 1803, as we have had the strongest 4day winning streak since late 2011/early 2012 for the Indices. EU markets remain strong, with Germany up 65bp, but volume remains below trend. EU FINs having a good day as Italian 10-year yields fell to the lowest in almost eight years. The FTSE is unchanged despite dovish talk from BOE’s Carney – as the UK braces for another massive storm. Over in Asia - Japan gained 60bp, tempered by a plunge in Machine Tool Orders, but that Yen has futures marked off almost 1.5% right now. Shanghai posted a 30bp gain – we had very Strong Chinese Trade data, but questions arise about its accuracy. Doesn’t matter, as it has propelled EM Stocks to the highest in 3 weeks.    The 10YY remains higher, but was rejected from the 100dma in early trading – we have a $24B, 10Y auction at 1. As mentioned, the DXY is flying, as the $ gains sharply against €, breaking upside of the 100dma. Many traders are focused on heavy resistance against the Yen however – at the 102.70-102.8 in the $¥ cross.  With the stronger $, commodities have a headwind – but Industrial metals like Copper and Platinum are well bid (China data) – while WTI is popping on API data showing heavy Cushing drawdowns (DOE data at 10:30 key).   Brent is barely green, however, despite the strong Chinese imports of the commodity, as EU IP came in weaker than expected - We have the OPEC monthly report at some point today. Nat gas is popping another 2% (up 17% in the last week) on the tough US weather – Catalysts today include: The Senate Debt Vote as the GOP is urging their members for a “quick vote” today ahead of weather and a 2 week break – we have scheduled Bullard speaking at 8:45, NY Fed Small Business Credit Survey at 10, ECB President Draghi Speaks and DOE Data at 10:30, a small POMO at 11, the $24B 10Y auction at 1, and the Monthly Budget Statement for January at 2. FREE AppDownload
Paramount PicturesMost of our deep-seated beliefs about money, which we may or may not be aware of, are formed during childhood. Or they’re cultural norms we’ve swallowed whole, without even realizing we have. The problem is, these oft-cited maxims aren’t always true. And believing them can do damage to your bottom line. So we asked two financial experts for the truth about some of the common beliefs we all love to hold dear. See which of these six you need to rethink—and which may still hold some truth. The first thing our experts pointed out was: How much money you earn doesn’t always correlate with how much you have. “Sometimes people who earn lots of money also spend lots of money. As their salaries go up, so does their standard of living,” says Certified Financial Planner™ Brad Klontz, who is also the co-author of “Mind Over Money.” What matters more is how you manage your money. And, research shows, more money doesn’t necessarily equate to more happiness either. In fact studies have shown that a $75,000 salary was, for most people, the tipping point on the scales of contentment. “After you reach that amount, making more money won’t substantially improve your quality of life,” says Susan Bradley, a Certified Financial Planner™, and the founder of the Sudden Money Institute. There is also research to show that what you spend on, specifically, influences your happiness, too. We spoke to a behavioral psychologist from Harvard to discover the types of purchases that really do bring us the most satisfaction. Yes, of course, as a parent, your first responsibility is to make sure your kids are clothed and fed and comfortable, but when it comes to bigger personal finance goals, like saving for your retirement versus their college education, the opposite is actually true. “You have to take care of yourself first, so you’re able to take care of your kids,” says Klontz. Translation: There are student loans to pay for their college, but there are no loans for your retirement. If you fail to save enough to live on, you could be putting financial pressure on your kids to support you later. The same logic applies if your kids want material things that you can’t afford, such as designer clothes or expensive birthday parties. “Set boundaries when it comes to finances, so your kids will share your money values,” says Bradley. For instance, if your son wants pricey sneakers, say: “I will pay for this pair of sneakers. If you want a fancy brand, you need to pay the difference.” Or, anytime your child gets a monetary gift, require him or her to save some, give some away and spend some. RELATED: 9 Financial Lessons Money Experts Teach Their Kids Sure, there are plenty of debts that are “bad.” Specifically, this is the money you borrow to pay for something other than an asset that’s likely to increase in value. Credit cards are the best example: “If you don’t pay off your credit card each month, you can fall into a terrible trap,” says Klontz. You also want to avoid being in debt to a friend or family member. “It’s dangerous and could potentially lead to relationship problems,” he says. A form of bad debt that most people find surprising? A car loan. After you buy it, a car’s value doesn’t appreciate. Instead, it’s value goes south. But there is definitely good debt. This is the money you borrow to pay for something you expect to increase in value over time. “If you are paying student loans that enable you to get a good education and land a job you like that pays well, then it’s a worthwhile investment,” says Klontz, noting that people with bachelor’s degrees tend to make twice as much as those with only high school degrees. Property is another example: If you hold onto it for long enough, your house will most likely sell for a higher price than the one at which you bought it. And, the profit you make by selling it should make the interest you paid on the loan worthwhile. This really depends on your personal financial situation. For example, “If you’re having trouble paying your rent, then it may be smart to hold off on having a child,” says Klontz. Or if you don’t currently have health insurance, it might be wiser to wait until you do. But, generally speaking, you should be saving up for longer-term money goals so you can create the life you want, without the cost taking you by surprise. In fact, LearnVest experts recommend starting an emergency fund so you’re always covered, and also setting up separate savings accounts to fund your different goals. In the Money Center, you can even set up a priority goal and see how long it will take you to save enough money to reach it. Sometimes the answer isn’t delaying your dream or going after it—it’s getting creative and doing a mixture of both. “I knew a woman who wanted to travel the world. So she would take a job as a nanny in Europe, work for a month or two at a time, live with a family and save most of the money. And then she’d take a month or two off and travel on her own,” says Bradley. RELATED: Dreaming Big: How 4 Real People Reached Their Ultimate Money Goals This attitude plays into the “American Dream,” but “buying a house shouldn’t be a romantic decision—it should be a financial decision,” says Klontz. The first thing to assess is where your life is headed. Do you plan on being in the same city (or even neighborhood) for the next few years? If not, then owning property isn’t in your immediate future, because, in general, it takes time for property to appreciate. You also need to decide how much you can actually afford. There are a lot of costs that come with home ownership besides your down payment. One of the most common home-buying mistakes people make is thinking that they’re merely trading a rent payment for a mortgage. You’ll also want to estimate the property taxes and insurance of any property you consider, plus any renovations you’d need to do, then decide if the place is within your reach. In the end, the biggest mistake isn’t not buying a home—it’s buying too much home for your budget. The first thing to realize is that this thought pattern can be detrimental to your financial success. “It’s a limiting belief,” says Bradley. The truth is, money, on its own, isn’t good or bad, it’s what you do with it that matters. You can certainly point to examples of rich, corrupt people. But you can also point to examples of rich, moral people (Bill Gates comes to mind) and poor, corrupt people. “Some people think that all rich people are greedy and immoral,” adds Klontz. “As a result, they might subconsciously choose a career path that typically doesn’t lead to extreme wealth, so they’re not viewed that way. We’ve seen this happen with lottery winners. They come into a lot of money and then become uncomfortable and anxious,” he says. Remember, money is about choice, and you can use it to reach your goals, whether, to you, that means having a fat savings account so you never have to worry, donating to causes you believe in, or leaving it to your grandkids some day. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningPresident Barack Obama's newly created retirement account (myRA) will do very little to help the working poor and will quickly become another bloated bureaucratic system that wastes billions of taxpayer dollars. The myRA (which stands for My Retirement Account) plan will authorize the Department of the Treasury to create a new type of savings plan for those workers who do not have access to an employer-sponsored retirement plan. Deposits into myRA are not tax deductible, but instead grow tax-deferred and come out tax-free upon retirement. While at first glance this looks similar to a Roth individual retirement account (IRA), the mechanics of the myRA plan are decidedly different. Rather than having savers choose from a variety of investments available in the marketplace, myRA establishes a fund that invests in a government-managed program guaranteed by taxpayers. (Read more: Roth IRA conversion and state income tax) The fund would be similar to the Thrift Savings Plan Government Securities Investment fund, which is already available to federal workers. So here's the irony: The myRA will actually have the working poor financing the government's deficit spending. By creating accounts that invest in a government pool, it's yet another way for the Treasury to raise funds without having to sell bonds in the public markets. While this may not have been the original intention behind its creation, it's an important consequence nonetheless. (Read more: Have you reviewed your 401(k) lately?)  The president said in his State of the Union address that this program "guarantees a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in." Yet just last year, the guaranteed fund within the government's Thrift Savings Plan earned about 1.5 percent, which is hardly the type of return that will help a person grow his or her retirement plan. Besides, the U.S. government already has a program in place that pays the working poor to put money into retirement accounts. Depending upon income, taxpayers match 50 cents on the dollar for every dollar that is contributed to an IRA or employer-sponsored retirement plan. That's right. Just like large employers that offer a company match on 401(k) deposits, so, too, does the government offer a match for low-income savers. The Retirement Savings Contribution Credit, also called the Saver's Credit, isn't exactly a match that is deposited into a retirement account. Rather, it comes in the form of a credit on one's income-tax return. The credit, which phases down over time from 50 percent to 10 percent, is available for single filers with adjusted gross incomes of up to $30,000 and for married couples with incomes up to $60,000. The credit is limited to $1,000 per individual, but it's not a refundable credit, meaning that it only offsets a person's federal income-tax liability. This is of nominal value to those who pay little or no income tax. The Saver's Credit was designed to encourage the working poor to save for retirement, but from every study that I've seen, it hasn't made a dent in the savings rates. It's extremely difficult to imagine that the creation of yet another government program is going to move the savings needle in a positive direction. Because of competing needs and desires, not to mention emergency expenditures, it's not easy to save for retirement. This, of course, is particularly true for people with low incomes. A middle-class family may elect to pare back a family vacation in order to prepare for the future, but for the working poor, saving for retirement is next to impossible. Correct me if I am wrong, but wasn't Social Security created to be the stopgap that helped seniors who didn't have retirement savings? Given that we still have a large percentage of poor retirees in spite of this gigantic government system, isn't it time to admit that government programs simply are not the answer? A new government plan that offers a whopping 1.5 percent return is not going to entice anyone to save more. No one who is struggling to make ends meet will make the decision to go without getting the kids new shoes so they can put a few dollars into a myRA plan. So what's the answer? Free-market capitalism and education are what pull people out of poverty. What the working poor need is a robust economy and the skills to compete in this marketplace. What if we invested those dollars in training and education so that our workers had the skills that are in demand in today's world? Trade schools and certification programs will help them land and even create jobs that pay decent wages. It will come as absolutely no surprise when several years from now we all view myRA as a grossly underutilized creation with costs that far exceed any benefits. Unfortunately, though noble-sounding, this is just another feel-good program that will do little but provide sound bites for politicians and waste billions of taxpayer dollars. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street power brokers are betting that Greg Fleming will be chief executive of a major U.S. company one day, but no one is quite sure of which one or when. Fleming, the head of Morgan Stanley's wealth and asset management businesses, is on the bank board's list of candidates who could potentially succeed Chief Executive James Gorman, according to sources with direct knowledge of the situation. But colleagues and recruiters say he is also a flight risk for Morgan Stanley. He is an external candidate for top jobs at companies including BlackRock Inc and American Express Co as part of their boards' regular succession planning. Fleming also has a friendly rapport with Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive of archrival Goldman Sachs Group Inc, although that bank has never gone outside its own ranks to pick a chief executive officer. Some people close to Fleming say the he could even run a company outside of financial services. It is unclear if a suitable CEO job will be available any time soon. Sources familiar with the thinking of Morgan Stanley's board said directors believe there is time to work on a succession plan. Gorman, 55, has been in the job for only four years, and directors have no desire to replace him at this time. A Morgan Stanley spokesman said Fleming has no plans to leave the Wall Street bank. Fleming feels that his work at Morgan Stanley is not finished, and he is in no hurry to become a chief executive, the spokesman said. The other institutions with which he has been linked did not offer any comment. Blankfein could not be reached for comment. Still, Wall Street circles are abuzz with talk that the 50-year-old executive, known for an ambitious streak, may be itching for a bigger challenge soon, according to interviews with dozens of Morgan Stanley insiders and other industry executives who know Fleming. "Every couple of years, he finishes what he set out to do, and people want to give him more," Navtej S. Nandra, a trusted Fleming ally who is now president of online broker E*TRADE Financial Corp. "Of course, that starts a whole slew of questions about what he's going to do next, and where." It could create a knotty predicament for Morgan Stanley's board and Gorman. Directors like what Fleming is doing with the business and want to keep him at the firm, but they do not have an obvious spot to promote him within the bank. People who know Fleming say he is at a crossroads as he enters his fifth year at the bank. He has steered Morgan Stanley Wealth Management through a complicated merger with Citigroup Inc's Smith Barney brokerage, lifting the division's profit margins into a targeted range after a bumpy start. The business now generates more than half of Morgan Stanley's revenue. It is the centerpiece of Morgan Stanley and helped its shares rise nearly 65 percent last year. As he has set the wealth business on course, Fleming has also come to wield greater influence at Morgan Stanley. For example, he argued for the bank to scale down its bond-trading risk more aggressively. Colm Kelleher, who heads institutional securities, decided that was the right approach. "I have very high regard for his leadership and his achievement," said Masaaki Tanaka, one of two directors who represent Morgan Stanley's biggest shareholder Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc on the board. Tanaka said Fleming had done very well in turning around the wealth business but declined to comment specifically on succession planning. People who have worked with Fleming say he sets the bar high and can be demanding. Subordinates recalled him honing in on the one detail that was missing from a 30-page presentation and emailing round the clock to get updates on projects. Yet they also say he rarely loses his temper. Colleagues who worked with Fleming during the mortgage crisis said they never heard him raise his voice, even during tense negotiations. Friends and adversaries alike describe Fleming using terms like "Boy Scout" and "goodie two-shoes." One former colleague said Fleming tries to head home by 9:30 p.m., even on nights he is entertaining clients or hosting events. His only brush with the law appears to be a June 2009 speeding ticket. CEO QUALITIES Morgan Stanley's board may eventually promote Fleming to president of the whole bank, effectively anointing him Gorman's successor, some sources said. But Gorman, who is also chairman, has no plans to recommend such a move in the near term. Promoting Fleming could discourage other senior managers, the sources said. Neither the board nor Fleming want to upset his relationship with Kelleher or Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat. Both are also on the board's succession list and work well with Fleming in the current power structure, the sources added. Fleming's next move may come down to who offers him a job he wants first. One close friend and former colleague said Fleming always had his eyes on being a chief executive officer. "And, by the way, I'm not saying that negatively," said the person. "His ambition in life was not to be a star dealmaker or banker. His ambition in life was to become CEO of a large organization." RISING STAR Still, after a quick ascent up Wall Street's corporate ladder, it has been a relatively long wait for Fleming to get to the corner suite. Fleming joined Merrill Lynch in 1992 from the consulting firm Booz Allen, where he covered financial clients. By 1999, when he was only 35, he had become the head of the investment bank's U.S. financial institutions group. He aggressively courted CEOs at acquisitive banks like First Union and Bank of America Corp who embarked on dozens of mergers in a consolidation streak from the mid-'90s into the 2000s. In 2001, he appeared on the Crain's New York Business list of high achievers under 40. "I have a lot of confidence," he told the magazine. "It's not arrogance; it's confidence." Two years later, Fleming had received two more big promotions at Merrill, first to head up investment banking globally and then to be co-president of the entire capital markets unit. He increased the investment bank's revenue by 2-1/2 times while running it and personally advised on several landmark deals of the era, including Blackrock's 1999 initial public offering and First Union's $15 billion sale toWachovia in 2001. "One of the things which clearly stands out about Greg is that he's able to master virtually all the different aspects of a modern financial institution," said Sullivan &amp; Cromwell's H. Rodgin Cohen, the preeminent bank lawyer who worked with Fleming on several deals. INTERIM CEO Fleming got his first shot at the top job at a major company soon after Merrill Lynch Chief Executive Stan O'Nealpromoted him to co-president of the firm in May 2007. As the financial crisis took hold in the ensuing months, Merrill began disclosing escalating losses from subprime mortgage derivatives that grew to a crushing $45 billion. O'Neal and other executives responsible for the losses were fired. The board effectively made Fleming interim chief executive, but his role was short-lived. It hired John Thain, a former Goldman Sachs executive, to fill the job permanently. Directors decided against Fleming because they felt investors wanted someone who was not associated with the business that generated the losses, a source said. Though Fleming was in charge of the entire unit, the board did not see him as directly responsible for the trading losses. Fleming was routinely shut out of management decisions regarding trading, and his unsolicited advice was ignored by superiors. "While Greg would say he was without fault, the board didn't think the outside world would view it that way," the person said. "The world would've said, 'You're going to put the guy in the job that was responsible for this?'" After helping to negotiate the sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America at the height of the crisis, Fleming left Wall Street. He went to teach at Yale Law School, his alma mater, where he has given ethics lessons about cases such as Goldman Sachs' controversial "Abacus" derivatives deal and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's "London Whale" fiasco. FRESH START A person involved with Fleming's hiring at Morgan Stanley said it was not easy to persuade him to return to Wall Street so soon after the crisis. However, unlike many bankers, he was not greedy about pay, this person added. Fleming made as much as $34 million in his best year at Merrill Lynch but earned less than that in his first three years at Morgan Stanley combined. When Fleming arrived in 2010, Morgan Stanley was shifting from being one of Wall Street's premiere investment banks with a retail brokerage unit tacked on, to having wealth management at the center of its profit universe. It was buying Smith Barney in phases and merging it with its own brokerage. The plan to integrate the two businesses was engineered before Fleming arrived, and by most accounts it was going terribly. Clients' historical account information was not being transferred properly, and staff complained about all sorts of technology problems. When Fleming embarked on a cross-country tour of brokerage offices in early 2012, he got an earful from angry employees. "Greg was basically going on a listening tour and got hit in the face with it," says Mary Deatherage, a broker based in New Jersey. STRONGEST HORSE He was resilient. Brokers recall him personally fielding complaints ranging from slow email and lack of client birthday reminders to bigger issues like a glitch with portfolio management systems that required a "SWAT team" to resolve. "He did that for two or three years with that kind of a focus until an awful lot of the issues were subsiding," said Jim Hansberger, a veteran adviser in Atlanta. In early 2013, Fleming announced a plan to invest $500 million in upgrading the unit's technology and hired former Merrill colleague Chris Randazzo to oversee technology. "Greg immediately understood what I was talking about and wanted to get into very detailed discussions around where we are today and where do we need to be in 12 months and 24 months and 36 months and 48 months," Randazzo said. "You don't see that very much from very, very senior executives." The wealth unit reached its 20 percent pre-tax profit margin goal last year. Management has since raised the goal to a range of 22 to 25 percent by next year if interest rates stay low and markets remain static. If rates rise and markets improve, the margin could be higher, executives say. Fleming is trying to boost revenue further by expanding the asset management business and by lending more, an area where Morgan Stanley lags rivals like Merrill Lynch that are part of big commercial banks. Some of Fleming's associates said that gives him enough to do at Morgan Stanley to bridle his ambition for some time. Meanwhile, he is enjoying spending more time with his wife, Melissa, and their three children. He still teaches a class at Yale, and even found time last year to train for the New York City marathon, completing it in under 3.5 hours. "There's an expression that the strongest horse gets the cart. That's Greg, right?" said E*TRADE's Nandra, whom Fleming had hired at both Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. "I can't wait to see him as CEO some place one day, because I know that's who he is." (Editing by Dan Wilchins, Paritosh Bansal and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Corporate America has managed to deliver sky-high profits on little revenue growth thanks to expanding profit margins. Cheap debt, low tax rates, and increased productivity have fattened profit margins to record levels. While managers believe margins can move higher this year, their conviction behind that call seems increasingly shaky. "Companies once again presented mixed outlooks for margins, but many indicated that expansion will be difficult," said Goldman Sachs's David Kostin citing earnings conference calls. "Consistent with our forecast that profit margins will remain roughly flat near historical peak levels for the next two years, managements highlighted difficult pricing and higher input costs as key factors offsetting operating leverage, efficiency gains, and continued cost controls." Without revenue or margin growth, there can be no profit growth, which is arguably the most important long-term driver of stocks. Market bears have been warning that margins are doomed to contract sooner or later. Kostin's note included quotes from some of the calls. Here are a few he pointed to: McDonald's Corp: We’re diligently managing restaurant expenses, but we expect cost increases to continue pressuring margins in 2014. Nike Inc: ...We will be facing new pressures as raw material costs shift from tailwinds to headwinds and we increase discounts to clear pockets of excess inventory. We also expect to face continued pressure from labor costs and foreign exchange. Ford Motor Co.: In North America, we also expect net pricing in 2014 to be slightly unfavorable as we run out outgoing models and assume a continuation of a more competitive pricing. Johnson &amp; Johnson: We also expect to experience pricing pressures in 2014 across many markets, particularly in Europe. The impact of this negative pricing pressure is expected to negatively impact our pre-tax operating margins by approximately 50 basis points. Wells Fargo &amp; Co.: Our gain on sale margin was 1.77% in the fourth quarter, up from the third quarter but lower than historical elevated levels we experienced in the second half of 2012, and the first half of 2013. While there are a lot of factors that impact the margin, we currently expect margins in the near-term to remain in the range we saw in the second half of 2013. Schlumberger  NV: The main challenge in the North American land market is still in pricing, and we saw further downwards pricing pressure in most product lines in Q4... General Mills: Gross margin, excluding mark-to-market effects, declined 100 basis points. This is primarily due to higher input costs and unfavorable mix. All of these were excerpted from Goldman Sachs' S&amp;P 500 Beige Book, a collection of anecdotes from earnings conference calls. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGreg Fleming, Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group talks during the Reuters Investment Banking Summit in New York November 13, 2006. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street power brokers are betting that Greg Fleming will be chief executive of a major U.S. company one day, but no one is quite sure of which one or when. Fleming, the head of Morgan Stanley's wealth and asset management businesses, is on the bank board's list of candidates who could potentially succeed Chief Executive James Gorman, according to sources with direct knowledge of the situation. But colleagues and recruiters say he is also a flight risk for Morgan Stanley. He is an external candidate for top jobs at companies including BlackRock Inc and American Express Co as part of their boards' regular succession planning. Fleming also has a friendly rapport with Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive of archrival Goldman Sachs Group Inc, although that bank has never gone outside its own ranks to pick a chief executive officer. Some people close to Fleming say the he could even run a company outside of financial services. It is unclear if a suitable CEO job will be available any time soon. Sources familiar with the thinking of Morgan Stanley's board said directors believe there is time to work on a succession plan. Gorman, 55, has been in the job for only four years, and directors have no desire to replace him at this time. A Morgan Stanley spokesman said Fleming has no plans to leave the Wall Street bank. Fleming feels that his work at Morgan Stanley is not finished, and he is in no hurry to become a chief executive, the spokesman said. The other institutions with which he has been linked did not offer any comment. Blankfein could not be reached for comment. Still, Wall Street circles are abuzz with talk that the 50-year-old executive, known for an ambitious streak, may be itching for a bigger challenge soon, according to interviews with dozens of Morgan Stanley insiders and other industry executives who know Fleming. "Every couple of years, he finishes what he set out to do, and people want to give him more," Navtej S. Nandra, a trusted Fleming ally who is now president of online broker E*TRADE Financial Corp. "Of course, that starts a whole slew of questions about what he's going to do next, and where." It could create a knotty predicament for Morgan Stanley's board and Gorman. Directors like what Fleming is doing with the business and want to keep him at the firm, but they do not have an obvious spot to promote him within the bank. People who know Fleming say he is at a crossroads as he enters his fifth year at the bank. He has steered Morgan Stanley Wealth Management through a complicated merger with Citigroup Inc's Smith Barney brokerage, lifting the division's profit margins into a targeted range after a bumpy start. The business now generates more than half of Morgan Stanley's revenue. It is the centerpiece of Morgan Stanley and helped its shares rise nearly 65 percent last year. As he has set the wealth business on course, Fleming has also come to wield greater influence at Morgan Stanley. For example, he argued for the bank to scale down its bond-trading risk more aggressively. Colm Kelleher, who heads institutional securities, decided that was the right approach. "I have very high regard for his leadership and his achievement," said Masaaki Tanaka, one of two directors who represent Morgan Stanley's biggest shareholder Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc on the board. Tanaka said Fleming had done very well in turning around the wealth business but declined to comment specifically on succession planning. People who have worked with Fleming say he sets the bar high and can be demanding. Subordinates recalled him honing in on the one detail that was missing from a 30-page presentation and emailing round the clock to get updates on projects. Yet they also say he rarely loses his temper. Colleagues who worked with Fleming during the mortgage crisis said they never heard him raise his voice, even during tense negotiations. Friends and adversaries alike describe Fleming using terms like "Boy Scout" and "goodie two-shoes." One former colleague said Fleming tries to head home by 9:30 p.m., even on nights he is entertaining clients or hosting events. His only brush with the law appears to be a June 2009 speeding ticket. Morgan Stanley's board may eventually promote Fleming to president of the whole bank, effectively anointing him Gorman's successor, some sources said. But Gorman, who is also chairman, has no plans to recommend such a move in the near term. Promoting Fleming could discourage other senior managers, the sources said. Neither the board nor Fleming want to upset his relationship with Kelleher or Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat. Both are also on the board's succession list and work well with Fleming in the current power structure, the sources added. Fleming's next move may come down to who offers him a job he wants first. One close friend and former colleague said Fleming always had his eyes on being a chief executive officer. "And, by the way, I'm not saying that negatively," said the person. "His ambition in life was not to be a star dealmaker or banker. His ambition in life was to become CEO of a large organization." Still, after a quick ascent up Wall Street's corporate ladder, it has been a relatively long wait for Fleming to get to the corner suite. Fleming joined Merrill Lynch in 1992 from the consulting firm Booz Allen, where he covered financial clients. By 1999, when he was only 35, he had become the head of the investment bank's U.S. financial institutions group. He aggressively courted CEOs at acquisitive banks like First Union and Bank of America Corp who embarked on dozens of mergers in a consolidation streak from the mid-'90s into the 2000s. In 2001, he appeared on the Crain's New York Business list of high achievers under 40. "I have a lot of confidence," he told the magazine. "It's not arrogance; it's confidence." Two years later, Fleming had received two more big promotions at Merrill, first to head up investment banking globally and then to be co-president of the entire capital markets unit. He increased the investment bank's revenue by 2-1/2 times while running it and personally advised on several landmark deals of the era, including Blackrock's 1999 initial public offering and First Union's $15 billion sale to Wachovia in 2001. "One of the things which clearly stands out about Greg is that he's able to master virtually all the different aspects of a modern financial institution," said Sullivan &amp; Cromwell's H. Rodgin Cohen, the preeminent bank lawyer who worked with Fleming on several deals. Fleming got his first shot at the top job at a major company soon after Merrill Lynch Chief Executive Stan O'Nealpromoted him to co-president of the firm in May 2007. As the financial crisis took hold in the ensuing months, Merrill began disclosing escalating losses from subprime mortgage derivatives that grew to a crushing $45 billion. O'Neal and other executives responsible for the losses were fired. The board effectively made Fleming interim chief executive, but his role was short-lived. It hired John Thain, a former Goldman Sachs executive, to fill the job permanently. Directors decided against Fleming because they felt investors wanted someone who was not associated with the business that generated the losses, a source said. Though Fleming was in charge of the entire unit, the board did not see him as directly responsible for the trading losses. Fleming was routinely shut out of management decisions regarding trading, and his unsolicited advice was ignored by superiors. "While Greg would say he was without fault, the board didn't think the outside world would view it that way," the person said. "The world would've said, 'You're going to put the guy in the job that was responsible for this?'" After helping to negotiate the sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America at the height of the crisis, Fleming left Wall Street. He went to teach at Yale Law School, his alma mater, where he has given ethics lessons about cases such as Goldman Sachs' controversial "Abacus" derivatives deal and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's "London Whale" fiasco. A person involved with Fleming's hiring at Morgan Stanley said it was not easy to persuade him to return to Wall Street so soon after the crisis. However, unlike many bankers, he was not greedy about pay, this person added. Fleming made as much as $34 million in his best year at Merrill Lynch but earned less than that in his first three years at Morgan Stanley combined. When Fleming arrived in 2010, Morgan Stanley was shifting from being one of Wall Street's premiere investment banks with a retail brokerage unit tacked on, to having wealth management at the center of its profit universe. It was buying Smith Barney in phases and merging it with its own brokerage. The plan to integrate the two businesses was engineered before Fleming arrived, and by most accounts it was going terribly. Clients' historical account information was not being transferred properly, and staff complained about all sorts of technology problems. When Fleming embarked on a cross-country tour of brokerage offices in early 2012, he got an earful from angry employees. "Greg was basically going on a listening tour and got hit in the face with it," says Mary Deatherage, a broker based in New Jersey. He was resilient. Brokers recall him personally fielding complaints ranging from slow email and lack of client birthday reminders to bigger issues like a glitch with portfolio management systems that required a "SWAT team" to resolve. "He did that for two or three years with that kind of a focus until an awful lot of the issues were subsiding," said Jim Hansberger, a veteran adviser in Atlanta. In early 2013, Fleming announced a plan to invest $500 million in upgrading the unit's technology and hired former Merrill colleague Chris Randazzo to oversee technology. "Greg immediately understood what I was talking about and wanted to get into very detailed discussions around where we are today and where do we need to be in 12 months and 24 months and 36 months and 48 months," Randazzo said. "You don't see that very much from very, very senior executives." The wealth unit reached its 20 percent pre-tax profit margin goal last year. Management has since raised the goal to a range of 22 to 25 percent by next year if interest rates stay low and markets remain static. If rates rise and markets improve, the margin could be higher, executives say. Fleming is trying to boost revenue further by expanding the asset management business and by lending more, an area where Morgan Stanley lags rivals like Merrill Lynch that are part of big commercial banks. Some of Fleming's associates said that gives him enough to do at Morgan Stanley to bridle his ambition for some time. Meanwhile, he is enjoying spending more time with his wife, Melissa, and their three children. He still teaches a class at Yale, and even found time last year to train for the New York City marathon, completing it in under 3.5 hours. "There's an expression that the strongest horse gets the cart. That's Greg, right?" said E*TRADE's Nandra, whom Fleming had hired at both Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. "I can't wait to see him as CEO some place one day, because I know that's who he is." (Editing by Dan Wilchins, Paritosh Bansal and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovVladmir PutinAmid the recent emerging-market turmoil, Russia's economy is under scrutiny once again. The ruble is down 5.5% year-to-date against the greenback. Experts warn the economy is too reliant on its natural-resource exports (i.e. oil and natural gas) and that it is showing symptoms of the Dutch disease. Dutch disease is the phenomenon in which economies driven by commodities exports see their currencies get overvalued. That in turn hurts local businesses as imports get cheaper. Meanwhile, the corporate sector is dominated by state-run companies, and the lack of privatization is a secular concern for Russia. The efficiency and flexibility that the private sector tends to provide, is thus missing in Russia Inc," Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels wrote in a note late last year. However, this isn't the whole story. Matthias Kuhlmey, partner at HighTower Advisers, which has over $20 billion in assets under management (AUM) thinks Russia suffers from a "PR issue," and that "maybe the story is misunderstood." "Russia, even though it's underperforming broadly in currency and stock markets, actually looks far more robust than any other emerging market," Kuhlmey said. "You look at the current account surplus, which is oil driven, but nevertheless [in surplus], external debt to GDP, and the federal budget is in good standing. I think when you compare this to other very heavily commodity dependent emerging markets, this is something that just needs to be portrayed to the world." In looking at Russia's economy, Kuhlmey prefers to compare it to China as opposed to the other BRICs or emerging markets. "When you go back in history to Russia, it is a massive consumer market. And this was basically oil money that was spent, and the Russian consumer was on top of the world," Kuhlmey said. "And when you look at China it was the opposite story, everyone was waiting for the consumer, and growth was driven by government spending and infrastructure." New drilling techniques, which has triggered the shale energy boom in the U.S., is a big risk for Russia. However, Kuhlmey believes Russia now has the ability and opportunity to shift its economy from being consumption-driven to one that's more investment-driven. This means more infrastructure investment, which creates more opportunities for foreign direct investment (FDI). Kuhlmey also pointed out that one of the biggest mistakes that people make in talking about Russia, is that they think of it as a capitalist economy that has always been around. The media doesn't emphasize that the economy is still in its infancy. "The best comparison I can draw in the last two years is Spain. We were very nervous about Spain, but in the 80s Spain was still emerging market, and the world needs to be reminded where these countries are coming from. And that being said Russia actually looks very good from an economic framework. "I make reference again 14% external debt to GDP that's an outstanding number that you hardly see in any of the developed economies. And even though the growth is driven by oil exports and oil revenues, it nevertheless creates a current account surplus that hardly any country operates on today. We need to be reminded that they are in the infancy stage and that they have managed to create not only a fiscal and financial framework, but Putin, as controversial as he may be, has brought Russia back on the map of world consideration." HighTower Advisors has about $100,000 in Russia ETFs. HighTower itself doesn't have a position on Russia, but Kuhlmey is neutral. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts Entrepreneur Elon Musk and his wife Talulah Musk arrive for the State Dinner being held for French President Francois Hollande at the White House in Washington February 11, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  FREE AppDownload
ToyotaToyota on Wednesday announced a global recall of 1.9 million Prius hybrid cars because of a fault that could cause the vehicle to slow down suddenly, in the latest safety blow to the Japanese auto giant. The company said it decided on the call-back -- the biggest for the eco-friendly vehicle -- after the discovery of problems with software used to control a power converter that posed a risk to drivers. "Because, in the worst case, the car could stop while driving we do consider this a potential safety issue and that's the reason why we are implementing this recall," a Tokyo-based company spokesman said. No accidents have been reported as a result of the defect, the world's biggest automaker added. In most cases the defect could set off a vehicle's warning lights and "probably" cause it to enter "failsafe mode", in which the car can still be driven but with reduced power, it said. "It would slow down, eventually to stop," a spokeswoman added. Toyota, a leader in the production of environmentally friendly cars, said it was aware of more than 400 cases of the problem, including 300 in Japan and 90 in North America. The recall covers about 997,000 vehicles in Japan with another 713,000 vehicles in North America. Most of the remainder are in Europe, the Middle East, and China. The company recalled Prius models last year and in 2010 for different problems, but Wednesday's announcement marked the biggest call back for a car that Toyota has bet will lead a bigger move to green cars. Last year, Toyota's chairman Takeshi Uchiyamada challenged automakers to step up sales of hybrids in the United States, calling them "a long bridge" into future vehicles. He was chief engineer of the Toyota team that developed the Prius, the world's first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid car, and launched it in 1997. The problem is the latest for Toyota and other Japanese automakers that have recalled millions of vehicles in recent years, damaging their long-held reputation for quality and safety. In October, a US court found Toyota was not to blame for a fatal crash involving claims of unintended acceleration, a case that sparked huge global recalls and badly dented the company's reputation. But weeks later, the automaker lost a related court case in which it was found at fault for a fatal accident. Toyota earlier agreed to pay about $1.1 billion to settle a class action lawsuit launched by US vehicle owners affected by the series of mass recalls. The company did not accept any blame but agreed to compensate owners of about 16.3 million vehicles who said their value had been reduced because of the recall. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nigel RoddisMark Carney has begun the inflation report. "The recovery has gained momentum," Carney says. The first phase of forward guidance. The Monetary Policy Committee(MPC) set 7% unemployment rate threshold before even considering whether interest rates should be raise. "Forward guidance is working... uncertainty about interest rates has fallen," Carney said. The framework has highlighted difference between monetary and macroprudential policy. But Carney points out that the unemployment rate fell much faster than expected and is likely to reach the threshold by Spring. Productivity growth has been disappointing. expect to return to pre-crisis rate at the end of three year forecast. Greater slack in job market than expected. Bank of England raised UK economic growth forecast to 3.4%, from previous forecasts for 2.8% growth. Carney says there will be five elements to new guidance. 1. Guidance to absorb all the spare capacity. 2. There remains more room to absorb before raising rate. 3. If and when the time comes that the economy recovers, the bank rate is expected to rise gradually. The timing and pace will reflect degree of spare capacity in the economy. Will consider a range of indicators. 4. Any rise in bank rate will be limited. Level of interest rates will need to be materially lower than before the crisis. 5. MPC will maintain stock of purchases until after a rise in rates. Carney says they won't take risks with the economic recovery. The press conference has begun. Here are some of the highlights: Carney emphasizes he isn't giving time-contingent guidance, he's giving stage-contingent guidance. Unemployment was the right metric, Carney says. Carney says the MPC will not publish a path for expected rise in interest rates. In terms of increased communication, Carney says the MPC has tried to consistently increase amount of information and context. This is a pretty open institution. "We're not complacent about this recovery at all. We're serene not complacent. ...It's very important that there's a hand off to business confidence." "The objective is not to have forward guidance forever. ...Was first about securing nascent recovery." Markets expect rates to rise in 2015. Here's a look at the indicators of labor market slack that the MPC considers: Bank of England You can find the entire inflation report here » ----------------------- In a few minutes Bank of England's Mark Carney will present the inflation report. Carney is expected to present modifications to the forward guidance framework used to guide monetary policy. The current language was first  introduced in August 2013. The unemployment rate has ticked down to 7.1%, and is already close to the 7% threshold for raising interest rates. Of course, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) did emphasize that reaching threshold wouldn't automatically trigger higher rates, but that it would a time to reassess the state of the economy. It's most likely that the MPC will specify a broad range of labor market indicators to keep an eye on. "For now, we just focus on the unemployment gap which is defined as the difference between the unemployment rate and Bank staff’s estimate of the medium-term equilibrium unemployment rate (MEUR)," Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard said in a note ahead of the report. Of course the inflation report usually brings updates on GDP and inflation forecasts, but the focus this time around will be on forward guidance. At its latest meeting the BoE kept its interest rate at 0.5% and its asset purchase program at £375 billion. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
More news from Europe that suggests ongoing economic malaise. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Umit BektasTurkey's Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci arrives at a news conference in Ankara January 28, 2014. Turkey's central bank will use all instruments at its disposal at an extraordinary policy meeting later on Tuesday in a bid to prevent a deterioration in inflation, Basci said on Tuesday. Suddenly people aren't worried so much about emerging markets. Their currencies haven't been tanking lately — in fact they've been quite strong, especially the Lira. And already the story is changing. The latest? Good news for emerging markets from both China and the US. Here's Kit Juckes of SocGen: It would be crazy to declare markets ‘safe' from a return of EM fears and volatility, but the Fed Chair's testimony, the lack of major US data today, double-digit export and import growth in China in January (with all due caveats about data quality), and a calendar which will see Mark Carney try to sound dovish before Australia reports a rebound in employment tonight, doesn't seem too threatening. In the last 24 hours we've had two important points. One is that Yellen sounded suitably dovish at her Humphrey-Hawkins testimony yesterday, making it clear that she felt the labor market was a long way from recovered. And we've had strong Chinese trade growth, with a nice pickup in imports for January. So if part of the anti-EM story was weakening China and a tightening Fed, for now both of those stories have been put on hold FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Vincent SteursNew York is about to get battered with horrible weather again. From the National Weather Service: HUDSON-SOUTHERN WESTCHESTER-NEW YORK (MANHATTAN)-BRONX- RICHMOND (STATEN ISLAND)-KINGS (BROOKLYN)-NORTHERN QUEENS- SOUTHERN QUEENS- 328 AM EST WED FEB 12 2014 ... WINTER STORM WARNING IN EFFECT FROM MIDNIGHT TONIGHT TO 6 AM EST FRIDAY... THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE IN NEW YORK HAS ISSUED A WINTER STORM WARNING FOR HEAVY SNOW...WHICH IS IN EFFECT FROM MIDNIGHT TONIGHT TO 6 AM EST FRIDAY. THE WINTER STORM WATCH IS NO LONGER IN EFFECT. * LOCATIONS...HUDSON...SOUTHERN WESTCHESTER...NEW YORK...BRONX...RICHMOND...KINGS...NORTHERN QUEENS...SOUTHERN QUEENS. * HAZARD TYPES...SNOW AND SLEET. * ACCUMULATIONS...6 TO 10 INCHES. * WINDS...NORTHEAST 15 TO 25 MPH WITH GUSTS UP TO 35 MPH. * TEMPERATURES...AROUND 30. * VISIBILITIES...ONE QUARTER MILE OR LESS AT TIMES. * TIMING...SNOW WILL DEVELOP LATE TONIGHT AND CONTINUE DURING THE DAY THURSDAY BEFORE TAPERING OFF THURSDAY NIGHT. SLEET AND RAIN WILL LIKELY MIX WITH THE SNOW ON THURSDAY. * IMPACTS...SNOWFALL WILL MAKE TRAVEL TREACHEROUS. IN ADDITION...HEAVY...WET SNOW MAY CAUSE SOME WEAK...FLAT ROOF STRUCTURES TO COLLAPSE AND TREES WILL BE SUSCEPTIBLE TO FALLING. FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — China's trade growth accelerated in January, possibly helping to ease fears about a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy that could dent global demand. Imports rose 10 percent to $107.2 billion, up from January's 8.3 percent growth, trade data showed Wednesday. Exports rose 10.6 percent to $126.7 billion, more than double the previous month's 4.3 percent expansion. Growth was "much stronger than we had expected," said RBS economist Louis Kuijs in a report. "This should make markets more relaxed about both global demand and demand in China's own economy." Last year's economic growth of 7.7 percent was stronger than the United States, Japan or Europe but tied 2012 for China's weakest annual performance since 1999. Growth looks set to slow further this year. That raises the risk of job losses and social tension, adding to pressure on communist leaders to shore up an expansion as they try to carry out sweeping promises of economic reforms. Stronger exports could help to ease concern about employment in industries that employ millions of workers. That would reduce the need for a new economic stimulus, which would set back plans to reduce reliance on state-led investment. China's trade figures early in the year are often volatile because companies rush to fill orders before shutting down for the Lunar New Year, which falls at different points in January or February each year. This year's data were expected to be unusually weak because during the comparison period a year earlier exporters were believed to be inflating sales figures as an excuse to evade currency controls and bring extra money into China for investment. "With these factors holding back export growth, the performance in January, at least first glance, looks even better than the headline expansion suggests," said Julian Evans-Pritchard of Capital Economics in a report. The country's global trade surplus narrowed by 33 percent compared with a year earlier to $19.5 billion. Its politically sensitive surplus with the United States fell 34 percent to $9.2 billion. The surplus with the 27-nation European Union, China's biggest trading partner, narrowed by 25 percent to $9.2 billion. A plunge in global demand for Chinese exports prompted Beijing to launch a mini-stimulus in mid-2013 based on higher spending on railway construction and other public works. Growth accelerated from 7.5 percent in April-June to 7.8 percent the next quarter but eased slightly in the final quarter of 2013 as the effect of Beijing's spending faded. Since then, Chinese leaders have said there is little that additional stimulus can do to spur growth and improvements will have to come from longer-term reforms. ___ General Administration of Customs of China (in Chinese): www.customs.gov.cn Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Lars Baron/Getty ImagesGood morning! Things are mostly quiet today in world markets following yesterday's huge gains for US stocks. The emerging market-inspired turmoil everyone was freaking out a couple of weeks ago is fading into the rear-view mirror, as US stocks claw their way back close to their all-time highs. There's a generally greenish tint to the action today. Japan gained 0.5%. Shanghai rose 0.3%, Germany is up 0.4%. US futures are up a hair.  There's basically nothing coming up this morning, except an announcement from the BoE and the latest in mortgage applications, so there's a decent chance that things will be quiet all day. Focus shall be paid to The Olympics and the big storm that's about to barrel down on NYC. FREE AppDownload
