Flickr/Thierry EhrmannChinese President Xi Jinping. A little bit of surprise good news in China. Chinese manufacturing may have grown a little bit in September, according to the Markit flash PMI report. The index came in at 50.5, up from 50.2 in August. Anything above 50 indicates growth; so Chinese manufacturing is improving — barely. This chart shows how China has of late been right of the cusp of even. Markit FREE AppDownload
TwitterA promotion for #FloodWallStreet posted on Twitter by @YourAnonNews, an account affiliated with the hacker group Anonymous.Activists gathered on Monday morning in Manhattan's financial district, where they said they planned to stage a mass "sit-in" to protest Wall Street for "financing climate change." The event was being promoted as "#FloodWallStreet" on social media. Ben WinsorArrests being made at the #FloodWallStreet protest.According to a press release sent out by organizers on Monday morning, #FloodWallStreet was to include "masses of activists in blue sitting-in and risking arrest, accompanied by a 15-foot inflatable ‘carbon bubble,’ a marching band, oversized puppets, a 300-foot #FloodWallStreet banner, and other large-scale art pieces." The protest comes one day after Sunday's "People's Climate March" in which over 300,000 people including many celebrities and politicians marched through New York to demand action to fight climate change ahead of United Nations' Climate Summit. Business Insider was on the ground at the protests and continuously updated this post with reports. Update (8:07 p.m.) — After a lengthy sit-in at the Wall Street bull statue, the protesters attempted to march toward the stock exchange, where several arrests were made. Shortly before 7 p.m., police began telling protesters to leave the area, threatening them with arrest if they failed to comply. Officers eventually began arresting the activists and loading them into buses.  Our full liveblog of the day's events is below. Scroll down to the bottom for the latest updates. Colin CampbellPeople gathered in Battery Park for the Flood Wall Street protest.10:37 a.m. — According to the press release, the protesters are currently gathered in Battery Park for "non-violent direct action trainings" and speeches. Business Insider estimates there are at least 200 people in attendance.  A female speaker, who used the call-and-response "people's mic" technique popularized during the Occupy Wall Street protests, emphasized a connection to those demonstrations, which began on Sept. 17, 2011.  "Three years ago, almost today ... a few blocks from here, the Occupy movement was born to put corporate capitalism on trial. The entire world listened and the debate about inequality opened up that rages until this day," the woman said. "And now we are back ... We never went away. We were organizing in our communities. And now we are back with the power of the water behind us to fight back like the Earth itself is fighting back." Park officials are using yellow tape to keep the crowds off the grass. Police are already set up outside the park. According to the press release, the demonstrators are scheduled to begin marching through the financial district at 11:30 a.m.   11:16 a.m. — Another speaker told the group they expected to face "relatively minor charges" after the sit-in. They suggested it was the "perfect" protest to participate in for those who have "never been arrested before."  Colin Campbell#FloodWallStreet protesters preparing to march on the Financial District.11:37 a.m. — After a speaker discussed an Occupy Wall Street "bail fund" that they said could be used for protesters who were arrested, the crowd began to form in groups and prepare to march from the park toward Wall Street. Business Insider observed the crowd has swelled and now includes several hundred people. The NYPD did not respond to an email asking about their plans for the protests or how many people they believe are participating.  Business Insider's Colin Campbell, who is in the crowd, said that, as they prepared to march, members of the group raised concerns that there were "too many white men in the front carrying the banner." Using the people's mic, they managed to assemble a more diverse group to lead the march.  11:44 a.m. — The protesters began marching shortly before 11:40 a.m.  According to a flyer distributed in the crowd, the protesters are planning to stage their "action" at noon near the New York Stock Exchange at the corner of Wall Street and Nassau Street. Colin Campbell The "carbon bubble" at the #FloodwallStreet march.11:57 a.m. — The protesters are marching down Broadway and bouncing what the press release described as the "a 15-foot inflatable 'carbon bubble'" in the air. According to Campbell, the bubble, which appears to be a large fabric ball, is "bouncing off cars," and Broadway is "stopped 100%."  12:04 p.m. — #FloodWallStreet protesters have begun their sit-in. Some have started to sit down by the "Charging Bull" statue near Wall Street and others are continuing to march. According to Campbell, about 100 protesters are seated near the statue, and many are singing.  12:19 p.m. — Police are standing by and watching the group of protesters who are sitting around the bull statue.  #FloodWallStreet has sat down in front of the bull! pic.twitter.com/xppKni01mh   12:33 p.m. — According to MSNBC's Ned Resnikoff, the NYPD has moved "at least one large NYPD bus and several vans" to the corner of Beaver Street to potentially arrest protesters. 12:50 p.m. — Police have set up barricades around the area and are working to keep the sidewalks clear for pedestrians, but Business Insider has not yet seen any arrests.  Ben Winsor Police assembled near the #FloodWallStreet protest.1:06 p.m. — Business Insider's Ben Winsor, who has also arrived to cover the protests, reports police have barricaded and cleared Wall Street. A group of officers on horseback are assembled behind the barricades out of view of the protesters.  Colin CampbellPolice officers deflating the #FloodWallStreet "carbon bubble."1:13 p.m. — About 20 police officers with plastic handcuffs have positioned themselves near the protesters seated by the bull. Earlier, police deflated one of the "carbon bubbles" used by the protesters who booed and chanted "Pigs!"  1:42 p.m. — Protesters remain seated by the bull statue with police assembled to the north of the statue. The crowd was chanting about "staying here a while" and joking about ordering pizza. Broadway is still shut down from Morris to Beaver Streets. Business Insider interviewed a man in a polar bear costume who said he came from the North Pole. "My home is melting and we're the early warning system," the man said. "If the ice caps melt, how long before North America, South America, and Europe are underwater?" The man later clarified he was actually from Shelter Cove, California. A police officer told Business Insider he did not know how long the protest would continue. "It's up to them," the officer said. "Ask any one of them."   2:00 p.m. — Many of the protesters seated by the bull are currently dancing and entertaining themselves with renditions of MC Hammer's hit "U Can't Touch This" and the Reel 2 Real's classic "I Like To Move It."  Ben Winsor The sit-in near the Wall Street bull statue. 2:19 p.m. — A group of people brought pizza to the protesters leading to a chance of "Pizza, reheated, will never be defeated!" According to Newsweek reporter Zoe Schlanger, the protesters ordered 400 pizzas.  Journalist Nick Pinto reports one of the activists announced via the "people's mic" that the protesters intend to remain by the bull statue "through the closing bell and beyond."  3:18 p.m. — A group of the protest organizers are gathered together and voting on their next move.  "Our options are; we can sit, we can stay here, or we can go up Wall Street," a female protester said. "The stay option in, we stay, for ever, and ever, and ever, and ever until the cops make us leave and arrest some people." Another man suggested the sit-in already accomplished its goals by showing strength. "We have done it. We have fucking won," he said. "It doesn't matter if our numbers diminish now. "It doesn't matter if our numbers diminish now." Another woman in the group echoed this view. "Now our work here is done," she said. "We can march out of here. We will march out to Wall Street together."  3:22 p.m. — The group has concluded its vote. It decided to speak to the larger crowd and continue playing music by the bull before marching up Wall Street toward the stock exchange in time for the closing bell at 4 p.m. 3:29 p.m. — A woman addressed the crowd and praised its members for their participation in the protest. "We've accomplished something huge. People don't get in the street all the time," she said to cheers. "We're being super disruptive in one of the economic centers of the entire world. We all know that what happens at the stock exchange is fueling climate chaos."  Ben Winsor #FloodWallStreet protesters marching toward the stock exchange.3:47 p.m. — The protesters are now en route to the stock exchange. Police are walking in front of the crowd.  3:55 p.m. — The protesters have arrived at barricades on Wall Street, where they are clashing with police. Officers are pushing the barricades in front of the protesters and arrests are being made. The NYPD has not responded to a request from Business Insider asking how many arrests have been made and why.  3:59 p.m. — Multiple arrests have been made. Business Insider's Ben Winsor saw one man who was arrested while being covered by police on the ground. Some of the protesters are chanting "Who do you serve? Who do you protect?" Plastic handcuffs are being distributed among the police officers.  4:03 p.m. — At least eight of the police officers on scene at the protest are wearing riot helmets. Some of the protesters are chanting, "Riot gear, that's not cool."   4:08 p.m. — According to Fusion's Tim Pool, police have fired pepper spray on some of the reporters.  5:32 p.m. — A blue smoke appeared in the middle of the protest and was apparently thrown by the protesters. Business Insider 5:38 p.m. — This man is throwing real dollar bills over crowd and police. "Their money isn't worth anything on a dead planet." pic.twitter.com/L2evJRec0t 5:45 p.m. — The NYPD told Business Insider that only pepper spray had been used to control the crowd thus far.  "There have been erroneous reports that the NYPD employed tear gas and mace, when in fact we use neither. Pepper spray was used as a force continuum," the NYPD said. 5:50 p.m. — The man throwing money in the 5:38 p.m. update said his name was Graham Boyle. He described himself as a "freelance artist" and said his cash-throwing protest consisted of $200 in singles. "It was self-financed by a collective I work with called Patches and Flags," he said.Hunter Walker/Business InsiderMohamed Elroby runs a hot dog stand at the epicenter of the protests. Boyle's group was planning to pay for their expenses traveling from Washington DC to participate in the climate protests. Last night, he said they began speaking about how "capitalism is the root cause of a lot of the climate crisis" and decided on doing a "creative, poetic, symbolic performance or action." He said throwing the money was designed to show that "our community and our movement can subsist without money." "We can create alternatives and find sustainable models of production," he said. 6:25 p.m. — Mohamed Elroby runs the hot dog stand across from Trinity Church, which is at the epicenter of the protests. He said the #FloodWallStreet demonstration has been "very bad" for business."They block the streets; my customers can't come," he said. 6:42 p.m. — A protester began speaking via the "people's mic."  "The officers on the other side have put their helmets on. We're pretty sure this is just to intimidate us," he said.He then encouraged media to "take a look."  #FloodWallStreet protesters are playing soccer in front of a line of cops in riot helmets pic.twitter.com/KW6KEZdRSg "You are unlawfully obstructing vehicular traffic. I am ordering you to leave this roadway now," one cop said. Protesters have countered by asking cops to go home. "You are unlawfully obstructing vehicular traffic. I am ordering you to leave this roadway now." pic.twitter.com/ygep0zbb9O This group preparing to confront police pic.twitter.com/z2W9zfZz4o   7:10 p.m. — Police officers were overheard worrying whether there were "enough witnesses" to avoid being accused of misconduct. 7:15 p.m. — The NYPD crackdown on the protest appears to have begun. At least three more individuals have been arrested so far. The crowd is chanting "thank you" as officers begin to round up the demontrators and load them into a nearby police vehicle.  People are being arrested and moved onto bus now. Seen three arrests so far. pic.twitter.com/uywQhCHMlT 7:23 p.m. — The arrests keep coming, including the man in the polar bear costume interviewed by Business Insider earlier in the day. Especially loud boos as man in polar bear costume brought away by police. We interviewed him earlier. pic.twitter.com/FMcypKtjIG 7:38 p.m. — "They came here with the plan to get arrested," a police officer told reporters of the demonstration. The officers have methodically continued to arrest the protesters, including two dressed in costumes from "Captain Planet."  Hunter Walker 7:48 p.m. — Overall, the civil disobediance arrests appear to be noticeably calmer and more peaceful than other protests in recent years, especially the original Occupy Wall Street demonstration in 2011. One police officer present told Business Insider that Mayor Bill de Blasio, elected in 2013, won on a "certain mandate" and has a "certain outlook." 8:01 p.m. — Police appear to have filled one bus with arrested demonstrators, who are now being moved to a second one.  Looks like the first bus is full. Some of those arrested being moved to another one. pic.twitter.com/0y13Syp1Sm   8:05 p.m. — NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton has arrived on the scene. One person shouted insults at Bratton as he approached. A police officer with him smiled and laughed. Asked if he had any interest in speaking to the press, Bratton told Business Insider, "Not at the time." 8:10 p.m. — Four activists in wheelchairs were among the last group of protesters arrested. Four people in wheelchairs last group arrested at #FloodWallStreet First in line had his fist raised. pic.twitter.com/N9NhElhaQK 8:16 p.m. — All the protesters who were in the street have been removed. The rest of the activists have been pushed back behind police barricades.  8:19 p.m. — An officer with the NYPD communications team said 102 protesters were arrested in the evening event at Wall St. and two more protesters were arrested earlier in the day — bringing the total arrested to 104. The four activists in wheelchairs were given criminal court summonses in lieu of arrest, the officer said. (Correction 5:40 p.m.: An earlier version of this article incorrectly described a gas as "apparently" coming from the NYPD when its source was unclear. This story was originally posted at 10:36 a.m.) -Brett LoGiurato contributed reporting. FREE AppDownload
Jewel Samad/AFPTesla and Solar City shares have been getting clobbered. Both stocks are also down from their highs over the past month — Tesla by 14% and Solar City by 20%. Tesla topped out during the trading day at $291 on Sept. 4, and Solar City hit $76 on Sept. 12. Elon Musk is CEO of Tesla and chairman of Solar City, so he's been shedding net worth. How much net worth? He owns over 33 million shares of Tesla and almost 21 million shares of Solar City.  The declines from the peak trading values for those companies have personally cost Musk something on the order of $1.7 billion. With a total net worth estimated at $10 billion, Musk has seen 16% of his fortune vanish in September. Of course, he reported being broke back in 2010, so he's no stranger to losing money. Yahoo Finance Yahoo Finance   JPMorgan recently joined a chorus of sell-side firms that have sounded a more cautious note on Tesla in recent weeks — a chorus that includes Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and several other market observers. Both Tesla and Solar City closed down on Monday: Tesla at $250 per share and Solar City at $61. On a more upbeat note, Musk is also CEO of the private space company SpaceX, which had a successful rocket blastoff over this past weekend and has begun building its own launch facility in Texas. SpaceX also just nabbed a $2.6 billion contract with NASA to ferry astronauts to the International Space Station.  FREE AppDownload
APThe Obama administration on Monday announced moves to curb so-called tax inversions, the maneuver by which companies either acquire rivals or merge with them to relocate their headquarters to a foreign country with lower corporate tax rates. The Treasury Department is attempting to limit inversions through two main methods, senior administration officials said Monday — making inversions substantially less economically rewarding, and moving to prevent inversions from going forward in the first place. To make inversions less economically appealing, here are the changes the Treasury Department is making: • Preventing inverted companies from restructuring a foreign subsidiary to access the subsidiary’s earnings tax-free. This action, under Section 7701 of the tax code, will treat a new foreign parent company as owning stock in the former US parent, rather than the controlled foreign corporation (CFC). It would limit the benefits of the so-called de-controlling strategy, by which a new foreign parent could access the deferred earnings of the CFC without ever paying taxes on them. • Preventing "hopscotch" loans. The administration has moved to reduce the benefits of these loans, by which companies avoid taxes on profits of their CFCs by having the CFC make a loan to the new foreign parent, instead of the US parent. And here's how the Obama administration is moving to prevent inversions from the start: • Closing an important loophole. This action is taken under a subsection of Section 304 of the US tax code. It will, officials said, prevent an inverted company from transferring cash or property from a CFC to the new parent to completely avoid US tax. • Strengthening the requirement that former owners of the US entity own less than 80% of the new, combined entity. Under current law, companies can engage in an inversion as long as the US company has a 79% stake in the new entity and the foreign acquirer has at least a 21% stake in the new, combined entity.  This action, under Section 7874 of the tax code, would limit the ability of companies to count so-called "passive assets" toward the 80% rule; prevent US companies from reducing their size through dividends; and block so-called "spinversions," a method by which companies transfer a portion of its assets to a newly formed corporation and then spinning off that corporation to shareholders. Under current law, it allows the companies to avoid US taxes. Mark Wilson/GettyTreasury Secretary Jack Lew. On a conference call with reporters Monday evening, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said the administration was taking executive action because it had become clear Congress would not address the issue this year. He said the steps would make companies "think twice" about the maneuver. "We’ve recently seen a few large corporations announce plans to exploit this loophole, undercutting businesses that act responsibly and leaving the middle class to pay the bill, and I’m glad that Secretary Lew is exploring additional actions to help reverse this trend," President Barack Obama said in a statement. The new regulations will go into effect immediately, senior administration officials said Monday. Lew said on the call that they were aimed at reducing the benefits of and, "when possible," stopping inversions.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Albert GeaThe Samsung Gear 2 smartwatch (L) and Gear Fit fitness bandSmartwatches might become mainstream in a couple of years thanks to our obsession with Facebook. So far the smartwatch market growth has been tepid (at best), but the market may reach $10 billion by 2018, according to a Citi Research report led by Oliver Chen. Half of that market size is expected to come from tech trendsetters who don't wear watches, and the other $5 billion is going to come out of the traditional watch market. Although Apple unveiled its Apple Watch in September 2014, smartwatches have been around for over 10 years. They just never really caught on. And there are several reasons for that.  Citi ResearchThe most obvious one is price — smartwatches are expensive. Only 14% of US consumers are interested in paying more than $199 for a smartwatch, but most smartwatches cost in the mid $200s, according to the report. Plus, smartwatches tend to have poor user interfaces and poor battery lives. Another major complaint about smartwatches is that they aren't broadly compatible with most smartphones (even the Apple Watch is only going to work with iPhones). Since people want to hook up their smartwatches to their smartphones, that means that consumers view their smartwatches as smartphone accessories rather than standalone tech pieces, according to Citi. In order to understand how companies can capitalize on the fact that consumers see smartwatches as smartphone accessories, it's important to understand what exactly people are doing on their smartphones.  Increasingly we're using mobile web browsing. Specifically, we're web browsing on mobile apps. Citi's report notes that the addition of mobile apps in smartwatches will drive the smartwatch market growth. comScore Nowadays, the majority of smartphone users are obsessed with checking social media every day.  Digital browsing by mobile apps is growing at an incredible rate. From June 2013 to June 2014, mobile app browsing went up by a whopping 52%. As a comparison, mobile web browsing only increased by 17%, and desktop browsing just barely increased by 1% in the last year. However, it's not just that mobile app browsing is growing. It's also important to note that app browsing is significantly more popular on smartphones than on tablets. comScore 57% of smartphone owners used their smartphone applications every single day of the month. Meanwhile, only 26% of tablet users used their tablet applications on a daily basis. The Citi report notes that people prefer smartphones over tablets for daily use because smartphones are way smaller and portable, and analysts "expect that Smartwatches could have a similar or higher application usage rate." In other words, the addition of mobile apps will make the (smart and portable) smartwatches more appealing to consumers. Citi Research/comScore And it's also important to note what kind of apps people are checking out. 25% of the time spent on mobile apps is attributed to social networking.  The most visited mobile app (by US users over the age of 18) was Facebook. And 36% of the top 25 most popular mobile apps were social media. And that's not even counting smartphone owners under the age of 18, who are arguably much more likely to use social media and messaging than adults. You can already see the Apple Watch moving in this direction — you'll be able to access Facebook and Twitter straight on the app.  But the Apple Watch is not going to replace your smartphone. That's not the point. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBNP Paribas sign is pictured on a building of the bank in GenevaPARIS (Reuters) - BNP Paribas SA's  board will decide on the departure and the successor of its chairman Baudouin Prot this week, French daily newspaper Le Figaro reported on Monday. The report follows weeks of speculation about the departure of Prot, who was the bank’s chief executive at the time of criminal activities admitted by the group during the U.S. investigation of sanctions breaching that cost France’s biggest retail lender a record $8.9 billion fine. A special committee of the board of directors, designed to work on the succession of the chairman, is to meet on Tuesday in order to take note of the decision of Prot to leave the bank, Le Figaro said. The board of directors is to choose the next chairman on Friday. BNP Paribas was not immediately available for a comment. Asked whether the position of his predecessor Prot had been weakened by the U.S. litigation, BNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe said in early July he would remain in the role "even if the shock is as hard for him as for the rest of the group." Jean Lemierre, an advisor to Bonnafe since 2008, is a possible candidate to replace Prot, Le Figaro said, citing several sources. Lemierre previously headed the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 2000 to 2008. Prot, 59, who was at the helm of the bank from 2003 to 2011, helped the bank earn a reputation as a risk-adverse monolith that emerged from the 2008 financial crisis virtually unscathed. He became the chairman of the board in December 2011 when Bonnafe was appointed chief executive officer.  (Reporting by Maya Nikolaeva; Editing by John Irish and Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningU.S. President Barack Obama talks at the Democratic National Committee's annual Women's Leadership Forum at the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Washington, September 19, 2014.  The Obama administration announced executive steps on Monday to curb the maneuver known as tax "inversions," by which companies slash their tax bills by moving their companies' tax bases overseas. On a conference call with reporters Monday evening, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said the administration was taking executive action since it had become clear Congress would not address the issue this year. He said the steps would make companies "think twice" about the maneuver. "We’ve recently seen a few large corporations announce plans to exploit this loophole, undercutting businesses that act responsibly and leaving the middle class to pay the bill, and I’m glad that Secretary Lew is exploring additional actions to help reverse this trend," President Barack Obama said in a statement. The new regulations will go into effect immediately, senior administration officials said Monday. Lew said on the call that they are aimed at reducing the benefits of and, "when possible," stopping inversions.  The actions unveiled on Monday eliminate certain techniques inverted companies currently use to gain tax-free access to the deferred earnings of a foreign subsidiary, which officials said would "significantly diminish" the ability of inverted companies to avoid US taxation. The moves also erect more barriers to inversion by strengthening a requirement in the tax code that former owners of a US company own less than 80% of the combined entity. AP ImagesA sign welcoming President Barack Obama is seen at a Burger King in Orefield, Pa., near where President Barack Obama gave a speech, at Lehigh Carbon Community College on Friday, Dec. 4, 2009. So-called tax "inversions" have become a corporate trend over the past year, as companies have either acquired rivals or merged with them to relocate their headquarters to a foreign country with lower corporate tax rates.Their increased usage has prompted Obama to call companies unpatriotic for exploiting the tax loophole and urge Congress to address the problem. The most prominent recent example of a corporate inversion came when Burger King announced it would acquire Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons and move its base to Canada. Democrats have sought to use the issue as fodder ahead of November's midterm elections, but the issue has so far failed to resonate with voters. It has been complicated by investors like Warren Buffett, who is normally sympathetic to the Democratic position on tax issues but whose company is providing financing to complete the Burger King-Tim Hortons deal. Republicans support addressing inversions but prefer to do it as part of a broader overhaul of US corporate tax policy. In a statement, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner blasted the administration's executive move. "Under President Obama, the United States has the highest corporate tax rate in the developed world," said Michael Steel, Boehner's spokesman. "The answer is to simplify and reform our broken tax code to bring jobs home — and help grow our economy and create even more American jobs." FREE AppDownload
AP/Lee Jin-manSEOUL, South Korea — “It’s not fair!” complained a South Korean sex industry aficionado, a former “consultant” for a large call girl website. “The tax men are hurting business! Cracking down on company cards!” The consultant, a 32-year-old, chiseled and rakish figure who, as a youngster, mingled in gambling dens and street gangs, is outraged over mounting government scrutiny into South Korea’s executive sleaze. You see, just as companies stateside pick up the tab for employees’ lunch meetings, in Korea they subsidize business entertainment — which tends more toward hard core boozing and even the country’s sex trade (never mind that prostitution is illegal). Not far from glitzy office towers of Seoul are the frenzied hangouts where business is really done: a cacophony of karaoke joints, shady neon-lit parlors, and cluttered barbecue restaurants full of drunken managers ordering their junior staff to pound shots. To Koreans, the business districts of American cities appear staid, orderly and a bit dull. A shop-worn joke here has it that North America is a “boring heaven” while their country is an “exciting hell.” No salesman (and the majority are men) gets far here unless he can sing mean, inebriated karaoke and then slug through negotiations the next morning with a thumping headache. South Koreans slam the world’s largest quantity of hard liquor, imbibing 11.2 shots of soju per week, more than twice the average Russian’s vodka consumption (although soju isn’t always as strong). What happens when this macho after-hours culture goes too far, littering the company tab with payments to prostitutes and hostess clubs? “That’s the business model we depend on. When the Korean men are doing business together, they hang out at these places,” explained the sex industry consultant. There’s a dark logic to the debauchery. “When you’re a man and you do something dirty and sinful with your business partner around, you share your secrets, you share trust like brothers. You can always trust your new business partner.” “At the highest end, people in this industry used to offer up failed celebrities, really sexy ones with killer bodies, as hostess girls for Korea’s richest men,” the consultant reminisced. (He spoke to GlobalPost on condition of anonymity, which is customary in South Korea.) “You know, the powerful men you read about in the news. Top tier. Only the wealthiest executives could afford it. But it’s getting harder to sell with the tax police all over it!” South Korean civic groups and a few lawmakers have long pushed to clean up business and make it friendlier to women and immigrants. Last month, the government tax body finally put a number on the excess, reporting through a conservative lawmaker that $1 billion was spenton corporate credit cards on sleazy nighttime entertainment in 2013. That’s a significant slice of the estimated $8.7 billion companies spent on all entertainment services last year, according to the National Tax Service. Entertainment expenses are tax-deductible up to a limit. It’s a number that makes women’s groups uncomfortable, not only because of the ethical issues of tapping into prostitution for business deals, but because the glass ceiling stays abysmally low. "There is definitely a discriminatory and exclusionary element at play in that kind of sexual corporate entertainment culture,” said Shin Sang-ah, a consultant at the Seoul Women’s Workers Association, a nonprofit. "Wining and dining clients or other forms of similar corporate entertainment generally involve male higher-ups in the corporate hierarchy,” she said. “And this goes hand in hand with the fact that Korean women are generally confined to less important roles within social organizations." Although prostitution is illegal, some 500,000 women continue to work in the sex industry in South Korea, reports the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, the body charged with protecting women’s rights. The ministry did not respond to a request for comment on the corporate entertainment report. Of the total, businesses spent about $733 million on “room salons” — essentially premium hostess bars where young women flirt, drink, and sometimes leave the premises with their clients. In second place at $204 million were “danlanjujeom,” which in an oddity translates to “healthy family saloon.” Those are slightly lower-level establishments that contract out work to entertainers, explained the consultant. Finally, there’s the $100 million spent at “yojeong,” old-style saloons where women serve you in traditional garb. Paid sex in Korea is a complicated, compartmentalized business, the consultant explained. There are, for instance, four strata of the fabled room salon. “Ten-pro” salons hold the most prestige as essentially the private dens of aspiring celebrities, who sometimes linger in Seoul’s finest hotels and bars, seeking a wealthy patron with the help of a trendy club. There are the “15% bars” where the establishment takes a 15 percent cut of the hostess’s earnings, followed by “full salons” where customers dish out for all services up front. The cheapest in the hierarchy, the “hardcore room salons,” can get you a lap dance, body shots, and maybe some action, he said. Not all clients can dish out loads of cash, in which case they turn to an array of lower-priced hangouts you can read about it here, if you’re really curious. Higher-end haunts can be exclusive, turning away people without invitations and foreigners, who tend to find their niche in US Army districts. The government report added that the amount spent on sexual services has been declining over the past five years. But that doesn’t stop South Korea’s highly educated female professionals from crying foul. “As long as this kind of executive-level sexual corporate entertainment culture is seen as the norm,” said a programmer at a multinational electronics company who asked not to be named, citing the ire of her employer, “it's obviously assumed that women won't be willing to participate, and that can definitely exclude them from certain opportunities." Max Kim contributed reporting. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn anonymous tipster living abroad will be receiving more than $30 million, in the largest whistleblower award ever doled out by U.S. securities regulators as part of a program that aims to incentivize insiders to report wrongdoing. The Securities and Exchange Commission said on Monday that the whistleblower provided crucial information that helped investigators uncover a "difficult to detect" ongoing fraud. “This record-breaking award sends a strong message about our commitment to whistleblowers and the value they bring to law enforcement," SEC Enforcement Director Andrew Ceresney said. The SEC won new powers in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law to entice whistleblowers with monetary awards. Prior to the new law, the SEC was able to reward people for helping only with insider-trading cases. The new program lets the SEC pay a whistleblower who provides tips and original information that leads to an enforcement action with sanctions that exceed $1 million. The SEC can award a whistleblower anywhere between 10 percent and 30 percent of the money the agency collects. By law, the SEC is not allowed to reveal the identity of whistleblowers, and so as a result it does not disclose which case a whistleblower helped to crack. Settlements with the SEC large enough to justify a $30 million-plus award are fairly uncommon. Phillips &amp; Cohen LLP, a law firm that represented the whistleblower, declined to provide details about the case but said its client would receive at least $30 million and possibly as much as $35 million. “I was very concerned that investors were being cheated out of millions of dollars and that the company was misleading them about its actions,” said the whistleblower, in a press release issued by the law firm. Monday's announcement marks the fourth time the SEC has agreed to award a whistleblower living abroad — a fact that the agency said demonstrated the "international breadth" of the program. Since the inception of the program in fiscal year 2012, the SEC has awarded more than a dozen whistleblowers. Monday's $30 million-plus award is more than double the previous record of $14 million, awarded to a whistleblower in 2013.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Herbalife shares crashed into the close on Monday. In late trade, the stock was down more than 13%, and closed down 10.3% to $40.21 per share. Some isolated chatter on Twitter suggested this could be related to rumors that Carl Icahn is unwinding his position in the company, but this is pure speculation. On Twitter after the close on Monday, Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino poured some cold water on this rumor. well that's that @Carl_C_Icahn has not sold $hlf stake nor has he sold a share no option position either --sources close to the matter  But no matter the reason, the fact is that Herbalife shares had a brutal day Monday and closed at their lowest levels since May 2013. Here's the ugly intraday chart of Herbalife shares. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Flickr/tetsuya yamamotoAs I’ve noted before, a major trend in today’s global economy is increasing divergence. Different regions and countries continue to experience diverging growth and monetary policies, and performance among market segments continues to diverge too. As I write in my new weekly commentary, "World’s Apart? Investing in an Era of Divergence," this trend is likely to continue into 2015. For example, we are starting to see evidence that monetary policies in the United States and the United Kingdom will further diverge from those in Europe, and market segment performance is also varying. Last week developed market equities rallied, with stocks benefiting from low inflation, accommodative monetary policy and continued good fortune in avoiding “worst-case” geopolitical scenarios. But emerging markets experienced outflows, struggling on concerns over increasingly erratic Russian policy, slower Chinese growth, higher U.S. rates and a stronger dollar. So what does such divergence mean for investors? I recently wrote about three investing implications of an uneven global economy, including a stronger dollar, lower U.S. rates and a catalyst for international stocks. In my most recent commentary, I add to the list two themes that investors should focus on as year-end approaches: An increasingly active debate is underway at the Federal Reserve (Fed), and we at BlackRock continue to believe that the Fed will begin to normalize policy next year, perhaps earlier than the market expects. A marginal tightening in U.S. monetary conditions suggests caution toward those segments of the U.S. equity market with hidden rate exposure. Such segments include both small caps and certain defensive income plays, like utilities — both of which have historically proved more vulnerable to contracting valuations as real rates rise. Given that most asset classes look expensive, I continue to prefer market segments that offer relative value. Currently, I see value in select international markets, particularly in Japan and emerging Asia. Despite Japanese equities hitting their best level since the fall of 2007, Japanese stocks are still relatively cheap. In emerging Asia, while flows have turned negative and China is struggling to hit its growth targets, I believe structural reforms in China, India and the rest of Asia should support these markets over the long term. You can read more about my take on these particular asset classes in my latest "Investment Directions" monthly market outlook. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citi sign is seen at the Citigroup stall on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Nate Raymond NEW YORK (Reuters) - Citigroup Inc  plans to ask a U.S. judge to put on hold an order barring it from processing payments on $8.4 billion in bonds issued under Argentine law following the country's record 2002 default, court documents showed. Citigroup says it faces regulatory and criminal sanctions by the South American country, which defaulted on some of its debt in July, if it cannot process the $5 million interest payment due to bondholders by Sept. 30. Economy Minister Axel Kicillof on Monday threatened Citigroup with "penalties" if the bank failed to make the payment, as the government fights to prevent the debt crisis from spreading to other types of bonds. A lawyer for the bank told U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa of its plans during a hearing in New York on Friday just hours after a federal appeals court dismissed Citigroup's appeal of Griesa's injunction prohibiting payment. "As your honor knows, we are facing a payment deadline of Sept. 30, so we are likely also to move for a stay," said Karen Wagner, a lawyer for Citigroup, according to the transcript obtained on Monday. No other parties were present at Friday's hearing. Under the terms of a 2012 ruling, Griesa ordered that Argentina must pay in full the U.S. investment firms that  rejected bond swaps in 2005 and 2010 at the same time as servicing its performing debt. Investors who exchanged bonds were paid less than 30 cents on the dollar. In a separate order, Griesa said the injunction also prohibited Citigroup from processing payments on bonds issued under Argentine law. Argentina defaulted in July after Griesa froze a $539 million coupon payment on foreign law bonds. However, he allowed Citigroup to make a one-off payment on local law bonds and the bank argues the injunction against local law bonds should be lifted. Kicillof acknowledged Citibank had been shackled by Griesa's ruling, but said Citibank's operations in Argentina were governed by local law. "If Citibank doesn't distribute the money it will be violating Argentine law," he told local radio station Del Plata. "There are a number of regulations that include different penalties. I don't know which path Citibank will walk down." Wagner had told the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court last week that Argentina had put "a gun to its head, and the gun will probably go off" if it was unable to process the payments. Hours after the appeals court tossed out the file on Friday, Griesa told Citigroup it was his view that "the Argentine law bonds issued in Argentina, payable in Argentina, subject to Argentine law, are different from the bonds subject to the (2012) order," the transcript showed. The judge said he would be able to schedule a prompt hearing. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, confirmed on Monday that the bank "will seek to argue our case on an emergency basis in front of Judge Griesa this week, given the impending Sept. 30 payment date."  (Additional reporting by Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires; Writing by Richard Lough; editing by Noeleen Walder and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezMarkets are starting the week in the red. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. For traders, September 22 is one of those days with a notorious history. UBS's Art Cashin notes that September 22 marked various market highs in 1873, 1929, 1980, and even as recent as 2008. "If that's not enough, several of the astrological types claim their charts show [this] week is fertile ground for surprises – geo-political and otherwise," Cashin said. "Crazy?  Maybe, but forewarned is forearmed." 2. Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba exploded higher on Friday on its IPO. Today, the $230 billion company fell 4.4%. The biggest loser in the S&amp;P 500 today was Yahoo, which is a big investor of Alibaba. Yahoo shares fell 5.5% today. 3. The pace of existing home sales unexpectedly fell 1.8% to an annualized rate of 5.05 million. Economists estimated sales would climb to a 5.20 million pace. "There was a marked decline in all-cash sales from investors,” said Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors. "On the positive side, first-time buyers have a better chance of purchasing a home now that bidding wars are receding and supply constraints have significantly eased in many parts of the country.” 4. The big news of the day arguable occured in London where UK-based grocery chain Tesco revealed a $408 million error in its first half profits. Tesco is the second biggest retailer in the world. The stock fell 11.6% today. Don't Miss: 19 Of The Most Expensive Substances In The World » FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Roger DubuisThe Roger Dubuis Excalibur Quatuor watch.Watches don’t have to be dripping in diamonds or date back to the 17th century to be worth millions of dollars. Though it hasn’t even been around for 20 years, the Roger Dubuis watch brand has become well-known for its craftsmanship as well as prices that soar into the seven-digit range. The latest star watch from Roger Dubuis is the 2013 Excalibur Quatuor — the silicon watch has four sprung balances, requires 2,400 hours to build, and is the result of 7 years of research.  The cost? $1.1 million, making it one of the most expensive watches in the world. One of the reasons the Excalibur Quatuor is so expensive is that it moves away from a traditional watch “complication” known as the tourbillon that has been lauded by watch manufacturers for its aesthetic beauty. The tourbillon mechanism improves the time-telling accuracy of a watch and is typically found on the face of expensive brands who want to show off the craftsmanship of the piece. Instead, Roger Dubuis and movement development designer Gregory Bruttin created four sprung balances for the Excalibur Quatuor. A balance spring or balance wheel is not new in watch manufacturing, but what Dubuis and Bruttin did differently was to have not one, but four balances that work in tandem for unprecedented accuracy.  Courtesy of Roger DubuisThe Excalibur Quatuor has four sprung balances, each set at a 45 degree angle.The balances are each set at 45 degree angles and work in pairs to continuously factor in gravity. The watch’s balances are so precise, in fact, that they can even account for the wearer’s movement.  The sound of the watch is also unique. Each balance pulses four times per second, and no two balances oscillate simultaneously. That means instead of the classic ticking of the watch, it sounds more akin to the whirring of a machine. Courtesy of Roger DubuisThe watch has 590 distinct parts, and costs $1.1 million.The watch itself is made of 590 distinct parts and has a 40-hour power reserve function that is so high-tech, the company has applied for a patent. Silicon was used for the entire watch case because of it’s low weight and durability. It is four times harder than steel, yet uniquely weighs much less. Despite the rather large watch face of the Excalibur Quatuor (48 milimeter), it would still weigh less that your standard gold watch. And like anything worth having, the silicon version of the Excalibur Quatuor is extremely limited edition. Only three silicon Excalibur Quatuor watches exist in the world, complete with a hand-stitched alligator strap and silicon buckle.  That $1.1 million price tag now makes a whole lot more sense. FREE AppDownload
ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin (R) shakes hands with Jacob Zuma, president of South Africa, during their meeting in the city of Fortaleza, Brazil, on July 14, 2014. Russia and South Africa have signed a multibillion-dollar deal on nuclear-power cooperation that paves the way for the building of reactors based on Russian technology. The agreement was signed on the sidelines of an International Atomic Energy Agency conference in Vienna on September 22. Sergei Kiriyenko, director-general of Russia's nuclear energy corporation Rosatom, said in a statement that the partnership deal will provide up to eight nuclear reactors to South Africa by 2023. Kiriyenko said it would also create orders worth $10 billion to "local industrial enterprises," but it was not clear if he was referring to Russia or South Africa. The agreement also calls for Russia to help build infrastructure in South Africa and train local specialists at Russian universities. In a separate statement, South African Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said the agreement "opens up the door for South Africa to access Russian technologies, funding, infrastructure, and provides proper and solid platform for future extensive collaboration." Joemat-Pettersson expressed confidence that cooperation with Russia will allow South Africa "to implement our ambitious plans for the creation by 2030 of 9.6 GW [gigawatts] of new nuclear capacities based on modern and safe technologies." China Guangdong Nuclear Power Holding Corp, Japan's Toshiba Corp, and Korea Electric Power Corp are among the firms that have been reported as showing interest in securing the nuclear partnership agreement. South Africa is home to one nuclear power station. In December 2013, Africa's most advanced economy said it might delay the construction of nuclear power plants and focus instead on coal, hydropower, and gas. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. DAVID ROSENBERG: Market Volatility Is Back So Go For Global Defense Stocks (Financial Post) "After such a long period of relative calm ... volatility has reared its head yet again, and, as is often the case, it started first in the currency market," according to David Rosenbreg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff. "Near-6% moves in the US Dollar against the likes of the sterling and euro in a two-month span are hardly regular occurrences ...Gold has sunk to eight-month lows, off 6.5% in barely more than six months, while oil has swung back into contango (where the spot price trades below futures), which is aggravating downward price pressures." Bond yields and the US dollar historically move together, "but treasuries are selling off their radically overbought levels, equities are rolling over and some commodities have sagged to fresh five-year lows." There has also been "a very sudden switch in expectations" regarding when the Fed will raise rates. And on top of that, the Japanese economy is "stumbling" following a sales tak hike, and the most recent European Central Bank easing has "exerted little lasting impact." "Ordinarily, gold and commodities fare well in periods of global political tensions, but not this time, perhaps owing to the softness in domestic demand growth abroad. A better way to play the instability and stepped-up military expenditures may be through exposure to global defence stocks," Rosenberg writes. Women Live Longer Than Men But Tap Into Social Security Benefits Too Early (Financial Advisor Magazine) On average women live longer than men, but only 3% of women wait as long as possible to receive Social Security benefits, according to a Nationwide Financial survey. And that's bad for them because the earlier you begin getting benefits, the less you'll get in aggregate. Generally the earliest time possible to receive benefits at 62, which reduces the total benefits for life. On the flip side, each year a person waits after 66 (the retirement age), their benefits grow by 8%. Women may buy into benefits early for several reasons. Some might be unaware that waiting will result in greater benefits (and may think that retiring earlier will mean more benefits). Others may simply be forced into retirement. The life expectancy for a woman is 86, and 25% of women reach 92, according to Nationwide.  There Are Several Ways To Improve Communication With Your Clients (Financial Planning) There are several easy ways to improve communication with clients, according to Financial Planning's Ingrid Case. One way is to keep the conversation relevant and involved. In other words, don't just stick to reports and numbers. Instead, ask clients about major and minor life events, which could influence their financial plans in a way they did not previously realize. Also, involve clients in agenda setting. Sometimes financial advisors give so much information at one time that clients have a hard time processing and analyzing the situation. If you set the agenda together, they can more seriously think about what will be discussed. And last, ask clients questions that will help them open up about money. These include things like "if you had all the money you need and needed only to do something every day that thrills you, what would it be?" or "it's a random Wednesday morning during your retirement. What are you going to do today?" There's A Huge And Untapped Market For Financial Planning For "Modern" Families  (Investment News) "Only 20% of American today is part of a 'traditional' family like the one portrayed in the show 'Leave it to Beaver,'" according to Investment News' Liz Skinner. As a result, there's a huge market potential for creating a business model that offers financial help to single-parent, multigenerational, same-sex households, boomerang families, blended families, and more. 75% of modern families (defined as those that are anything except a married couple with one or more children under 21 living at home) do not have a financial adviser. 57% have never used professional financial help.  However, these are the families that are more likely to need financial help. In fact, around 73% of families experienced financial hardship "such as bankruptcy, an unexpected loss of a main income source or the need to rely on short-or long-term disability." Contrastingly, only 42% of traditional families reported these issues. Find The Middle Ground Between Being A Too Hands-Off And Too Hands-On Investor (Morningstar)  Investors who try too hard to be hands-on actually "do a poor job of timing their purchases and sales," Morningstar's Christine Benz writes. Even fund managers didn't do well when they employed this strategy. On the flip side, being completely hands-off isn't a great strategy either. "You'll improve your portfolio's risk/reward profile (and especially its risk level) by periodically rebalancing your asset-class exposures back to your target levels — that is, scaling back your exposure to strong-performing assets and adding to your underperformers," Benz writes. FREE AppDownload
Associated PressA worker restocks cream cheese at a Whole Foods in Woodmere Village, Ohio.Sterne Agee just downgraded shares of Whole Foods Market. The company has been struggling as grocers like Wal-Mart and Kroger ramp up organic offerings and specialty assortments. Analyst Chuck Grom said he could no longer recommend the company and changed his rating from buy to neutral. Shares have fallen 33% in the past year.  Grom notes that Whole Foods is making some key changes to lure back customers. Here are some changes the grocery chain is making to improve business.  Yahoo! FinanceWhole Foods shares over the past year. Whole Foods is going to adopt Apple Pay, which is supposed to make mobile payments more convenient and secure. People with newer-model iPhones and the iWatch will be able to use the mobile payment system. As an early adopter of the technology, Whole Foods could convert Apple-friendly customers. Whole Foods recently announced a partnership with Instacart in 15 cities, allowing the company to deliver groceries in just an hour. Customers can also buy a yearlong membership for free delivery on orders over $35. Whole Foods will be adding the delivery service in 13 additional U.S. cities this year. Grom believes this will help the company attract younger customers. InstacartInstacart offers delivery in as little as 1 hour. Whole Foods is partnering with Wine.com for the club. "The subscription program will begin on October 1, enabling club members to receive four shipments of six bottles each year, priced at $125 per shipment, including shipping costs," Grom writes. "The six wines, sent on a quarterly basis, will be curated by global wine buyer Doug Bell and Master Sommelier Devon Broglie."  Whole Foods' current app, which mainly features recipes, is largely ineffective, according to Grom. The company plans to release an improved app that is expected to incorporate loyalty rewards, order-ahead, and Apple Pay.  appstorm.netWhole Foods is overhauling its app. In October, Whole Foods will unveil a national marketing campaign for the first time in the company's history, according to Grom. The campaign will include television, internet, mobile, and social ads.  The campaign will "educate consumers on product quality and their options in the marketplace, while also helping to differentiate Whole Foods from some of its competitors," Grom said.  Whole Foods is currently testing a loyalty rewards program in New Jersey, with plans to roll out nationally by 2015. The loyalty program is necessary because it could give shoppers an incentive to go to Whole Foods over competitors.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe word 'password' is pictured on a computer screen in this picture illustration taken in BerlinBy Luciana Lopez and Karen Freifeld NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York's financial regulator said on Monday his agency will focus on cyber security over the next year, saying the possibility of a systemic attack to the financial system is one thing that keeps him awake at night. "It is impossible to take it seriously enough," said Benjamin Lawsky, superintendent of the Department of Financial Services (DFS) for the state of New York. Cyberterrorism is "the most significant issue DFS will work on in the next year," he said, speaking at a Bloomberg Markets event at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in lower Manhattan. A series of prominent cyber attacks this year has underscored how vulnerable much data has become. Just this month Home Depot revealed some 56 million payment cards were likely compromised in a cyber attack at its stores, dwarfing another recent high-profile attack at retailer Target. Banks, too, have not come away unscathed. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co said last month that it is investigating a possible cyber attack and working with law enforcement authorities to determine the scope. A report earlier this year by DFS on cyber security in the banking sector found that most institutions surveyed have come under cyber attack at some point in the past three years. The attacks came irrespective of the institutions' sizes, highlighting how prevalent an issue hacking has become. "I worry that we're going to have some major cyber event in the financial system that's going to cause us all to shudder," said Lawsky, who regulates both banks and insurance companies. Lawsky noted that, while there's a role for policy makers and legislators to address the issue, the public sector also may be able to prod the private sector to take steps to better handle the risk. "We need to think about ways to incentivize the market participants to do more to protect themselves from attacks," Lawsky said. He noted the rising market for cyber attack insurance, still in its relative infancy. That, in turn, could help companies improve their internal systems to fight such breaches, as those efforts could help them secure policies. "It's a bargain if we harden our systems now and protect against something more catastrophic," Lawsky said. "It is a great deal in my view. Once there is major event, everyone suffers. We're going to pay for it either now or then."  (Reporting by Luciana Lopez and Karen Freifeld; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David StubbsCharles Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia(Reuters) - Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Plosser, one of the sharpest internal critics of the central bank's loose monetary policy, will retire next year in a move that could ease pressure to raise interest rates more quickly. Plosser, 66, has dissented on policy decisions six times during his eight-year stint at the Fed, including at the central bank's last two meetings. He has frequently argued that the Fed's aggressive easing of monetary policy could spark inflation, and in July and September he broke with colleagues over the central bank's pledge to keep rates near zero for a "considerable time" after a bond-buying stimulus program ends. The former economics professor will step down on March 1, the Philadelphia Fed said in a statement on Monday.     The tenor of the debate on the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee could change with Plosser's departure and the impending retirement of Dallas Fed chief Richard Fisher, who like Plosser is one of the central bank's most vocal inflation "hawks." Both take to the public podium frequently. "The absence of Plosser and Fisher will certainly be felt," said OSK-DMG economist Tom Lam. Because of their "hardcore" views, he said, they may play a role in balancing market expectations about a Fed that may otherwise be perceived as dovish. Although the chiefs of the Philadelphia and Dallas Fed  won't have a vote on monetary policy next year, all 12 Fed bank presidents take part in the central bank's meetings, and decisions often incorporate views of both voters and non-voters. Fisher, 65, had said previously he planned to leave the Fed in April. Regional Fed presidents generally face mandatory retirement after 65. "The retirement of Fisher and Plosser in 2015 could potentially shift the composition at the FOMC in a less hawkish direction," said Millan Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York. Still, Mulraine and other economists said the impact may be muted, in part because regional Fed banks often replace their leaders with like-minded policymakers. "In terms of what this means for near-term policy, not that much," said Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics. He said, however, that "on the margins" it could make the central bank more inclined to move slowly in raising rates. The Fed has held benchmark overnight borrowing costs near zero since December 2008 and has more than quadrupled its balance sheet to $4.4 trillion through a series of large-scale bond purchase programs. Financial markets expect it to reverse course with a rate increase in mid-2015. Fed Chair Janet Yellen is often viewed as a dove because she has emphasized the plight of the unemployed and has fully supported the Fed's easing of monetary policy. Her legacy, however, will turn on her ability to shift the central bank from the "accommodative" stance it has had since the financial crisis to a tighter, more restrictive one. Plosser and Fisher's successors will be chosen by business leaders in their respective regions, with the approval of the Washington-based Fed Board. Swarthmore Group founder James Nevels, the chairman of the Philadelphia Fed's board, and Comcast Corp. Vice Chairman Michael Angelakis, the regional bank board's vice chairman, will co-chair a committee to search for a successor to Plosser. "The search committee will look at a broad, diverse group of candidates from inside and outside the Federal Reserve System," said Angelakis. "We will seek individuals who have the economic and leadership experience to be an effective policymaker and the chief executive of the bank."              (Reporting by Ann Saphir in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty in Washington; Editing by James Dalgleish and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Perhaps surprisingly, Russia is not the drunkest country in the world. That title goes to Belarus, whose residents enjoy just over 2 liters of alcohol more a year than Russians. Wasted Worldwide, a website that compares drinking habits around the world, created a series of maps that reveal which countries drink the most, what types of alcohol are most popular, and which countries have the most alcohol-related deaths. To create these maps, they used data from the 2014 Global Status Report On Alcohol and Health.  They've allowed us to publish some of their maps below.  Belarus drinks the most alcohol in the world, with an average consumption of 17.5 liters. Russia comes in second with an average consumption of 15.1 liters. The United States consumes a a relatively reasonable average of 9.2 liters, which is also less than the UK (11..6 liters) and Ireland (11.9 liters). Unsurprisingly, countries in the Middle East and northern Africa drink the least: People in Libya and Mauritania drink an average 0.1 liters, Saudi Arabia drinks 0.2 liters, and Egypt drinks 0.4 liters. Wasted Worldwide Men drink the most alcohol in Belarus, consuming an incredibly high average 27.5 liters. Russian men also like their alcohol, drinking an average of 23.9 liters, as do Romanian men, who drink 22.6 liters. American men drink 13.6 liters on average. Wasted Worldwide Women generally drink less than men, but in some countries they drink a lot. Women in Belarus still drink the most of any country, consuming an average 9.1 liters of alcohol. Moldova comes in right behind at 8.9 liters. Russian and Czech women drink an average 7.8 liters, Portuguese women drink 7.6 liters, and Australian and Ukrainian women drink 7.2 liters. Wasted Worldwide Surprisingly, beer is the most popular alcoholic drink in Yemen and Bhutan, where it's the only type of alcohol consumed. It's also the most popular drink in Vietnam (97.3%), Namibia (96.7%), Indonesia (84.5%), Myanmar (82.6%), and Mexico (75.7%). Wasted Worldwide Wine is the most popular beverage of choice in Europe by far. In Italy, 65.6% of the alcohol consumed is wine, in France it's 56.4%, and in Portugal it's 55.5%. It's also a popular drink in Uruguay (59.9%) and Argentina (48%). Wasted Worldwide Haitians love their hard liquor: 99.6% of the alcohol consumed there is spirits. It's also the most popular form of alcohol in Saudi Arabia (97.9%), North Korea (94.9%), India (93.9%), and Liberia (88.1%). Wasted Worldwide Hungary has the most alcohol-related disorders, with 19.3% of the population suffering from one. In Russia, 18.2% of the population has an alcohol disorder and in Belarus, the drunkest country, 17.5% of the population has a disorder. Wasted Worldwide Belarus has the highest number of alcohol-related deaths, with 34.7% of people dying from alcohol each year. Ukraine is right behind with 34.4% of deaths related to alcohol. Lithuania (30.9%) and Russia (30.5%) also have a high number of alcohol-related deaths. Wasted Worldwide
REUTERS/Tim ShafferJack BogleBloomberg's Tom Keene just wrapped up an interview with AQR's Cliff Asness and Vanguard's Jack Bogle at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit.  Among the topics discussed were the health of pension funds, the benefits of active and passive investing, and whether ETFs are being used for their best purposes. On pensions, Jack Bogle said, "Let's start with the facts: public pensions are $4 trillion underfunded and private pensions are $800-$900 billion short." Bogle said that pensions are not going to get the 8% return they assume they are going to get, but 5% is a more reasonable assumption. And this 5% also excludes fees. Asness is also just as "gloomy" as Bogle on the future of pension funds. Asness on if we can make up the gap in pension plans: "We almost definitely don't get there." On bond rates, Keene asked if the 7% yield that investors got over the last couple decades are a thing of the past, and Bogle said, "They have to be a thing of the past." Asness said he doesn't make GDP forecasts, but because Keene asked, he said, "If I had to guess, because you're forcing me to, I'd guess 1.5% real, 4% nominal." So, a bit lower than history might suggest. Asness added that making macro forecasts is a tough way to make a living. Bogle said that his worst call writing in 1990 that investors could expect returns of 10% over the decade; investors got 17% in 1990s. But since many of those returns were given up after the tech bubble burst, the 10% return call came to fruition over a 13-year period.  The argument for passive management, Bogle said, has "always been true... it's a tautology."  On whether the costs of active management are worth it, Asness said, "As Jack said, his math has never been wrong and never will be wrong." Asness said, however, that he sees the financial sector as too large, and since there are too many people trying to beat the average, market prices are better, and there is still a place for the active investor who thinks they can beat the market Bogle said that he expects more and more money to go into the passive, indexing side of the financial industry as passive investing continues to outperform actively managed funds. On ETFs, Bogle said that they are now vehicles that are used largely to be traded. "Now you can trade the S&amp;P 500 index all-day long, to which I say, 'What idiot would want to do that?'" Bogle said. Asness said ETFs are a "potentially great structure being used for some dangerous purposes." And on the future of security analysis and investing in our modern markets, Bogle said the future of security analysis remains solid as long as the return of all investors continues to equal the return of the market.  Bogle concluded with a statement from Ben Graham, recently quoted by Warren Buffett, that said, "I have now become an indexer myself." FREE AppDownload
Stringer/Getty ImagesThe Scotch Whisky Association published its global figures for the first half of this year, and consumption is way down in China. Exports to Singapore and China dropped 46%, according to the organization. They declined 19.2% in the second half of 2013. This jibes with the bad news we've been getting from the China's formal economic indicators. Earlier this month officials released the worst figures for industrial production since 2008. Retail, property, and a variety of other sectors of the economy also indicated a big slowdown was in the works. The government responded with "targeted easing," not the full-scale stimulus we're used to seeing when Chinese growth slows. That means industries including gambling — think Macau — and mining are preparing to take a hit as Chinese demand weakens. The market is already feeling it. "A major contribution to the negative start to the week comes from mining sector under pressure overnight in Australia with names like BHP Billiton (BHP) and Rio Tinto (RIO) down over 2% after a decline in commodity prices and iron ore hitting fresh 5-year low, and the smaller producers hit even harder — all hurt by concerns about Chinese growth," Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, wrote on Monday. It's not every day that the whisky industry, the mining industry, and fixed-asset investment (which slowed to 16.5% growth from 17%) are all screaming the same thing. David Frost, chief executive of the Scotch Whisky Association, said: "We are confident that Scotch Whisky will continue to grow in the long-term as markets stabilize and new ones, such as emerging economies across Africa, open up. However, it is clear that in the short run that there are economic headwinds affecting exports." He added: "The latest figures also act as a reminder that the success of Scotch whisky can't be taken for granted." We couldn't agree more.  FREE AppDownload
The nature of income inequality in the US and elsewhere is one of the biggest questions in contemporary economics and politics, with the Occupy Wall Street movement popularizing the division between the top 1% and the remaining 99% of earners.  Using 2012 American Community Survey household income data from the Minnesota Population Center's IPUMS dataset, we estimated what income a household would need to earn (rounded to the nearest thousand) in order to be in the top 1% of the income distribution in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Minnesota Population Center 2012 American Community Survey IPUMS There's a divergence across the country in what it takes to be in the 1%. In the Northeast, top-level incomes are in the area of a half million dollars, while in parts of the South and West, the cutoff is much lower. These figures should be interpreted as being very rough estimates. Surveys like the ACS frequently have difficulties in capturing the true nature of the very top of the income spectrum. Recent research based on income tax records, like this remarkable slideshow by Berkeley economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman, can give us much more detailed insight into what's going on with the super-rich. If you want to know if you're in the top or bottom half of your state, here are 2012 median incomes, per the Census Bureau's 2012 ACS estimates: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2012 American Community Survey   
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith I'll be ready to go in about an hour.If you follow electric cars, you know that they have one major disadvantage, relative to gas-powered autos. The don't go as far. For the major automakers who are also building all-electric cars, this isn't a big deal. Nissan, for example, doesn't pitch its Leaf electric vehicle (EV) as a long-range hauler. It only get about 100 miles per charge. For Tesla, however, range is a selling point. The company's main EV, the Model S sedan, can get about 300 miles to a charge, depending on driving style and battery choice. That's comparable with a gas-powered luxury car. But it all depends on conditions and how you drive.  The Model S has been a pretty big hit, winning Motor Trend's "Car of the Year" award as well as accolades from the automotive media (for the most part — some long-term tests have turned up problems). It's not selling in massive volumes, but it has established Tesla and CEO Elon Musk as forces to be reckoned with. And it's set the stage for the company's future. But that doesn't mean there isn't some skepticism taking shape. Over the past two weeks, both Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs have sounded cautionary notes about Tesla's stock, which has been on a tear — up 65% year-to-date (although down almost 5% in trading on Monday).  On CNBC last week, Charles Sizemore of Sizemore Capital Management joined the cautionary chorus. He followed up his appearance with some published analysis in which he reiterated his concerns but also expressed his own point of view on whether Tesla ownership makes sense for him: As an example, I regularly drive from Dallas to Houston on business, a trip of about 250 miles door-to-door. A Tesla Model S couldn’t get me there on one charge. Assuming a driving speed of 70 miles per hour and an outside temperature of 90 degrees, Tesla estimates that I would get 180-229 miles on a single charge. I tend to drive fairly aggressively — this is Texas, after all — so the figures are probably lower. It takes an hour and 12 minutes to charge a Tesla battery. That means my three-and-a-half-hour business trip gets lengthened to nearly five hours each way. Again, I’m not bashing Tesla’s technology. Personally, I think it’s incredible. But I’m also realistic enough to know that it’s impractical for most drivers at this time, irrespective of cost. This is something of a practical encapsulation of what I'll call the rational bear case for Tesla: The company is impressive as hell, but is it really going to convince luxury buyers to turn in the keys to their Mercedes, BMWs, and Audis? And even if it can, will it be able to manage the same trick with the mass-market buyers it wants to choose its forthcoming Model X SUV and Model 3 EV? REUTERS/David McNewWill the Model X resonate with buyers?If it doesn't, then all that future growth that's supporting today's elevated stock price could vanish.  But then there's the bull case, which boils down to something like this: Tesla is transforming the auto industry and others will follow its lead. It's like personal computers were in the 1980s. You'd be nuts to not invest. And then there's the burned bear case: Tesla's demise has often been predicted, and yet...the company is still around, bigger and better than ever.  Something interesting is going on right now with these various predictions about where Tesla is headed. For a while, the discussion was all about the stock and whether the run-up was justified.  It was a largely financial debate.  Screenshot via Yahoo FinanceWhat goes up...Questions are now being asked about two other issues. First, are EVs — an especially Tesla EVs — truly ready to capture significant amounts of market share from conventional cars? Second, does Tesla's Model S really match or improve on the current luxury driving experience? This debate is about the product. So we end up with two types of "range anxiety": a concern that Tesla's stock can't go the distance at its current valuation; and the more practical matter of whether the cars themselves can go far enough. FREE AppDownload
Jim McIsaac / Getty ImagesShake Shack is the hottest burger chain in America right now.  The fast-expanding company is preparing an initial public offering that could be worth up to $1 billion.  Shake Shack is known for long lines at its 34 locations in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Florida, and Massachusetts. The brand has also been expanding internationally.  Here's why people are so obsessed with the burger chain.  Shake Shack's burgers are more elevated than the offerings at the typical fast food burger chain, thanks to the 100% antibiotic-free Angus beef and buttered buns. Toppings include Applewood-smoked bacon and cherry peppers. This experience aligns with the values of modern consumers, who are demanding better food quality.   Many of Shake Shack's burgers are topped with the signature sauce, which USA Today describes as "a slightly spicy, sweet and sour blend of mayo, ketchup, mustard and spices." Some copycat recipes online also call for blended dill pickles. Regardless of the ingredients, the sauce adds to the unique Shake Shack experience.  Shake Shack on FacebookA burger slathered in Shack Sauce. Shake Shack controversially changed its fries from crinkle cut to traditional hand-cut last year, leading to many customer complaints. Last month, CEO Randy Garutti announced that the brand was going to stick to crinkle fries, which are more popular and easier to prepare. Many Yelp reviewers recommend adding Shake Shack's homemade cheese sauce to your fries.  The New York Times calls Shake Shack the "anti-chain chain," saying that its dedication to quality and customer service bucked stereotypes of traditional fast food.  Shake Shack spends barely any money on marketing, instead focusing on the quality of food. This message has helped Shake Shack stay popular in an era where diners prefer Chipotle to McDonald's.  Shake Shack "disposed of the notion that fast food had to be precooked or even prepared quickly in favor of quality ingredients and customer experience," writes QSR Magazine. Flickr/ozmafanShake Shack's minimal marketing implies that the chain focuses on food first. Shake Shack's signature custard is the base for these frozen treats. Flavors include chocolate, vanilla, peanut butter, strawberry, and some creative specials like Nutella.  Gothamist ranks the black-and-white shake, a combination of chocolate and vanilla, among the best in New York City.  Shake Shack began as a hot dog stand in New York's Madison Square Park. Many food writers say the hot dogs, which are made of 100% hormone and antibiotic-free beef, are an underrated treat.  "I was never let down by the hot dogs, bought from Chicago’s irreplaceable Vienna Beef, which were split down the middle, griddled and laid in a toasted potato bun with or without the classic Chicago garnishes," writes Pete Wells at The New York Times. "Better yet is the Bird Dog, a smoked chicken and apple bratwurst from Usinger’s of Milwaukee." Fried pickles on a hot dog? Oh no, you didn't. Oh yes, we did: http://t.co/PtL7Po8nBQ pic.twitter.com/KDOo62smVd In addition to its classic menu, Shake Shack also offers special frozen dessert items at different locations. The chain serves a "Liberty Shell" custard at its Philadelphia location featuring a cannoli shell, strawberry puree, and lemon ricotta. The New Haven location serves a "Skull and Cones Concrete," which is a similar consistency to a Dairy Queen Blizzard with peanut butter, ice cream cone, and chocolate truffle cookie dough blended in.   Shake Shack has a secret menu, which Thrillist successfully tested. Items include a burger topped with bacon and peanut butter, and a grilled cheese made from buns.  Love the Peanut butter bacon burger from @shakeshack secret menu. Awesome! pic.twitter.com/XvkiJFrPJP Founder Danny Meyer said the chain was discriminating about its meat-free options. "It’s only going to go on the menu if you would crave it even if you were not a vegetarian," he told Bon Appetit. Shake Shack is renowned for its 'Shroom burger, a portobello mushroom stuffed with cheese.   Shake Shack sells beer and wine, meaning that it can double as a Happy Hour destination.  Selling alcohol is becoming popular among fast-casual chains who want to find another way to draw in consumers. The beer is aimed toward craft enthusiasts and includes a special collaboration with the Brooklyn Brewery.   "Unlike the workers at most fast-food outlets, Shake Shack employees give the impression that they truly like their customers," writes Wells at The New York Times.  Shake Shack pays workers a average hourly wage of $10.70, and it offers health benefits and paid time off. Company executives say these policies help them attract better talent, and turnover is lower than industry averages.   Waiting in Shake Shack's long line might seem like a deterrent. But many people actually like the gratification of waiting in long lines for hot products, many consumer experts told Business Insider. "There are people in the world whose identity is tied up with being a consumer of such items and who derive satisfaction from going the extra mile, or five miles, to demonstrate their dedication,"David Gibson, professor of sociology at the University of Notre Dame, said.  FREE AppDownload
Haver Analytics In a 9/9 interview on CNBC, Jeffrey Gundlach, CEO and CIO of Doubleline Capital, provided some very useful insights into the recent behavior of the bond market and its implications for Fed policy. He noted that short-term interest rates have been rising, while bond yields have been falling. The yield curve has flattened since the start of the year. Through Friday, the 2-year Treasury yield rose 21bps ytd to 0.59%, while the 10-year Treasury yield has dropped 45bps to 2.59%.  Gundlach thinks that this is remarkable. He suggests that strong economic data are driving the short end of the yield curve higher on expectations that the Fed will start tightening sooner. However, the economy might be more vulnerable to rate hikes than is widely appreciated. He concludes that “if you read the tea leaves of the bond market, it might be if the Fed raises rates even moderately like to 1% or 2%, maybe the economy can’t take it.”   Gundlach may be right. However, I have been noting that the widely unexpected drop in US bond yields since the start of the year is mostly attributable to the plunge in Eurozone yields. They declined broadly on Friday, with the yield on the 10-year German government bond falling to 1.04%. The yield on the 10-year government bond in Spain dropped to 2.19%. On Thursday the ECB announced that Eurozone lenders had borrowed just €82.6 billion through the new TLTRO, falling short of many analysts’ expectations and increasing the likelihood that the ECB will have to implement QE despite legal hurdles to doing so.  Haver Analytics Today's Morning Briefing: Yellen’s Spin. (1) Fairy dust in the air. (2) “2014 by 2014” was achieved intra-day on Friday. (3) The third press conference was the charm--giving a new meaning to time. (4) Yellen says pay no attention to “dot plot” for the third time. (5) Will interest-rate hikes be at a “measured” pace? (6) How the Fed caused the last financial crisis. (7) The other Bond King explains the yield curve. (8) TLTRO disappoints. (9) Selfies and their BFFs. (10) Married couples in households with and without kids are no longer the majority. (11) Singles living solo account for 28% of households, while those living with someone else are at 24%. (12) “This Is Where I Leave You” (+). FREE AppDownload
HPHP CEO Meg WhitmanFor nearly a year, EMC and HP have been kicking the tires on a merger that would have created one the biggest enterprise tech companies on the planet — with over $130 billion in annual sales, according to the Wall Street Journal. For comparison, IBM is expected to do $98 billion in annual sales this year. Apparently, the talks have stalled because they couldn't agree to terms. Both companies were concerned they couldn't sell the deal as it was to shareholders, reports the WSJ. But they had a lot of details ironed out including who would be the boss — HP CEO Meg Whitman — and which executives would run which units. Another source close to the company told Barron's Tiernan Ray that the deal isn't completely dead: “Meg was going to run the company, Joe’s guys were going to have significant roles, it had been worked out who would run the divisions, they’d done all this work on it,” says the source, referring to HP’s CEO, Meg Whitman, and EMC’s CEO, Joe Tucci. “They were very close last week, and then things went on pause,” says the source. “Things feel imminent-ish.” This is surprising news for all sorts of reasons. HP is only now digging itself out of a hole from its decades-long acquisition binge that left it heavily in debt, laying off up to 50,000 employees. Whitman even admitted it paid too much for at least one mega-deal (the $11 billion it paid for Autonomy). In 2012, HP wrote off a whopping ~$17 billion from its mega deals, including Compaq, EDS and Autonomy. HP's track-record on mega-mergers is iffy at best. The deal, however, would have been an all-stock transaction, billed as merger between equals, not as an acquisition by HP, according to the WSJ. Still, Whitman indicated in February that HP was not going to be making another mega-deal anytime soon, but would be doing  "small to medium-sized acquisitions." Just last month, when talks with EMC would have certainly been going on, Whitman told analysts in the quarterly conference call that HP's acquisition strategy would be "focused on only things that we cannot do organically, and given the choice, I would rather invest organically this is the heritage of Hewlett-Packard." The WSJ said EMC was talking to Dell about a merger, which may have involved just selling parts of itself off. Dell is working hard to get a piece of EMC's enterprise storage business. This means that EMC is open to talks with others, too, with names like Oracle and Cisco being dropped to the WSJ and Barron's.  Cisco would be interesting match with EMC. The two companies are close partners, but in recent years, EMC subsidiary VMware has been threatening Cisco with a new technology called "software-defined networking." SDN threatens Cisco's Cisco's $21 billion router/switch business with a new software-centric way to build networks. Everyone from Goldman Sachs to Facebook has jumped aboard the SDN bandwagon. Then again, HP, Cisco's main rival in the network industry, has been all-in on SDN. Owning EMC/VMware would be sweet for HP on that count. All this merger talk might amount to nothing, but EMC is at a crossroads. EMC's bread-and-butter technology, enterprise computer storage, is under attack from a whole slew of young new technologies that offer bigger, faster, and cheaper storage options — and from cloud computing. Its longtime CEO Joe Tucci, who has already put off retirement once, is said to be possibly stepping down early next year, but has yet to announce a successor. Meanwhile the company has been the target of activist investor, Paul Singer and his Elliott Management Corp. Elliott bought 2% stake in EMC, the WSJ reports, and has been pressuring Tucci to break the company up, sell itself off, or otherwise take radical steps to beef up EMC's stock price. EMC's stock has languished at under $30/share for more than 5 years, far off the the nearly $100/share it commanded in 2000, the heady Internet bubble days. This merger talk has driven shares up to a 52-week record high on Monday of $30.16. HP's shareholders are less ebullient. Its share price is down a little on Monday. We reached out to EMC for comment and will update when we hear back. FREE AppDownload
Twitter.com/iiTRADER Trader and CNBC "Futures Now" contributor Rich Ilczyszyn died on Saturday, CNBC executive producer Max Meyers writes. He was 46. "So sad [about] the passing of my friend and colleague," the web show's host Jackie DeAngelis tweeted on Monday. "My heart goes out to his family."  "Rich had a love for life as well as an appreciation for the fragility of it. He always encouraged others to live fully and spend time with those they love and hold dear," Ilczyszyn's family said in a statement to CNBC. Ilczyszyn was the founder of iiTrader, an independent introducing broker. Before that, he spent nearly a decade as a floor trader and broker in Chicago, according to his bio.  He is survived by his wife, two daughters, and son. The cause of death wasn't immediately available. FREE AppDownload
Total U.S. crude oil production averaged an estimated 8.6 million barrels per day in August, the highest monthly production since July 1986, according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). In our Special Energy Report: An American Energy Renaissance, we highlight that just a few years ago investors were contemplating the supply constraints facing the petroleum industry, but with the disruptive technology in shale oil and gas in the U.S., we could now be looking at decades of drilling ahead. To make the most out of this energy boom, I like to remind investors to look beyond direct shale plays to find opportunities. One way of doing so is to become aware of the companies that provide key ingredients or supplies used in the process of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. One key ingredient is sand. According to the Wall Street Journal, due to the enormous increase in the demand for sand, PacWest Consulting Partners expects frackers to use nearly 95 billion pounds of sand this year, up 30 percent since 2013. This projection, made by the energy-consulting firm just one year ago, is a 50-percent increase to its original estimate. Since many energy companies have adopted the process of fracking in their oil field operations, they have come to rely on sand as an integral component to this procedure. In fracking, sand can be used as a “proppant.” Once the shale rock formations are injected with water and chemicals, it is the proppant (normally treated sand) that keeps the newly formed cracks open after they are made in the rock. This allows the natural gas or crude oil to be extracted more easily.  A recent article from Shale Plays Media highlights that just a year ago oil field fracking operations used around 2,500 tons of sand, whereas today the new fracking techniques call for as much as 8,000 tons of sand to be pumped into a well. (That’s 75 to 100 railcars of sand per well!) The article goes on to explain that this “frac sand” is normally high-purity quartz that can withstand between 6,000 and 14,000 pounds of pressure per square inch. Who is supplying the sand? Knowing the incredible value of sand to the oil drilling industry makes it easier for us to identify meaningful opportunities for our funds. For example, we want to know who is supplying the sand and who is moving the sand to and from the drill sites – these are the companies to pay attention to. One company we have identified as a sand success story is Emerge Energy Services. This company deals directly with the production and supply of sand to drill sites. Since debuting in May 2013, the company has seen its share price go from $17 to $122.50 at the end of August. Sand production companies like Emerge have shifted focus from solely supplying sand for roofing, construction, glassware and golf course projects, over to the enormous demand needed for oil and gas drilling across the United States. The outlook for the energy sector remains strong as we look towards 2015, with the demand for sand showing no signs of a slowdown. Who is shipping the sand? Besides sand production companies, railroads throughout North America are another beneficiary of the booming energy industry, and not only because of oil shipments. The rail industry is now busier than ever hauling frac sand across the numerous shale plays. Union Pacific Corp. is an example of one rail company that has seen a 26-percent increase in hauled railcar loads of sand since 2013. According to the company website, the rail line covers 23 states in the Western two-thirds of the U.S. There is more than one way to make the most out of the energy renaissance we are living through; Emerge Energy and Union Pacific are two companies we have invested in. Witnessing the adoption of the fracking process fuel demand for frac sand is just one example. I encourage investors to stay curious, ask questions and dig deeper to find all the opportunities that may be right under your nose. To stay informed not only on the domestic market but the global market as a whole, I invite you to register for our webcast happening on October 2. This will be one event you won’t want to miss! We are also offering continuing education credit for those in attendance of the webcast.  Click here to register today: One World Market, Many Central Banks: How Will Your Investments Be Impacted  All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. Fund portfolios are actively managed, and holdings may change daily. Holdings are reported as of the most recent quarter-end. The following securities mentioned in the article were held by one or more of U.S. Global Investors Funds as of 06/30/14:  Emerge Energy Services, Union Pacific Corp. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Noah BergerMy brain has been updated.Own a Tesla Model S? Then you're getting an software upgrade to version 6.0. Tesla will be updating existing Model S software over-the-air, the company announced on its blog. CEO Elon Musk had indicated some time back that v6.0 was on the way — in fact, he teased the update by mentioning one of its more engaging features, the ability to name your Model S. Few car owners, even owners of luxury automobiles, tend to pay much attention if a manufacturer provides a software update. But Tesla pitches itself as being as much a tech company as a car company — and of course Tesla's headquarters is in Silicon Valley. Here's the rundown of the update's most notable features: Traffic-Based Navigation (BETA)The Model S navigation system will be a lot smarter. Navigation will now provide route suggestions based on real-time traffic and calculate estimated travel times accordingly. It will also update dynamically as traffic conditions change throughout your trip. This feature will also take into account traffic data shared by other Tesla vehicles on the road. Commute AdviceNavigation isn’t particularly useful when commuting between home and work because most of us usually know the way. But if traffic has an effect on a typical route, it’s helpful to know in advance. Now, Model S will monitor traffic before you even start your weekday commute and alert you with a pop-up message on the 17-inch touchscreen when a faster route is available. Calendar (BETA)Model S will synch with your smartphone to bring you a large in-car view of your daily schedule. If you’ve already set locations for particular events, you don’t have to worry about re-entering the details into your car’s navigation system. Instead, you can just tap on the event in your calendar to bring up route directions. Remote StartYou will have the ability to start your Model S using only your smartphone. This function, which is particularly useful if you forget your key fob, will be accessible through the Tesla mobile app and requires you to input your password for each use. Location-Based Air SuspensionIf you regularly drive on roads or driveways that require higher than normal clearance, your Model S will remember where you previously selected high ride heights and automatically adjust the air suspension at those locations. This feature will be especially handy for people who have steep driveways. (Model S must be equipped with air suspension for this function to work.) Name Your CarYou can now make your Model S nickname official. The car’s name will appear in the Tesla mobile app and in the About Your Tesla section on the touchscreen. Power Management OptionsA new power management option will put Model S into energy saving mode at night to help maximize available energy. There’ll also be an option that allows the Tesla mobile app to always connect immediately to the car, while still saving power.  FREE AppDownload
Britain's major parties are beginning to set out their visions for the future ahead of the country's General Election next year. Within all the areas of disagreement, one surprising area of profound political consensus has emerged — accepting the need to balance the budget. The Office for Budget Responsibility — respected on both sides of the aisle — estimates that in order to keep the budget balanced, spending on unprotected government departments could fall by as much as 45% in real terms from 2010-11 levels through 2018-19: OBRGovernment spending will have to fall significantly to meet current targets.The impact of austerity — the policy of prioritizing balancing the budget, come what may — on the Southern European economies of Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Italy, included persistent high unemployment and deep economic slumps. So this sounds like an odd point on which all parties agree. Indeed under the Coalition government's own austerity program, Britain took years to recapture its pre-crisis level of output and the country remains far below where it would have been if pre-crisis trend growth had continued. Nevertheless, all three major parties in Westminster have agreed to balance the budget if elected to government in 2015. As two papers released over the weekend show, those commitments could require even deeper spending cuts and/or tax hikes than anything seen so far after the next election. As the Institute for Fiscal Studies puts it (emphasis added): For all the main UK parties, based on the latest official forecasts for the economy and public finances, achieving their fiscal targets will require further tax increases, or cuts to welfare spending or public services in the next parliament. None of the parties have yet provided the electorate with full details of these tough choices. Resolution FoundationCuts required under current budget plans of the UK's major parties. The choices are stark. If spending on the National Health Service, pensions, schools and international aide remain protected — as voters tend to demand — the implied cuts necessary to other departments would have to be impossibly large. For example, the Resolution Foundation suggests that using cuts alone to meet announced budget targets would imply "highly implausible" cuts of two-fifths to the Defense department and as much as 50% of the Home Office budget. The reality is that for the budget targets to be hit without crippling public services a combination of further spending cuts and significant tax increases (and not just tax hikes on the wealthy) will be necessary. None of the parties currently committing to "fiscal responsibility" are yet confessing this to the electorate. As the excellent blogger Flip Chart Rick points out in his latest post, the UK political establishment appears to have set up residence in the center of this Venn diagram: Flip Chart Fairy Tales FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Private equity firm Silver Lake is in advanced talks to acquire Shutterfly Inc, the online photo-sharing services provider, for at least $2 billion, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. Silver Lake has outbid other private equity firms in an auction for Shutterfly and is now negotiating the terms of a possible acquisition, the people said, cautioning that the talks may not lead to a deal. Silver Lake is in discussions to pay more than $50 per share for Shutterfly, although the deal price has yet to be finalized, one of the people said. The people asked not to be identified because the negotiations are confidential. Silver Lake and Shutterfly declined to comment. (Editing by Alden Bentley) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Anthony QuintanoThis isn't going to be easy.Last week, JetBlue CEO David Barger announced he will be stepping down, amid widespread media speculation that his decision was provoked by the airline's inability to maximize profits by minimizing the passenger experience. Over the past few months, analysts have accused JetBlue of underperforming and blamed Barger, suggesting that he was preoccupied with maintaining the brand values that made the carrier a big success with travelers in the 2000s.  On Friday, Bloomberg's Mary Schlangenstein and Michael Sasso anticipated a new era at JetBlue under incoming CEO Robin Hayes, the company's President and a veteran of British Airways, who will take over in early 2015.  "JetBlue is positioning itself to boost revenue with a fee to check a passenger’s first bag, a break with the airline’s history, and by squeezing more seats onto its planes," they wrote. Bag fees, along with charging for wifi and adding seats to aircraft, could increase earning per share by over 50 cents, according to Cowan and Co. analyst Helane Becker (as reported by The Street). Screenshot via Yahoo FinanceNor bad, but could be better. All of these changes would of course run counter to JetBlue's carefully nurtured market identity, so it would be reasonable to assume that Hayes won't necessarily do all three at once. Or any of them, ever. JetBlue's challenge actually goes beyond this kind of nickel-and-diming of customers. The company is caught up in a familiar dynamic for the U.S. airline industry. It innovated when it arrived on the scene, tapping an appetite for a low-cost boutique flying experience — something akin to boutique hotels, which could be simultaneously less expensive and more stylish that established luxury lodging options. There's plenty of opportunity to innovate in the airline business — as JetBlue, Southwest, and more recently and with a certain aggressive disregard for passenger comfort, Spirit have demonstrated. But the innovation tends to run its course, and then the upstart finds itself playing the same game as everyone else: competing on price. Spirit AirlinesSpirit Airlines pack 'em tight.These day, there are two ways to go in the airline industry when you compete on price: You cut economy class to the bone as far as the amenities go, charging for everything and packing in more and more seats; or you court first- and business-class travelers and their ability to pay steeper fares. JetBlue, a one-class airline originally, has moved slightly in the second direction by introducing its own version of first class on flights between New York and Los Angeles.Vimeo/JetBlueThe skies, they are a-changin'. But generally speaking, trying to stake out a middle ground is tricky. And that's exactly where JetBlue has found itself.  The company has painted itself into a corner: The brand depends on a positive passenger experience, but Wall Street has pushed the company to undermine the brand. There are three possible outcomes.  First, JetBlue's management throws up its hands and adjusts the brand to be more in line with the rest of the industry. This will make Wall Street happy. Second, JetBlue continues to support its brand as it has in the past. This will make customers happy — but it's an unlikely course of action, given that the CEO has just announced his exit. Third, JetBlue will successfully devise a middle course. As I already suggested, this is a toughest way to go. But it could be the only way to go. It doesn't make a lot of sense for JetBlue to effectively make a 180-degree change to the way it does business, vaporizing pretty much all of its brand equity in the process. Nor does it make sense for management to steadfastly stick to the way it's been running the company.  JetBue is going to need to innovate at a level not seen since the company was created to get through this challenging transition. Fortunately, because the carrier has put customers first for more than a decade, JetBlue has brand equity to burn. It obviously can't burn all of it. The trick will be figuring out how much like the rest of airline industry JetBlue can become without ceasing to be JetBlue. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves Herman ECB President Mario Draghi testifies before the European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in Brussels September 22, 2014.  The Eurozone's brief flirtation with recovery looks it's losing steam.  European Central Bank president Mario Draghi admitted that "the economic recovery in the euro area is losing momentum" in a testimony to the European Parliament’s economic and monetary committee on Monday. "Following some moderate expansion in recent quarters, growth of the euro area real GDP came to a halt in the second quarter of this year," Draghi told European politicians. "The early information on economic conditions which we received over the summer has been somewhat weaker than expected." The admission might not sound too impressive, but the European Central Bank is usually behind the curve in reacting to events, so it's a good signal that the institution is now recognizing the state of the bloc's economic malaise.  Draghi is still passing the buck to some extent, arguing that monetary policy measures won't succeed without "courageous structural reforms and improvements in the competitiveness." Draghi's last big speech was at Jackson Hole, and though his complaint about the Eurozone's fiscal policy wasn't part of the opening remarks, he managed to drop it into a reply to a question. Though he repeated the idea that ignoring the Eurozone's fiscal rules would be undermining "an anchor of confidence," he added: "There are margins, there is room within the stability and growth pact rules, for a certain amount of flexibility." That's about as clear a slap at Germany as things get in a European parliament committee.  He's still happy with the performance of the ECB's latest cheap credit scheme to get banks lending, saying the figures released last week fell "within the range of take-up values we had expected." That's odd, because almost everyone else thought they were a massive disappointment.  Even as Draghi spoke, there was a dispiriting example of the Eurozone's economic weakness. The European Commission's own consumer confidence barometer dropped to -11.4 for September, the lowest level since February.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuFor the second day in a row, markets are sliding. It's nothing too dramatic, but the S&amp;P is off 0.8%, the NASDAQ is off 1.3%, and the Russell 2000 (small caps) is off 1.6%. Alibaba, which just became public on Friday, is off over 4%. Yahoo, which is something of a proxy for Alibaba because it owns so much of it, is down nearly 6%. Yahoo is now down over 10% in just the two latest sessions as investors appear to be "selling the news" with regards to Alibaba. Shares of Yahoo had been surging in recent weeks on anticipation of the Alibaba IPO, so when the IPO finally hit, it wasn't much of a surprise. The selloff comes at a time when a lot of attention is being paid to the Fed, rising interest rates, and a stronger dollar. It also comes as commodities hit a five-year low, possibly an indication of slower global growth.  In addition to Yahoo, a host of "momentum" names are getting hit. Tesla is off nearly 5%. Solar City is off over 6%. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/NIAIDColorized scanning electron micrograph of filamentous Ebola virus particles (green) attached and budding from a chronically infected VERO E6 cell (orange) (25,000x magnification). Shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals were up more than 14% on Monday after the company announced that it reached a "regulatory framework" with the FDA for using its TKM-Ebola treatment to treat Ebola. In a press release, Tekmira said: Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a leading developer of RNA interference (RNAi) therapeutics, today announced that the FDA has authorized Tekmira to provide TKM-Ebola for treatment under expanded access protocols to subjects with confirmed or suspected Ebola virus infections. "Tekmira is reporting that an appropriate regulatory and clinical framework is now in place to allow the use of TKM-Ebola in patients. We have worked with the FDA and Health Canada to establish this framework and a treatment protocol allowing us to do what we can to help these patients," said Dr. Mark J. Murray Tekmira's President and CEO. "We have insisted on acting responsibly in the interest of patients and our stakeholders," added Dr. Murray. "Today we are reporting that, working closely with regulators in the United States and Canada, we have established a framework for TKM-Ebola use in multiple patients. In the US, the FDA has granted expanded access use of TKM-Ebola under our Investigational New Drug application (IND) and Health Canada has established a similar framework, both of which allow the use of our investigational therapeutic in more patients." This summer, shares of Tekmira were all over the place on hopes that the company's Ebola treatment would get expanded approval from the FDA. The latest update from the company, which came on August 13, said it was "evaluating" options with regard to expanded use of its Ebola treatment. This chart shows the rally in shares of Tekmira over the last three months, with the stock gaining more than 65% over that period.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Albert Edwards at Societe Generale says the US dollar against the Japanese yen is the most important chart for investors right now. Societe Generale"Presenting the most important chart for investors," Edwards wrote. In a note to clients on Monday, Edwards said that after last week's decline against the dollar, the yen is threatening to break a 30-year uptrend against the dollar.  Edwards writes: "We have long believed that investors ignore Japan at their peril. Time and time again, investors have missed major global market trends that have been catalyzed by Japan. We have felt for some time that a fragile Chinese economy could be pushed over the edge by a further yen devaluation – in many ways a replay of the Asian crisis of 1997. And just as the Chinese real economy data has taken a turn for the worse in August, the yen has slipped below a key 15-year support level against the dollar. This is probably the most important chart investors should focus on. The next phase of global currency wars may have begun." And acknowledging the technical aspect of the recent moves in the yen is not something that Edwards does lightly. "Investors often tend to be wedded to particular investing strategies, be it bottom-up deep-value stock investing or following fundamental macro trends," Edwards writes. "But the one thing that can guarantee a hostile reaction from a number of my faithful readers is when I pop the odd bit of technical analysis into a weekly. Many fundamentally based readers abhor technical analysis and are not slow in writing to me and letting me know that in some way I have let myself down with the introduction of such heresy onto these pages." And Edwards writes that the depreciating yen could be enough to throw Western economies into recession. "I believe that profits growth is so anemic in the west that this monetary tightening via strengthening exchange rates could in itself be sufficient to send US and European profits into outright decline and subsequently their economies into recession (via a contraction in the investment spending)," Edwards writes. "That is why this FX technical break is so important."  We last heard from Edwards when he wrote that the market was making a "hissing sound." According to Edwards, the yen isn't making a hissing sound, it's just breaking down. Technically speaking. FREE AppDownload
youngryand / Shutterstock.comMadison, Wisconsin, topped this year's ranking of the best places to live in the US.There are plenty of benefits to living in big cities like New York and San Francisco.  But do they really offer the highest quality of life? Residential resource company Livability recently released its annual list of the 100 best places to live in the US, looking at factors like access to schools, hospitals, and infrastructure; affordability and income; and how residents take advantage of those opportunities. (You can read the complete methodology here.) Livability looked at more than 2,000 small- to mid-size cities in the US, with populations ranging from 20,000 to 350,000, to compile its ranking. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyTesco was warned of these risks months ago. Tesco's statement for its enormous accounting failure blames "accelerated recognition of commercial income and delayed accrual of costs," but what does that mean? "Commercial income" includes promotional payments from Tesco's suppliers. Sometimes these are for promoting their products, for shelf-space positioning, or volume discount rebates because Tesco bought suppliers' stock up front. In effect, it sounds like the firm may have assigned a number of these payments to the wrong time period. Tesco’s latest annual report, published in May, says that the company's audit committee was warned of precisely this issue. External auditors PwC called commercial income an “area of focus for the external auditors based on their assessment of gross risks.”  PwC added: "We focused on this area because of the judgement required in accounting for the commercial income deals and the risk of manipulation of these balances." But the supermarket's audit committee judged that Tesco “operates an appropriate control environment which minimizes risks in this area,” and that it didn’t consider the issue “a significant issue for disclosure” in its report. With the share price down by more than 12% at the time of writing, they may be reconsidering today.  This isn’t going to help the accountancy giants fend off accusations that they’re too close to the businesses they’re hired to scrutinize.  Tesco’s report proudly claims that PwC has served as an auditor for the company since 1983.  There are more dramatic rumors coming out of Tesco, following the suspension of the managing director, finance director, and two other senior executives. Retail consultant Steve Dresser tweeted:     FREE AppDownload
Apple PayThe magic profit machines. Apple has basically, quietly, raised the price of the new iPhone. How? By shipping the basic model iPhone 6 and 6 Plus with such limited memory that buying one would be like buying a Porsche with a VW Beetle engine. As Apple guru John Gruber pointed out last week, Apple is selling the basic $199 iPhone 6 and $299 iPhone 6 Plus with only 16 gigabytes of memory. That amount of base memory first shipped with the iPhone 3GS, a now discontinued phone from the smartphone Triassic age. In the four years since Apple launched the 3GS, smartphones have become much bigger storage hogs. With the latest Apple mobile operating system (iOS 8), many-megapixel video and still cameras, HD movies, and TV shows, and ever-more-complex apps, 16 gigs is now an annoyingly small amount of storage. Unless you aggressively and fanatically manage what's on your iPhone — moving photos and movies to the cloud (where you have to pay for additional storage), deleting little-used apps, etc. — you're constantly going to run out of room. And that will create endless headaches and frustrations, which is not what you want and expect from a new iPhone. The answer for most people will be to spring for more storage. And here, too, Apple has cleverly created an even bigger incentive to pony up. The new iPhones come with bigger supplemental tiers of storage than the earlier iPhones. Specifically, iPhone 6s comes with 16 GB, 64 GB, and 128 GB of storage, instead of the 16 GB, 32 GB, and 64 GB of prior models.  So, the decision-making logic for most iPhone buyers will probably go like this: * I can get my new iPhone for $199 or $299 (depending on screen size), enjoy the bigger screen for five minutes, and then spend the next two years tearing my hair out about the tiny storage, OR * I can shell out an extra $100 to buy four times as much storage. When you amortize that $100 investment over the life of the phone, it's a small expense relative to the improved satisfaction. So many, many customers will most likely opt for option two. Here's where more of the hidden genius comes in. According to Wall Street analyst Gene Munster and BI Tech Editors Jay Yarow and Dave Smith, the cost to Apple of 64 GB of memory vs. 16 GB of memory is small. Specifically, it's about $20. That means that, for every customer persuaded to spend an extra $100 to buy the 64GB iPhone 6 (or 6 Plus), Apple will make an extra $80 in profit. That's a lot of extra profit. And because 16 GB is so little storage for customers who take a lot of pictures or movies, use a lot of apps, and/or watch a lot of movies or TV shows, they basically have no choice but to buy the 64 GB version. And that means that Apple has basically, quietly, jacked up the price and profit margin of its new iPhones. This in a market in which smartphone prices are dropping fast and most manufacturers are fighting to survive. Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster did a survey of iPhone buyers over the weekend and found that only one in five customers were buying the 16 GB version of the iPhone 6, about half as many as bought the entry-level phone in the previous cycle. That bodes very well for the average selling price of this device. And it bodes even better for the amount of cash that Apple is going to drop to the bottom line over the next year as most of their customers upgrade to the iPhone 6. And in case you're not impressed by that quiet pricing/profit magic, consider this: Apple is already collecting another extra $100 from every customer who wants the bigger-screened iPhone 6 Plus. Those start at $299, not $199. And it's unlikely that the bigger-screened iPhone 6 Plus costs anything close to another $100 to make. So Apple is most likely picking up another chunk of incremental profit there, too. Now, selling the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus with such limited storage is not the most customer-friendly move that Apple could have made. Apple could have put 32 GBs of storage into the basic phone, vastly improved the phone, and saved many of its customers $100. Apple's decision to put only 16 GBs of memory in the 6s, in fact, so disappointed Apple guru John Gruber that he called this decision "the most disappointing aspect" of the new iPhone. But Apple has always been as focused on its own bottom line as it is on making its customers happy. And Apple, probably correctly, is betting that almost all of its customers and potential customers will get over their annoyance, pony up, and help fatten Apple's bottom line. All this bodes very well for Apple for the next few quarters. Disclosure: I am overweight Apple stock, and I am looking forward to getting my new iPhone (though I'm not looking forward to paying an extra $100 for it). I think this will be the last huge iPhone upgrade cycle, however, and Apple is highly dependent on the iPhone for its profit, so at some point soon I will probably trim my "overweight" position and go back to "equal weight." This is to say, I will soon own Apple the way I own most stocks — via index funds.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/sima dimitricBusiness Insider is at the annual Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit on Monday, and this year  guest after guest has talked about the same worry. It's not entirely new, but we've never heard it repeated so much before.   Everyone on stage is worried about America's savers in our current low interest rate environment. Early in the conference Carlyle CEO William Conway, hedge fund legend Julian Robertson, and William Dudley CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York all voiced their concern separately. Its the band wagon everyone is getting on. Before the Federal Reserve lowered rates to keep money flowing during the recession, it was easy for people to retire on their savings. The interest on their money could fund visits to grandchildren and tennis club memberships — life was good. Now, not so. And the longer rates stay low without a clear sign from the Fed as to when that policy will change, the more people are beginning to think that savers need saving. While Robertson has been saying this for some time, this hasn't always been an issue people felt they needed to take up. Now it's as if there's a new sense of urgency about it. "I want to get off the lower bound as soon as possible, in part because it will benefit savers," said Dudley. Back in 2012 David Einhorn blasted Ben Bernanke for this issue in a column that used The Simpsons and jelly donuts as an allegory for why the Fed's policy could be unhealthy in the long run. "I know this isn't conventional thinking, and it certainly isn't the way the Fed looks at it, but I believe that raising short rates -- not to a high level, but to a still low level of 2 or 3% -- would be much more conducive to both growth and stability," Einhorn wrote. It's a different story now. The economy is recovering so an accommodative monetary policy isn't as necessary to maintain that "growth and stability" Einhorn talked about. Now it's easier to make the argument that the Fed's policy is doing more harm than good. Savers are a perfect example of who that harm is impacting. There's always something.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesInside a clean room at Sigma-AldrichGerman pharmaceutical and chemical giant Merck announced today that it has agreed to buy Sigma-Aldrich, a US life sciences company for $17 billion. Merck will pay $140 per share in cash - a 37% premium to Friday closing price of $102.37. This type of transaction is not a first for Sigma-Aldrich. As the name suggests, it was formed when Sigma Chemical Company and Aldrich Chemical Company merged in 1975. The combined publicly-traded company has acquired at least six other biochemical and research companies since 2001. However, Sigma-Aldrich isn't exactly a household name outside of St. Louis, Missouri. In presentations given in May and June, Sigma-Aldrich detailed the scope of its operations and revenue.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Argentine Presidency/Handout via ReutersThe meeting comes after failing to complete a June interest payment to Soros and other holders of bonds restructured from a previous default.Argentine President Cristina Fernandez on Monday will meet bondholder and billionaire financier George Soros, who is suing a U.S. bank caught in the middle of the country's latest debt default, a government minister said. The meeting comes as Fernandez's leftist government struggles to kick-start growth and contain runaway consumer prices after failing to complete a June interest payment to Soros and other holders of bonds restructured after a previous default. Soros' portfolio also includes a 3.5 percent stake in Argentina's state-controlled energy firm YPF. Buenos Aires has frequently cited the Hungarian-born magnate's investments in the country as a signal of investor confidence in the $490 billion economy. Cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich gave no details on what Fernandez and Soros would discuss. Local media reported Fernandez would be looking to shore up support for her unflinching stance against a small group of investors whose decade-long debt row with Argentina triggered July's default. Fernandez is in the United States ahead of the United Nations General Assembly, as relations between Buenos Aires and Washington sour over the role a U.S. court played in Argentina's debt saga. "Today's international agenda begins with a meeting with U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and also George Soros," Capitanich told reporters. REUTERS/Yuri GripasSoros' Quantum Partners hedge fund is one of four creditors that sued BNY Mellon in London last month, accusing the trustee agent of protecting its own interest by obeying the court.Argentina plunged into its second default in 12 years when a Manhattan judge ordered trustee agent Bank of New York Mellon Corp not to pass a $539 coupon payment on to bondholders until the government resolved its fight with the small group of so-called holdout creditors. Those investors, led by NML Capital Ltd and Aurelius Capital Management, spurned the terms of restructuring after Argentina's record 2002 default on $100 billion and want full payment for bonds they snapped up on the cheap. Argentina said the judge had overstepped his bounds and repeatedly demanded BNY Mellon pass on the money. Soros' Quantum Partners hedge fund is one of four creditors that sued BNY Mellon in London last month, accusing the trustee agent of protecting its own interest by obeying the court. The other plaintiffs are Knighthead Master Fund, RGY Investments LLC and Hayman Capital Master Fund. Argentina last week enacted a new law removing BNY Mellon as trustee and replacing it with a state-controlled bank in Buenos Aires. In an advertisement published in local papers on Monday, Argentina again demanded the U.S. bank "resign" as paying agent. Index provider FTSE has cut Argentina from its frontier equity index, citing the country's stringent capital controls for its demotion to "unclassified market status." The change will take effect in June.  (Reporting by Richard Lough and Walter Bianchi; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
In recent months, former GOP Vice Presidential candidate Paul Ryan has been touting his concern for the poor, while eschewing some of his party's past economic rhetoric. But according to Paul Krugman, Ryan and the rest of the party aren't willing to entertain the one thing that's actually needed to address poverty: spending more money. Edited by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Bloomberg/ Drew KerrLeon Cooperman of Omega Advisors and Howard Marks of Oaktree just finished a panel at Bloomberg's Most Influential Summit. Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle was the moderator. The two titans, who have known each other for 40 years, spoke about the market and the state of the hedge fund industry.  Marks said with interest rates down, people had migrated out along the risk curve. He said that they forget to be cautious. Marks then made a Warren Buffett reference. "Buffett says, 'The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct ours.' There's not that much prudence around; it's our job to be prudent," Marks said. Cooperman said he thought the stock market was "fairly valued."  "I think the stock market is fairly valued, not overvalued, but not priced to perfection." He paraphrased John Templeton's observation that bull markets were "born in despair, grow amid skepticism,  mature in optimism, and they die amid euphoria." He said the current state was "somewhere between skepticism and optimism." He said with the exception of the IPO market and a handful of publicly traded companies, there's no indication of "euphoria" being priced into the market.  Cooperman said bonds, however, were "overvalued."  Marks said that interest rates were "unnaturally low," which implies that bond prices were "unnaturally high." Cooperman said half the fund managers were "playing little league" the last time the Federal Reserve raised rates.  "There might be 11,000 hedge funds out there, but they're not run by 11,000 geniuses," Marks said. Cooperman said more people were going into the hedge fund business than deserve to go into the industry but that at the end of the day there was a weedout process.  Cooperman said that the higher your fees, the harder it is to achieve your objectives. He said that he had lower fees than the industry's standard "2 and 20." He gets his "jollies" by doing well for his investors.   "Money will go where money is treated best."  FREE AppDownload
flickrDonald Trump might be bringing his glitzy hotels to the capital of glitz itself: Dubai. He is "in talks" to open a hotel in Dubai with developers Damac Properties, according to Arabian Business. The hotel would be built in the Akoya Oxygen development construction along Umm Sequim Expressway. He's already building a second 18-hole golf course in the same spot — so it's not a surprising location choice. A Damac Properties managing director, Ziad El Chaar, told Arabian Business that the new hotel is "already" part of the development's plan, and that "he was discussing options with Trump." Trump had plans to develop luxury real estate in Dubai in the past, but ultimately he never completed the project after the global financial crisis. FREE AppDownload
William E Conway CEO of Carlyle Group, Julian Robertson Tiger ManagementFor some people Chinese retailer Alibaba's record breaking IPO last week was a sign that the market is frothy, if not in a bubble right now. Others, like legendary investor Julian Robertson, think it's one of the few real deals out there. At Monday's Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Conference, he said that Alibaba is a "fabulous company." "If Alibaba and some of the other things do as well as they are projected to do, then they are probably reasonable valued. Look, we are always looking for bargains...that's sort of the way it goes in our business," he said. This is a far cry from Robertson's stance on investing in China five years ago, when he said he simply didn't understand it. Alibaba crushed its IPO, gaining 38% on its first day of trading. The company has its critics though. They say that Alibaba shareholders have almost no rights, and are skeptical of accounting issues at companies that Alibaba has acquired. For Robertson's full interview, head here&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoU.S. private equity group Blackstone Group LP is "giving up on Russia", highlighting how even well-connected Western investors are turning away from the country, the Financial Times reported. Blackstone has chosen not to renew the contracts of the consultants it hires in Russia, bringing an end to the buyout group's attempts to break into the country, FT said, citing a person familiar with the matter. U.S. and European sanctions against state-backed Russian companies to punish Moscow for its intervention in Ukraine, have led to a freeze in Western investments there. Blackstone's decision was also prompted by the fact that it had not found suitable investment opportunities in the past three years, the newspaper said. Blackstone was not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. FREE AppDownload
BloombergNew York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley.Bill Dudley, president of the New York Fed, just concluded his interview with Bloomberg's Matt Winkler at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit. Among Dudley's notable comments were that markets shouldn't read too much into the Fed's Dot Plot, and that being on the zero lower bound of interest rates is "not a particularly comfortable place to be." Dudley said he would like to see the Fed move off the zero lower bound of interest rates as soon as appropriate, but echoing comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen made last week, that move depends on the progress of the economy and the Fed's progress towards its goals. The Fed's dual mandate stipulates that the Fed seek to achieve full employment and price stability, which the Fed has said is 2% inflation; it is currently short of those goals.  Dudley noted that in his tenure as president of the New York Fed, he has not raised interest rates, and said, "I'd like to raise interest rates at some time during my tenure... but I'm not going to raise interest rates just for the sake of raising them." Dudley emphasized that the Fed should be patient with respect to raising interest rates, saying that you don't want to raise rates too soon only to be forced to reverse course. On the broader monetary policy environment, Dudley said the Fed is operating in a different way than it has historically, and that it makes sense that people would view this with some nervousness. The Fed's balance sheet could remain high when the Fed is done with its QE program, or return to historical levels, but Dudley said that personally, he believes it is too soon to judge what will be appropriate over the longer-term. Regarding the Fed's Summary of Economic Projections, Dudley said it is worth asking if this is the best way to give the FOMC's views on the future of the economy. Talking to everyone's favorite Fed indicator, the Dot Plot, he doesn't think the Dot Plot should be "overweighted," especially as we get further out the time horizon.  One of the changes that Dudley sees with regard to the Fed's thinking is its approach to asset bubbles. Ahead of the financial crisis, the Fed didn't see bubbles as easy to identify and believed these were hard to combat with monetary policy. But in the wake of the financial crisis, Dudley says the Fed now sees a need to identify asset bubbles ahead of time and use the tools it has, whether it be monetary policy or macroprudential, to combat asset bubbles. If the Fed wants financial stability, Dudley said, than it certainly needs to monitor and attempt to address potential asset bubbles. Dudley said that despite all the terrible things going on in the world – from Ebola, to ISIS — there isn't a lot of connectivity back to the financial world at this point. The US dollar has been in rally mode this summer, and Dudley said that if it appreciates a lot, it would dampen trade exports as well as inflation, which could make it harder for the Fed to achieve its goals.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni(Reuters) - Auto parts retailer AutoZone Inc. reported weaker-than-expected quarterly revenue as a strengthening U.S. economy encouraged consumers to buy new vehicles instead of repairing existing ones. AutoZone's same-store sales rose only 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter ended Aug. 30, compared with a 4 percent rise in the third quarter. Sales at the company's fast-growing commercial repairs business, which sells parts to auto repair chains, increased 5.3 percent, down from 14 percent in the previous quarter. "AutoZone's higher exposure to the slower-growing do-it-yourself (retail) segment and lower exposure to the higher-growth commercial delivery business was a bit of a competitive headwind," RBC Capital Markets analyst Scot Ciccarelli said. Vehicle parts retailers have been increasing sales to garages, dealers and service stations as more Americans turn to them to repair their increasingly complex vehicles. AutoZone's rivals such as Advance Auto Parts Inc and O'Reilly Automotive Inc., got more than 40 percent of their 2013 revenue from commercial repairs. Commercial repair accounted for only 17.5 percent of AutoZone's 2014 sales. The company's fourth quarter revenue increased 4.5 percent to $3.05 billion. Analysts on average had expected revenue of $3.07 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net income increased to $373.7 million, or $11.28 per share, for the fourth quarter, from $347.8 million, or $9.76 per share, a year earlier. Analysts had expected $11.26 per share. AutoZone's shares were hardly changed at $525 in premarket trading. They have risen about 25 percent in the past 12 months, compared with an about 18 percent rise in the S&amp;P 500 Index. (Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/BIThe pace of existing home sales fell 1.8% to an annualized rate of 5.05 million. Economists estimated sales would climb to a 5.20 million pace. "There was a marked decline in all-cash sales from investors,” said Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors.. "On the positive side, first-time buyers have a better chance of purchasing a home now that bidding wars are receding and supply constraints have significantly eased in many parts of the country.” "We think home sales are running out of steam now that the post-winter rebound is over and the buyers for distressed  properties fade away," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "The implied level of distressed sales has halved since last summer, but tight mortage lending standards mean that regular non-distressed buyers cannot fill the gap in the near-term." The median existing-home price was $219,800, up 4.8% from a year ago. "This marks the 30th consecutive month of year-over-year price gains," the NAR noted. Inventory fell 1.7% to 2.31 million units, which represents a 5.5 month supply. This is potentially worrisome as the decline occured before the September rally in mortgage rates. "Let’s not overemphasize the realtor’s report saying investors are leaving the market," Bank of Toky0-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey said. "There is no fundamental economic weakness story in the decline today. This is not another indicator of slack economic conditions out there. Besides maybe investors are leaving the market because home prices are too high, no more bargains to be had." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg/ Drew KerrLegendary hedge fund manager Julian Robertson gave a warning about two bubbles that could "bite us" at Bloomberg Market's Most Influential Summit. "I agree with the fact that the economy is definitely getting better. I think the cause of that is two bubbles that will bite us. The first bubble is that bonds are at ridiculous levels...The small saver has no place to put his money except stocks. I think that the situation is serious on that score. No one seems to be concerned about that. It's  a world-wide phenomenon that countries are buying bonds to keep them moving along economically." He said he doesn't know when it will end, but it will be in a "very bad way."  Bill Conway from the Carlyle Group was also on the panel. Conway later said that he agrees with the bubble idea intellectually, but he didn't see a catalyst that will cause it to burst. Robertson also said that there are some "great companies around" to invest in. He said that Alibaba, which became public last week, is a "fabulous company." "If Alibaba and some of the other things do as well as they are projected to do, then they are probably reasonable valued. Look, we are always looking for bargains...that's sort of the way it goes in our business," he said later on the panel. Last week, CalPERS said they would redeem from all their hedge fund investments citing fees and complexity. CalPERS only had $4 billion allocated to funds. Robertson said that he didn't think their move was all that important for the industry.  "Well it's less than 1% of their holdings. They weren't very seriously involved. I think it's definitely much harder to run a hedge fund today than it used to be. In my opinion, it's because there are more hedge funds to compete with. We had a field day before anyone knew anything about shorting. It was almost a license to steal. Nowadays it's a license to get hosed." The moderator asked Robertson about returns in the hedge fund space. "I think that depends on the way you run your hedge fund. A lot of people are running hedge funds, a lot of very good people are running hedge funds, and you really couldn't say that these things are 'hedge funds' because they might be 30 percent hedged, but that's about it. They're almost no truly 'hedge funds'--one hundred percent hedged. I think it's still, particularly a good thing in view of the bubble, to have an anchor windward."  He said that the worst situation he's seen in the markets was October 1987 and it just "came out of the blue." "There really was no reason for that. The economy was strong. There was a bubble and it was pricked and boom!"  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVMichael Bloomberg.Money can't buy happiness. We've heard this saying before. But what about the reverse. Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg just wrapped up a panel discussion with macro legend Ray Dalio.  The panel moderator Stephanie Ruhle asked Bloomberg about kids these days whining about not wanting to work long hours at investment banks.  "Last time I checked, there were tons of people who want to work at Goldman Sachs ... Come on!" he said.  Bloomberg, who made his billions founding his namesake media empire, said making money was never easy. That's not just a Wall Street thing, either.  "If you want to get paid, you have to work hard. I'm sorry — that's capitalism."  His fellow panelist Dalio added that culture is an important factor to consider when picking a place to work. He went on to say something about how there's no correlation between money and happiness. Bloomberg swooped in: "Just remember: Happiness can never buy money."  The audience laughed. Bloomberg's point is that any correlation between happiness and money is purely spurious. FREE AppDownload
Apple just announced record-breaking iPhone sales over the opening weekend. It says sold it over 10 million units.  So far, the stock isn't doing much. It's up 0.83%. But that could be about to change. Walt Piecyk at BTIG Research published the following chart that shows what happens to Apple's stock historically after it starts selling a new iPhone. BTIG FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVRay Dalio.Ray Dalio, who runs the hedge fund behemoth Bridgewater Associates, is speaking at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit with former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg. Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle is the panel moderator.  Both CEOs are talking about the intense focus on transparency at both of their firms. Dalio is also one of those closely followed macro fund managers. He is also known for 'round-the-clock surveillance at his firm. Everything is recorded. Dalio said that makes for "meaningful work and meaningful relationships through radical truth and radical transparency." Bloomberg's firm is also constructed differently from traditional institutions. There are no titles, and all seating is open-plan. The CEO himself sits in the center of a bullpen. At the same time, he also believes in delegating down and forcing all employees to take responsibility for pieces of the operation.  About 10 minutes into the conversation, Stephanie Ruhle brought up a point you hear in cocktail conversation about both Bloomberg and Bridgewater — "what do you say to people who say that your companies are cultish?" Dalio responded that his culture comes with questioning, not blind following as in a cult. You have to talk about your firm's core values, he said. They guide your company, and if you don't talk about them, you won't have them. You have to know what you're living out, Dalio said. "Mike, what are you living out?" "I'm living out the American Dream," Bloomberg responded. "My mother said the only people we knew whose names were in the paper were there for petty crimes and thievery." He came from nothing, and he had the opportunity to meet some of the most famous people in the world — like JLo, he mused. That's how he wants people to feel at Bloomberg — like they can achieve whatever they want through hard work. That aspiration is what gets him to work every day and was why he went back after serving as the mayor of New York. "The alternative in my case was staying home and talking to Diana about feelings," Bloomberg joked. Dalio said that Bridgewater, to him, was a like a mission that he got to complete with his friends every day. Neither CEO says he has a problem with successors taking over the respective companies. This is especially relevant at Bloomberg now, because former CEO Dan Doctoroff recently stepped down to allow Bloomberg to retake the helm of the company. "It's unclear if the company would be as successful as it is now if Dan hadn't been in charge for 15 years," Bloomberg said. His succession plans are unclear, as are Dalio's, but they say the aren't afraid of feeling irrelevant after leaving their companies — when journalists aren't calling and pundits don't cite their opinions anymore. "There are so many interesting things, like neuroscience," Dalio said. "There's a joy in mentoring." Younger people on Wall Street — the people who need that mentoring — have been a hot topic of conversation in the industry these days. Ruhle asked Dalio and Bloomberg if they felt that young people in finance were working too hard. Bloomberg said that working hard wasn't just a Wall Street thing and wasn't for everyone. That's OK. "The most important thing for anyone picking a job is the culture that they pick," Dalio responded. "To self actualize you have to exist in a culture that you like."  So if you're a type-A person like Bloomberg, who considers a packed schedule a kind of "high," you would be into the constant work schedule on Wall Street. A word Dalio kept repeating over and over was "friends." When Ruhle asked why he had never taken his company public, he responded that it sounded like a "nightmare," describing it as having thousands of new partners. "So who are you trying to please in your firm?" Ruhle asked. "Clients, investors ... " "I don't break it up that way," Dalio said. "I think of people inside the firm that I want as friends and people outside the firm that I want as friends." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLast Friday the Dow hit a new all-time high and the Alibaba — the biggest IPO of all time — finished 38% up on its first day of trading. There's been a lot of "all-time high" news recently. But investors are probably starting to get nervous. Veteran trader Art Cashin, the director of floor operations for UBS Financial Services at the NYSE, sent out a cautionary note about a historical trend in market reversals. Specifically, that markets tend to crash on September 22 after all-time highs.  His note contained an article originally written in 2009 by Barron's editor Randall Forsyth, who cites work by Paul Macrae Montgomery. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Art CashinForsyth writes about "the day most likely to see a reversal than any other day of the year — September 22." He cites several September 22 peaks — including the Dow Jones in 1929, and gold and oil in 1980 —when investors saw "all-time highs."  Soon after these markets crashed. Here's the complete note: Montgomery recalls living through the October "massacres" of 1978 and 1979, the crash of 1987, the mini-crash of 1989, the 1997 Asian collapse and the Long-Term Capital Markets plunges, which started to cascade downward in late September. And while gold bullion topped in January 1980, gold stocks made their highs on Sept. 22 of that year, he adds. That date also saw the peak in many oil stocks. Looking back farther, on Sept. 22, 1929, the Dow Jones Utility Index became the final major average to make its high before the Great Crash. And in 1873, a panic forced the New York Stock Exchange to shut down, Montgomery further details. And who can forget 2008, when markets went into free fall in the days following the collapse of Lehman Brothers? What's remembered less well now is the market chaos in the subsequent days after the House of Representatives initially rejected legislation that created the Trouble Asset Relief Program Currencies have seen historic changes around this date as well, he adds. The British pound was taken off the gold standard and was devalued a huge 28% on September 21, 1931. Exactly 54 years later, the Group of Five produced the Plaza Accord, which brought a sharp decline in the dollar and expansion of global liquidity. Black Wednesday, when Britain was forced to withdraw from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, came a few days early on Sept. 16, 1992. I also recollect that Treasury note and bond yields made their historic highs in late September, 1981, with shorter maturities hitting 17% and long bonds reaching 15%. That marked the end of a 35-year bear bond market from the end of World War II. "If that's not enough, several of the astrological types claim their charts show [this] week is fertile ground for surprises – geo-political and otherwise," Cashin said. "Crazy?  Maybe, but forewarned is forearmed." US futures are in the red ahead of the US trading session. Dow futures are down by 35 points. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!  Last week’s Growth concerns worsened over the weekend, driving the MSCI EM index to 6week lows as China’s Fin Min signaled no major Stimulus coming at G20, and Japan seems intent on raising the consumption tax again – all eyes are on China’s PMI print tonight.   Ukraine headlines worsened, but the Cease Fire holds – there is angst ahead of EU’s PMI print tomorrow, along with Germany’s IFO later in the week.   Russell Minis off 80bp – but were off sharply earlier this AM, but a slew of M&amp;A headlines have helped them recover: (Merck / SIAL $17B - Siemens / DRC $8B – CLX rejected a bid – and EMC seeks a partner (HPQ, DELL, CSCO, ORCL mentioned).   S&amp;P Futures are 30bp, DAX near unchanged – but the FTSE is off 80bp as Tesco shares lose near 10%.  Volumes in Europe look quiet, most markets trading 25% light to average.  Over in Asia, Shanghai was off 1.7% (Growth, Heavy IPOs, Golden Week Upcoming), and some BABA proxy trades were hit in Asia – Softbank lost 4%, Tencent 3%, YHOO is off another 2% (multiple downgrades).   Commodities retreating sharply, Combination of Growth and that ripping USD.  We are seeing a large disparity in Yen crosses, as money flows from commodity heavy A$ towards the USD.  Copper is off 1.6%, and Silver is hitting fresh 4Y lows, Ore 5Y lows.    We are seeing a lift in WTI as we roll into Expiry today, but Brent is off 60bp.    Scheduled catalysts today include Chicago Fed Nat Activity Index at 8:30, ECB's Draghi Speaks at 9 –US  Existing Home Sales and EU Consumer Confidence at 10 - Fed's Dudley (Dove) Speaks at 10:05 – there is NO POMO at 11, and tonight Kocherlakota (Dovish) Speaks at 7:30.   FREE AppDownload
Douglas EllimanThe penthouse where convicted Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff once lived has sold again for $14.5 million, Page Six reports. According to the report, the apartment was sold to Lawrence Benenson, who runs a real estate investment and development firm.  Douglas Elliman had the listing. In December 2008, Madoff was arrested for securities fraud. For a few months, he was allowed to remain under house arrest in the lavish apartment.  He was ultimately sentenced to 150 years in federal prison for orchestrating the largest financial fraud in history. He's currently serving his term in a federal facility in Butner, North Carolina. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPainiteGold is an incredibly expensive substance. But many things are worth more than their weight in gold. Ranging from foods to creams to gems to things the average person can't fathom, we pulled together a list of 19 of the most expensive items in the world. Think we missed something? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
APAir France-KLM chairman and chief executive, Alexandre de Juniac gives a press conference, in Paris.PARIS (Reuters) - Air France KLM said on Monday the seven-day-old French pilots strike was costing it daily up to 20 million euros ($25.7 million) at operating level and was having "catastrophic consequences for the company's customers, staff and financial situation". In a statement, the company said it would need to update its earnings target for this year once the industrial dispute had ended. The head of Air France-KLM offered on Monday to postpone roll-out of its European low-cost operation until the end of the year in a bid to end a week-long pilots' strike costing it millions of euros a day. Setting out what he called a "final proposal", Alexandre de Juniac told Le Monde daily the aim was to buy time for detailed negotiations with pilot representatives on the plan. "We are proposing to suspend until the end of the year the project to create Transavia units in Europe outsideFrance and the Netherlands. That will create time to carry out a thorough dialogue on the plan and to formulate the necessary guarantees with unions," he said. But he stressed: "This arrangement must not call into question our ambition to develop Transavia, which is one of the key sources of growth for the Air France-KLM group". De Juniac said the strike was "disastrous" for the group, battling to fight off competition from low-cost rivals. No one from the pilots' unions was available for comment. De Juniac and Frédéric Gagey, head of Air France, were due to give a news conference at 2:00 pm Paris time (8:00 a.m. EDT). At 5:43 a.m. EDT, Air France shares were 1.55 percent lower at 7.935 euros after having shed up to three percent early on. The strike over the airline's plans to establish low-cost activities outside France is entering its second week and set to be the longest such industrial action in its history. The main SNPL union has extended strike action to Sept. 26 and a second union, SPAF, to Sept. 24 with an option to extend further. Earlier, the French government made a renewed appeal for a quick end to the strike and urged management to "clarify" their proposals. "Service must resume now," Jean-Marie Le Guen, minister in charge of relations with parliament, said ahead of the latest round of talks due on Monday between unions and management. "Very quickly, the management must make a certain number of clarifications on their proposals," he added. The expansion of Transavia is part of a new plan unveiled this month aimed at boosting earnings. The proposals would see Transavia's fleet rise to 100 jets by 2017, from about 50 now, and the number of passengers more than double to 20 million. Air France, part of Air France-KLM, expects 41 percent of its flights to operate on Monday. SNPL said ahead of Monday's talks that negotiations reached "a complete impasse". The industrial action began on Sept. 15, and Air France estimates it is costing the company 10 million to 15 million euros ($13-19 million) a day, implying the cost of the walkout could rise to as much as 180 million euros by Sept. 26. Air France-KLM is currently expected to post 2014 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of 2.28 billion euros and pre-tax profit of 79 million, according to the average of analysts' estimates on Thomson Reuters Eikon. Transavia posted a 64 million euro operating loss in the first six months of this year, 10 million more than a year earlier due mainly to the ramp-up of Transavia France. Passenger traffic rose 6.9 percent year-on-year.  (Reporting by Mark John and Maya Nikolaeva; Editing by Brian Love and Alexandria Sage) FREE AppDownload
When the value of the US dollar rises, US goods become more expensive in overseas markets. General, a weaker local currency is good for economies that are driven by exports and maintain big trade surpluses. The US dollar has been showing strength in recent weeks. And considering the significant foreign exposure of most big US companies, are we to expect stocks to tumble? "Conventional wisdom holds that a stronger exchange rate is likely to be a headwind for stocks as US products become less competitive abroad," RBC Capital Markets' Jonathan Golub writes in a new note to clients. "Our research suggests this is not the case: (1) the economy and the dollar tend to move in tandem, which means that a stronger economy should result in dollar strength; (2) a rising dollar is supportive of higher multiples, as shown below." Higher multiples means that investors are willing to pay a higher premium for stocks during periods of dollar strength. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders has noted that there are also significant economic benefits to having a stronger dollar including lower import prices, lower commodity prices, and cheaper foreign travel for Americans. "In general, a stronger dollar is likely to be both an economic and market positive," Sonders said. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohammed DabbousSecretary-General Hassan Al-Thawadi of Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy, the nation's 2022 World Cup organizing committee, during a June 21 news conference to announce the start of work on the Al-Khor Stadium.  "I think that at the end of the day the 2022 World Cup will not take place in Qatar," Zwanziger said in an interview with Sport Bild Plus. The former head of the German football federation (DFB) cited high summer temperatures as the reason Qatar would lose the right to host football's global showpiece. "As Mr Zwanziger himself says, it's his personal opinion," a FIFA spokesman responded to AFP subsidiary SID when asked about the German's statement. Zwanziger said: "Doctors say, and I had insisted on this point in the protocol, that they cannot guarantee that a World Cup can be held in summer in these conditions." While Qatar has reportedly developed stadium cooling systems, Zwanziger said "the World Cup involves not only stadiums. There are fans coming from the four corners of the world who will be concerned by the heat." "The first incident putting a life in danger will be subject to an investigation. And that, nobody in the FIFA Executive Committee would want to reply to." © Qatar 2022 committee/AFPA computer-generated image shows the stadium to be built in Al-Wakrah for the Qatar 2022 World Cup. Controversy has plagued FIFA's awarding of the World Cup to Qatar in 2010, with summer temperatures in the Gulf emirate reaching the upper-40s Celsius. FIFA President Sepp Blatter said in May that awarding the World Cup to Qatar was a 'mistake' and the tournament would probably have to be held in the European winter. "Of course, it was a mistake. You know, one comes across a lot of mistakes in life," he told Swiss television station RTS in an interview at the time. "The Qatar technical report indicated clearly that it is too hot in summer, but the executive committee with quite a big majority decided all the same that the tournament would be in Qatar," he added. But the idea of switching the World Cup to cooler winter months does not sit comfortably with all officials of Europe's big leagues.  Christian Hartmann/ReutersFIFA President Sepp Blatter announcing Qatar's successful bid. Gas-rich Qatar has also come under the spotlight over foreign workers' rights as well as accusations that corruption played a part in winning the right to host the World Cup. Britain's Sunday Times newspaper has alleged that former Qatari football boss Mohamed Bin Hammam paid more than $5 million (3.7m euros) to gain support for the emirate ahead of the vote. Qatar has strongly denied the allegations. FIFA's ethic committee is to announce in early 2015 the results of its investigation into the attribution of not only the 2022 World Cup to Qatar, but also the 2018 edition to Russia.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAlibaba Group employees and executives take pictures as they arrive for the company's IPO at the New York Stock Exchange, September 19, 2014. Last week, Scotland voted to stay with the UK, Alibaba's massive IPO went off without a hitch, and Fed Chair Janet Yellen reminded us there would be "considerable time" between the end of quantitative easing and the beginning of rate hikes. "Back to normal now," JP Morgan's Jan Loeys said. Let's hope. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary "Stay bullish into year-end," Wall Street strategist Tom Lee writes. "We see multi-year gains ahead for US equities, driven by the favorable combination of: (i) pent-up demand; (ii) repaired household, corporate, and bank balance sheets; (iii) attractive relative value for stocks and (iv) low conviction by investors." Lee, founder of Fundstrat Global Advisors, told Business Insider that the S&amp;P 500 could got to "2,700 or higher" before the bull market ends. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifPerformance artist John Bonafede marches on his hands as he drags dry ice, in representation of glaciers, while taking part in the People's Climate March through Times Square in New York City on Sunday.Good morning! Here are the major worldwide stories investors need to know as the week gets started. Tesco Is In Chaos After Overestimating Profits By £250 Million ($408 Million). The supermarket giant announced Monday morning that it had overstated its profits in the first half of the year by 23%. The store has suspended four senior executives, and it seems the UK managing director is among them. Merck KGaA is buying Sigma-Aldrich. The German firm is snapping up the US life sciences company for $17 billion at a 37% premium on the firm’s latest closing price. Siemens Has Also Made A Major Acquisition. The German firm is set to buy US oilfield equipment manufacturer Dresser-Rand for $7.6 billion. Alibaba’s IPO Is Officially The Biggest Ever. The $25 billion flotation is completely unmatched after the e-commerce giant’s share price rose 38% on Friday. Mario Draghi Is About To Speak At The European Parliament. The ECB boss will speak at 2 p.m. London time (9 a.m. ET) to European legislators. It’s Draghi’s first major address since Jackson Hole and the disappointing news about the ECB’s bank credit scheme. Volkswagen Is Launching A New Luxury Car Designed For China. The German auto manufacturer is looking to compete with Audi in the same market, following the success of the Audi A6. Sarkozy Is Back. The former French president has relaunched himself into the political arena, and he wants his job back from Francois Hollande. Nicolas Sarkozy lost to Hollande in 2012, but with Hollande's approval ratings now atrocious, the former conservative leader wants another go at beating him. Asian Economies Are Going To Have To Slow To Cope With The Fed. According to Indonesian finance minister Chatib Basri. The Fed’s tapering has already hit emerging markets, and Basri says it may get worse as the central bank hikes rates in the US. European Markets Are Down A Touch. Germany’s DAX stock index is down 0.23%, and France’s CAC 40 is down 0.11%. The FTSE 100 is the biggest loser right now, down 0.48%, not helped by Tesco’s crash. The Hang Seng and Nikkei also closed down 1.44% and 0.71% respectively. China's Anti-Graft Campaign Is Killing Outbound Investment. Investment coming from China has fallen rapidly, according to the Heritage Foundation. The Chinese energy sector has been targeted in anti-corruption measures, slowing spending.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonAlibaba Group Holding Ltd founder Jack Ma (5th L) arrives at the New York Stock Exchange for his company's initial public offering (IPO) under the ticker "BABA" in New York September 19, 2014. HONG KONG (Reuters) - Banks handling the initial public offering of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd are set to earn $300.4 million in underwriting commissions, the Chinese e-commerce giant said in a securities filing on Monday. The fees are equivalent to 1.2 percent of the total deal, which reached $25 billion after underwriters exercised an option to sell additional shares. The company will pay $121.8 million in fees, while selling shareholders are set to pay another $178.6 million, according to the filing. Citigroup Inc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Morgan Stanley acted as joint bookrunners of the IPO. (Reporting by Elzio Barreto; editing by Keiron Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Las Vegas Sun/Steve MarcusGerman pharmaceutical and chemical giant Merck KGaA has agreed to acquire US life sciences company Sigma-Aldrich for $17 billion, or $140 per share in cash. That's a massive 37% premium to SIAL's Friday closing price of $102.37. Here are the key details from the announcement: •    Merck to acquire Sigma-Aldrich for $140 per share in cash, valuing company at approx. $17 billion (€13.1 billion) •    Acquisition expands Merck Millipore’s global reach, increasing the company’s presence in North America and adding exposure to fast-growing Asian markets •    Customers benefit from broader offering of complementary products and capabilities and leading e-commerce platform in the industry •    Merck plans to maintain significant presence in St. Louis and Billerica, Massachusetts •    Life Science contribution to Merck earnings more than doubles •    Transaction expected to be immediately accretive to EPS pre and EBITDA margin "This transaction marks a milestone on our transformation journey aimed at turning our three businesses into sustainable growth platforms," Merck Chairman Karl-Ludwig Kley said. "For our life science business it’s even more than that: it’s a quantum leap. In one of the world’s key industries two companies that fit perfectly together have found each other to present a much broader product offering to our global customers in research, pharma and biopharma manufacturing, and diagnostic and testing labs. "As such, the combination of Merck and Sigma-Aldrich will secure stable growth and profitability in an industry that is driven by trends such as the globalization of research and manufacturing. What’s more, the combination gives us the possibility to invest even more in innovation going forward. We are delighted to make this compelling proposition to Sigma-Aldrich’s shareholders, who will obtain full and certain cash value for their shares." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPresident Obama addresses the Democratic National Committee's Women?s Leadership Forum annual Issues Conference in WashingtonWASHINGTON, Sept 22 (Reuters) - President Barack Obama, stumping for the Democrats ahead of November's congressional elections, has twice invoked Ronald Reagan's seminal campaign question: "Are you better off than you were four years ago?" Framing the debate like that helped Reagan twice - in 1980 when he beat incumbent Jimmy Carter, and then again in 1984 when he won re-election during an economic upswing. But a similar message has failed to resonate for Obama primarily for one reason: while he stresses the economy has improved in almost every aspect on his watch, average family incomes have slipped. Between 2009 when Obama took office and 2013, the latest for which numbers are available, median annual household incomes fell by more than $2,100 in inflation-adjusted terms, Census Bureau data showed last week. (Full Story) "It's hard to make the case for 'Morning again in America' the way that Ronald Reagan was able to do in 1984," said John Ullyot, a former Senate Republican aide, now with a strategy firm High Lantern Group. "People just don’t feel connected to the recovery." White House economists have pointed out that the census figures do not reflect job growth and the rise in average hourly earnings seen this year, but any improvements have yet to register with the public. Opinion polls make disturbing reading for the Democratic Party, which will have a tough time defending its slim Senate majority in the Nov. 4 election. Roughly two-thirds of the population thinks the economy is heading in the wrong direction, survey data from polling firm Ipsos has consistently shown over the last two years. About four in 10 Americans also strongly disapprove of Obama's handling of the economy and less than one in 10 feel he is doing a really good job. The president's own overall approval rating is stuck at around 40 percent. Frustrated by the public's failure to give this administration credit for leading the world's biggest economy out of its worst recession since the 1930s, Obama and his team have gone to lengths to change that. While crisscrossing the country in the past months to drum up support for the Democrats, Obama on at least nine occasions stressed how almost all economic gauges have improved during his presidency. For one, the recovery from the 2007-2009 recession is the slowest since World War Two, but it has already extended beyond the post-war average of 58 months and there seems to be more gas in the tank. The International Monetary Fund expects the U.S. economy to grow 3 percent next year and in 2016. On Obama's watch, 5.1 million jobs have also been added to payrolls, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller national home price index is up about 17 percent and the S&amp;P 500 stock index has more than doubled while hitting all-time records. “By almost every economic measure, we are better off today than we were when I took office,” Obama told a Democratic women’s forum in Washington on Friday, repeating the familiar refrain. He frequently chastises the media for underplaying news that U.S. factories, oil fields and the stock market are booming and businesses are hiring. "You wouldn't always know it from watching the news," he told a Labor Day picnic in Milwaukee on Sept 1. Two days later, the White House arranged a special briefing for reporters with the president’s top economic advisers, who walked through 17 charts showing the economy on the rise. Yet near the end, when asked what indicators had failed to bounce back, Jason Furman, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers acknowledged that stagnant incomes remained a worry. "Wages remain one of the most fundamental economic challenges we have," Furman said. Many economists point out that stagnant wages are a problem that long predates this presidency. In fact, many believe that by the time incomes peaked in 1999 the United States was already slipping into a less dynamic era, grappling like other developed economies with aging and other structural impediments. "There are big structural forces at work here. That's not necessarily a policy error in the last few years," said Paul Ashworth, an economist at Capital Economics in Toronto. Even as Obama touts his economic accomplishments, he acknowledges more needs to be done to boost worker earnings. "That's not the simplest of messages," said Jared Bernstein, who was chief economist to Vice President Joe Biden between 2009 and 2011. "It's saying, 'We're moving in the right direction, but we're not there yet.'" The problem is that not all economic indicators were created equal and not much else matters for the public if the money remains tight. "I can't imagine people feel particularly elated when they're told GDP was up 4 percent last quarter, but median income was flat last year," Bernstein said. (Reporting by Jason Lange and Roberta Rampton; Editing by David Chance and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
Investing.com Tesco shares are down 8% Monday morning after Britain's biggest supermarket chain revealed that it overstated its profit outlook in the first half of the year by £250 million ($408 million). According to Tesco, the error was "caused by an early booking of revenue and delayed recognition of costs," Reuters reports. The accounting issue was "discovered during preparation for its forthcoming interim results." Newly appointed leader Dave Lewis said on a call that four executives had been asked to step down, including Chris Bush, the head of Tesco operations in the UK, Bloomberg News reports.  “Tesco’s UK executives were obviously under pressure to be seen to be making progress,” Bryan Roberts, an analyst at Kantar Retail, told Bloomberg News. “This is pretty catastrophic for them and will probably mean some senior people will have to go.” Tesco has a current market cap of £17 billion. FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve has been priming the market for tighter monetary policy as the US economy has continued to improve. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank has been easing policy further as economic activity stagnates and prices fall. In fact, the latest effort by the ECB to stimulate the economy flopped, and that has economists predicting even looser monetary policy. All of this has resulted in a stronger dollar and higher US interest rates and a weaker euro and lower eurozone interest rates. Goldman Sachs strategists see the euro tumbling all the way to $1 from the $1.29 level today. "The euro has weakened by 8% versus the US dollar since May," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin wrote in a new note to clients. "We expect the downward gravitational pull on the EURUSD will persist for the next several years until it trades at parity versus the dollar by year-end 2017. From a spot of 1.29, our economists forecast the euro will depreciate by 7% vs. the dollar during the next year (to 1.20) and fall by 22% to parity by 2017." Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David W CernyA Greenpeace environmental activist, dressed as a mermaid, she sits on a freezer in a supermarket in Prague on Dec. 16, 2013. The whole thing seems incredibly suspicious for the world's second-largest retailer (by profits and revenues). Tesco's shares have crashed more than 11%, and here's everything we know so far:  Lewis has been in retail with Unilever and Tesco for nearly three decades, so the fact that he has never seen such an issue is a brutal indictment, confirming that this isn't some sort of run-of-the-mill mistake. The refusal by Broadbent and Lewis to say the £250 million is the final extent of the problem could also give some backing to analysts at Cantor Fitzgerald, who said that they think the overstatement might be closer to £300 million.  With more than half a million employees at Tesco, and a new chief executive with a reputation for aggressive cost-cutting, we may be seeing more grim updates from the massive retailer in the near future.     FREE AppDownload
In 1633 Galileo Galilei, then an old man, was tried and convicted by the Catholic Church of the heresy of believing that the earth revolved around the sun. He recanted and was forced into house arrest for the rest of his life, until 1642. Yet “The moment he [Galileo] was set at liberty, he looked up to the sky and down to the ground, and, stamping with his foot, in a contemplative mood, said, Eppur si muove, that is, still it moves, meaning the earth” (Giuseppe Baretti in his book the The Italian Library, written in 1757). Flawed from its foundation, economics as a whole has failed to improve much with time. As it both ossified into an academic establishment and mutated into mathematics, the Newtonian scheme became an illusion of determinism in a tempestuous world of human actions. Economists became preoccupied with mechanical models of markets and uninterested in the willful people who inhabit them … Some economists become obsessed with market efficiency and others with market failure. Generally held to be members of opposite schools — “freshwater” and “saltwater,” Chicago and Cambridge, liberal and conservative, Austrian and Keynesian – both sides share an essential economic vision. They see their discipline as successful insofar as it eliminates surprise — insofar, that is, as the inexorable workings of the machine override the initiatives of the human actors. “Free market” economists believe in the triumph of the system and want to let it alone to find its equilibrium, the stasis of optimum allocation of resources. Socialists see the failures of the system and want to impose equilibrium from above. Neither spends much time thinking about the miracles that repeatedly save us from the equilibrium of starvation and death. – George Gilder, Knowledge and Power: The Information Theory of Capitalism and How It is Revolutionizing Our World And to that stirring introduction let me just add a warning up front: today’s letter is not exactly a waltz in the park. Longtime readers will know that every once in a while I get a large and exceptionally aggressive bee in my bonnet, and when I do it’s time to put your thinking cap on. And while you’re at it, tighten the strap under your chin so it doesn’t blow off. There, now, let’s plunge on. Launched by Larry Summers last November, a meme is burning its way through established academic economic circles: that we have entered into a period of — gasp! — secular stagnation. But while we can see evidence of stagnation all around the developed world, the causes are not so simple that we can blame them entirely on the free market, which is what Larry Summers and Paul Krugman would like to do: “It’s not economic monetary policy that is to blame, it’s everything else. Our theories worked perfectly.” This finger-pointing by Keynesian monetary theorists is their tried and true strategy for deflecting criticism from their own economic policies. Academic economists have added a great deal to our understanding of how the world works over the last 100 years. There have been and continue to be remarkably brilliant papers and insights from establishment economists, and they often do prove extremely useful. But as George Gilder notes above, “[As economics] ossified into an academic establishment and mutated into mathematics, the Newtonian scheme became an illusion of determinism in a tempestuous world of human actions.” Ossification is an inherent tendency of the academic process. In much of academic economics today, dynamic equilibrium models and Keynesian theory are assumed a priori to be correct, and any deviation from that accepted economic dogma — the 21st century equivalent of the belief by the 17th century Catholic hierarchy of the correctness of their worldview — is a serious impediment to advancement within that world. Unless of course you are from Chicago. Then you get a sort of Protestant orthodoxy. A presupposition is an implicit assumption about the world or a background belief relating to an utterance whose truth is taken for granted in discourse. For instance, if I asked you the question, “Have you stopped eating carbohydrates?” The implicit assumption, the presupposition if you will, is that you were at one time eating carbohydrates. Our lives and our conversations are full of presuppositions. Our daily lives are based upon quite fixed views of how the world really works. Often, the answers we come to are logically predictable because of the assumptions we make prior to asking the questions. If you allow me to dictate the presuppositions for a debate, then there is a good chance I will win the debate. The presupposition in much of academic economics is that the Keynesian, and in particular the neo-Keynesian, view of economics is how the world actually works. There has been an almost total academic capture of the bureaucracy and mechanism of the Federal Reserve and central banks around the world by this neo-Keynesian theory. What happens when one starts with the twin presuppositions that the economy can be described correctly using a multivariable dynamic equilibrium model built up on neo-Keynesian principles and research founded on those principles? You end up with the monetary policy we have today. And what Larry Summers calls secular stagnation. First, let’s acknowledge what we do know. The US economy is not growing as fast as anyone thinks it should be. Sluggish is a word that is used. And even our woeful economic performance is far superior to what is happening in Europe and Japan. David Beckworth (an economist and a professor, so there are some good guys here and there in that world) tackled the “sluggish” question in his Washington Post “Wonkblog”: The question, of course, is why growth has been so sluggish. Larry Summers, for one, thinks that it’s part of a longer-term trend towards what he calls “secular stagnation.” The idea is that, absent a bubble, the economy can’t generate enough spending anymore to get to full employment. That’s supposedly because the slowdowns in productivity and labor force growth have permanently lowered the “natural interest rate” into negative territory. But since interest rates can’t go below zero and the Fed is only targeting 2 percent inflation, real rates can’t go low enough to keep the economy out of a protracted slump. Rather than acknowledge the possibility that the current monetary and government policy mix might be responsible for the protracted slump, Summers and his entire tribe cast about the world for other causes. “The problem is not our theory; the problem is that the real world is not responding correctly to our theory. Therefore the real world is the problem.” That is of course not exactly how Larry might put it, but it’s what I’m hearing. It’s been more than five years since the global financial crisis, but developed economies aren’t making much progress. As of today, the United States, Canada, Germany, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom have all regained their pre-crisis peaks in real GDP, but with little else to show for it. Macrobond  Where orthodox neo-Keynesian policies like large-scale deficit spending and aggressive monetary easing have been resisted – as in Japan years ago or in the Eurozone debtor countries today – lingering depressions are commonly interpreted as tragic signs that “textbook” neo-Keynesian economic policy could have prevented the pain all along and that weak economic conditions persist because governments and central banks are not doing enough to kick-start aggregate demand and stimulate credit growth at the zero lower bound. In places like the United States and Japan, where neo-Keynesian thought leaders have already traded higher public debt levels and larger central bank balance sheets for unspectacular economic growth and the kinds of asset bubbles that always lead to greater instability in the future, their policies have failed to jump-start self-accelerating recoveries. Even in the United States, when QE3 has been fully tapered off, I would expect to see the broader economy start to lose momentum once again. We’ve tried countercyclical deficit spending to resist recessions, procyclical (and rather wasteful) deficit spending to support supposed recoveries, and accommodative monetary easing all along the way (to lower real interest rates and ease the financing of those pesky deficits); but growth has been sluggish at best, inflation has been hard to generate, and labor market slack is making it difficult to sustain inflation even when real interest rates are already negative.  Call me a heretic, but I take a different view than the economists in charge. To my mind, the sluggish recovery is a sign that central banks, governments, and, quite frankly, the “textbook” economists (despite their best intentions) are part of the problem. As Detlev Schlichter commented in his latest blog post (“Keynes was a failure in Japan – No need to embrace him in Europe”), “To the true Keynesian, no interest rate is ever low enough, no ‘quantitative easing’ program ever ambitious enough, and no fiscal deficit ever large enough.” It’s apparently true even as debt limits draw closer. While the academic elites like to think of economics as a reliable science (with the implication that they can somehow control a multi-trillion-dollar economy), I have repeatedly stressed the stronger parallel of economics to religion, in the sense that it is all too easy to get caught up in the dogma of one tradition or another. And all too often, a convenient dogma becomes a justification for those in power who want to expand their control, influence, and spending. Whereas an Austrian or monetarist approach would suggest less government and a very light handle on the monetary policy tiller, Keynesian philosophy gives those who want greater government control of the economy ample reasons to just keep doing more. Schlichter expands his critique of the logic of pursuing more of the same debt-driven policies and highlights some of the obvious flaws in the pervasive Keynesian thinking: Remember that a lack of demand is, in the Keynesian religion, the original sin and the source of all economic troubles. “Aggregate demand” is the sum of all individual demand, and all the individuals together are not demanding enough. How can such a situation come about? Here the Keynesians are less precise. Either people save too much (the nasty “savings glut”), or they invest too little, maybe they misplaced their animal spirits, or they experienced a Minsky moment, and took too much risk on their balance sheets, these fools. In any case, the private sector is clearly at fault as it is not pulling its weight, which means that the public sector has to step in and, in the interest of the common good, inject its own demand, that is [to] “stimulate” the economy by spending other people’s money and print some additional money on top. Lack of “aggregate demand” is evidently some form of collective economic impotence th at requires a heavy dose of government-prescribed Viagra so the private sector can get its aggregate demand up again. Generations of mismanagement have left major economies progressively weaker, involving But rather than recognizing real-world causes and effects, neo-Keynesian ideologues are making dangerous arguments for expanding the role of government spending in places where government is already a big part of the problem. We are going to delve a little deeper into this thesis of “secular stagnation” posited last year by Larry Summers and eagerly adopted by Paul Krugman, among others; and then we’ll take a trip around the rich world to assess the all-too-common trouble with disappointing growth, low inflation, and increasingly unresponsive labor markets. Then I’ll outline a few reasons why I think the new Keynesian mantra of “secular stagnation” is nothing more than an excuse for more of the same failed policies. I think we’ll see a consistent theme: fiscal and monetary stimulus alone cannot generate “financially stable growth with full employment.” In fact, such policies only make matters worse. And funny things happen in the Keynesian endgame. This latest theory – “secular stagnation” – argues that powerful and inherently deflationary forces like shrinking populations…  DebtDeflation.com … and potentially slowing productivity growth (as posited by Northwestern University professor Bob Gordon)…  Mauldin Economics  … are adding to the deleveraging headwinds that always follow debt bubbles. According to the “stagnation” theory, structural forces have been bearing down on the natural rate of interest and weighing on the full-employment level of economic growth since the early 1980s; but the slowdown in trend GDP growth has been masked by a series of epic bubbles in technology stocks and housing. Mauldin Economics Even before the 2008 crisis, the argument goes, the real interest rate required to restart the business cycle had been trending lower and lower for years, and the average level of growth experienced during business cycles has fallen. Mauldin Economics Moreover, it has taken longer and longer to recoup the jobs that were lost in each of the last three recoveries. CalculatedRiskBlog.com It’s hard to argue with the data, but it’s really a matter of how we interpret it. While the five-year-old “recovery” is still the weakest business cycle in modern US history… Mauldin Economics  … I quite frankly still believe the effects on growth are temporary. Difficult and long-lasting, for sure (as Jonathan Tepper and I outlined in our books Endgame and Code Red), but temporary nonetheless as private-sector deleveraging continues. We have encountered a massive debt crisis and still have a long way to go in dealing with the sovereign debt bubbles that are being created in Europe and Japan — with the potential of one’s ballooning out of control in the US unless we turn ourselves around. Deutsche Bank/Federal Reserve  It may take a crisis, but the forces that plague rich-world economies will eventually shake out and usher in a new era of technology-driven growth. In other words, this too shall pass… but continuing with the same old policies is highly likely to create another crisis through which we all must pass first. Yes, shrinking workforces, private-sector debt overhangs, and technological innovation are making it difficult to achieve “financially stable growth with full employment” (quoting Summers); but governments and central banks are themselves becoming an increasing drag on rich-world economies. Our governments have saddled us with excessive public debt, onerous overregulation, oppressive tax codes, and their attendant distorted market signals; while our central banks have engaged in currency manipulation and monetary-policy overmanagement. Those in power who rely on Keynesian policies almost always find it inconvenient to cut back in times of relative economic strength (as Keynes would have had them do). And if, according to their arguments, the economy is still too weak even in periods of growth to enable the correction of government balance sheets, then perhaps their reluctance has something to do with debt piling up, market signals being distorted, and gove rnments being empowered to encroach on every aspect of the lives of their productive citizens . My friend Grant Williams used this chart in a speech yesterday. It shows that we have come to need ever more debt just to produce the same amount of GDP. With a deleveraging in the private sector underway, it is no wonder that growth is under pressure.  Grant Williams Debt is simply future consumption brought forward. Another way to think about it is that debt is future consumption denied. But there comes a point when debt has to be repaid, and by definition, from that point forward there is going to be a period of slower growth. I have called that point the Endgame of the Debt Supercycle, and it was the subject of my book Endgame. As a result of central bank and governmental machinations, Keynesian growth is ultimately debt-fueled growth (either through the swelling of public debt via deficit spending or the accumulation of private debt via credit expansion); and eventually, public and private balance sheets run out of room to expand anymore. It has taken decades for cracks to show up in the prevailing theory, but now the cracks are everywhere. One place where the crack-up is especially evident is Japan, where an uber-Keynesian combination of aggressive fiscal deficits and a planned doubling in the monetary base started to lift real GDP and inflation numbers last year before falling back into a deflationary trap. Yet the Japanese experience has seemingly convinced ECB President Mario Draghi that similar policies should be implemented across the Eurozone. Last quarter, the Japanese economy shrank by an annualized 7.1%; business investment fell by 5.1%; and residential spending was down 10%. This is after one of the most massive Keynesian quantitative easing efforts in the history of the world. So, let’s go to Japan, which may now have to retitle itself “the land of the setting sun,” since it is facing the steepest expected decline in population and in workforce-to-population ratio on the planet. Japan’s long-awaited “recovery” is already losing steam without the effective implementation of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s “third arrow” of structural reform, which to my mind was always the most critical element of his entire “Abenomics” project (and of course the most politically difficult). Despite massive fiscal and monetary stimulus and a desperate attempt to boost tax revenues by hiking the sales tax this past April, Japanese GDP collapsed in Q2:  Quartz Let’s review how Japan got there. Prime Minister Abe took office in late December 2012 and, together with his (initially reluctant) colleagues at the Bank of Japan, quickly fired the first two fiscal and monetary policy arrows, which aimed to propel the world’s third-largest economy out of its deflationary trap. The third arrow has yet to fly.  Source: Wall Street Journal, March 2013 Since January 2013 the Bank of Japan has expanded its balance sheet by 78% (42% on an annualized basis)…  … and pushed the USD/JPY exchange rate to a six-year low of a fraction under 109 yen per dollar as of the market close yesterday.  In true Keynesian form, the Japanese government ran a massive fiscal deficit in 2013, equivalent to 8.4% of GDP. This was its 22nd consecutive year of deficit spending, starting in mid-1992…  … despite the fact that the Japanese public-sector debt-to-GDP ratio is quickly approaching 250%:  While inflation has popped to its highest level since the early 1990s…  … headline CPI has been decelerating since May and could quickly revert to deflation in the event of continued economic weakness, as was the case after the 1997 tax hike… which would then bring on even more “money-financed” deficit spending. Abe advisor Etsuro Honda was very clear on this point: “Regardless of the next sales tax hike, it could be that additional monetary easing might be called for if inflation and demand fail to pick up and the output gap doesn’t narrow…. I can fully see the possibility that such a situation will occur.” Of course, the party cannot go on forever. More than twenty years of constant deficit spending and public-sector debt growth have finally led to a situation where debt service and entitlements are crowding out the government’s general budget.  And now the situation is turning dangerous. Japan has been flirting with current account deficits for the past few years, and the trend looks decidedly negative over the coming decade. That, in turn, could force the Abe administration to look for foreign investment to fund its ongoing operations, pushing interest rates up dramatically to the point that debt service and entitlements could consume more than half the annual operating budget.  Bottom line: Abenomics has delivered a bounce in economic growth and inflation, but it’s failing to push Japan into a self-sustaining recovery. Without a detour through structural reforms (which would be quite painful), this road leads to higher public debt balances and even more dysfunction in the medium term, leaving Japan only a shock away from disaster. As predicted here three years ago, I continue to believe that the yen will be over 200 to the dollar by the end of the decade, and possibly much sooner.  Keynesians argue that Abe had the right idea, he just didn’t spend enough and will need to spend a lot more in the near future. In other words, fiscal and monetary stimulus can lift inflation and boost growth in the short term… but the problem is that you can’t have that stimulus if you want to consolidate the national debt and boost tax revenues at the same time. Some economists would argue that Abe’s policies don’t necessarily have to add to the debt load, as long as the government has a firm commitment from the central bank to monetize the debt along the way. The fact that that would destroy the buying power of the yen doesn’t seem to be a consideration for them. The elderly on fixed incomes might disagree. So with their highly leveraged banking system and already crushing sovereign debt loads, why wouldn’t the Europeans embrace the same model? Draghi’s Turn at Abenomics? I’ve written extensively on the Eurozone in recent months, so I will keep this section brief. Much of Southern Europe has been mired in depression, with hopelessly slow or negative growth rates, low inflation or outright deflation, and extremely high levels of unemployment (especially among young workers), for several years. It’s a toxic situation for a multi-country monetary system that still lacks the underpinning of banking or fiscal unions. Demonstrations in the Catalonia region of Spain, inspired by this week’s Scottish referendum, reveal the very real political risks that are only growing with voter frustration.   Perhaps it was just talk, but Mario Draghi laid out a three-point plan similar to Abe’s in his presentation at the recent Jackson Hole meeting of central bankers. It quickly acquired the sobriquet “Draghinomics.” Draghi recently cut the ECB’s already-negative interest rates and has promised a large round of quantitative easing. But the core problems facing Europe are not interest rates or a lack of liquidity but rather a structurally unwieldly labor market, too many regulations being dreamed up in Brussels, a lack of capital available to small businesses, and major regulatory headwinds for business startups. Compound all that with the significant structural imbalances between Northern and Southern Europe, dramatically overleveraged banks, and an obvious sovereign debt bubble, and you have all the elements of a major crisis in the making. That the Eurozone is a fragile and politically unstable union will come as no surprise toThoughts from the Frontline readers who have been diligently perusing my letters for the past several years, but it is a critical point that we cannot ignore. How, I wonder, can Draghi even hope for a successful European implementation of a three-point plan like Japan’s – where a leader who started with very strong approval ratings has burned through most of his political capital before structural reforms have even gotten off the ground? Draghi simply does not have the political power to make the changes that are necessary. All he can do is prop up a failing system with liquidity and low rates, which will ultimately create even more serious problems. The Failure of Monetary Policy There are many economists, with Paul Krugman at their fore, who believe that Keynesian monetary policy is responsible for the United States doing better than Europe. I beg to differ. The United States is outshining Europe due to the combined fortuitous circumstances of massive new discoveries of unconventional oil and gas, new technologies, and an abundance of risk-taking entrepreneurs. Indeed, take away the oil boom and the technology boom centered in Silicon Valley, and the US would be as sclerotic as Europe is. None of the above has anything to do with monetary policy. In fact, I would argue that current monetary, fiscal, and regulatory policy is getting in the way of that growth. Robert A. Hefner III, chairman of The GHK Companies and the author of The Grand Energy Transition: The Rise of Energy Gases, Sustainable Life and Growth, and the Next Great Economic Expansion, wrote a wonderful piece in last month’s Foreign Affairs,entitled “The United States of Gas” (hat tip, Dennis Gartman). Consider how much can change in one year alone. In 2013, on properties in Oklahoma in which the GHK Companies hold interests covering 150 square miles, one large U.S. independent company drilled and completed over 100 horizontal wells. Had those wells been drilled vertically, they would have exposed only about 1,000 feet of shale, whereas horizontal drilling allowed nearly 100 miles to be exposed. And rather than performing the 100 injections of fracking fluid that a vertical well would have made possible, the company was able to perform between 1,000 and 2,000 of them. The company’s engineers also tinkered with such variables as the type of drill bits used, the weight applied while drilling, the rotation speed of the drill, and the size and number of fracking treatments. Thanks to that continuous experimentation, plus the savings from scale (for example, ordering tubular steel in bulk), the company managed to slash its costs by 40 percent over 18 months and still boost its productivity. The result: in 2014, six or seven rigs will be able to drill more wells and produce as much oil and gas as 12 rigs were able to the year before. Since the shale boom began, over a decade ago, companies have drilled about 150,000 horizontal wells in the United States, a monumental undertaking that has cost approximately $1 trillion. The rest of the world, however, has drilled only hundreds of horizontal wells. And because each borehole runs horizontally for about one mile (and sometimes even two miles) and is subjected to ten or more fracking injections, companies in the United States have fracked about 150,000 miles of shale about two million times. That adds up to around a thousand times as much shale exposed inside the United States as outside it. There is a divide in the United States, and indeed in the world, between those who believe (and the emphasis is on believe) that government in all its various shapes and sizes is the font of all growth and progress and those who believe that it is individual effort and free markets that “move the ball down the field” of human progress. Count me in the latter group. Government is necessary to the extent that we need to maintain a level playing field and proper conduct, but with the recognition that wherever government is involved there are costs for that service that must be paid by the private market and producers. For example, almost everyone thinks that the government’s being involved in student loans is a public good. We should help young people with education, right? Except that John Burns released a report this week that shows that student loans will cost the real estate industry 414,000 home sales. Young people are so indebted they can’t afford to buy new homes. Collateral damage?  The unintended consequences of government policies and manipulation of the markets are legendary. But often unseen. Monetary policy as it is currently constructed is only marginally helping private markets and producers. Monetary policy as it is currently practiced is an outright war on savers, which sees them as collateral damage in the Keynesian pursuit of increased consumer demand. It is trickle-down monetary policy. It has inflated the prices of stocks and other income-producing securities and assets, enriching those who already have assets, but it has done practically nothing for Main Street. It has enabled politicians to avoid making the correct decisions to create sustainable growth and a prosperous future for our children, let alone an environment in which the Boomer generation can retire comfortably. It is a pernicious doctrine that refuses to recognize its own multiple failures because it starts with the presupposition that its theory cannot fail. It starts with the presuppositions that final consumer demand is the end-all and be-all, that increased indebtedness and leverage enabled by lower rates are good things, and that a small room full of wise individuals can successfully direct the movement of an entire economy of 300 million-plus people. The current economic thought leaders are not unlike the bishops of the Catholic Church of 16th-century Europe. Their world was constructed according to a theory that they held to be patently true. You did not rise to a position of authority unless you accepted the truth of that theory. Therefore Galileo was wrong. They refused to look at the clear evidence that contradicted their theory, because to do so would have undermined their power. Current monetary and fiscal policy is leading the developed world down a dark alley where we are all going to get mugged. Imbalances are clearly building up in almost every corner of the market, encouraged by a low-interest-rate regime that is explicitly trying to increase the risk-taking in the system. Our Keynesian masters know their policies and theories are correct – we must only give them time to more perfectly practice them. That the results they’re getting are not what they want cannot be their fault, because the theory is correct. Therefore the problem has to lie with the real world, full of imperfect people like you and me. What our leaders need is a little more humility and a little less theory. This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The take-up of the ECB's TLTRO program announced back in June was materially lower than expected. About €83bn worth of cheap long-dated loans was picked up by the area's banking system. Many had expected €150bn and even greater. Part of the reason is that banks that are not quite ready to deploy the funds don't want to sit on cash with negative rates. As a result some have concluded that the Eurozone's credit contraction will worsen from here and economic conditions will deteriorate further.As views of doom and gloom envelop the Eurozone, it may be time time for a contrarian view: the euro area's economy is turning the corner. Yes, it's difficult to imagine such a thing and we are sure to get numerous angry emails and comments. Ultimately it's about the data.First of all we start with the Eurozone's inflation expectations which continue to fall. That combined with a weaker than expected TLTRO take-up will keep the ECB highly active in its easing efforts, potentially even considering QE. Sober LookMarket-implied inflation expectations 5 years out (source: DB) It's important to keep in mind that the ECB is trying to replace at least in part the 3yr LTRO and MRO loans that banks have been repaying. These repayments have resulted in an unprecedented reduction in the central bank (Eurosystem) balance sheet since the beginning of last year. Sober LookEurosystem (central bank) balance sheet (source: ECB) Without a strong take-up in the TLTRO, the ECB will consider other options to expand the balance sheet. The planned ABS purchases will hardly make a dent because the new Basel Accord has all but destroyed that market. Therefore there will be pressure on the ECB to do something else in order to stem the decline in its balance sheet. Plus we are already seeing EU institutions calling on the BIS to loosen regulatory capital rules for structured credit issuance. All of this is positive for the Eurozone banks and will likely expand liquidity in the system. That's in part why we've had a nice pop in euro area bank shares recently. Interestingly, a number of analysts have been pointing out that the Eurozone bank deleveraging is over. Credit contraction in the area is ending. One can see glimpses of this in the area's money supply measures which have stabilized recently. MarketWatchFTSEurofirst 300 Banks Index Index Price To some extent Mario Draghi has already generated some degree of stimulus for the area's economy by repricing the euro (via negative domestic deposit rates). This is a gift for German and other exporters who can now more effectively compete on the international markets. Trading ViewEUR/USD We may already be witnessing the impact of weaker euro, as German trade balance jumped recently, resulting in better than expected German industrial production report. Investing.com Improved German exports (see chart) combined with several other factors have resulted in higher than expected growth in industrial production for the Eurozone as a whole.Investing.com There is no question that the Eurozone's economy continues to struggle. Issues such as the recession in Italy, manufacturing stagnation in France, and massive unemployment across the area are not going away anytime soon. China's economy and the situation in Ukraine continue to pose risks. Surveys still show worsening business and consumer sentiment. But the expectations around the area's performance have been so bad lately, surprises to the upside are increasingly likely (see example). The ECB's aggressive easing stance as well as stronger trade and industrial activity data tell us that for now the worst of the euro area slowdown may be over. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Siemens logo is seen during the IFA Electronics show in Berlin FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Industrial conglomerate Siemens AG said on Monday it would buy U.S. oilfield equipment maker Dresser-Rand Group Inc for $7.6 billion in a move that would significantly boost the German company's oil and gas business in North America. Germany's Siemens said its $83 per-share bid was unanimously supported by Dresser-Rand's board of directors. That compares with a Friday closing price of $79.91, which was up 27 percent over the past three months on takeover speculation. Within minutes of that statement, it also announced the sale of its 50 percent stake in BSH Bosch und SiemensHausgeraete GmbH to joint venture partner Robert Bosch GmbH for 3 billion euros ($3.85 billion), ending their more than 45 year alliance in household appliances. "As the premium brand in the global energy infrastructure markets, Dresser-Rand is a perfect fit for the Siemens portfolio. The combined activities will create a world-class provider for the growing oil and gas markets," Siemens Chief Executive Joe Kaeser said in a statement on Monday. Reuters reported on Sunday that the companies were nearing a deal. The German industrial conglomerate had long coveted Dresser-Rand, which would help it grow its oil and gas business at a time when a North American fracking boom is boosting demand for energy equipment. But it shrank in the past from making a formal bid, balking at its high valuation. Dresser-Rand trades at 24.6 times 12 month forward earnings, a 60 percent premium to its peers in oil and gas equipment and services, according to Reuters data. CEO Kaeser said in July the company planned to focus on restructuring rather than acquisitions for the moment, but would have the financial firepower for the right acquisition target. Cash reserves stood at 8.21 billion euros at the end of June. Siemens is targeting more than 150 million euros in annual synergies by 2019 from the transaction, which complements Siemens's market position in turbo compressors, downstream and industrial applications as well as larger-sized steam turbines. Siemens expects to close the Dresser-Rand deal by summer 2015, while it aims to wrap up the sale of its stake in household appliance venture BSH with Bosch in first half of 2015. BSH will pay out 250 million euros to each of its owners Bosch and Siemens before the transaction is completed. Siemens has trumped a competing offer for Dresser-Rand from Swiss pump maker Sulzer AG &lt;SUN.S&gt;, which had proposed an all-stock merger, according to people familiar with the matter. Sulzer's chairman is former Siemens CEO Peter Loescher, who Kaeser replaced in a boardroom coup last year. But other rival bidders may be lurking. General Electric &lt;GE.N&gt; was considering whether to make a bid, the Financial Times cited people familiar with the matter as saying on Friday. (http://on.ft.com/1tzUwLM) Any GE involvement would mean their archrivalry picking up steam again. Siemens lost out to GE in a fierce bidding tussle over Alstom's &lt;ALSO.PA&gt; energy business in June. The Dresser-Rand deal would eclipse Siemens acquisitions over recent year. Siemens bought Dade Behring for $7 billion under Kaeser's predecessor Loescher in 2007, in a deal that was widely criticized as overpriced. Siemens filled another gap in its energy equipment portfolio earlier this year, buying small gas-turbine assets from Rolls-Royce &lt;RR.L&gt; for 950 million euros. CEO Kaeser indicated at the time that expansion in the United Stateswas next on the agenda. (Editing by Sandra Maler) FREE AppDownload
TheRealMichaelMoore / FlickrTesco is the UK's biggest supermarket, but its market share is dropping.Tesco is not having a good year. On Monday, the UK’s biggest supermarket revealed that it overstated its profits in the first half of the year by an astonishing £250 million ($408 million). In August it said its trading profit was about £1.1 billion, but the figure has now been clipped by roughly a quarter. Shares are down by over 7% in London. The chain has been forced to call in accountants from Deloitte to investigate the massive shortfall, and the share price is down by more than 8% at the time of writing.  Marc Kimsey at Accendo Markets offered investors his brutal take in a note titled “every little hurts” Monday morning: “Tesco is no longer a viable investment. Traders are clearing the books of all holdings and reallocating funds in sector peers. The last two years have tested investors' patience, but with the dividend being cut back and today's revelation, justification to hold is non-existent.” Analysts at Cantor Fitzgerald said they were expecting an even worse drop in profits: a £300m overestimation would mean a fall in earnings of about 55% on sales excluding VAT. Tesco had revenues of £63.557 billion in 2013-2014, and the slump in profit is making margins look increasingly thin. In a note to clients, Cantor’s Mike Dennis said: “The read across is that Tesco may now have to sell assets across its UK and International portfolio to pay for this behaviour.” The new boss at Tesco isn't one to shy away from massive cuts — nicknamed 'Drastic' Dave Lewis, he cut 40% of the firm's costs and laid off 300 workers as chairman of Unilever UK. With more than half a million employees, Tesco is the UK's second-largest private employer, and major workforce cuts could be extremely painful. On Monday, Lewis said "we have uncovered a serious issue and have responded accordingly" and that he expected Tesco "to operate with integrity and transparency." Tesco is still the country’s biggest supermarket, but its market share is slipping at the fastest pace in 20 years.  BloombergTesco's share price has slumped by more than 40% in the past year. Credit ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor’s snipped Tesco’s rating to BBB in August, putting the supermarket only a couple of rungs above an investment not deemed appropriate for anything other than speculation.  The worst could still be yet to come. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPassengers wait at check-in counters during Air France one-week strike at Marseille airportPARIS (Reuters) - The French government made a renewed appeal on Monday for a quick end to an Air France pilots strike which is costing the flag-carrier millions of euros a day, urging management to "clarify" its proposals. The strike over the airline's plans to establish low-cost activities is entering its second week and set to be the longest such industrial action in its history. The main SNPL union has extended strike action to Sept. 26 and a second union, SPAF, to Sept. 24 with an option to extend further. "Service must resume right now, that's what the country wants and all those involved must understand that," Jean-Marie Le Guen, minister in charge of relations with parliament, said before new talks on Monday between unions and management. "Very quickly, the management must make a certain number of clarifications on their proposals," he added. The pilots are protesting over plans to expand the low-cost operations of its Transavia unit by setting up foreign bases as Air France seeks to fight back against fierce competition from budget carriers. The expansion of Transavia is part of a new plan unveiled this month aimed at boosting earnings. The proposals would see Transavia's fleet rise to 100 jets by 2017, from about 50 now, and the number of passengers more than double to 20 million. The SNPL is concerned Air France would abandon Transavia's development in France altogether, blaming it on pilot opposition, to focus on the unit's expansion elsewhere in Europe, thus moving jobs outside the country. Air France, part of Air France-KLM , expects 41 percent of its flights to operate on Monday. SNPL said ahead of the new meeting that talks had reached "a complete impasse". The industrial action began on Sept. 15, and Air France estimates it is costing the company 10 million to 15 million euros (19.28 million US dollar) a day, implying the cost of the walkout could rise to as much as 180 million euros by Sept. 26. Air France-KLM is currently expected to post 2014 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) of 2.28 billion euros and pre-tax profit of 79 million, according to the average of analysts' estimates on Thomson Reuters Eikon. The StarMine SmartEstimate is for a full-year pretax loss of 19 million. The airline forecast 2014 EBITDA of 2.2-2.3 billion euros and has not given new forecasts since the strike began. Transavia posted a 64 million euro operating loss in the first six months of this year, 10 million more than a year earlier due mainly to the ramp-up of Transavia France. Passenger traffic rose 6.9 percent year-on-year. Air France's share price shed about 3.0 percent in early market trading on Monday.  (Reporting by Mark John and Maya Nikolaeva; Editing by BrianLove) FREE AppDownload
Peter Kurdulija / FlickrBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Scotland's rejection of independence and a lack of any fireworks at a Fed meeting last week have calmed investors enough to shift the focus back to what some call the "Great Stagnation," and how to avoid it. The Group of 20 leading nations, meeting at the weekend, said they were tantalizingly close to adding an extra $2 trillion to the global economy and creating millions of new jobs. But Europe's extended stagnation remains a major stumbling block and some big emerging economies are flagging too. Brazil is expected to revise down its growth rate just three weeks before a presidential election, Russia is mired in economic sanctions over Ukraine, andChina's weak data is partly responsible for the 15 percent fall in the price of Brent crude since early July. Investors will be watching to see how long OPEC is willing to accept oil prices below the $100-a-barrel mark. A common G20 concern is the risk of Europe's malaise pulling others down. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew cited "philosophical" differences with some of his counterparts in Europe, especially on the need for near-term stimulus. However, "markets are spared one major source of political and economic uncertainty," Jorg Kramer, chief economist at Commerzbank, said of Scotland's decision to vote against independence in last week's referendum. Sterling touched a two-week high against the dollar and a two-year peak against the euro on the result. Global stocks were lifted by the news from Scotland, as well as by the U.S. Federal Reserve's assurances last week that interest rates will remain near zero for a considerable time. Fed Chair Janet Yellen suggested that despite an end to the U.S. bond-buying stimulus next month, the era of easy money is not yet over. But she also indicated the Fed could raise borrowing costs faster than expected when it starts moving. While the underlying trend in the U.S. economy is one of strengthening growth, euro zone data out this week is unlikely to point to much of a pick-up. In April-June, the euro zone economy's recovery stalled and Italy slipped into recession for the third time since 2008, underlining Europe's struggle to recover from the financial crisis, in what is often referred to as the Great Recession. While U.S. growth has since accelerated, many European economies are now at risk from what investment banks such as Goldman Sachs have called the 'Great Stagnation'. G20 host Australia put stuttering global growth at the center of the meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors in the tropical resort of Cairns at the weekend. "Back in 2011, we identified five countries in stagnation," said economist Jose Ursua, naming Canada, France, Italy, New Zealand and Portugal. "Fast-forward to today and most of the economies that were stagnating still are." Given the weakness across the euro zone, the German Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) data and the Munich-based Ifo's business climate index for September will give a sense of whether confidence is stabilizing in Europe's biggest economy. Business morale dropped for a fourth straight month in August as concerns about the Ukraine crisis and the impact of EU and U.S. sanctions against Russia depressed the mood in corporate boardrooms across Germany. PMIs will also be published for France and the euro zone. The euro zone's economic sentiment indicator for September later in the week will give a fuller picture of just how much governments and the European Central Bankneed to do to revive the economy and stave off deflation. The low take-up at last week's first round of cheap four-year loans offered by the ECB has deepened doubts about its stimulus efforts and could push the central bank to take more radical measures, although resistance remains in Germany to a U.S.-style money-printing program. ECB President Mario Draghi testifies at the European Parliament on Monday and visits Lithuania on Thursday. Output from China's vast factories cooled to a three-month low in August. The manufacturing PMI for September will test the view among some investors that the recent slowdown will pass. Other major emerging market central banks hold monetary policy meetings and release crucial data during the week. The Turkish central bank, which meets on Thursday, has come under political pressure to cut its overnight rate but that could stoke already high inflation. Hungary last month ended a two-year period of cutting interest rates every month, leaving them at a record low. The central bank, which meets on Tuesday, says it will remain on hold until the end of next year, unless inflation jumps. Brazil's central bank will publish its September inflation report during the week and is expected to revise down its forecast for growth in the world's seventh-largest economy to close to 0.5 percent. Brazil fell into a recession in the first half of the year as investment dropped sharply and the hosting of the World Cup suffocated economic activity, a major blow to President Dilma Rousseff's already fading hopes for re-election. Some investors are hoping the Oct. 5 election will end the interventionist policies of the ruling Workers' Party that they blame for undermining growth.  (Reporting by Robin Emmott; Editing by Toby Chopra/Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesHONG KONG (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's initial public offering now ranks as the world's biggest in history at $25 billion, after the e-commerce giant and some of its shareholders sold additional shares. Overwhelming demand saw the IPO initially raise $21.8 billion and then send Alibaba's stock surging 38 percent in its debut on Friday. That prompted underwriters to exercise an option to sell an additional 48 million shares, a source with direct knowledge of the deal said. The IPO surpassed the previous global record set by Agricultural Bank of China Ltd in 2010 when the bank raised $22.1 billion. Under the option, Alibaba agreed to sell 26.1 million additional shares and Yahoo Inc 18.3 million, netting the two companies an extra $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion respectively. Alibaba's Jack Ma agreed to sell an extra 2.7 million shares and company co-founder Joe Tsai agreed to sell 902,782 additional shares, according to the prospectus. The source declined to be identified as the details of the additional sale have yet to be made official. Alibaba declined to comment. Citigroup Inc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Morgan Stanley acted as joint bookrunners of the IPO. Rothschild was hired as Alibaba's independent financial advisor on the deal. (Corrects number of additional shares sold by Jack Ma to 2.7 million from 12.7 million in 5th paragraph)  (Reporting by Elzio Barreto; Editing by Denny Thomas and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
nathanmac87/flickrThe Rockefellers, who made their vast fortune on oil, and other philanthropies and high-wealth individuals on Monday will announce pledges to divest a total of $50 billion from fossil fuel investments. The Global Divest-Invest coalition will announce new pledges and members one day before 120 heads of state address the United Nations on how their countries will contribute to a global effort to halt a dangerous rise in temperatures. Since the divestment movement launched three years ago, some 650 individuals and 180 institutions, including 50 new foundations, which hold over $50 billion in total assets, pledged to divest from fossil fuels over five years using a variety of approaches. One of the signatories is the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. Stephen Heintz, an air of Standard Oil tycoon John D. Rockefeller, said the move to divest away from fossil fuels would be in line with his wishes. “We are quite convinced that if he were alive today, as an astute businessman looking out to the future, he would be moving out of fossil fuels and investing in clean, renewable energy,” Heintz said in a statement. Since January 2014, commitments by campuses, churches, cities, states, hospitals, pension funds, and others in the United States and abroad doubled, from 74 to 180, according to philanthropic giving consultancy Arabella Advisors. One of the higher profile education institution divestments came in May, when Stanford University said it will no longer use any of its $18.7 billion endowment to invest in coal mining companies. While some smaller liberal colleges have made divestment announcements, some larger institutions have been reluctant. The University of California voted last week to maintain its investments in fossil fuels, frustrating a student-led effort to divest its portfolio in oil, natural gas and coal. South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu, an anti-Apartheid figure who has been a strong voice on the need for economic divestments, will add to Monday’s announcements in a recorded video announcement in which he will call for a freeze on all new fossil fuel exploration. “We can no longer continue feeding our addiction to fossil fuels as if there is no tomorrow, for there will be no tomorrow,” he said. (Reporting By Valerie Volcovici; Editing by Michael Perry) ((valerie.volcovici@thomsonreuters.com; +1)(202)(898 8373;)(718)(496 5224 Reuters Messaging: valerie.volcovici.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew WinningLONDON (Reuters) - Tesco &lt;tsco.l&gt; has lowered its forecast for first-half profit by 250 million pounds ($408.50 million), its third warning this year, after finding a fault in its accounts, in the latest blow to the reputation of Britain's biggest grocer. The firm said its Aug. 29 profit warning overstated expected first half profit by 23 percent, an error discovered during preparations for its forthcoming interim results, which have now been pushed back to Oct. 23, from the previously stated Oct. 1. Tesco had said on Aug. 29 it expected trading profit for the six months ending Aug. 23 to be in the region of 1.1 billion pounds. "Tesco has identified an overstatement of its expected profit for the half year, principally due to the accelerated recognition of commercial income and delayed accrual of costs," it said. "Work is ongoing to establish the extent of these issues and what impact they will have on the full year." Tesco has asked Deloitte to undertake an independent and comprehensive review of the issues, working closely with Freshfields, its external legal advisers. The interim results will be the first time the market hears from new Chief Executive Dave Lewis, who succeeded Phil Clarke on Sept. 1. "We have uncovered a serious issue and have responded accordingly. The chairman and I have acted quickly to establish a comprehensive independent investigation," Lewis said on Monday. "The board, my colleagues, our customers and I expect Tesco to operate with integrity and transparency and we will take decisive action as the results of the investigation become clear." With a market valuation of 18.8 billion pounds and over 500,000 employees, Tesco had been the darling of the sector during two decades of uninterrupted earnings growth. But under Clarke it issued three profit warnings in two and a half years as it lost UK market share to fast-growing German discounters Aldi [ALDIEI.UL] and Lidl [LIDUK.UL] as well as upmarket rivals Waitrose [JLP.UL] and Marks &amp; Spencer &lt;mks.l&gt;, leaving its share price languishing at decade lows. The stock closed Friday at 229.8 pence  (Reporting by James Davey; editing by Kate Holton) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mel EvansTens of thousands of activists walked through Manhattan on Sunday, warning that climate change is destroying the Earth — in stride with demonstrators around the world who urged policymakers to take quick action.Hello! Here's what people will be chatting about on Monday.  1. A yet-to-be-released report from the Centers for Disease Control estimates that Ebola could infect up to 500,000 people by the end of January without additional aid from governments, Bloomberg News reports.  2. An estimated 311,000 demonstrators flooded the streets of New York City on Sunday to call for action on climate change. The People's Climate March, which also took place in other cities around the globe, comes ahead of a United Nations summit on Tuesday in which leaders will discuss ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  3. NASA's Maven spacecraft slipped into orbit around Mars late Sunday after launching from Earth 10 months ago. The next Mars explorer will provide hints about how the red planet lost its atmosphere and surface water over time.  4. More than 70,000 Syrian Kurds have fled to Turkey in the past day to escape the Islamic State militant group.  5. The heirs to the Rockefeller fortune will announce on Monday plans to begin divesting their charity, Rockefeller Brothers Fund, from fossil fuel companies to help combat climate change, The New York Times reports.  6. Alibaba's IPO set a world record at $25 billion after the e-commerce company "exercised an option to boost the deal size by 15% on strong demand," Bloomberg Businessweek reports. 7.  Pope Francis, 77, on Sunday visited Albania, where he praised the government for creating "national unity among Muslims, Orthodox, and Catholics, with an interreligious council that has helped a lot and is balanced," the AFP said.  8. Spain's central government will try to block a law passed Friday by Catalonia's parliament that calls for an independence referendum on Nov. 9, The Wall Street Journal reports.  9. Sunday marked one year since an Al Qaeda affiliate shot and killed at least 67 people at the Westgate shopping center in Nairobi, Kenya. A black granite stone plaque was unveiled to honor the victims.  10. Oculus, the company bought by Facebook in March, unveiled a new virtual reality headset prototype, called "Crescent Bay," on Saturday.  And finally... Emma Watson, a goodwill ambassador for UN Women, received a standing ovation following her speech on gender equality at the UN headquarters in New York City on Saturday.  You can watch below:   FREE AppDownload
