Thomson ReutersAn employee yawns as he walks among General Motors' new Chinese-made cars at a parking lot in Shenyang, Liaoning provinceSHANGHAI (Reuters) - General Motors Co  and its Chinese joint ventures sold 319,936 vehicles in China in September, up 15.2 percent from a year earlier, the U.S. automaker said on Friday. That follows a 14.0 percent year-on-year rise in August and a 12.7 percent rise in July. The company's sales in the first nine months of the year totaled 2.58 million vehicles, up 11.6 percent from the same period a year earlier. GM plans to invest $12 billion in China between 2014 and 2017 and build five more plants to ramp up its manufacturing capacity, its China president Matt Tsien said at the Beijing auto show in April. GM makes vehicles in China in partnership with China FAW Group Corp [SASACJ.UL] and SAIC Motor Corp Ltd .  (Reporting by Samuel Shen and Kazunori Takada; Editing by Brenda Goh) FREE AppDownload
Graham Flanagan/Business InsiderThe "D" has arrived. The Tesla "D" that Elon Musk so provocatively tweeted about last week is actually an all-wheel-drive version of the Model S Sedan. There will be three versions, and each will carry the "D" designation, to distinguish them from the rear-wheel-drive Model S. AWD will be a plus for Tesla's customers in the Northeast and in Northern Europe, to deal with bad weather. The current performance version of the Model S — the P85 — will become the P85D and be capable of 0-60 mph in a blistering 3.2 seconds. That acceleration is right up there with supercars from Ferrari, Porsche, and Mercedes.  The @TeslaMotors Model S #P85D is like a @Dodge Charger Hellcat that uses no gas: http://t.co/Mij7fuAXnK pic.twitter.com/9916IQ66eG Here's a few more shots of the #TeslaD: http://t.co/EtxWzTMeLe pic.twitter.com/jXANcJgvAN •@elonmusk unveiled Tesla's Model S P85D: Faster, AWD and it can find you in the parking lot http://t.co/irOexDlQWK pic.twitter.com/z6U2Rl3iIh Overall, nothing mind-blowing. Commenting on the "D," Kelley Blue Book senior analyst Karl Brauer said the features would "allow Tesla to keep pace with competing luxury makes while still banking on its primary advantage — a pure electric drivetrain. Until the Model X arrives, these upgrades should keep the Model S at the forefront of advanced personal transportation.”  Some photos from the event: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe D has dual motors — one for each set of wheels. Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesIt will do 0-60 in 3.2 seconds. Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe new Tesla instrument panel, now with autopilot features. Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesEverybody loved the robot arm. Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe robot arm was an amazing pierce of showmanship. Graham Flanagan/Business Insider Graham Flanagan/Business Insider Graham Flanagan/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
GoogleThe quiet seaside town of Clacton-on-sea was the unlikely epicenter of a minor political earthquake this morning as the UK Independence Party (UKIP) won its first seat in parliament following a resounding by-election victory. UKIP candidate Douglas Carswell won a huge 60% of the vote, beating his Conservative rival into a distant second. The party’s victory will be seen as an embarrassment for Prime Minister David Cameron, whose Conservative Party had held the seat with Carswell before his high-profile defection in August. More worryingly for party strategists, however, will be that the victory gives UKIP momentum heading into the tighter by-election in Rochester and Strood next month where Carswell’s fellow defector Mark Reckless currently boasts a narrow lead. Despite claims that the Conservatives were planning to “throw the kitchen sink” at the Rochester campaign a Survation phone poll earlier this month put Reckless ahead by 40% to the Tories’ 31%. Loss there would be a severe blow and could tempt others over to UKIP leader Nigel Farage’s cause. ReutersUKIP leader Nigel Farage (L) and MP Douglas Carswell. At the Conservative annual conference London Mayor Boris Johnson called those thinking of defecting “utterly nuts” and suggested that they were “the kind of people who abuse vacuum cleaners.” Even the leader of Carswell’s local council dubbed his former colleague a “traitor” underlining the strength of feeling surrounding his decision. However, so far the party has struggled to combat discomfort among backbenchers over its position with regards to Europe. Although Cameron has committed to an in-out referendum on European Union membership in the next parliament he has also made it clear that the party leadership will be actively campaigning for a ‘no’ vote along with both Labour and the Liberal Democrats. UKIP, in contrast, has made Euroscepticism its organizing principle despite its major electoral victories before tonight overwhelmingly coming in European parliamentary elections.  In the 2014 elections the party took 27.49% of the vote, taking its total number of MEPs up to 24. Over the years Farage has attempted to present his party as the anti-establishment choice in order to pick up the protest vote — a task that has been made much easier following the collapse of support for the Liberal Democrats. Recent polls show UKIP is now comfortably the third biggest party in the UK with a projected 14% of the vote to 7% for the Lib Dems. If they win again in Rochester the murmurings of discontent on the Conservative backbenches are only likely to get louder as the party tries to rally to troops heading into the General Election next year. FREE AppDownload
Asian markets are diving, following in Wall Street's footsteps. Here's the scoreboard, via CNBC: CNBC FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA general view of an Apple store in the Manhattan borough of New York(Reuters) - Apple Inc  will have at least three days to review and potentially move to bar any information about its relationship with GT Advanced Technologies Inc  that may arise during the latter's bankruptcy hearings, the court said in a ruling on Thursday. GT Advanced, which struck an agreement last year to supply sapphire for Apple's iPhone and other mobile devices, filed for bankruptcy on Monday. In Thursday's ruling, U.S. Judge Henry Boroff said GT Advanced should provide any reasonable information as part of the case, "except that in the event that any such information relates to the details of the debtors’ business relationship with Apple." In such cases, the information must first be disclosed to Apple's lawyers at least three days beforehand, during which time the iPhone maker can move to block such disclosure, Boroff wrote in the ruling.  (Reporting by Edwin Chan; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer participates in a discussion on the global economy during the World Bank/IMF Annual MeetingLAS VEGAS (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will probably start raising interest rates around the middle of next year, two top officials at the U.S. central bank said on Thursday, although both said the exact timing will depend on the economy. "What we think now is that the capital markets have it more or less right but we don't ourselves know when we're going to do it," Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said in Washington. "On the basis of our forecasts of the data ... it looks like markets more or less have it right - somewhere in the middle of the year. The Fed has kept rates near zero since 2008 and has nearly quadrupled its balance sheet to more than $4 trillion through a series of bond purchase programs in an effort to push borrowing costs down further and boost hiring. With the U.S. jobless rate at 5.9 percent and closing in on what the central bank sees as consistent with full employment, officials plan to wrap up their bond buying this month. Now, investors are rushing to place bets on when rates will rise. Minutes of the Fed's September meeting released on Wednesday showed several officials worried a troubling global growth backdrop and stronger dollar could undercut the U.S. recovery. Investors took that to mean the Fed would bide its time on rate hikes, and they sent the dollar down and bid stocks up. Futures markets shifted to point to a September hike from July. The central bank's only official guidance on the timing is that it would wait a "considerable time" after bond-buying ends, a phrase Fed Chair Janet Yellen indicated earlier this year meant something along the lines of six months. Fischer took a step that essentially downgraded the value of the phrase, saying it meant somewhere between two to 12 months, putting investors on notice that it will be economic data, not the passage of time, that will drive policy change. Speaking in Las Vegas, San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams said exactly that. "Likely around the middle of next year is a reasonable guess to my mind," said Williams, who will rotate into a voting spot on the Fed's policy-setting panel next year. "If the economy or inflation heat up faster than I expect, we should lift rates sooner," he said, but he added that if progress on those fronts slow, the liftoff should be delayed. William Dudley, the head of the New York Fed, earlier this week also pointed to mid-2015 as the likely rate-hike date. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard on Thursday said financial markets were making a "mistake" in betting that borrowing costs would only rise later in 2015. Bullard, citing strengthening gauges of labor markets and inflation, wants the Fed to start raising rates in the first quarter of next year. "When there is a mismatch it doesn't end well," he said at a conference in St. Louis sponsored by his regional Fed bank. But Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker, speaking in Asheville, N.C., said he wasn't particularly alarmed. "The gap is most likely accounted for by differences in views on how the data is going to come in," he said. Lacker, among the most hawkish of Fed policymakers, said he probably is on the "early side" among his colleagues in terms of expectations for when rates should rise. Still, he said, it's "too soon to draw conclusions."   (Reporting by Jason Lange in Washington, Ann Saphir in Las Vegas, Jonathan Spicer in Asheville, N.C., and Michael Flaherty in St. Louis; Editing by Tim Ahmann) FREE AppDownload
© AFP Jim WatsonInternational Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde speaks during a CNN Debate on the Global Economy in Washington, DC on October 9, 2014Washington (AFP) - The International Monetary Fund stepped up its warnings over a possible eurozone recession Thursday, pressing governments like Germany to spend more for reverse a stall. Worries about the eurozone stagnating were at the forefront as the annual IMF-World Bank meetings on the global economy kicked off. Despite the general recovery from the financial crisis that began six years ago, red flags were out for a number of dangers -- the West African Ebola epidemic, the Ukraine crisis, the conflict in the Middle East, and the potential global whiplash from the coming policy tightening by the US Federal Reserve. IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde pointedly warned that the eurozone could fall back into recession if action is not taken to prevent it. "We are not suggesting that the zone is heading toward recession, but we are saying that there is a serious risk that that happens if nothing is done," she said. Lagarde said that the IMF puts the chance of the euro area slipping back to a prolonged contraction at 35-40 percent -- "not insignificant," she added. "If the right policies are decided, if both surplus and deficit countries do what they have to do, it is avoidable." Lagarde emphasized that world economic growth overall was a firm 3.3 percent this year, and speed up to 3.8 percent in 2015. But she called that "mediocre", and while much better than just a few years ago, what it means for people in many countries could be flat incomes and not enough job generation to lower high rates of unemployment. Moreover, a number of emerging economies face deeper malaise, and the huge eurozone economy is especially worrisome. "The main subject is that of growth, globally, but the principal focus here is the question of European growth," said French Finance Minister Michel Sapin. The issue is what tools are available to avoid "what is described as a risk of recession," he said. The IMF earlier this week cut its baseline forecast for growth in the 18-nation euro area to 0.8 percent this year and 1.3 percent next year. But with deflation a growing threat and demand and industrial output falling even in eurozone powerhouse Germany, a worse outcome is possible. Lagarde said only a "very modest part" of the European slowdown can be blamed on the Ukraine crisis and the economic sanctions western Europe and the United States have placed on Russia. If the eurozone continues to stall, IMF chief economist Olivier Blanchard warned on Tuesday, "it would be the major issue confronting the world economy." The IMF and World Bank are pressing governments to push reforms that will boost growth, and to target more spending on job-creating activities like infrastructure development. That pressure in the eurozone focused on Germany, the region's powerhouse, to agree to power up growth and prevent a slide back into recession. Germany "could afford to finance much-needed public investment in infrastructure primarily for maintenance and modernization, without violating fiscal rules," the IMF wrote in its new report on the global economy this week. Speaking in Washington, however, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble denied his country was contracting, and stuck to his opposition to higher spending to revive the eurozone. More growth will not be "achieved by writing checks," he said.  Instead, he insisted that Italy and France -- both of which want to boost stimulus spending -- implement "essential structural reforms", and he cautioned against a further loosening of monetary policy by the European Central Bank. "You can't always spend other people's money in a monetary union," he said.  But he appeared to leave some room to bend Germany's tough stance. "We are the engine of growth in the eurozone," Schaeuble added. "We have to give more priority to investment."    FREE AppDownload
The big story in the economy these days is about how the US economy continues to grow while Europe contracts, Japan stumbles, and emerging markets like China slow. This divergence is likely to have US stock investors concerned since the stock market and is not the US economy. Indeed, the large multinational firms of the S&amp;P 500 generate much of their business abroad. "Foreign sales accounted for 33% of aggregate revenue for the S&amp;P 500 in 2013," Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider writes. "The median stock reported 29% of sales outside the US. Companies reported that 12% of revenues came from EMEA, with 7% directly attributable to Europe. Approximately 8% of revenues stem from the Asia Pacific region and just 7% of reported revenues were from non-US Americas (Canada and Latin America). The remaining 6% of revenues were foreign but unclassifiable." In addition to weak sales due to deteriorating foreign demand, these multinational companies have to worry about the strengthening US currency, which shrinks the value of foreign profits when they get converted to dollars. Sneider believes that stocks with greater exposure to Western Europe are more likely to miss analysts' estimates when they announce their Q3 earnings. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceStocks had a terrible day on Thursday. And over the last couple weeks, stocks have become increasingly volatile, and many are starting to ask if this is the sell-off we've seemingly been waiting years for. The Fed is set to end its QE program at the end of this month, and growth in Europe has been flagging as bond yields have tumbled around the world.  But as the market continued to grind higher through the summer, it seemed that almost every bear on Wall Street was forced to abandon their call, while bulls got even more enthusiastic. And many would argue that there is nothing more negative for the market than when those that consistently warn stocks could fall finally admit defeat. The bears turning bullish around late August and into September, and since then the S&amp;P 500 has lost about 3.6%. Here's a quick collection of headlines that, in hindsight, maybe we should've paid more attention to.  Business Insider Back in August, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok circulated an email that said until we get an economic recession, stocks are going higher. Slok added that he doesn't expect the Fed's first rate hikes will upset the current economic expansion, and that stocks will steadily rise over the coming years. Business Insider Citi's Tom Fitzpatrick and the technical analysis team at the firm wrote that if August's rally outpaced the July decline stocks saw, the S&amp;P 500 could be poised to rise to "at least" 2,150-2,250 by the end of the year.  That happened, so this call still remains to be seen.Business Insider Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker wrote that our recent experience with boom and busts cycles aren't like most of those seen through history, and that bull markets don't end just because they've gone on for a long time. "Our best guess is that an S&amp;P 500 peak of near 3,000 is possible should the US expansion prove to have five or more years left," Parker wrote. Business Insider RBC Capital Markets' Jonathan Golub wrote that when you look at super cycles of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, periods of volatile sideways moves often preceded moves higher.  When Golub wrote this note, markets hadn't done much year-to-date, and as of Thursday's close, the Dow was up just 0.5% for the year. Business Insider Deutsche Bank's David Bianco, who was the most bearish strategist on Wall Street for 2014 with an S&amp;P 500 year-end price target of 1,850, finally rolled over in September 8, when the S&amp;P 500 was a it over 2,000, and moved his price target up to 2,050.  "Despite entering the latter years of a typical expansion and high margins vs. history, we now think the trailing S&amp;P PE should average 17 vs. 16 until elevated recession risk returns," Bianco wrote.  Business Insider Nomura's Bob Janjuah, who has long been one of Wall Street's uber-bears, wrote that stocks were likely to go higher until the VIX closed below 10 for two consecutive weeks. The VIX closed near 19 on Thursday. Janjuah's calls for more currency weakness, particularly from the Japanese yen and euro against the dollar, have played out so far. Business Insider Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams, the biggest bear of 2013 who had a year-end price target for the S&amp;P 500 of 1,850, dropped that target and introduced a "12-month forward price target of 2,100." Adams wrote that the positive outlook for stocks came from a, "fundamental optimism toward equities from an improving economic and earnings backdrop," though she remained concerned about lofty stock valuations. Business Insider David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff, told Reuters that the stock market is "in some kind of a corrective phase...but it's not the end of the world." "I think we're still in a fundamental bull market," Rosenberg told Reuters.  Rosenberg was a long-time leading bear on Wall Street, but turned bullish about two years ago.  Business Insider Tom Lee, former chief US equity strategist at JP Morgan and now CEO of Fundstrat Global Advisors, wrote in his debut not to clients at his new firm that investors should, "Stay bullish into year-end." "We see multi-year gains ahead for US equities, driven by the favorable combination of: (i) pent-up demand; (ii) repaired household, corporate, and bank balance sheets; (iii) attractive relative value for stocks and (iv) low conviction by investors," Lee wrote. And so while its only been a couple rocky days, and the S&amp;P 500 is still up 4.3%, the elevated volatility we've seen recently gets investors and market watchers wondering if the next real market leg is higher or lower from here. So we can read this collection of recent headlines, it seems, two ways: either these are reminders that the bull market is likely to keep going despite volatility, or we've missed a major sentiment shift right at a new market top.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe entrance to the Family Dollar store is seen in WestminsterBy Nandita Bose CHICAGO (Reuters) - Discount retailer Family Dollar Stores Inc , which is trying to ward of a hostile bid from rival Dollar General Corp , said its fourth-quarter profit slid 66 percent hurt by inventory markdowns, restructuring charges and merger fees. Family Dollar, which has agreed to sell itself to smaller rival Dollar Tree  for a lower cash-and-stock deal of $8.5 billion, rejected Dollar General's $9.1 billion all-cash bid saying the offer did not address anti-trust concerns. After being spurned twice, Dollar General, which offered to sell up to 1,500 stores and pay $500 million as a break-up fee if the deal failed to clear antitrust reviews, took its bid hostile and approached Family Dollar shareholders directly. The battle in the discount retail industry comes at a time when Dollar stores are desperate to scale up as they try to keep lower-income shoppers from being lured by Wal-Mart Stores Inc  and Target Corp . Family Dollar, which did not provide guidance for fiscal 2015 pending its merger with Dollar Tree, said the company's first quarter in fiscal 2015 will be challenging due to competitive intensity and as low-income customers continue to be wary of spending. Net income for the fourth quarter ended Aug. 30 fell 66 percent to $34.5 million, or 30 cents per share from $102.2 million, or 88 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, earnings were to 73 cents per share. The company, which operates over 8,000 stores in 46 states, said net sales rose 4.5 percent to $2.61 billion. Same-store sales rose 0.3 percent, after three straight quarters of decline. "While we are still in the early stages of our turnaround plan, we believe that the strategic actions taken in fiscal 2014 will position the company for better sales and earnings performance in fiscal 2015,"said Chairman and Chief Executive Howard Levine. "We anticipate that the first quarter will be our most challenging quarter of fiscal 2015, but we expect momentum will build as we move through the rest of the year," Levine said. As per the latest filings, Howard Levine, is the largest shareholder with an 8.17 percent stake as of Aug. 5. Any deal could fetch him between $690 million and $750 million. Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management L.P. had a 7.34 percent stake in Family Dollar as of July 27, while John Paulson's Paulson &amp; Co Inc reported a 7.04 percent stake on June 30.  (Reporting by Nandita Bose, editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShoppers carry their purchases along Broadway in New York City(Reuters) - A resurgence in spending helped by an improving U.S. economy bolstered back to school season sales for retailers in September, but stagnant wages may force more discounting in the coming months, keeping pressure on margins. September's results showed surprise growth for apparel retailers as parents and students rushed to malls and stores for the latest fashions as schools began reopening across the country. This, however, is expected to be short lived. "The one roadblock still unfortunately is wage growth," said Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics. "That has been absent all year." American workers' hourly wages in the private sector rose just 2 percent over the past 12 months, in line with what has been seen over the past few years, and was roughly flat in September, a Labor Department report showed last week. Consumer confidence rose in August, translating into higher sales in September, but such gains may not be sustainable in the current climate, analysts said. "I suspect it (consumer confidence) will bounce around. It gets affected by things such as the ISIL (Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) threat and the Ebola threat and issues that make people worry," said Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Hugh Johnson Advisors. Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;wmt.n&gt;, a bellwether of the retail industry, warned in August that heavy discounting would likely continue into the holiday shopping season as consumers were still concerned about the cost of living and employment. J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;jcp.n&gt; cut its third-quarter same-stores sales forecast on Wednesday, citing a "difficult retail environment." Still, there are reasons to be optimistic, said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors. Discounting doesn't seem to be as high as it was at the same time last year, and retailers are a bit more comfortable, he added. The holiday period between Thanksgiving and Christmas in 2013 was six days shorter than last year, prompting retailers to offer more promotions and deeper discounts than usual earlier in the season. That earned the shopping season the moniker of being the most competitive since the financial recession in 2008. Stronger job growth numbers, a drop in the unemployment rate and lower gas prices than a year earlier helped free up some spending in September. A group of 10 retailers, excluding giants such as Wal-Mart, Target Corp &lt;tgt.n&gt; and Best Buy Co &lt;bby.n&gt;, registered a 5.1 percent rise in September comparable-store sales, above last year's 4.5 percent, according to the Thomson Reuters same-store sales index. Drug retailers Walgreen Co &lt;wag.n&gt; and Rite-Aid Corp &lt;rad.n&gt; were the index's strongest performers, posting better-than-expected comparable-store sales data for September, helped by higher prescription sales. Costco Wholesale Corp &lt;cost.o&gt; reported a better-than-expected 6 percent rise in comparable sales for the month, helped by strong sales of fresh food items and soft lines such as apparel, accessories and footwear. But apparel retailers were the surprise performers in September, analysts said "Apparel retailers, surprisingly, had a better-than-expected month of the few that reported their monthly same-store sales. The only laggard was GAP," Perkins said. Gap Inc &lt;gps.n&gt; said late on Wednesday that same-store sales in September were flat due to continued weakness in its Gap brand. Same-store sales at the brand have fallen for five straight months. The company also said Chief Executive Glenn Murphy would retire in February, handing over the reins to its digital business head, Art Peck. Analysts on average were expecting Gap to post a 1.1 percent increase in September same-store sales, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Gap shares plunged 12 percent on Thursday, weighing on the S&amp;P 500 index &lt;.SPX&gt;. The six apparel retailers tracked by the Thomson Reuters' index registered a 2.6 percent rise in September same-store sales, beating the average estimate of a 2.1 percent increase. Victoria's Secret owner L Brands Inc &lt;lb.n&gt; and mall-based teen retailer Zumiez Inc &lt;zumz.o&gt; were the index's top performing apparel retailers. "Out of the woods and into the bright sunlight? Maybe not yet. But are they (apparel retailers) beginning to feel the sun beat on them? I think the answer is yes."   (Editing by Simon Jennings) FREE AppDownload
Max Rossi/ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.   Tech Is The Best Sector For Investors Right Now (BlackRock Blog)  Although there's been significant market volatility recently, "anxiety over technology is premature" and it "is still one of my favorite sectors," writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. He writes that the technology sector has a lot of momentum, and has "easily" outperformed the broader US market. Year-to-date they were up 12% in the end of September. But despite the fact that tech is significantly outperforming the market, prices are not too expensive — which makes them a good buy. "Perhaps most importantly, looking forward I can see a catalyst for further gains: increased capital spending. Fixed investment has been weak for well over a decade. Since 2000, US real fixed investment has averaged around 1.5% annualized growth. Prior to the bursting tech bubble, real investment averaged approximately 5% annualized growth," writes Koesterich. Goldman Sachs: Investors Need More Alternatives (Investment News) In the past, investors needed only to invest in stocks for risk and bonds for safety. "...that's how they did things back in the 1970s, when things were a lot different than they are today. These days, you own things in your portfolio for some type of return, and that includes alternatives," argues Goldman Sachs' Theodore Enders. He advocates having significant alternative allocations of between 19% to 24% in order to reduce volatility. Smaller percentages will not make a "real difference on long-term performance." Active Managers Are Having A Hard Time Consistently Outperforming Their Benchmark Indexes (Financial Planning) Increasingly, studies are showing that active managers are having a hard time consistently outperforming their benchmark indexes. By the end of August, although 71% of assets in portfolios were actively managed, the growth of fund flows to actively managed assets was a mere 2% over the past year, as compared with 11% organic growth in flows to passive investment portfolios. Passive assets have surpassed active in commodities — 64% are passive assets.However, for other categories such as municipal bonds and allocation funds, the majority are still active assets. Pension Fund Managers Should Add Exposure To High-Yielding Asset Classes (AllianceBernstein) The financial markets' changes since 2008 have made a "growing array of less liquid" but possibly high-return investment opportunities available. As a result, assets that were once considered to be "opportunistic" will start to look like "core components" of the average fixed-income portfolio. "Pension funds, with their large balance sheets and longer time horizons, are in the perfect position to take advantage, either by making direct loans or adding exposure to high-yielding asset classes once available only to banks. Because most investments require intermediate- and long-term funding, they offer higher return potential and yield to compensate investors for giving up liquidity," writes Bass. Stocks Might Be More Risky Than Everyone Thinks (Advisor Perspectives) Many people believe that equity investments undoubtedly turn out well in the long run. However, "with equity investments, as opposed to fixed income, there is no contractual assurance of receiving any of one's investment back at all, let alone a positive return," writes Michael Edesess.  One of the biggest supporters of long-run equity investments is professor Jeremy Siegel. The problem with his argument is that his data only covers from 1800 to the present day, during which "real global economic product has averaged about 2.7% annually." As a result, long-run equity returns were generally favorable. Before 1800,  growth averaged between 0-0.2% per year — significantly less. And Edesess warns that if "the pace of economic growth went back to the levels of the past, prior to the last 200 years," then long-run equity returns would no longer be a viable option for investors.  FREE AppDownload
He shuns fancy housing after making all his money on real estate — and now Steve Moore is trying to give back.
Oil won't stop going lower. It was a terrible day for stocks on Thursday, with the Dow falling 335 points and the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq each falling 2%, but the price of oil is also getting crushed. In extended trade on Thursday, the price of oil fell to below $85 a barrel for the first time since November 2012. It's been just an absolutely brutal few months for oil, which has fallen from well over $105 a barrel back in June, to nearly two-year lows today. Here's a chart of oil's slide today.  FinViz And the slide over the last year-plus.  FinViz Meanwhile, the 'OIH' ETF that houses a basket of oil services companies, fell 4.2% in trade on Thursday. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Pratt Institute statistics professor and writer of the I Quant NY blog Ben Wellington combined subway entrance and land use data provided on the NYC government's open data portal to make a heatmap showing how far away each residential building in Manhattan is from a subway entrance. Green is close to an entrance; red is far: Ben Wellington/I Quant NY 10 Gracie Square, indicated on the map, wins the dubious honor of being the Manhattan residential building farthest from a subway entrance. According to Wellington's calculations, the nearest subway entrance is 0.7 miles away on a straight line path, or 0.8 miles following the street grid. Walking at three miles per hour, 10 Gracie Square is 16 minutes from the subway. Wellington also pointed out that there isn't much of a discount on apartments in the building to compensate for the longer commute: For more, including a Google document that shows the complete distance ranking for each residential address in the borough, check out Wellington's post at I Quant NY here. FREE AppDownload
Newspress USAThe best-selling vehicle in the US — for now. Morgan Stanley lead auto analyst Adam Jonas isn't holding back in his assessment of the risks that Ford is taking on by revamping its best-selling F-150 pickup truck.  In a research note published on Wednesday, Jonas highlighted some reasons why he and his team thought the switch from steel to aluminum construction may not go "as smoothly as planned" and downgraded Ford to a $14 per share target price, from $16.  On a down day for stocks on Thursday, Ford closed below $14 — at $13 per share. Jonas listed several problems for Ford going forward, but this is the biggie: In other words, Ford bet the ranch when the world was a very different place, energy-wise. It wasn't irrational back then to assume that fuel prices were spiking and consumers were looking to unload big trucks and SUVs in favor of smaller cars and hybrids. But that's all changed. Oil prices have declined, and gas prices have leveled out. SUVs and big pickups are selling well. Sure, Ford needs to achieve higher overall MPG targets to meet looking EPA regulations. But the energy picture is very different from what it was in 2008-2009. The lesson here is that if you have the best-selling vehicle in the US — and have for decades — you want to guard its future, and at times of threat to that product, you may need to make some bold predictions to maintain the product's viability. But, of course, you can bet wrong.  Ford may have done just that. As Jonas notes, the strategy was audacious. But audacious strategies need to be confirmed by events working in one's favor; otherwise they can become audacious failures. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA health worker checks the temperature of a man at a roadside health checkpoint outside GantaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Liberia, the West African nation hardest hit by the Ebola outbreak, is facing recession and may need more aid from the International Monetary Fund given the budgetary toll the virus has taken, its finance minister said. "Our economy was projected to grow by 5.9 percent. That growth has been revised down to 1 percent," Finance Minister Amara Konneh told Reuters late on Wednesday. "Technically, the economy is in recession." The hemorrhagic fever, which has no proven cure, has killed nearly 3,900 people in four West African countries, from a total of more than 8,000 people infected. More than half the dead were in Liberia, where the healthcare system is still reeling from a devastating 1989-2003 civil war. Konneh said the nation's service sector had taken the biggest blow with activity "declining significantly by some 10 percent." He said the agricultural sector had shrunk by 12 percent, and cited mining and manufacturing as other areas under heavy pressure. Government revenues had dropped 20 percent, while Liberia has had to ramp up spending by some 35 percent, leaving a budget gap of around $106 million, Konneh said. "We find ourselves in a situation where we have to depend on the support of our international partners to fill in the budget deficit," he said. "That is the only way we can respond effectively. That is the only way we can keep our development programs on track and that is the only way we can invest in the programs that will help the economy grow faster." Konneh, who spoke ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and World Bank, said Liberia had opened talks with the Fund on Wednesday to see if it would relax lending restrictions that have capped the amount the nation can borrow, although he said further borrowing would be a "last option." The IMF approved an $80 million loan program for Liberia in 2012 and gave a greenlight to another $49 million just two weeks ago. "We have a speed bump which cannot allow us to borrow more than 35 percent of our  GDP. We are asking for flexibility when that becomes necessary," Konneh said. "We are positive that it will be fruitful." "Borrowing is our last option. Our first option is to make sure that any support coming to Liberia now is (in) grants," he said. Konneh denied a report from Britain's parliament that about $56 million of $60 million the European Union provided Liberia had not gone to the health sector as intended. "I do not know where they got their information from," he said. "Whoever gave them that information, misinformed them ... but we will find a way to officially communicate to the British  parliament so that they will know."   (Reporting by Alphonso Toweh; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
FlickrGoldman Sachs' equity research team and Teen Vogue's fashion experts teamed up to produce the definitive "Teen Vogue-Goldman Sachs Love List" — a list of the top 50 brands that "It Girls" love. They focused specifically on the "It Girl" consumer  because she is "more educated on the brands, owns more of them, talks about them more, and has stronger opinions on them." "Our 2013 'Brands Rising' index included brands that It Girls gave high marks for but were still off the radar for the National Sample," they wrote. "In 2014, 75% of these brands had significant increases in National familiarity and scored high on affinity, supporting the idea that It Girls set the tone for others." To find the top 50 brands, Goldman polled over 1,200 Teen Vogue 'It Girls' on approximately 350 brands. The survey takes into account three metrics, each of which was given a score out of 100.  Two of the metrics were pretty standard: familiarity and affinity. Familiarity measured whether or not the respondent knew the brand, and affinity measured whether or not the respondent liked the brand. The third metric was "word of mouth," which measured how much respondents discussed a brand relative to others. This metric is especially important today when young millennial women are increasingly discussing brands via social media like Instagram and Pinterest. Goldman Sachs writes that "familiarity", "affinity" and "world of mouth" all directly impacted "ownership" of a given brand. FREE AppDownload
Symantec just announced that it will divide itself into two. This follows news that eBay and HP who are doing the same. One of the companies will take Symantec's security business, which generated revenues of $4.2 billion in fiscal year 2014. The other will focus on what it calls the "Information Management" business, which deals with storing and protecting documents (backup and recovery; archiving; eDiscovery; computer storage software). It generated $2.5 billion in fiscal year 2014. For now Symantec says its current (and fairly new) CEO Michael Brown will become CEO of the security company. John Gannon is being tapped to lead the new information management business, but the company isn't calling him CEO. His title is for now "general manager." Symantec has been struggling for a while. In March the company appointed board member Brown as interim CEO and in September made the CEO title official. He joined the board in 2005 when Symantec bought Veritas Software in a $13.5 billion stock transaction. That purchase is what moved Symantec into the "information management" business in the first place. Symantec's stock has traded mostly under $25 for the past five years, at times dipping below $15. Investors seem to like the news. The stock is up slightly in after-hours trading to around $24. Here's the press release Symantec (NASDAQ: SYMC) announced that its Board of Directors has unanimously approved a plan to separate the company into two, independent publicly traded companies: one business focused on security and one business focused on information management (“IM”). Symantec’s decision to pursue a separation follows an extensive business review of the company’s strategy and operational structure. Creating two standalone businesses will allow each entity to maximize its respective growth opportunities and drive greater shareholder value. “As the security and storage industries continue to change at an accelerating pace, Symantec’s security and IM businesses each face unique market opportunities and challenges. It has become clear that winning in both security and information management requires distinct strategies, focused investments and go-to market innovation,” said Michael A. Brown, Symantec president and chief executive officer. “Separating Symantec into two, independent publicly traded companies will provide each business the flexibility and focus to drive growth and enhance shareholder value.” The separation will allow each company to: Mr. Brown continued, “Taking this decisive step will enable each business to maximize its potential. Both businesses will have substantial operational and financial scale to thrive.” Security Business Symantec is a trusted leader in security with leading overall market share—twice the nearest competitor—in a market projected to reach $38 billion in 2018. The company’s security business sees more, analyzes more, and knows more about security threats than any other company in the world. Its unified security strategy has three primary elements: The security business generated revenue of $4.2 billion in fiscal year 2014. The security business will include: consumer and enterprise endpoint security; endpoint management; encryption; mobile; Secure Socket Layer (“SSL”) Certificates; user authentication; mail, web and data center security; data loss prevention; hosted security; and managed security services. Information Management Business Symantec’s IM businesses compete in markets that were $11 billion in 2013 expanding to $16 billion by 2018. Its IM business is a market leader, serving 75% of the Fortune 500. The company’s appliance products are outpacing the industry with 27% year-over-year growth, while its backup products rank first in the industry. The IM business will allow organizations to harness the power of their information to enable highly informed decision making, no matter what system it resides on. The information management strategy will do three things to realize this vision: The IM business generated revenue of $2.5 billion in fiscal year 2014. The Information Management business will include: backup and recovery; archiving; eDiscovery; storage management; and information availability solutions. Organization Michael A. Brown will be the President and CEO of Symantec and Thomas Seifert will continue to serve as CFO. John Gannon will be General Manager of the new information management business and Don Rath will be its acting CFO. Gannon served as President and COO of Quantum. Prior to Quantum, he led HP’s commercial PC business. Rath joined Symantec in August 2012 and previously held senior tax and finance roles with Synopsys, Chiron and VERITAS. Transaction Details The transaction is intended to take the form of a tax-free distribution to Symantec shareholders of 100% of the IM business in a new, independent, publicly traded stock. The expected stock distribution ratio will be determined at a future date. The company expects to complete the spinoff by the end of December 2015. We expect to incur separation and restructuring charges through the completion of the transaction as we work to separate the two businesses. The proposed separation is subject to customary conditions, including final approval by the company’s Board of Directors, the effectiveness of a Form 10 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and satisfying foreign regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that any separation transaction will ultimately occur and, if one does occur, there can be no assurances as to its terms or timing. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC is serving as financial advisor to Symantec. Business and Quarterly Outlook Symantec reiterates the September quarterly guidance as stated on its August earnings call. The company intends to provide more detail about the quarter on its November 5th earnings call. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Gutierrez Lightning flashes around the ash plume above the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcano chain near Entrelagos, Chile, June 5, 2011. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories on Thursday: 1. It was red across the board for the markets on Thursday. The Dow lost more than 300 points and the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq lost more than 1.9%, forfeiting all of their gains from Wednesday's rally. The price of crude oil also fell further, moving below $86 a barrel for the first time since 2012, as the broader commodity sector continues to get crushed. Precious metals including gold and silver rallied on Thursday, with both gaining more than 1.5%.  2. The sector that came under serious pressure on Thursday was energy stocks, particularly coal stocks, with a number of companies in that sector falling more than 6%. Leading losses for coal stocks was Walter Energy, which lost more than 11%, as that company has seen its market cap fall from more than $1 billion at the beginning of the year to about $100 million now, a more than 90% decline. 3. Bond yields around the world fell on Thursday, with the US 10-year Treasury bond falling to 2.28%, its lowest level since June 2013. The 10-year yield fell to its lowest level of the year on Wednesday afternoon after the latest Minutes from the FOMC struck a particularly dovish tone, and extended its rally in early trading on Thursday. Internationally, yields also fell as investors are now getting negative yields from German bonds out to three years, while the Swiss 10-year bond fell to within about 4 basis points, or 0.04%, of its all-time record low of 0.36% touched back in 2012. 4. Speaking on CNBC's Squawk Box on Thursday morning, hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman said that investors buying bonds right now are "playing with dynamite," outlining what he saw a reasonable scenario where inflation and real GDP get nominal GDP back to 4%-6%, meaning that the current 2.3% yield on the US 10 year will see investors lose money.  5. Also in the bond world on Thursday, Bill Gross held his first webcast and released his first investment outlook since joining Janus Capital late last month. Gross acknowledged that the last several weeks have been tough both for Janus and PIMCO investors, saying that there have been some "obviously rough seas," after his much-publicized exit from the firm he founded more than 40 years ago. Gross said that the global economy appears poised for slower growth over a longer period of time, and cautioned that investors in both bonds and stocks should be prepared for lower returns in the future than they've enjoyed in the past.  6. Activist investor Carl Icahn issued an open letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook, in which he reiterated his call that Apple should buyback more stock and argued that Apple shares should be worth $203. Icahn wrote that the letter was not a critique of the job Cook has done as CEO, but said that the company's shares are undervalued and that the board should repurchase more stock. Apple responded to Icahn's letter noting that it has already returned $74 billion to shareholders this year and plans to return $130 billion to shareholders by the end of next year. 7. One of the biggest stock moves on Thursday was Lakeland Industries — which makes hazmat suits and has a market cap of just $60 million — as shares of the company gained more than 50%. Lakeland shares have been going crazy over the last month as the recent Ebola breakout has reached Europe and the US.  8. Tesla is set to reveal the secret product that CEO Elon Musk teased in a tweet not long ago, and Business Insider's Matt DeBord broke down the three main theories people have been bouncing around as to what the company may unveil tonight. Business Insider will have full coverage of the reveal, which is expected to take place at about 10 p.m. ET.  9. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi spoke at the Brookings Institute in Washington, D.C., on Thursday, and took a not-so-subtle swipe at Germany, saying that fiscal action is needed to kickstart the European economy, particularly from those countries that can afford to do so. "You decide which country this sentence applies to," Draghi said.  10. In economic data, the weekly report on initial jobless claims beat expectations, as claims came in at 287,000 as the four-week moving average for initial claims fell to its lowest level since February 2006. "In one line: The downward trend continues; expect strong payrolls in Q4," wrote Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro following the report. "With the pace of firings exceptionally low, and surveys signaling robust hiring, we have to expect very strong payroll growth in Q4, at least. Claims are unlikely to tall much further, but equally we see no reason to expect a near-term rebound." Don't Miss: The Analyst Who Predicted Germany's Horrible Industrial Numbers Has Another Terrifying Forecast »  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Oshkosh logo is seen in Wisconsin(Reuters) - Specialty truckmaker Oshkosh Corp  said it would cut its defense segment workforce by about 250 to 300 hourly positions, due to lower U.S. defense spending and reductions in military production. The Wisconsin-based company reported a 46.5 percent drop in sales of tactical and military vehicles in the third quarter and cut its full-year earnings forecast. The Pentagon's chief weapons buyer, Frank Kendall, last month predicted "very, very painful" negotiations within the U.S. military as it shapes its fiscal 2016 budget, given the resumption of mandatory cuts in U.S. defense spending, and the growing number of national security threats around the globe. Oshkosh also said it would cut about 70 salaried positions. The company's shares were down 2.4 percent at $42.16 in late afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by Narottam Medhora in Bangalore; Editing by Simon Jennings) FREE AppDownload
Associated PressPaying membership fees keeps Costco customers coming back.Costco has some of the best same-store sale results in the retail industry.  The company's strategy is helping it outperform industry heavyweights like Wal-Mart and Target. Costco's membership fees give it a huge advantage over competitors, Brian Yarbrough, consumer analyst at Edward Jones, told Business Insider. The company charges a $55 annual fee for members. For $110, customers can join the platinum program. Costco benefits from the membership fees in two ways, Yarbrough said.  First, the company gets the cash up-front. About 75% of Costco's operating income is from the member charge.  But the biggest payoff for Costco is how people feel once they're members.  "Once people buy the membership, they feel like they have to get their money's worth," Yarbrough said. "That keeps customers coming back, and is something that makes them stand out from other retailers."  The Motley Fool Dollar stores, drug stores, and warehouse clubs "are taking share from broad-assortment retailers," analysts at Goldman Sachs wrote earlier this year. Costco's strategy of very low mark-ups and quality over quantity appeals to consumers today, the analysts wrote.  Yarbrough also notes that Costco's gas stations have been a good source for cash.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronA Big Bus Tour bus in Washington, DC. LONDON/ABU DHABI (Reuters) - One of the world's largest operators of open-top sightseeing tours, Big Bus Tours, has hired JPMorgan to find a buyer in a deal that could value the travel firm at close to 500 million pounds ($810 million), sources familiar with the situation said. The company's owners have appointed the U.S. bank to lead a strategic review with a view to launching a sale process early next year, said one of the sources who could not be named because the matter is confidential. Big Bus Tours was formed in 2011 by the merger of London-based The Big Bus Company (TBBC) and French peer Les Cars Rouges. At the time the merged entity had over 800 staff and a combined fleet of 300 open-top buses with more than 2 million customers each year. Big Bus Tours shareholders include the Maybury family, which founded TBBC in 1991 and Abu Dhabi-based Al Fahim Group, which acquired 30 percent of TBBC in 2007. Representatives of Big Bus Tours could not be reached for comment. Spokesmen for JPMorgan and Al Fahim Group declined to comment. Big Bus Tours, which has become a familiar London presence with its burgundy and cream-colored open-top buses, generates core earnings of around 50 million pounds. It could be valued at about 500 million pounds given its global operations in 16 cities across three continents, two of the sources said. The process remains in the early stages and prospective bidders have yet to receive initial briefing material, the sources said. Private equity investors have so far shown appetite for travel assets particularly those combining travel operations and online booking services. European buyout firms Permira and Ardian acquired online travel firm Opodo in 2011 for 450 million euros ($570 million), representing a multiple of 15.7 times its core earnings. At the time JPMorgan acted on behalf of Opodo. The company was later merged with sector peers eDreams and Go Voyages to form Odigeo, one of the biggest online travel agencies. European deals in the travel industry have hit a record $3.6 billion since the beginning of 2014, according to Thomson Reuters data. They climbed above U.S. rankings which have so far totaled $1.1 billion of travel M&amp;A since January. Big Bus Tours has worked hard on gaining scale in the United States and Asia since 2011. Its current portfolio includes open-top sightseeing tours in Hong Kong, Shanghai, New York, Las Vegas and San Francisco as well as in Middle Eastern cities such as Dubai and Abu Dhabi.   (Editing by Keiron Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWilliams, president and chief executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, takes part in a panel discussion in Beverly HillsLAS VEGAS (Reuters) - A top Federal Reserve official seen as closely aligned with Fed Chair Janet Yellen said Thursday that he expects the U.S. central bank to starting lifting interest rates from their current near-zero level in the middle of next year. "Based on my current forecast for economic growth, employment, and inflation, it would be appropriate to start raising the fed funds rate sometime in the middle of 2015," San Francisco Fed President John Williams told a group of business leaders in Las Vegas. Once the Fed begins raising rates, it will do so "relatively gradually," he said. Exactly when the Fed will raise rates will depend on the strength of economic data, he said, with an earlier liftoff if the economy and inflation are stronger than expected, and a later liftoff if progress on those fronts is slow. The comments suggest a consensus is building at the core of the Fed for rates to start rising slowly in mid-2015, so long as the unemployment rate continues to fall and inflation rises back toward the Fed's 2-percent target. Earlier on Thursday Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer also flagged mid-2015 as a likely start date for gradual rate increases, as did New York Fed President William Dudley earlier in the week. The Fed has kept rates near zero since December 2008, and has nearly quadrupled its balance sheet to over $4 trillion in an effort to push borrowing costs down further and stimulate growth. With unemployment now down to 5.9 percent from its recession high of 10 percent, Williams said, the time is right to end the Fed's bond-buying stimulus. But still, he said, "there are compelling reasons to remain on the current accommodative path of monetary policy," including pockets of housing market weakness and high unemployment in many areas of the country. And he noted that wages are growing too slowly. A jump from wage growth of 2 percent to the 3 percent to 3.5 percent pace that would reflect a "fully functioning" economy is "what we've been waiting for," he said. "If we were to withdraw accommodation too soon, progress toward our goals could slow or even stall," he warned. Williams projected the U.S. economy to grow at a 3 percent pace in the second half of 2014 and 2015, bringing unemployment down to 5.2 percent, his view of a sustainable long-term rate, by late 2015. Inflation, which has been running well below the Fed's 2-percent target, will take a couple of years to return to that goal.  (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMorgan Stanley has released a new report on secular growth stocks. The 42 stocks are companies they believe will grow irrespective of fluctuations in the business cycle. Tech companies like Facebook and Google dominate the list. There are also a lot of healthcare companies, which are benefiting from the aging population. "We believe that the names selected for this report can grow strongly even if the global economy grows more slowly than our current GDP forecasts," the report states. "Indeed, growth stocks on the whole tend to be less impacted by cyclical forces, one of the reasons that, over time, they’re more likely to meet or beat estimates than their value counterparts." Note: The EPS growth is the projected compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2013-2016, the PE estimates are based on 2014 Morgan Stanley research expectations, and the PEG ratio refers to the price-earnings to growth ratio which is an indicator of the stock's valuation. Growth stocks with lower PEGs are generally considered cheaper. FREE AppDownload
APA Glock G42, .380 caliber Auto handgun on display at a 2014 trade show in Las Vegas. The founder of one of the world's largest gun companies, Glock Inc., is being sued by his former wife for allegedly engaging in "a multiple-decade, virtually-world-wide, continuing racketeering scheme" cost her $500 million. According to a complaint filed in federal court in Atlanta on Thursday, Helga Glock is suing her ex-husband, Gaston Glock, 13 different companies, and four of his business associates. The complaint alleges the main goals of the defendants' "scheme" were to "siphon, divert, and hide monies and assets away from the view and reach of Ms. Glock." Helga Glock is seeking an amount "an amount equal to three times" the $500 million in damages she said she sustained, her attorneys' fees, and the restoration of her "rightful ownership interest" in the company.  Glock's US operations are headquartered in Smyrna, Georgia. In a phone conversation with Business Insider shortly after the complaint was filed, John Smith, the attorney representing Helga Glock, explained why she filed her suit in Georgia.  "Georgia is really the epicenter of the GLOCK empire. I mean, this is Rome," said Smith. "It's filed here because from here Mrs. Glock believes her former husband and his associates funneled hundreds of millions of dollars away from the Smyrna-based GLOCK."  Glock's legal department did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider on Thursday. Smith said he has not received a response from any of the defendants and does not know who is representing them.  The complaint says the Glocks, who married in 1958 and divorced in 2011, "co-founded" the gun business in 1963. According to Smith, Helga Glock "continues to have an ownership interest" in the company.  "Because of Defendants’ racketeering scheme, instead of having a  15% interest in 100% of Glock, Inc., Ms. Glock now has a 1% interest in 50% of Glock, Inc.," the complaint says.    A nasty legal battle between the Glocks has been brewing for some time. In March of last year, Helga Glock and her attorneys filed a motion in a federal court in Georgia to compel some of Glock's companies to release documents they hoped would reveal details about his finances. In the course of that lawsuit, Helga Glock provided a sworn affidavit in which she accused him of having an affair with Katrin Tschikof, whom he subsequently married. Helga Glock's complaint filed on Thursday is over 350 pages long and accuses Gaston and the other defendants of "hundreds of violations of the Federal mail fraud, wire fraud, national stolen property, and money laundering statutes." These violations include the alleged use of forged documents, "fraudulent invoicing," "sham royalty/licensing payments," and "phantom shipments and wire transfers" through a complex network of shell companies. In addition to these alleged crimes, the complaint accuses Gaston of treating his immediate family members in a manner reminiscent of "the senseless and self-destructive rage of Shakespeare’s King Lear." The complaint also makes scandalous claims about what Gaston did with the money he allegedly diverted from Helga. It says he "used his personal stash of 'fun money' to cavort with women around the world" and provide lavish gifts for his new wife, including a $15 million show horse. NOW WATCH: How The Secrets Of The Samurai Can Help You Achieve Laser Focus This post was updated at 6:51 p.m. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA zoomed image of a computer screen showing the Amazon logo is seen in Vienna(Reuters) - Online retailer Amazon.com Inc  plans to open its first physical store in midtown Manhattan, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The store will be located at 7 West 34th Street, across from the Empire State Building, the Journal reported. The store, expected to open in time for the holiday shopping, would function as a mini warehouse with limited inventory allowing for same day delivery within New York, product returns, exchanges and pick up of online orders, according to the report. The company was not immediately available for comment.  (Reporting By Arathy S Nair in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on a building in San DiegoBy Lauren Tara LaCapra and Greg Roumeliotis (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley is embracing the financial reforms intended to curb its animal spirits to generate bigger profits. Unlike most of its rivals, Morgan Stanley has been building its private equity business using structures that are subject to the Volcker rule, which restricts the amount of money a bank and its employees can contribute to such funds. This, in turn, limits their profit-sharing and, some would argue, their alignment with investors' interests. For Morgan Stanley, the sixth biggest U.S. bank by assets, putting less capital into private equity funds makes sense, people familiar with the bank's strategy said. Under Chief Executive James Gorman, 56, managing clients' wealth has replaced businesses like bond trading and principal investing as the prime supplier of profits. Collecting steady fees without risking much money is more aligned with Gorman's goals than investing alongside clients with the potential of bigger rewards. "The private equity business is the best business model in financial services, hands down," said Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer &amp; Co, who covers banks and private equity firms. "People think of it as a risky business but it's not really. Come hell or high water, you're going to collect your base management fee." This year, Morgan Stanley has been tapping its network of institutional and individual investors to raise several new funds. In addition to a $1.7 billion Asia-focused private equity fund the bank closed in July, it's also trying to raise $4 billion for a global infrastructure fund, $2.5 billion for a global real estate fund, and $1 billion for a credit fund, according to people familiar with the matter. Reuters has learned the bank is also considering raising another global private equity fund whose target size has not yet been determined, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. It would be the first such private equity fund Morgan Stanley has raised since 2008. Kotowski reckons that if a bank contributes just 3 percent of the capital in a private equity fund and the fund's returns are zero, the banks still earns a pre-tax return-on-equity of 24 percent because of management fees. At a 10-percent return, the bank would generate a return-on-equity of 69 percent, and at 25 percent it would generate return-on-equity of 136 percent, thanks to added performance fees. Return-on-equity is a measure of how much profit the bank can wring from its balance sheet for shareholders. "As the return goes to zero you're still solidly profitable but you have nice upside when things work out," Kotowski said. "It's great work if you can get it." Morgan Stanley declined to comment on its private equity plans.  VOLCKER RULE Attracting institutional investors has become more difficult because the Volcker rule caps U.S. banks' and their staff's investments in private equity funds at 3 percent. That has made some big investors less inclined to invest in funds housed within banks, because they prefer managers that have more "skin in the game." The rule, part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform act, has led many of Morgan Stanley's U.S. competitors to exit private equity funds or raise money outside of a fund structure. Even as it stuck with the private equity business, Morgan Stanley had to make changes to mitigate the rule's effect. For example, the bank now shares more of the performance fees it receives with its staff, Reuters first reported in 2012. Building the business will help the bank attain a firm-wide return-on-equity target of at least 10 percent that Gorman has set. That goal has been difficult to meet because of new capital requirements that are punitive to a big book of fixed-income assets Morgan Stanley is now winding down. Last year, Morgan Stanley's return on average common equity was 5 percent, excluding an accounting oddity known as debt valuation adjustments. In the first six months of this year it's risen to 9.5 percent. Investment management had the highest return-on-equity of any business, at 17.7 percent, and the bank is aiming to bring that up to 20 percent. Merchant banking and real estate investing - Morgan Stanley's formal name for the business that includes private equity funds - accounts for about 10 percent of the $396 billion in assets under management in Morgan Stanley's investment-management business. Most of those funds were raised before the financial crisis, and before Morgan Stanley had acquired the Smith Barney business from Citigroup Inc, making it the world's largest wealth management platform by brokerage force. Individual investor money has historically accounted for between 8 percent and 30 percent of funds Morgan Stanley has raised, according to a person familiar with the matter. The portion could go higher, but it is unlikely that a private equity fund will have more than half of its dollars coming from individuals, this person said. To be sure, Morgan Stanley's wealth management unit has an "open architecture" platform – meaning its brokers and private bankers are prohibited from prodding clients to buy Morgan Stanley products over others. Still, the business touches scores of millionaires and family offices across the U.S., giving it an in-house network of potential investors that is unparalleled in private equity fund-raising.  CLOSEST RIVAL Morgan Stanley's business plan differs from its closest rival, Goldman Sachs, whose strategy still largely centers on putting capital to work in trades, loans and investments. Goldman executives have said they are committed to the same trading businesses that Morgan Stanley is de-emphasizing, and that they have no plans to scale back. Goldman has a fairly consistent track record of putting capital to work in lucrative ways – including its mortgage bets leading up to and out of the financial crisis, its presence as a market-maker in early 2009 when most competitors were still reeling from the crisis and its lucrative principal investments including its role in the buyout of discount retailer Dollar General Inc. Its top management comes from the trading business and its risk-management division is known to have greater sway internally than its traders. Morgan Stanley, on the other hand, was known for having a muddled strategy under chaotic management teams before Gorman took over, and for playing catch-up to Goldman in the approach to the financial crisis. Under Gorman, who fortified his career in Merrill Lynch's retail brokerage, the bank has been working to de-risk its businesses and focus on steadier revenue streams. Goldman has kept the fund model for some of its private funds under Volcker, such as a new infrastructure fund it is considering raising, Reuters reported last week. Yet in other areas, it has raised money from investors to perform individual deals outside of a fund structure, through a business development company called Liberty Harbor, or by using individual investor accounts. It is also using its own balance sheet to do private equity deals and then syndicate some of the equity to investors.  FINDING NEW MONEY Morgan Stanley's merchant banking and real estate investing business delivered $559 million worth of net revenue in the first six months of this year, up 12 percent from $498 million in the same period of 2013. The business is tiny relative to Morgan Stanley's overall income statement, representing just 3 percent of total revenue. The investment management division it sits inside of is the smallest of Morgan Stanley's three major business units. It brings in about one-fifth of the revenue that institutional securities or wealth management does. It also delivers the highest returns and profit margins, and is the only one that already meets Gorman's expense target. Its main task now is to grow. Gregory Fleming, 51, who heads both investment management and wealth management for Morgan Stanley, has set a target of $500 billion in assets. "The most important benchmark in an investment management business I say again and again, (is) performance," Fleming said at a conference in February. "If you perform, existing clients will give you more money to manage and you will bring in new clients across merchant banking and real estate." Performance is on Morgan Stanley's side as it goes about raising new funds. According to Preqin, a market research firm, four of its five funds in the private equity area are in the top 25 percent of performers; the fifth is in the second quartile. Its overall performance is behind just four other private equity firms globally. Morgan Stanley's most recent global private equity fund has posted gross returns of 27 percent, according to a person familiar with its performance. Similarly, its mezzanine credit fund has gross returns of 20 percent since inception, which is much better than the average fund, this person said.       (Reporting by Lauren LaCapra and Gregory Roumeliotis. Editing by John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Jobs, Growth, Investment and Competitiveness Commissioner-designate Katainen looks on before addressing the European Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at the EU Parliament in BrusselsBy Jan Strupczewski WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Germany, France and Italy must focus on public investment to boost economic growth, the European Union's incoming top official responsible for growth and jobs said on Thursday. Jyrki Katainen, who will take over as the European Commission's vice president for jobs, growth, investment and competitiveness on Nov. 1, told Reuters many countries have cut investment too much as part of efforts to consolidate budgets "Countries like Germany, running current account surpluses, can afford to invest more, not only because it would stimulate the economy of the European Union, but because they need to take care of their future economic growth," Katainen said in an interview on the sidelines of the IMF and World Bank fall meetings in Washington. German investment has been falling steadily over the past two decades, from around 21 percent of its GDP in the late 1990s to just above 17 percent now, according to the Center for European Reform think thank. Yet Berlin, pursuing a goal of a balanced budget, is reluctant to increase public investment. "A country that is strong at the moment does not necessarily have to be strong in the future, so you need to take care of the growth, strengthen the industrial base," Katainen said. "Our message is that the surplus countries should invest in their future," he said, pointing to research and development, and infrastructure as the main areas for investment. Katainen said France and Italy also needed to spend more on public investment, but, unlike Germany, could not simply increase borrowing for that purpose because their deficits and debts already were too high. Instead, they should spend the money available in their budgets in a different way: "Both countries should prioritize investment," he said. PRAISE FOR ITALY, NOT FOR FRANCE Katainen praised Italy for pushing on with labor market reforms, which he said would strengthen the country's competitiveness in the medium- to long-term and raise confidence. "It is a very good thing they are doing," he said. Paris, on the other hand, should try harder. "France should do more. Structural reforms are sometimes more difficult to do than budget consolidation," he said. Cutting taxes and recouping the lost budget revenue by raising environmental and indirect taxes is one example of a structural reform that could quickly help boost economic growth in all of the core euro zone countries, Katainen said. That was also the conclusion of EU finance ministers at their last meeting in Milan in September when they noted that 11 European countries, including Germany, could cut taxes on work. Katainen noted that by January, the European Commission, the European Union's executive arm, would present a separate investment plan that is to produce 300 billion euros in investment over three years. While the European Union does not have that kind of money ready at hand, it plans to use its much smaller available funds in the European Investment Bank and the EU budget as seed money that would attract much larger sums of private investment. "It is not 300 billion on the table, it is investments worth 300 billion. That's why the private-public partnership is very important," Katainen said. "Our aim is to crowd in private money for big infrastructure projects in the energy sector, transport and broadband. The private sector cannot take all the risks," he said.  (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Shares of Lakeland Industries were up more than 60% on Thursday. The company makes hazmat suits and its stock has been rallying following recent news of Ebola cases in Dallas and Spain. Thursday's rally brings Lakeland's recent rally nearly 200% over the last month. This so-called "Ebola trade" has also come with volatile trading in shares of drugmakers Tekmira, BioCryst, Sarepta, and Chimerix.  In early trade Thursday, Tekmira, BioCryst, and Sarepta shares were down more than 2%, while Chimerix was little changed. Here's the recent chart of Lakeland, which has gone absolutely parabolic in the last month.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
With activist investors successfully getting two huge tech companies to chop themselves apart, HP and eBay, breakup mania has hit the tech industry. Now, eyes are turning once again to EMC. Investor Elliott Management, headed by Paul Singer, has made a public call for the computer storage giant to spin off its hot-and-profitable subsidiary, VMware. EMC owns 80% of VMware, a publically traded enterprise software company valued at about $40 billion. VMware's main product helps computer servers run more efficiently. The company has since expanded into software for cloud computing, networking, and storage. “Both EMC and VMware have grown and are now competing against one another, confusing customers, employees, Street analysts and shareholders,” Elliott's letter argues. The letter also expresses concern for EMC's ability to manage its "federation" structure after CEO Joe Tucci retires. EMC owns other business units that run almost independently, including security company RSA and cloud-computing company Pivotal. And it delves into how poorly EMC's stock has performed when backing out the value of these subsidiaries. "Investors are getting core EMC ($16B sales, 20% Op margins, $1.35 EPS) for FREE," according to Wall Street Analyst RBC Capital Markets. EMC published a public statement in response, saying, "Over the past few months, EMC’s leadership has met with representatives of Elliott several times and has listened carefully to their ideas, as we do with all of our shareholders." EMC was reportedly in advanced mega-merger talks with HP, which may or may not be dead and which CEO Meg Whitman would not confirm or deny. It all adds up to a strong tail wind for an EMC breakup. Meanwhile, there's been some chatter over whether Cisco, who's stock has languished below $30 for years, could do better by breaking up, too. RBC Capital laid out a case for splitting Cisco in half, too, with its routing/switching business becoming one company and its cloud computing/Internet of Things and other growth areas making up the other half, reports Barron's. That's an interesting idea, but doesn't have the weight of a big activist shareholder behind it. And not every Wall Street analyst buys the idea. Citibank analyst Ehud Gelblum issued a report that says Cisco is more valuable whole. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBernanke testifies on Capitol HIll in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke took the stand on Thursday to defend the U.S. government's bailout of American International Group &lt;aig.n&gt; in 2008, in a fourth day of testimony by former top government officials looking to convince a federal judge that the rescue of the insurance company was legal. On Thursday afternoon Bernanke responded with a terse "yes, sir," to multiple questions about the extreme conditions in the fall of 2008 that led to an initial $85 billion bailout loan for AIG, including a run on money market funds and a commercial paper market that was in shock. Former AIG Chief Executive Hank Greenberg, who was also the company's largest shareholder, sued the government in 2011 over the terms of the bailout's loan, which included an interest rate of at least 12 percent and a nearly 80 percent stake in the company. The terms amounted to an illegal taking of the company from AIG shareholders, Greenberg charged. To make their case, Greenberg's lawyers have pushed officials to confirm that the situation was so dire that the government would have moved to save AIG even if the company had refused the initial offer. When asked on Thursday by Greenberg's lawyer, David Boies, if officials had concluded that AIG's collapse could have catastrophic consequences for the broader financial system, Bernanke responded: "We were very concerned about that possibility, yes." Bernanke also testified that he did not know at the time the loan terms were drafted what the exact basis was for the interest rate or other fees added to the loan were. His testimony is expected to continue later on Thursday. Earlier on Thursday, former U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner wrapped up two and one-half days on the stand, sparring with Boies over whether the loan posed substantial risks to the government. Boies has sought to portray the New York Federal Reserve bank, which Geithner led at the time, as making AIG a low-risk loan with undeservedly high terms. Just before wrapping up his questioning of Geithner, Boies asked him about his impression of Greenberg, who had argued that AIG's insurance businesses were highly valuable and said that he had been refused a seat at the table during the AIG bailout negotiations. "I found his confidence and optimism, uh, unique," Geithner said. AIG finished repaying the full $182.3 billion bailout in December 2012, leaving taxpayers with a nearly $23 billion profit. The lawsuit, which is being tried in the Court of Federal Claims in Washington, won class action status in May 2013. The case is Starr International Co v. U.S., U.S. Court of Federal Claims, No. 11-00779   (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS Markets are getting smoked on Thursday, with the Dow falling as much as 330 points at one point. The sell off in stocks comes after Wednesday's huge rally, and the Dow is currently on pace for its third straight day of 200 point swings. There is a lot going on out there today, but via Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, here are five things that traders are looking at today: And again, a lot going on out there today, and these five points certainly don't capture everything going on in the markets, but these are at least some key points that a number of traders out there are taking note of.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA miner smokes a cigarette during a break at a coal mine in Changzhi, Shanxi province November 25, 2009. Coal stocks are getting absolutely smoked. On Thursday, amid a huge broad-market sell off, no sector was taking it on the chin harder than coal stocks. Among the big losers were Walter Energy, down 8%, Arch Coal, down 8%, Cliffs Natural Resources, down 10%, Peabody Energy, down 6.5%, and Alpha Natural Resources down 7.4%.  And the 'KOL' Market Vectors ETF that tracks the coal sector was also down more than 3.4% on Thursday. The broader energy sector is also under serious pressure Thursday, with the 'XLE' ETF that tracks the Energy Sector is down more than 3.3%.  Thursday's moves in the coal sector market just the latest in what has been an absolutely brutal year for the sector. The biggest loser is Walter Energy, which is down almost 90% year-to-date, and currently has a market cap of around $110 million, down from about $1.1 billion at the start of the year.  The ugly action in Walter Energy also follows a move by analysts at Morgan Stanley on Wednesday to take their rating on the stock to Equal Weight from Overweight, writing that, "while evidence points to a bottom for coal prices, the recovery will likely take longer and be weaker than our previous forecasts," according to Benzinga. And it appears that the whole coal sector is in an almost untenable financial position. On Twitter, Conor Sen of New River Investments noted that the combined market cap Arch Coal, Cliffs Natural, Alpha Natural, Peabody, and Walter Energy is $5 billion, while the total debt burden between those companies is $21 billion.  Back in June, we highlighted weakness among coal stocks after the EPA proposed regulations to cut carbon pollution from existing power plants. It has gotten much worse since then as the entire commodity sector has taken an absolute bath over the last few months.  Here's the year-to-date chart including all five of the aforementioned coal companies, which is really remarkable. The smallest decline is 47%. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Anyone who follows the mainstream financial press is seeing an increasing number of articles about bear market risk. Wednesday's Bloomberg guest piece by Barry Ritholtz is a classic example: Signs of a Bull Market Turning Bear. The growth in investor anxiety is happening in October, historically the most volatile month for market performance. I took a few minutes to update a couple of charts to illustrate October volatility using the Dow and starting in 1900. So we can see 114 October gains and losses. Here is a look at the data in a chronological sequence.  Here are the same percentages sorted from low to high.  As we can see, the Dow October average over this timeframe is a modest 0.20%. There have been 64 monthly gains and 49 monthly losses. That's calculates as a gain about 57% of the time. Note that the outbreak of WWW I in 1914 prompted the closure of US markets from July 31 to November 28. But the range is truly remarkable, from the 10.65% surge in 1982 to the -23.22% rout in 1987, which included the -22.61% cliff-dive on October 19th, known as Black Monday. As I type this, the October Dow is down 1.67%, the S&amp;P 500 is down 1.77% and the Russell 2000 is down 2.68%. Time will tell! FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersExxon corporate logo is pictured at a gas station in ArlingtonCARACAS (Reuters) - A World Bank arbitration tribunal has determined Venezuela must pay Exxon Mobil Corp around $1.6 billion to compensate for a 2007 nationalization, the award posted on the International Chamber of Commerce website Thursday showed. A separate decision by the Paris-based ICSID in 2012 ordered Venezuela state oil company PDVSA pay Exxon $908 million. The parties have agreed there will not be double compensation for the nationalization. The ICSID award said Exxon is willing to make the required reimbursement to PDVSA to avoid "double recovery."  (Reporting by Alexandra Ulmer and Corina Pons; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Google logo is seen at the garage where the company was founded on Google's 15th anniversary in Menlo Park, CaliforniaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Google Inc  will fight patent holder Rockstar Consortium in a California court instead of a Texas court that lawyers consider more friendly toward plaintiffs. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on Thursday ordered proceedings stayed in Texas over whether handsets made by Samsung Electronics , HTC Corp , AsuSTEK Computer , LG Electronics  and ZTE Corp  infringed on Rockstar's patents because they used Google's Android operating system. Rockstar had filed the lawsuits in a Texas federal court, which is generally viewed as a friendly forum for patent owners. Google counter punched, filing a lawsuit in northern California in which it asked a judge to rule that devices using the Android platform had not infringed the patents cited by Rockstar. The overlaps led the appeals court to rule that the issue should be decided first in California. "It is clear that there was no need to proceed with the five Texas actions because the one California action may suffice," the court said. "The record strongly suggests that there will be substantial similarity involving the infringement and invalidity issues in all the suits." Rockstar, which counts Apple Inc  as an investor, outbid Google and paid $4.5 billion for thousands of former Nortel Network Corp patents as the networking products supplier went bankrupt in 2011.  (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
APMarc Andreessen.Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn slammed Marc Andreessen on CNBC's "Halftime Report." "Andreessen, he's screwed more people than Casanova, for Christ's sakes," Icahn said of the eBay board member. He continued: "Yet, he goes and he takes this attitude that he's on the high moral ground and he just is as annoying as hell, to me, that a guy like that is still on this board after what the hell he did at Skype."  Yesterday, Andreessen appeared on CNBC and he took a shot at Icahn likening him to an "evil Captain Kirk" from Star Trek.  "Remember the 'Star Trek' episode where they've got the good Captain Kirk and the evil Captain Kirk? It's one of those things," Andreessen said. "Like Carl's just the exact opposite. He starts off bomb throwing. He lies. He just makes stuff up. He slanders. It's like his inner 6-year-old comes out." Icahn and Andreessen have been going back and forth for months. Earlier this year, Icahn, who owns a large stake in eBay and has been pushing for the company to spin-out PayPal, sent an open letter slamming the company's board. REUTERS/ Chip EastCarl Icahn.In that letter, Icahn also called out Marc Andreessen individually. Icahn claimed that there was a conflict of interest because Andreessen, who sits on eBay's board, was also an investor in Skype, which eBay had spun off.  Andreessen has refuted Icahn's allegations.  Watch the video below:    Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John SchultsMario DraghiMario Draghi just spoke at the Brookings Institution in Washington DC, in a conversation with Federal Reserve vice chair Stanley Fischer. In a lot of ways Draghi didn't move too far from what he's previously said: in short, that major structural reforms must come first. But he made one major interjection that's going to be turning heads in Berlin. Draghi has been increasingly open about his view that some of the Eurozone economies should be spending more, a theme which came out of his speech at Jackson Hole. After a barrage of questions from veteran FT correspondent Martin Wolf on Germany, Draghi conceded: "For governments that have fiscal space, then of course it makes sense to use it. You decide to which country this sentence applies." There was laughter in the room, but they're unlikely to take it well at the Bundesbank or the higher parts of German government, which are committed to a balanced budget. That's the most open intervention in favour of fiscal easing from the ECB President to date. The euro's down 0.50% against the dollar following the comments, which imply a continually dovish stance. Bloomberg Draghi quoted a letter from John Maynard Keynes to FDR, sent in 1938, which expressed a worry that the President was putting economic reforms ahead of economic recovery. Despite the reference, Draghi said that "we face the opposite concern to that expressed by Keynes. Without reform, there can be no recovery," flagging up the eurozone's massive structural flaws.  But it's also the letter which contains this passage, dismissing the ability of monetary injections to boost the economy alone, and pushing for a significant fiscal expansion: Of course, it could be an innocent reference. But Draghi knows how closely his speeches are watched, and nobody should ignore the possibility that he's dropping a small hint.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Gutierrez Lightning flashes around the ash plume above the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcano chain near Entrelagos, Chile, June 5, 2011. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories on Thursday: 1. It was red across the board for the markets on Thursday. The Dow lost more than 300 points and the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq lost more than 1.9%, forfeiting all of their gains from Wednesday's rally. The price of crude oil also fell further, moving below $86 a barrel for the first time since 2012, as the broader commodity sector continues to get crushed. Precious metals including gold and silver rallied on Thursday, with both gaining more than 1.5%.  2. The sector that came under serious pressure on Thursday was energy stocks, particularly coal stocks, with a number of companies in that sector falling more than 6%. Leading losses for coal stocks was Walter Energy, which lost more than 11%, as that company has seen its market cap fall from more than $1 billion at the beginning of the year to about $100 million now, a more than 90% decline. 3. Bond yields around the world fell on Thursday, with the US 10-year Treasury bond falling to 2.28%, its lowest level since June 2013. The 10-year yield fell to its lowest level of the year on Wednesday afternoon after the latest Minutes from the FOMC struck a particularly dovish tone, and extended its rally in early trading on Thursday. Internationally, yields also fell as investors are now getting negative yields from German bonds out to three years, while the Swiss 10-year bond fell to within about 4 basis points, or 0.04%, of its all-time record low of 0.36% touched back in 2012. 4. Speaking on CNBC's Squawk Box on Thursday morning, hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman said that investors buying bonds right now are "playing with dynamite," outlining what he saw a reasonable scenario where inflation and real GDP get nominal GDP back to 4%-6%, meaning that the current 2.3% yield on the US 10 year will see investors lose money.  5. Also in the bond world on Thursday, Bill Gross held his first webcast and released his first investment outlook since joining Janus Capital late last month. Gross acknowledged that the last several weeks have been tough both for Janus and PIMCO investors, saying that there have been some "obviously rough seas," after his much-publicized exit from the firm he founded more than 40 years ago. Gross said that the global economy appears poised for slower growth over a longer period of time, and cautioned that investors in both bonds and stocks should be prepared for lower returns in the future than they've enjoyed in the past.  6. Activist investor Carl Icahn issued an open letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook, in which he reiterated his call that Apple should buyback more stock and argued that Apple shares should be worth $203. Icahn wrote that the letter was not a critique of the job Cook has done as CEO, but said that the company's shares are undervalued and that the board should repurchase more stock. Apple responded to Icahn's letter noting that it has already returned $74 billion to shareholders this year and plans to return $130 billion to shareholders by the end of next year. 7. One of the biggest stock moves on Thursday was Lakeland Industries — which makes hazmat suits and has a market cap of just $60 million — as shares of the company gained more than 50%. Lakeland shares have been going crazy over the last month as the recent Ebola breakout has reached Europe and the US.  8. Tesla is set to reveal the secret product that CEO Elon Musk teased in a tweet not long ago, and Business Insider's Matt DeBord broke down the three main theories people have been bouncing around as to what the company may unveil tonight. Business Insider will have full coverage of the reveal, which is expected to take place at about 10 p.m. ET.  9. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi spoke at the Brookings Institute in Washington, D.C., on Thursday, and took a not-so-subtle swipe at Germany, saying that fiscal action is needed to kickstart the European economy, particularly from those countries that can afford to do so. "You decide which country this sentence applies to," Draghi said.  10. In economic data, the weekly report on initial jobless claims beat expectations, as claims came in at 287,000 as the four-week moving average for initial claims fell to its lowest level since February 2006. "In one line: The downward trend continues; expect strong payrolls in Q4," wrote Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro following the report. "With the pace of firings exceptionally low, and surveys signaling robust hiring, we have to expect very strong payroll growth in Q4, at least. Claims are unlikely to tall much further, but equally we see no reason to expect a near-term rebound." Don't Miss: The Analyst Who Predicted Germany's Horrible Industrial Numbers Has Another Terrifying Forecast »  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Apple CEO Tim Cook speaking during an Apple event announcing the Apple Watch at the Flint Center in Cupertino (Reuters) - Apple Inc supplier GT Advanced Technologies Inc told a U.S. court it was barred from disclosing why it filed for bankruptcy, saying the company was "tied up in knots" by a confidentiality agreement. At the first public hearing since GT's unexpected Monday bankruptcy filing, a lawyer for the company told the court that the agreement prevented it from revealing its Chapter-11 gameplan. GT Advanced has a deal with Apple that involves outfitting an Arizona factory to make scratch-resistant sapphire glass exclusively for the iPhone maker. The iPhone maker, which zealously guards the secrecy of its product pipeline, has been known in general to place strict confidentiality requirements on its many suppliers. Thursday's request highlights the highly unusual nature of the case, starting with GT’s bankruptcy filing, which caught everyone from Wall Street investors to Apple itself off guard. Luc Despins of Paul Hastings told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Henry Boroff an unspecified confidentiality agreement prevented GT from disclosing cause of its bankruptcy, or its plan for dealing with the bankruptcy. He also acknowledged the 90 percent drop in the company’s stock price in the first three trading days of this week. “I want to convey to all shareholders and creditors that the company feels terrible about that loss of value and will work everyday to recover that value,” he said. “That’s an aspirational statement, not a guarantee.” A lawyer from the Office of the U.S. Trustee, a bankruptcy watchdog in the Department of Justice, criticized the lack of disclosure by GT. “The record is insufficient for the court to find what the court needs to find.” GT Advanced  Apple said on Wednesday that it was surprised with the bankruptcy filing and that it was working with Arizonaofficials on its next moves. GT Advanced has offered little explanation for its surprise bankruptcy filing, which led to its stock falling more than 90 percent on Monday, wiping out nearly all of its $1.5 billion market worth. Earlier on Thursday, GT Advanced had asked the bankruptcy court to keep under seal a separate request for the court to keep private some key documents relating to a third party. It said this would allow it to avoid paying damages under confidentiality agreements. But it did not disclose the identity of the third party nor the nature of the potential contract violations. And in the filing with a U.S. bankruptcy court in New Hampshire, the company also asked that the hearing to deal with this request be held "in camera," or closed to the public. "GTAT recognizes the unusual (and perhaps unprecedented) nature of the request made in this Motion," the company said in the filing. GT Advanced said it was compelled to make the request to avoid the risk of paying damages of $50 million per violation. On Thursday, shares of GT Advanced were up 13.6 percent at $1.25 on Nasdaq. The case is In re: GT Advanced Technologies Inc, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Hampshire, No: 14-11916.  (Editing by Ted Kerr, Robin Paxton and W Simon) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Catalin VossCatalin Voss developed a Google Glass app that helps people with Autism recognize facial expressions.Stanford is easily considered the best college in the west. It's also the best in the country, taking the No. 1 spot on our list of the Best Colleges in America this year. Known in particular for its exceptional computer science and engineering programs, Stanford is an active hub for talented and impressive students in all fields, from art to tech to business. We've profiled 15 incredibly impressive undergrads at this top "dream college". They're starring in feature films, playing with the U.S. National Soccer Team, teaching kids to code, and a whole lot more. FREE AppDownload
ReutersMorgan Stanley investment bankers are going to have the best bonus day on Wall Street, according to Bloomberg. Others aren't so lucky. JP Morgan and Citi's bond traders are going to get the shortest end of the stick in terms of pay. While JP Morgan scored some of the biggest mergers and bond deals this year, its fixed income revenue dipped 14 percent to $10.6 billion. This was the biggest decline among the big five investment banks but it still retains the largest share of fixed income revenues.  JP Morgan is expected to pay $10.8 billion in bonuses and compensation to all its staff this year - the least when compared to Goldman Sachs' $12.6 billion and Morgan Stanley's $16.3 billion. All the banks earned about $16 billion in the third quarter, up 19 percent from last year, according to Bloomberg's estimates. Citing the financial crisis, the IMF and the White House have criticized banks for tying compensation to performance because it doesn't force bankers to think of the long-term consequences of their actions. The banks begin reporting their earnings next week, so then we'll get a good picture of how well they performed last quarter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA racegoer checks his mobile phone on the second day of the Royal Ascot horse racing festival at Ascot, southern England on June 19, 2013.Even though everyone defines success differently, for most building wealth is an important factor. In How the Rich Get Rich I shared information gleaned from the 400 Individual Tax Returns Reporting the Largest Adjust Gross Incomes that showed how the top 400 earned their money in 2009. (To you and me 2009 was a long time ago but to the government is pretty up to date.) Of course information found on tax returns can be just one version of reality. A report compiled by the Spectrem Group on the 132,00 people in the U.S. with a net worth of over $25 million details how the wealthy say they made their money. So to what do they attribute their success? Obvious conclusions: Let's see: hard work. Education. Taking risks. Prudent spending. Being in the right place at the right time. Creating your own success. Sound like an entrepreneur? Sure does. FREE AppDownload
A time capsule sealed back in 1914 was just opened up on Wall Street after being forgotten about.
JanusBill GrossBill Gross just published his latest investment outlook letter, his first since joining Janus Capital in late September.  The always enigmatic Gross writes about a decades-long stretch without dancing with his wife, which somehow leads into the financial markets.  As for what Gross sees as his opportunity running an "unconstrained" fund at Janus, "it allows a professional and experienced investment firm like Janus to select the most attractive alternatives across many asset categories while hopefully diminishing the risk of bond and stock bear markets." Here's the full text: No marriage ever seems totally complete. There is a missing link in almost all of them. Picture perfection belongs only in fairy tales and when it happens it almost always comes at the end of the story, when the princess kisses her frog prince and they live happily ever after. My 30-year marriage with Sue has been one of those – me the frog and she the princess – but never one of ultimate completion or fulfillment – until now. Happy as we were for all those years, there was always something missing, a trivial last puzzle piece to be sure, but a noticeable one nonetheless, at least to me: We had never danced! Although we had figuratively waltzed through those three decades, I had from time to time wondered about the actual dancing. Oh, there had been the perfunctory wedding box-step in front of a gawking audience of 40 or so, but nothing much ever since. Blame it on me or Sue, or both of our reluctances to make fools of ourselves. Yet every so often Sue had hinted of her “disco” years before we had met – the flowing skirts, the Travolta “Stayin’ Alive” twirl – and somehow I felt that the missing link must somehow be me. Young Bill, as I explained to her during frequent missed dancing opportunities through the years, had taken ballroom dancing in the fifth grade and had learned to do a pretty fancy “bop” step as well. Yet somehow I never took the final step, the one where you ask your partner to dance! That all changed on September 2, 2014 – the day Sue asked me to dance! Maybe it was that extra vodka martini on her side of the table, maybe, as she said later that night, it was my “fluffy hair” or maybe it was just the fated last piece of a puzzle coming together on the perimeter of what to me has been a uniquely wonderful marriage. Whatever. We danced! I must tell you though that this was no ordinary dance. She – the ex-Disco Queen – and I the young student of Arthur Murray, strutted, boogied, discoed with moves that neither of us thought we could ever do – sober or even mildly inebriated. We dipped, we twirled, I even did a bop or two. Travolta would have been proud. We were “Stayin’ Alive!” Most of all, however we smiled! Not the perfunctory smile of our self-conscious wedding dance three decades before, but big, huge, free-flowing grins of having fun – real fun on a dance floor! Midnight came as it does in most fairy tales, but I wondered no more what I had missed in the years before we had met and the 30 years since. My puzzle was complete. Sue had asked me to dance, and it turned out to be just like a fairy tale. Picture perfect. Picture perfection or fairy tale endings do not describe the global economy or even its financial markets more than five years after its Minsky/Lehman moment. While U.S. bond and equity markets have been thrust into a seemingly safe outer orbit, the same cannot be said for other developed and developing nations. Many economies in turn have entered or are bordering on recessions with limited monetary firepower remaining to promote real growth. The dancing has begun to resemble the last stages of a 1920s marathon with partners clinging to each other in a desperate attempt to keep from falling down. The Charleston is a faded memory from yesteryear and the long ago apparition of the “Great Moderation.” What are policy makers, and more to the point, investors to do? I have the following tough love advice – somewhat resembling the counsel given to me in recent weeks: there is a new financial era. Accept it and modify your behavior accordingly, so that your future is safe, secure, and you look forward to a brighter tomorrow. I will explain. Financial markets are artificially priced. In the bond market, there is nothing normal about a three year German Bund yielding a “minus” 10 basis points. Similarly, UK Gilts and U.S. Treasurys have in recent years never experienced such low yields and therefore high prices. The same comparison can be applied to stocks. While profits in many cases are at record highs, the discounting of future profit streams by an artificially low interest rate results in corresponding high P/E ratios. Real estate cap rates, which help to price homes and commercial shopping centers, are affected in the same way. While monetary policy with its Quantitative Easing and forward guidance for low future interest rates have salvaged a semblance of growth and job gains – especially in the U.S. – they have brought prosperity forward in the financial markets. If yields can’t go much lower, then bond market capital gains are limited. The same logic applies in other asset categories. We have had our Biblical seven years of fat. We must look forward, almost by mathematical necessity, to seven figurative years of leaner: Bonds – 3% to 4% at best, stocks – 5% to 6% on the outside. That may not be enough for your retirement or your kid’s college education. It certainly isn’t for many private and public pension funds that still have a fairy tale belief in an average 7% to 8% return for the next 10 to 20 years! What do you do? Well the obvious advice on a personal level: Retire later, save more, accept a revised standard of living. But the financial advice varies with your age and willingness to take risk. Younger investors with a Texas Hold’em “all in” attitude could push all of their chips onto the equity table. Boomers nearing retirement probably cannot afford to. A lengthy bear market could force them permanently out of the game. So, one size does not fit all here. It never has. What might be applicable for most generations, however, is an “unconstrained strategy” that I managed well for the past few years at PIMCO and which now provides me the opportunity for 100% of my time at Janus. An unconstrained strategy sounds very open-ended, and it is. But it allows a professional and experienced investment firm like Janus to select the most attractive alternatives across many asset categories while hopefully diminishing the risk of bond and stock bear markets. The strategy seeks to protect principal while providing an acceptable return in this low yielding, low returning world that I have just described. Unconstrained investors should expect a shorter average maturity for bonds; an ability to profit from currency movements currently taking place with the euro and the yen fits the description as well; taking advantage of what is known as “optionality” and investing in what I have successfully applied in the past with what is called “structured alpha,” would be an important component too. The simple explanation of an unconstrained strategy: Take your best ideas within the context of a low duration/short maturity portfolio and try to help investors achieve what they consider to be an acceptable return. Watch the fees as well. Whatever your risk/return persuasion, whether it be stocks, bonds, unconstrained, real estate, or “other,” an “intelligent investor” (as initially described by Benjamin Graham in the late 1940s) should be aware that returns almost necessarily cannot equal the magnificent prior decades that some of you might have experienced during my days at PIMCO. But I/we look forward, with the same intensity and “client comes first” attitude that led to my second marriage at Janus. James Bond famously said that “you only live twice.” I hope to emulate Mr. Bond as Janus Denver and Janus Newport Beach link hands and ideas to improve your financial balance sheet, and ultimately provide a better life for you and your family. Perhaps you only dance twice too. Sue and I would like that. -William H. Gross In addition to his latest investment outlook, Gross also published a letter addressing his move to Janus and why he left PIMCO. Here's the full text of that letter: Dear Friends, Dancing, or better yet as the beginning of my Investment Outlook suggests, being asked to dance, seems to have become an important part of my life over the past month or so. Having first been asked by my wonderful wife, Sue, and now by Dick Weil and Janus from a business standpoint, I write to you today from my desk in a new Janus office in Newport Beach, California. I am excited to be here and to begin a new chapter of my career. Before I get on with the main business of markets and investing in the attached Investment Outlook, I am of course aware that my change of employment has raised a lot of questions. I hope that you will understand that I cannot answer all of your questions, but here is what I can share with you. Let me address the most obvious question first: Why did I leave PIMCO? Had there been a reasonable way to continue there, I would have stayed to my last breath. I was honored by the trust of the millions of clients and thousands of employees over decades. They have been the center of my life’s work. I am very proud of my record there for more than 40 years. PIMCO is a great firm with lots of great people, and Allianz was a fine owner for many years. But slowly and with great hesitation, I came to understand that it was time for me to leave. It happens sometimes to founders! But that is water under the bridge, as they say. I don’t plan to address it further. Now let’s talk about the future. The second question on your minds may be “Why Janus?” My first professional loves were markets, investing and competing in that framework. I want to return to a simpler role, completely focused on markets, investment performance and serving my clients. It seems like a good time to turn away from the complexity of helping to run a huge firm. I have had a 20-year relationship with Janus CEO Dick Weil (10 of which include his working for me as PIMCO’s Chief Operating Officer). When I asked him whether Janus might provide me with that simple opportunity, he responded with a very enthusiastic “yes” let’s dance together. I am excited to work in a true partnership environment with people I trust. I want to help this team succeed. Most importantly, I want to continue to help clients achieve their goals. I am not ready to retire, so here I am. I am focused on looking ahead. I have met some wonderful people at Janus, and I see great opportunities for the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond strategy. As a brand new strategy it is tiny, certainly compared to anything I have been used to in recent decades. But that opens the door to a lot of new strategies and opportunities to generate outperformance for my new (and hopefully many continuing) clients. I am also looking forward to working with my old friend and Nobel-laureate Myron Scholes on asset allocation and with the existing Janus fundamental, credit-based fixed income team. It is exciting for me, and I hope for you as well. Although these changes are significant, the most important things have not and will not change. I am competitive as ever, and I expect to win for my clients. You can count on me to deliver my usual global macro insights and hopefully excellent portfolio management in the years ahead. So that’s it. I look forward to serving you from my new seat at Janus. Now, on to my first Janus Investment Outlook. Sincerely,  FREE AppDownload
APPeter Thiel and Elon Musk co-founded PayPal back in 1998PayPal's co-founder Elon Musk and former Chief Operating Officer David Sacks have both shared similar beliefs — that it makes no sense for PayPal to be a part of eBay. Both believe that PayPal could ultimately become a dominant force in the payments industry, with Sacks saying in a Forbes story that PayPal could top a market capitalization of $100 billion. With most analysts expecting PayPal's market capitalization to be around $40 billion, at most, following its split from eBay, how can PayPal eventually become that $100 billion company? Based on PayPal's current fundamentals and business model, it would be near impossible to justify a $100 billion market capitalization. PayPal has grown revenue by 19% during the last 12 months, to $7.2 billion. PayPal's operating margin last year was 24%, so on $7.2 billion of revenue, PayPal would trade at nearly 60 times 12-months operating income. While not absurd by today's technology standards, 60 times 12-month operating income is quite pricey when you consider the rise of Apple Pay, Amazon Payments, and others. Visa, another company in the payments business, trades at just 17 times 12-month operating income, creating a wide disconnect between it and PayPal, and making $100 billion rather absurd. That said, Musk and Sacks are both leading technology thinkers who understand the market well, so there must be a reason behind such bullish sentiment. The logic might lie in Sacks' comment about PayPal having the opportunity to "become the largest financial company in the world." In order to do so, PayPal would have to make drastic changes to its business model; but with more than $200 billion in 12-month payments volume, and a presence in more than 200 markets, the potential is definitely present. Therefore, the key to understanding these changes lie in PayPal's current business model. Apple will reportedly earn $0.15 per $100 spent via Apple Pay from transaction processors like Visa and Mastercard, but PayPal earns its revenue by collecting fees from consumers or merchants using its service. While the fee varies depending on the service, PayPal's traditional core service of sending and receiving cash online is around 3% of the monies transferred. The problem for PayPal is that it only collects the 3% fee when users either have money stored on PayPal, or bank information tied to the PayPal account. When using a credit card, Visa, Mastercard, and others alike receive the 3% fee, which PayPal, as the vendor, is responsible to pay. In other words, PayPal is losing a lot of money by having to pay the likes of Mastercard and Visa when credit or debit cards are used for payments. This brings about the possibility of PayPal becoming an actual transaction processor, rather than an aggregator, or a platform for transferring currency. Essentially, this move would mean that PayPal would operate like Visa and Mastercard, but through an online model. As a result, PayPal might then find itself processing transactions for competing services like Apple Pay or Amazon Payments, who are both aggregators. In all likelihood, this reality of doing business with the enemy might have persuaded eBay against the move; but with eBay and PayPal split in two, and the latter seeking new business opportunities, the possibility of becoming a transaction processor makes sense. All things considered, PayPal's network of 152 million active users is large; but competing networks from the likes of Apple, Amazon.com, and perhaps Facebook in the future, are enormous. For the first time. eBay's existing business model is faced with real competitive threats. This fact further adds to the notion of expanding PayPal's reach into new financial markets, such as processing transactions. Philip Taylor PTThe margins on Visa and MasterCard are ridiculously high as they've cornered the global payment market.The margins for companies like Visa and Mastercard are incredible. During the last 12 months, Visa and Mastercard have operating margins of 62% and 55%, respectively. The reason lies in the fact that both companies collect fees on all services offered, unlike PayPal. Even if PayPal's annual revenue stays at $10 billion due to competitive pressure in its core business, yet the company becomes a transaction processor with an operating margin of 60% (meaning it collects all fees), the company would trade at less than 17 times operating income at a market capitalization of $100 billion. Obviously, $100 billion is not a short-term market capitalization goal for PayPal; but because of its reach, the company has options in order to drive margins higher and enter new markets. In fact, becoming a transaction processor is just one option. Perhaps PayPal wishes to become a full-blown bank, offering checking accounts, direct deposits, saving accounts, mortgages, and maybe even investment options -- all online. While all of these things may seem foolish today, eBay has decided to separate PayPal to explore strategic options and new partnerships with independent management. If PayPal decides to partake in any of these big changes, it's quite possible that Musk and Sacks are correct in seeing a grand future, one that might include a $100 billion market capitalization. Brian Nichols owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Amazon.com, Apple, eBay, MasterCard, and Visa. The Motley Fool owns shares of Amazon.com, Apple, eBay, MasterCard, and Visa. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLagarde holds a news conference during the IMF-World Bank annual meetings in WashingtonBy Howard Schneider and Anna Yukhananov WASHINGTON (Reuters) - World economic leaders are being urged to rally around a plan to let government do what it does best – spend money – in an effort to buoy a global economy that remains slack and slowing. The effort comes as six years of crisis fighting have lapsed with little guarantee the global economy is on a stable footing. Even Germany is in danger of slipping into recession, China has slowed, and U.S. policymakers are concerned a fresh world slowdown will stymie the U.S. recovery as well. International Monetary Fund managing director Christine Lagarde made a blunt call on Thursday for the U.S. and Germany in particular to open the taps and spend more on infrastructure projects – a stark reversal from the fund’s recent fixation on government debt and "structural reform" that has proved politically difficult to implement. "It is a question of doing it, not just talking about it," Lagarde said. Her comments, and the rallying of top nations around the idea that government should begin spending again to boost growth and create jobs, comes amid recognition that the vast response of the past six years has not cured the world from the hangover of the Great Recession. Developed economies have undertaken large fiscal adjustments and there is little sign political consensus will emerge in Washington for pump priming, let alone in Germany, the engine of the euro zone, where the top priority is to deliver on its promise of a federal budget that is in the black, or fully balanced, in 2015. Historically loose monetary policy has pumped trillions of dollars into world markets, but much of the money remains idled as bank reserves or corporate cash holdings and too little has translated into investment and household spending. Trade and structural reform, touted as necessary to boost global growth, has proved too politically difficult to make a difference. The aim now is to use an old-fashioned tool – the public purse – to step in where households, the private sector, banks and others have not. "There has been a big drop in aggregate demand. Someone has to fill that gap," IMF Deputy Managing Director Min Zhu said at a panel as world finance ministers and central bankers here gathered for the IMF and World Bank fall meetings. The IMF has couched its advice in typically prudent terms – that wise investments in infrastructure could boost jobs and growth in the short run, and pay for themselves over time by raising productivity and long-run economic potential. Officials have estimated that developing nations like India and Brazil need trillions of dollars in capital spending in their own right, with Brazil often cited as a country whose economic growth is being hampered by an inefficient road and port system. Economists at a panel on growth and government spending on Wednesday cited the United States as a developing nation whose roads, bridges and airports could use a facelift, improving growth and creating jobs in the near-term. "We are looking at protracted low growth. There is a role for fiscal policy to play," said IMF Deputy Managing Director Naoyuki Shinohara, who added that even countries with high debt could find room to borrow for good projects. "There is fiscal room to be realized."  (Additional reporting by Krista Hughes and Leika Kihara; Editing by David Chance and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
flickr / Giuseppe MiloAn Irish cemeteryThe Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has declared war on international tax loopholes, and the Double Irish might be the first to fall. The Irish finance minister, Michael Noonan, is set to unveil the 2015 budget next Tuesday and it is expected to include a closure of the popular Irish tax loophole referred to as the Double Irish. Big international companies like Apple, Google, and Facebook use the Double Irish to reduce their tax rates on foreign profits. The New York Times made a good graphic explainer a few years ago on how this works. Basically, companies in Ireland are allowed to pay royalties that amount to most of their foreign profits to nominally Irish shell corporations in tax havens like the Cayman Islands. The profits often also pass through the Netherlands, which is called a Dutch Sandwich. Loopholes like these are understandably unpopular internationally, and the OECD is putting pressure on its member states to start closing them. In a paper called “Neutralizing the Effects of Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements” published last month, the OECD laid out a plan to start neutralizing tax loopholes around the world. The OECD would like to “ensure that profits are taxed where economic activities generating the profits are performed and where value is created,” according to the report. Lorcan Roche Kelly at Agenda Research thinks that, for Ireland, it’s a matter of “jumping before they are pushed,” he says. Here’s why:  First, there is considerable international pressure on Ireland to end this loophole. By ending it themselves, Ireland is in a much stronger position to defend its very low headline corporate tax rate. Secondly, Ireland should not be disadvantaged by ending this loophole, as international moves at the OECD and G20 level mean that there should be nowhere else for international corporations to go. With nowhere else to go, global corporations might have to — gasp — start paying taxes where they are, which could ultimately be good for the Irish economy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonIf you’re one of the millions of people whose name and contact information fell into the hands of hackers who attacked JPMorgan Chase, prepare yourself: You may be targeted by attempts to pry out more critical information. While the bank hasn’t detected any fraud and says all money is safe, the breach exposed the names, addresses, phone numbers and email addresses tied to 76 million households and 7 million small businesses. There was no sign of stolen account numbers, passwords, user identifications, birthdates or Social Security numbers, Chase says. Given this massive exposure of customer contact information, people affected should be on the lookout for spam emails, phone calls and text messages, says Avivah Litan, a vice president and distinguished analyst at Gartner Research, an information technology research company. Fraudsters may be looking to take advantage of you through techniques known as phishing. FlickrIf someone asks for details over email, you're probably dealing with a fradster using a phishing technique.“We’re already seeing a lot of these spam emails and texts and phone calls as a result of previous breaches, so this is just going to add to it,” Litan says. “All the data is being collected and sold on the black market, and different criminals buy it for different reasons.” If you receive suspicious messages or calls, don’t give out credit card digits, Social Security numbers, or any other private information. Banks will never ask for this by email, so if someone does request it, you’re probably dealing with a fraudster. Consumers shouldn’t necessarily trust communications that explicitly mention the name of Chase or any other bank. “I would envision that a lot of the phishing exploits would mention Chase specifically,” says Doug Johnson, a senior vice president at the American Bankers Association. “What the phisher is trying to do is send you something which you would have a reasonable expectation of opening up.” Chase also warns consumers not to click on links or open attachments to fishy emails. To avoid being reeled into one of these traps by telephone, if you get a suspicious call from someone claiming to be from the bank, hang up, call the bank and ask to be connected, or visit a branch in person. Chances are the call was a phishing expedition. Chase customers aren’t the only ones who should take precautions, Johnson says. “This was a marketing database; it wasn’t a customer database,” he says of the Chase target the hackers breached. “So while a majority of the data will be of customers, there will be some non-customer data in there as well.” “[People] can’t stop the theft of the data, but they can stop the use of the stolen data in terms of harming them,” Litan says. With this security breach – affecting the largest number of people of any known incursion to date – and recent attacks on Target, Michaels, Neiman Marcus and Home Depot, it’s obvious that successful hacks are becoming more common. Therefore, all consumers should check their credit and debit account statements regularly to look for unauthorized purchases. Report any suspicious activity to your card issuer, bank or credit union immediately to avoid potential liability; the sooner you speak up, the more likely you are to get your money back, Litan says. Small business owners should take the same precautions and train their employees, including bookkeepers and treasurers, to be wary of potential scams, Litan says. Additionally, you may want to place a fraud alert on your credit report, change passwords and consider identity theft protection services, the Consumer Bankers Association advised earlier this month. For more safety tips, check out this handy guide. With a little luck and some proactive steps now, you may avoid the pain that having your credit and bank accounts hacked can cause. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Fear not. With a little financial detergent, your dirty money can be rendered more or less untraceable. It must be said that the flow of illicit capital is distorting the global economy, draining wealth from emerging nations and inflating the cost of assets in the developed world. Neither of which seems to deter people from doing it every day. China leads the world in this ancient art. Between 2002 and 2011, some $1.08 trillion departed the country illegally, despite currency-control laws that require people to obtain a permit to exchange more than $50,000 a year worth of yuan into any foreign currency. But this is a truly international pastime. During that same period, some $880.96 billion was spirited out of Russia, $461.86 billion left Mexico, $370.38 billion left Malaysia, $343.93 billion left India, $266.43 billion left Saudi Arabia, and $192.69 billion left Brazil. The total outflow, among 20 emerging economies, was $5.9 trillion, equivalent to $49 billion a month. From corrupt politicians and drug cartels to tax cheats and alimony deadbeats, more or less everybody’s doing it. Americans wishing to spirit their cash offshore are increasingly finding their efforts thwarted by Washington’s 2010 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires foreign banks to turn over information about accounts held by US citizens. But plenty of avenues remain for the dedicated money launderer — particularly if he or she is willing to violate the law. Here are the basics: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Macau and Hong Kong are considered Special Administrative Regions of the People’s Republic of China, and part of what makes them special is that they are great places to launder cash. Macau is the casino capital of the world, with seven times more gaming revenue than Las Vegas, and Hong Kong is home to plenty of compliant banks and other intermediaries willing to transfer funds anywhere in the world without asking too many questions, for a fee. Let’s say you live or work in China and want to hide a massive bribe. First, you must convert it from yuan into another currency without the government knowing. The easiest way to do this is to contact a junket, an agent in mainland China who will give you casino chips for your cash, minus fees of up to 20%. Take the chips to a friendly, cooperative casino, where you can gamble with them, cash them in for Hong Kong or US dollars to then spend as you see fit, or deposit in a Hong Kong bank branch. Or, for extra safety, take them to a lawyer specializing in offshore laundering. Meanwhile, the casino will mix your chips with those from legitimate gamblers, and its accountants will book your $1 million as paid-out winnings. Your bank or lawyer must wire-transfer the funds in such a way that the money crosses multiple borders, to frustrate detection or confiscation. For instance, the money might end up in a US trust managed by a shell company in Grand Cayman, owned by another trust in Guernsey with an account in Luxembourg managed by a Swiss or Singaporean or Caribbean banker who doesn’t know who the owner is. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider You remember the Smurfs, those adorable little blue creatures? In financial circles, “smurfs” aren’t so innocent. They’re everyday folks who help the big guys launder their cash by making tons of tiny bank deposits and transfers in order to move money without detection. After arranging a smurf deal by phone or email, you’ll be asked to have the cash couriered to a smurf’s residence (probably not a mushroom in the forest, but you never know). The smurf will then deposit small amounts of your cash into an account every day for weeks or months — or years — avoiding watchful eyes by keeping the numbers small. Along the way, you can ask your smurf to withdraw some cash — which has since been rendered untraceable — for a shopping spree. But don’t go crazy. Better to have a bank wire-transfer the money to your offshore accomplices or your shell companies. Smurfs are supposed to stay under the radar. That’s what makes them smurfs. But the rise of internet banking had made smurfing even more lucrative, and some top practitioners became so big they began to draw attention. For years, Hong Kong’s most prolific money launderer was a teenager named Luo Juncheng, who originally opened a Bank of China account with a $500 deposit. During the next eight months, he made nearly 5,000 deposits, and more than 3,500 withdrawals electronically, moving $1.67 billion offshore before attracting notice. He was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2013 — bad news for the smurf, and his clients. Other smurfs come to attention of authorities through their flamboyant lifestyles. In March, another Hong Kong resident, Carson Yeung, was sentenced to six years for laundering $91.27 million through his bank accounts between 2001 and 2007. A former hairdresser who’d since bought the UK's Birmingham City football team, he claimed he had accumulated hundreds of millions of dollars in profits from stock trades, a hair salon, and gambling. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider The real big shots don’t bother with casinos, crooked bank managers, junkets, or smurfs. They manage to transfer millions, or billions, without handling cash or involving banks at all, instead funneling their money through corporate deals (bribes, kickbacks, and embezzlement schemes), which are exempt from currency controls. Let’s say you're a government official or corporate executive, and you want to receive a $1 million bribe or kickback for giving a lucrative and excessively priced contract to a foreign or local business. You approve the contract, and its payment, and pad the consideration by a few million, which includes $1 million for yourself. The client puts your $1 million overpayment into a shell company in an offshore jurisdiction, where your ownership can remain anonymous. You are then free to invest or spend the money. The business writes it off as an expense, paid out to an offshore consultant. Or perhaps you’d prefer that your $1 million be used to buy an asset offshore for you, or that it be paid out gradually in salaries or fees to family members. Either way, you’re good to go. It's the same thing in reverse. Simply sell your goods or services to a business at a price that is less than the goods or services are worth. Then, out of the embezzled funds, you get $1 million directly from the company that got the bargain. These funds can be placed directly into anonymous offshore account or into an asset of your choice. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider They are a girl’s best friend and a government regulator’s worst nightmare. Let’s say you want to bring $1 million into the US without detection by tax authorities. One UBS whistleblower testified that clients were urged to buy diamonds for cash, then smuggle them overseas in toothpaste tubes to fool authorities. The gems can then be sold for cash, to private dealers, once you rinse off the Colgate. Another technique is to transfer your funds to anonymous debit cards. And if you want to go old-school, collectible stamps still have their fans. In May, Credit Suisse admitted guilt to such activities and others — such as shredding documents and keeping transactions below the US $10,000 reportable limit — to help American clients avoid taxes, paying a fine of $2.6 billion. But nobody really thinks they’re the only ones. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider The would-be launderer should take note: Crime still pays, but the costs are on the rise. A gigantic crackdown in the West, and a similar one against corruption in China, will abate illicit money flows in the long run. In the short term, however, both crusades appear to have escalated the exodus of cash. According to the UN, the largest recipient of FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in 2013 was the British Virgin Islands, an archipelago with 23,000 residents. About $92 billion in foreign cash washed up there, more than India and Brazil combined. Other havens receiving massive “investments” included the Cayman Islands, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra, and Vanuatu. But the money doesn’t necessarily stay there. In 2014, the Chinese overtook the Russians as the largest buyers of New York City condos. Other laundered money is used to purchase London mansions, yachts, securities, art, and luxury estates around the world. These funds also dominate stock and bond markets. By 2012, tax havens held about 29% of the total foreign investment (corporate, bonds, stocks) in the US. By comparison, China held only 7% of assets. But the hard reality for launderers is that “good” banks are harder to find every day, and so are jurisdictions providing complete anonymity. As a result, some very big fish are starting to get caught in the dragnet. One high-profile case in is now underway in Spain, where the world’s greatest soccer superstar, Lionel Messi, and his father stand accused of laundering $5.56 million (4.2 million euros) worth of sponsorship dollars. They deny all allegations. Meanwhile, the third Smurfs movie — said to be a thorough reboot — is being prepared for a 2016 release after the first two films grossed a total of nearly $1 billion worldwide. It sounds like a fine investment opportunity. Diane Francis is editor at large with The National Post and a professor at Ryerson University's Ted Rogers School of Management.  FREE AppDownload
Bill Gross just wrapped up his first webcast since joining Janus, where he will manage the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund. Gross talked about how the last couple weeks have certainly been rough, both for PIMCO and Janus investors, and said he looks forward to focusing on investing and not dealing with some of the executive responsibilities he had at PIMCO.  On investing, Gross said he sees a slow-growth mode for the global economy, and said that this will reduce returns across all asset classes going forward. Gross also said that he looks forward to enjoying the flexibility provided by managing less money. This was Gross' first webcast since leaving PIMCO, the firm he founded in 1971, in late September, and follows his interview with Barron's over the weekend.  Following the webcast, Gross also released his first investment letter since joining Janus.    FREE AppDownload
ReutersReal estate developer Donald Trump during an Aug. 12 news conference to announce his first project in Mumbai. Donald Trump catapulted himself into the spotlight with his gilded real estate ventures and vibrant personality. The latter is what has made his show "The Apprentice" such a huge success. And over the years, he's had an opinion or two about the business world. "In the end, you're measured not by how much you undertake but by what you finally accomplish," Trump once said. Here, we check in on 11 Trump businesses to see what became of them over the years. Editor's Note: The first version of this post declared some of these businesses "bust" when they are, in fact, still in operation. Those errors have been corrected. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi talks during a news conference at the end of the ECB Governing Council meeting in NaplesWASHINGTON (Reuters) - European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said on Thursday he expects bank lending, a key impediment to growth in the euro zone at the moment, to pick up early next year. The ECB is putting the euro zone's 131 largest banks through a thorough balance sheet review to weed out soured loans and check whether they have valued assets correctly before it takes over as their new centralized supervisor in November. Draghi said since the summer last year, banks that will come under its direct watch from November had strengthened their balance sheets by almost 203 billion euros, through capital hikes, bond issuances or retained earnings for instance. The clean up will put banks in a better position to lend, which is important for the recovery in the euro zone that relies strongly on bank funding. "I expect credit to pick up soon next year," Draghi said in a keynote speech at the Brookings Institution.   (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski; Writing by Eva Taylor; Editing by Paul Carrel) FREE AppDownload
DashWe used Dash at Corsino in Manhattan.The most annoying thing about eating out or going to a bar is waiting for the check. That's why — after waiting for what seemed like an eternity for their check one New Year's Day — Jeff McGregor and Gennady Spirin founded Dash. It's an app that connects directly with a restaurant or bar's checkout program to get you squared away instantly. If you're at a participating restaurant — there are about 40 in NYC and 20 in Chicago — all you have to do is tell your waiter that you're using Dash. Then check in on the app. When you're done, you'll see your itemized check on the screen. Add the tip, and then with one touch you're done. The two Rutgers roommates launched the company back in 2011. At that time, mobile pay wasn't something restaurants were familiar with. They were concerned about how the app would function with their point of sales programs. "When we were selling to restaurants in 2011, it was totally different. Any restaurant we spoke to had no idea about mobile payments. It's been a complete 180," McGregor told Business Insider. Now, however, mobile payment has gotten all sorts of buzz (think: Uber, Apple Pay). Plus, bars especially like that with Dash, fewer customers skip out on tabs, or forget their cards and then cancel charges. "We see most of our success at high volume bars," said McGregor, admitting jokingly — "I hold the record for most credit cards left in NYC." Dash raised $750,000 back in 2013 with investments from the New York Angels and One Group CEO Jonathan Segal. Then the company raised another $1.2 million in February of this year. In that time Dash has gotten approval on one patent — for the technology that connects your phone to a point of sales program and splits a bill — and applied for three more. This is key, because they know the mobile payments space is heating up. It's obvious based on Dash's own sales transaction volume. The app's top venues are seeing 1,000 transactions a week and will process over 100,000 transactions in volume in a single venue this month. That's 200% month over month growth in aggregate transactional volume for 2014. This explosion mirrors the entire mobile payments market. Globally, mobile payments reached $256 billion in 2012, and are expected to increase to $796 billion by 2014, according to research from Bank Systems and Technology. So yes, the timing for this is pretty good. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGerman Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble listens during a talk with his Vietnamese counterpart Dinh Tien Dung at the Finance Ministry in HanoiWASHINGTON (Reuters) - German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said on Thursday the euro zone's weak growth could not be fixed by more fiscal stimulus and dismissed the prospect of recession for Europe's biggest economy. "We don't have a recession in Germany, we have a weakening of growth," he said at a Bertelsmann Foundation event on the sidelines of World Bank and International Monetary Fund meetings. Figures earlier on Thursday showed German exports plunged in August by their largest amount since the height of the financial crisis, following steep drops in industrial orders and output data earlier in the week. Schaeuble said "writing checks" was no way for the euro zone to boost growth, and urged France and Italy to do more in the way of structural reforms.   (Reporting by Krista Hughes; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Carl Icahn wrote an open letter to Apple and its CEO Tim Cook.  In it, he asks Apple to accelerate its stock repurchase because he thinks the stock is poised to explode and that Apple should be buying now while the company is undervalued.  Apple's response to Icahn is almost perfect in its restraint.  The company said: "We always appreciate hearing from our shareholders. Since 2013 we’ve been aggressively executing the largest capital return program in corporate history. As we’ve said before, we will review the program annually and take into account the input from all of our shareholders." It also passed along the following table, which shows that Apple has been aggressive with its share buybacks. As you can see under the "Capital Returned" column, Apple has already returned $74 billion to shareholders. And it plans to return $130 billion to shareholders by the end of next year. Apple FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Wolfgang RattayA carnival reveller rides down the Schiltach stream in an old bath tub during the 'Bach na fahre' (Race down the stream) raft contest on Rose Monday in the southwest German Black Forest town of Schramberg March 3, 2014.The Kaiser Wilhelm Canal in Kiel is crumbling. Last year, the authorities had to close the 60-mile shortcut from the Baltic to the North Sea for two weeks, something that had never happened through two world wars. The locks had failed. Large ships were forced to go around the Skagerrak, imposing emergency surcharges. The canal was shut again last month because sluice gates were not working, damaged by the constant thrust of propeller blades. It has been a running saga of problems, the result of slashing investment to the bone, and cutting maintenance funds in 2012 from $76.25m a year to €11m. This is an odd way to treat the busiest waterway in the world, letting through 35,000 ships a year, so vital to the Port of Hamburg. It is odder still given that the German state can borrow funds for five years at an interest rate of 0.15pc. Yet such is the economic policy of Germany, worshiping the false of god of fiscal balance. The Bundestag is waking up to the economic folly of this. It has approved $330.4m of funding to refurbish the canal over the next five years. Yet experts say it needs $1.27bn, one of countless projects crying out for money across the derelict infrastructure of a nation that has forgotten how to invest, sleepwalking into decline. France may look like the sick of man of Europe, but Germany’s woes run deeper, rooted in mercantilist dogma, the glorification of saving for its own sake, and the corrosive psychology of ageing. “Germany considers itself the model for the world, but pride comes before the fall,” says Olaf Gersemann, Die Welt’s economics chief, in a new book, The Germany Bubble: the Last Hurrah of a Great Economic Nation. Mr Gersemann says the Second Wirtschaftswunder – or economic miracle – from 2005 onwards has “gone to Germany’s head”. The country has mistaken a confluence of exceptional events for permanent ascendancy. It cannot continue to live off exports of capital goods to China and the BRICS as they hit the buffers, or by stealing a march on southern Europe through wage compression, a zero-sum game. Marcel Fratzscher, head of the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW), makes a parallel critique (more Keynesian in flavor) in his new book, Die Deutschland Illusion, no translation needed. It is a broadside against the fiscal fetishism of finance minister Wolfgang Schauble, now written into the constitution as a balanced budget law from 2016 onwards, making it almost impossible to override. It is the self-deception of a country “resting on its laurels”, prisoner of the “household fallacy” that economies are like family budgets, and falsely reassured by the misplaced flattery of foreigners who rarely look under the bonnet at the German engine below. The International Monetary Fund gently prodded Berlin this week to pull its weight in a world economy gasping for demand, if only for its own good. “Germany could afford to finance much-needed public investment in infrastructure, without violating fiscal rules,” it said. For good measure, the fund said there is a 40pc chance of a triple-dip recession in the eurozone over coming months and a 30pc chance of deflation. The German economy has already stalled. Output contracted in the second quarter. Factory orders fell 5.7pc in August. Germany’s “Five Wise Men” council of economic experts will slash the country’s growth forecast to 1.2pc next year in a report on Friday. Prof Fratzscher accuses Germany’s elites of losing the plot in every important respect. Investment has fallen from 23pc to 17pc of GDP since the early 1990s. Net public investment has been negative for 12 years. Growth has averaged 1.1pc since the beginning of the decade, placing Germany 13th out of 18 in the eurozone (or 156th out of 166 countries worldwide over the past 20 years). This chronic weakness been masked by slightly better growth since the Lehman crisis, and by the creditor-debtor dynamics of the EMU debt crisis. German looks healthy only because half of Europe looks deathly. The Hartz IV reforms – so widely praised as the foundation of German competitiveness, and now being foisted on southern Europe – did not raise productivity, the proper measure of labour reform. Data from the OECD show that German productivity growth slumped to 0.3pc a year in the period from 2007 to 2012, compared with 0.5pc in Denmark, 0.7pc in Austria, 0.9pc in Japan, 1.3pc in Australia, 1.5pc in the US and 3.2pc in Korea. Britain has been negative, of course, but that is no benchmark. Prof Fratzscher says the chief effect was to let companies compress wages through labour arbitrage. Real pay has fallen back to the levels of the late 1990s. The legacy of Hartz IV is a lumpen-proletariat of 7.4m people on “mini-jobs”, part-time work that is tax-free up to $571.9m. This flatters the jobless rate, but Germany has become a split society, more unequal than at any time in its modern history. A fifth of German children are raised in poverty. Philippe Legrain, a former top economist at the European Commission, says Germany’s “beggar-thy-neighbor economic model” works by suppressing wages to subsidize exports, to the benefit of corporate elites. This is “dysfunctional”, and the more that EU officials try to extend the model across the eurozone, the more dangerous it becomes. Capital flows within EMU have been a form of vendor financing for buyers of German exports, but it should be obvious that such a structure must reach breaking point – for Germany as well as EMU – if France and Italy buckle to demands and follow Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland into wage deflation. Europe is already sliding slowly into a contractionary vortex, replicating the errors of the Gold Standard in the 1930s. Doubling down would be calamitous. Germany must move with great care. As Mr Gersemann argues in his book, it is enjoying the last days of a particularly powerful demographic dividend, soon to reverse with a vengeance. The European Commission’s Ageing Report (2012) said Germany’s workforce will shrink by 200,000 a year this decade. The old age dependency ratio will jump from 31pc in 2010, to 36pc in 2020, 41pc in 2025, 48pc in 2030 and 57pc in 2045, tantamount to national suicide. This is a grave failure of public policy over decades. Tax policies and social structures have encouraged the collapse of the fertility rate. Lack of investment has compounded the error. Within five years it will surely become obvious to everybody that Germany is in deep trouble, and a balanced budget will not prove any defence. Within 10 years, France will be the dominant power of continental Europe.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of US conglomerate General Electric is pictured at the company's site in Belfort(Reuters) - General Electric Co  said it was on track to generate more than $1 billion in revenue this year from its data-analysis business that helps improve asset performance management. GE's "Industrial Internet" business is powered by a software called Predix, which analyzes data that helps a client's equipment run better, consume less fuel, receive service more efficiently and minimizes unplanned downtime. The Predix software, which works by bring all of a company's industrial machines into a cloud-connected system, would be available to any company in 2015, GE said in a statement.  (Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric VidalThe industrial data out of Germany just keeps getting worse. This week we've already seen terrible factory orders, a slump in industrial production, and Thursday's export meltdown. All of them had their worst month in five years, throwing a massive cloud over the success story usually associated with the German economy. But it's not a surprising development to Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank. He had some harsh words for Germany in a note in May this year: It strikes me that the one thing that is being ignored by the market is the coming slowdown in Germany. Of course, the market can rise in times of weaker growth, but my big 'thing' is that despite very negative macro changes in the last 12 months, no-one believes Germany is slowing economically. As far back as February, Jakobsen was predicting a slowdown in world growth and that German growth would go into negative territory in the fourth quarter. That seemed an incredibly tall order, but recent data has made it suddenly realistic. Jakobsen has not changed his stance, telling Business Insider about his extremely bleak outlook for the currency union: "The end game is that Germany is very likely to be in recession — that will bring the rest of the eurozone into recession. I think that will be in the first quarter of next year." He’s dismissive of the popular trope among German businesses that the economy is fundamentally fine but that the Ukraine conflict has temporarily thrown it off course. "Germany would have been on this path anyway – we’re further down this path than we would have otherwise been, but Ukraine is not the fundamental problem." He's also got an interesting theory on what might happen to European monetary policy: "I could see a German president of the European Central Bank introducing QE in the eurozone. There's a political game here."  That seems like another long shot, but it's not the first suggestion that Bundesbank boss Jens Weidmann is jockeying to replace current ECB President Mario Draghi before his term ends. FREE AppDownload
Societe Generale"Uber-bear" Albert Edwards, a strategist at Societe Generale, is out with a new note titled 'Basket Trade' suggests "Sell everything and run for your lives," about market tops and expensive baskets. Edwards highlights the following comment from this weekend's Financial Times that said the following: Sir: The next financial apocalypse is imminent. I know this to be true because the (FT Weekend) House and Home section is now assuming the epic proportions last seen before the great crash. Twenty four pages chock full of adverts for mansions and wicker tea trays for $1,000. You’re all mad.  Sell everything and run for your lives. Edwards is concerned that despite falling inflation expectations in the US, deteriorating economic data out of China and Germany, and general weakness in the global economy, equities and bonds are still rallying while volatility remains low. "So maybe it's time to stop dancing and sit this one out," Edwards writes. "Am I calling a top? What's the point? As an uber-bear I am used to being called a stopped clock."  (A common criticism of stock market bears who call for the market to sell off is that "even a stopped clock is right twice a day.) Edwards also notes that in spite of a number of warning signals across the global economy, the US appears to be the only area where investors are still confident in a "self-sustaining recovery," and writes that as a result, "we are entering a potentially very tricky US reporting round." We recently highlighted what Edwards sees as the two most important charts in the world right now: the weakening Japanese yen and the decline in inflation expectations. So we have some market-based indicators to keep in mind, as well as some anecdotal evidence of a potentially overheated market. Anyway, here's an online listing for what seems to be the wicker basket in question, which seems nice enough. 1stdibs.com 1stdibs.com 1stdibs.com FREE AppDownload
September was rough for hedge fund billionaire John Paulson. His flagship Advantage Plus fund fell 10.6%, while his Advantage fund fell 8%. That means Advantage Plus fell 14% this year through September, while Advantage fell 13% over the same period. Overall, hedge funds had one of their worst months in a while as the equity market took a dive last month. An index of hedge fund performance tracked by research group Preqin fell 0.74% in September, while the S&amp;P 500 fell 1.40%. According to a recent government filing, Paulson owns stakes in pharmaceutical firms Allergan and Valeant. The companies have been in the press a lot since April, when fellow hedge fund manager announced that he was teaming up with Valeant to buy Allergan. Paulson also owns a stake in pharmaceutical company Actavis. Actavis has been talking to Allergan about buying it — nothing's official yet, though. The Paulson Advantage fund bets on the outcome of company events, like mergers. Advantage Plus is a leveraged version of this strategy. Together they have about $4 billion of Paulson &amp; Co's $22 billion assets under management. Paulson's credit fund — Paulson Credit Opportunities — fell 3.7% in September. It holds about $6 billion assets under management. Paulson himself made billions betting against the mortgage market back in 2007, and that success attracted billions in investor money to his fund. In other words, he has the assets under management to weather the storm — he explained how reassuring that to a bunch of business school students not too long ago. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the Commerzbank AG is pictured before the bank's annual news conference in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Germany's second biggest lender Commerzbank  is considering cutting back its fixed income and currencies (FIC) activities in London as it adjusts to declining demand, two sources familiar with the matter said. Commerzbank plans to shift around half of its roughly 250 FIC staff in London - which already saw a headcount reduction of about 20 percent this year - to Frankfurt, said two sources who declined to be named because they are not authorized to speak to the media. Like all investment banks, the bank is suffering from sluggish demand for products like interest rate hedging and forex hedging as interest rates remain at historic lows and market volatility remains subdued. "An exact number has not yet been decided," one of the sources said, adding 40-60 percent of the London FIC staff may be affected. "Many London-based employees will not want to move to Frankfurt and likely leave the company." Commerzbank declined to comment on any possible job cuts but said that no change in services for clients was under consideration. "London remains key to Commerzbank’s international operations and the investment bank’s offering to clients remains unchanged across all asset classes," a spokeswoman said in a written statement. The FIC unit is part of Commerzbank's investment banking division, which altogether employs roughly 1,800 staff. It saw revenues slip to 505 million euros last year from 639 million euros in 2010. Separately, Commerzbank is cutting 60-70 FIC staff at its home base Frankfurt, a 'fine tuning' that is not part of this group-wide cost-cutting measure, the people familiar with it said. In July, sources familiar with Commerzbank said the lender was widening the scope of its cost-cutting program and planned to shed more than 450 jobs on top of the 5,200 already announced.  (Reporting by Arno Schuetze; editing by Thomas Atkins) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingLeon Cooperman.Leon Cooperman appeared on CNBC's Squawk Box, and he said that buying government bonds right now was like "playing with dynamite." Cooperman said the risk in financial markets rests "unequivocally" with bond investors right now. Cooperman said US government bonds usually move in connection with nominal GDP, which is a combination of real GDP and inflation. Cooperman said that if we get real GDP of about 2% to 3% and inflation of about 2% to 3%, then nominal GDP comes to about 4% to 6%. To Cooperman, this means it wouldn't be unreasonable to expect that US 10-year Treasuries could rise to 4%, 5%, or 6%, and Cooperman said that if this happens, bond investors would see capital losses.  On Thursday morning, the yield on the US 10-year Treasury bond fell to 2.27%. Leon Cooperman also spoke on Apple, as he was on live as Carl Icahn's open letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook crossed the wires, with Cooperman saying that Apple shares were currently 20% undervalued.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl Icahn.Billionaire investor Carl Icahn just released his latest open letter to Apple's CEO Tim Cook. In sum, he wants the company to repurchase "a lot more" stock and "sooner." "We are simply asking you to help us convince the board to repurchase a lot more, and sooner. We feel compelled to do so because we forecast such impressive earnings growth over the next few years, and therefore we believe Apple is dramatically undervalued in today’s market, and the more shares repurchased now, the more each remaining shareholder will benefit from that earnings growth," Icahn writes. Icahn also points out that he's not trying to criticize Cook. He thinks that Apple's CEO is doing a great job. "To be totally clear, this letter is in no way intended as a criticism of you as CEO, nor is it intended to be critical of anything you or your team are doing from an operational perspective at Apple. Quite to the contrary, we could not be more supportive of you and your team, and of the excellent work being done at Apple, a company that continues to change the world through technological innovation."  Icahn first disclosed his massive position in Apple just over a year ago. He currently owns about 53 million shares. He has called his investment in the tech giant a "no-brainer" and has repeatedly said the company is undervalued.  Since Icahn made his investment public, Apple's stock has risen 50.6%. Shares of Apple were up slightly in the pre-market. The stock was last up 75 cents, or 0.74%, at about $101.55 per share.   In his letter, Icahn writes that he thinks the stock should be trading around $203 per share. "Our valuation analysis tells us that Apple should trade at $203 per share today, and we believe the disconnect between that price and today’s price reflects an undervaluation anomaly that will soon disappear." Here's the full letter: Dear Tim, As a large Apple shareholder with approximately 53 million shares, we applaud you and the rest of management, especially in light of recent launches and announcements which further validate our view that you are the ideal CEO for Apple. It is truly a watershed moment, with Apple poised to take market share from Google (Android) in the premium device market as iPhone 6 becomes Apple’s flagship device among a growing collection of products and services that work together to form an increasingly dominant mobile ecosystem. We believe this advantaged position over Google, the company’s only real competitor, justifies our forecasts for revenue and EPS (earnings per share) growth of 25% and 44% respectively for FY (fiscal year) 2015. This strong competitive position and earnings growth compels us to remind you that Apple, adjusting for net cash, currently sells at a P/E (price to earnings per share ratio) of only 8x our FY 2015 forecast, a significantly lower P/E than a broad market index, the S&amp;P 500, which trades today at a P/E of 15x FY 2015 consensus. In contrast to the S&amp;P 500’s slower growth, we expect Apple to grow its EPS by 30% in each of FY 2016 and FY 2017. Assuming these growth characteristics for FY 2016 and FY 2017, we see Apple’s P/E of just 8x our FY 2015 forecast as both irrational and transient in nature, especially since many actively managed mutual funds remain underweight Apple in their portfolios. Our forecasted growth for FY 2016 and FY 2017 more than adequately justifies using a P/E multiple of 19x our FY 2015 forecast, which along with net cash values Apple at $203 per share today. Described in more detail below, these factors combine to reflect a massive undervaluation of Apple in today’s market, which we believe will not last for long. Therefore, given the persistently excessive liquidity of $133 billion net cash on Apple’s balance sheet, we ask you to present to the rest of the Board our request for the company to make a tender offer, which would meaningfully accelerate and increase the magnitude of share repurchases. We thank you for being receptive to us the last time we requested an increase in share repurchases, and we thank you in advance now for any influence you may choose to have communicating to the rest of the Board the degree to which a tender offer would have a positive impact on an EPS basis for all shareholders. To preemptively diffuse any cynical criticism that you may encounter with respect to our request, which might claim that we are requesting a tender offer with the intention of tendering our own shares, we hereby commit not to tender any of our shares if the company consummates any form of a tender offer at any price. We commit to this because we believe Apple remains dramatically undervalued. And we think you and the Board agree. If you did not, you would not continue to repurchase shares under the existing authorization. You have said before that the company likes to be “opportunistic” when repurchasing shares and we appreciate that. With this letter we simply hope to express to you that now is a very opportunistic time to do so. We think a tender offer is simply a good method of conducting a large repurchase in an expedited timeframe, but the exact method and the exact size is not the key issue for us. We are simply asking you to help us convince the board to repurchase a lot more, and sooner. We feel compelled to do so because we forecast such impressive earnings growth over the next few years, and therefore we believe Apple is dramatically undervalued in today’s market, and the more shares repurchased now, the more each remaining shareholder will benefit from that earnings growth. Critical to our forecast for strong earnings growth is the belief that the iPhone will take significant premium market share. Given historically high retention rates, we assume existing iPhone users will continue to act like an annuity, choosing to stay with the iPhone each time they upgrade. But now, since the iPhone 6 is the most significant improvement to the iPhone since its introduction, we expect users of competitive products to see the iPhone 6/6+ as an exciting opportunity to choose a superior product. Now that iPhone offers a larger screen size, its price competitiveness in the premium phone market is clear, as a premium Android phone such as the Galaxy S5 and Note 4 sells at a similar price point to the iPhone 6 and 6+ respectively. The choice between them is analogous to the choice between a Volkswagen over a Mercedes at the same price, and unlike a Mercedes, the $649 cost of an iPhone 6 is affordable for the mass market, equating to just $20 per month over a two year period (including a $170 estimated resale value of the phone at the end of two years, excluding financing and taxes). We see the iPhone remaining unaffected by the “junk”, as you called it, sold at lower price points, but we also see it dominating the entire class of premium Android smartphones, such as Samsung’s Galaxy phones. Because of this, we expect Apple will take premium market share, while at the same time maintaining its prices and gross margins, proving the concept of commoditization is nothing more than a myth with regards to Apple. Beyond simple price comparison, we see the iPhone as best in class, supported by expert reviews and by the lines of people all over the world waiting to buy it. Perhaps most importantly, we believe the iPhone will take market share because its merits are no longer viewed in isolation from the overall Apple ecosystem of products and services, which include iOS, iPad, Mac, Apps, App Store, iCloud, iTunes, and (more recently) Apple Watch, Apple Pay, Home, Health, Continuity, Beats. With the iPhone as the foundation, Apple’s ecosystem has come to play an important role in the daily life of Apple users, and while Apple continues to make impressive strides to improve it, the competition falls behind in what is arguably the most important race of this technological era. Analogizing Apple to a modern day Secretariat, as this race continues, the further the distance grows between Apple and Google (and Google’s hardware partners) in the premium device category. Its leading ecosystem of products and services, added to peerless hardware design and quality, differentiates Apple from a simple hardware company. And, with its users consistently upgrading to the newest version of iOS (92% of iOS devices, iPhones and iPads, on iOS 7 prior to the launch of iOS 8), Apple is able to offer its users the most up to date software and service experience, while Android can’t because it’s hindered by relatively high fragmentation among its operating system versions. App developers appreciate the difference, which is why they often choose to make an App for iOS prior to (or instead of) Android. During a recent interview, you referred to Google and only Google as your competition, as no other operating system can gain enough scale in Apps to be relevant. Furthermore, you also described how, in contrast to Apple, Google’s business model relies on advertising, which will increasingly expose products that run Android to serious privacy concerns. Considering all of this, combined with their inability to merge a superior brand, hardware, software, services, fashion and retail stores, Google and its hardware partners will remain disadvantaged in the premium device market. As this is realized, we expect that Apple will gain market share, that those gains will translate into earnings growth in line with our forecasts, and in turn translate into multiple expansion. In addition to iPhone 6 market share gains, we assume that earnings growth will be driven by successful innovations and launches of other products and platforms. To properly forecast future earnings for the purposes of valuation, we assume further innovation on existing product lines and services (such as the larger screen iPhone 6 and 6+), but also assume that launches of new product platforms and new services will happen, predict what they might be, and estimate and include the potential earnings from such innovation and launches into forecasted future-year earnings. As our model highlights, much like the success of iPhone and iPad before it, we expect the successful launch of new premium product platforms (the announced Apple Watch in FY 2015 and the rumored TV in FY 2016) along with new services (in particular Apple Pay). These new launches will further distance Apple’s ecosystem from its peers and accelerate revenue and earnings growth in excess of the status quo. For the next three fiscal years, we forecast robust earnings growth of 44%, 30%, and 30% respectively, driven by strong revenue growth of 25%, 21%, and 21% respectively. We detail below how we arrive at these forecasts.   iPhone Composing 55% of net sales, iPhone is Apple’s largest product platform. Consumers have already responded with unparalleled enthusiasm to the new iPhones with millions of people waiting in lines all around the world to buy an iPhone 6 or 6+, and the positivity from expert reviewers and the press has been stronger than we have ever seen. Legendary reviewer Walt Mossberg simply stated, “This is the best smartphone you can buy, and I am unequivocal about that.” Now that Apple is offering larger phones with roughly the same size screen as competitors’ offerings, and targeting mainland China at the time of its 4G rollout, we expect Apple to take significant market share. As users roll off their existing wireless carrier contracts, they can choose a superior product at a comparable price. There are obviously lower priced competitive offerings, but the marginal premium one pays for an iPhone is not significant for meaningful percentages of the global population. As we explained earlier in this letter, the effective cost of an iPhone 6 is just $20 per month. Considering the increasing amount of time users spend with their mobile devices, and thereby the practical value of a noticeably superior product, it is hard to imagine why a consumer would choose an inferior phone when the marginal cost difference is so small. That is why we expect Apple to take market share not only from those competitors offering a phone at a similar price, but also those competitors offering phones at cheaper prices. As the quality of the Apple ecosystem (iPhone, iPad, Mac, iTunes, App Store) continues with new additions (Apple Watch, Apple Pay, Home, Health, Continuity, iCloud) to pull away from a relatively flawed and fragmented Android ecosystem, market share gains will continue. For next fiscal year, the new iPhone 6 and 6+ should drive iPhone revenue growth of 30%, due to volume growth of 22% (premium market share gains, category growth, upgrade cycle) and pricing growth of 7% (mix shift to the iPhone 6+ that sells for a $100 premium to both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 5s at this time last year). In the following years, FY 2016 and FY 2017, we expect volume growth of 7% and 10% respectively and flat average selling prices as Apple experiences no pricing pressure and continues to take market share.   iPad and Mac Contributing 17% to net sales, iPad has experienced tremendous growth since its introduction in 2010. After a disappointing FY 2014, we believe the iPad will reaccelerate growth next year, especially if Apple, as rumored, offers a larger screen 12.9” iPad in FY 2015 and improves the offering of its 7.9” iPad Mini and its 9.7” iPad Air. We believe there is still a large growth opportunity for iPad, as you highlighted when you stated that “the PC market today is 315 million units” and “despite the iPad’s 76% market share of tablets sold to businesses, the penetration of tablets in businesses is low at 20% and, to put that in some kind of context, if you looked at the penetration of notebooks in business it would be over 60%.” With the recently announced partnership with IBM, which you suggested will “change how businesses work”, we believe iPad will increase its penetration of enterprise. For next fiscal year, the new iPad innovation and IBM partnership should drive iPad revenue growth of 13%, due to volume growth of 8% (innovation, larger iPad, IBM partnership) and pricing growth of 4% (mix shift to the rumored higher priced iPad). In each of the following years, FY 2016 and FY 2017, we expect revenue growth of 13% on relatively flat average selling prices as the ecosystem and IBM partnership continue to drive sales. Contributing 13% to net sales, Mac in contrast to the overall PC market, has grown market share to maintain its volume and sales. We expect Mac to continue this steady performance going forward and hold net sales flat over the next three years. While we are not yet prepared to make near term adjustments to raise our forecasts for the next three years, we do believe Apple may be able to innovate even further across the iPad/Mac platforms. Some see a larger iPad as a necessity if Apple is going to transform iOS into a hybrid desktop/tablet operating system by adding a keyboard/mouse centric user interface to iOS, while at the same time maintaining its touch-friendly user interface. With a near 13” model, Apple would have a screen size lineup that overlaps their Macbook Air line, a promising path into the $63 billion sub $1,000 laptop market in which Apple barely participates today, according to Rod Hall at JP Morgan.   iTunes, Software and Services, Accessories, and iPod These three segments, contributing 10%, 3% and 1% to net sales respectively, fill out the remaining portion of Apple’s current net sales mix. iTunes, Software and Services are not only important to Apple’s ecosystem in terms of driving sales of its products, but also in terms of its own long term revenue growth. This represents one of Apple’s faster growing segments and one we expect to not only continue its double digit top line growth but also to disproportionately benefit gross margins as higher margin services (such as 100% margin App Store sales revenues) compose a greater portion of the sales. As for Accessories and iPod, we expect the impact of the acquisition of Beats and accessory growth moving forward to more than offset the continued decline of iPod, which is already relatively immaterial to net sales.   Apple Watch Over the next three years, we expect the Apple Watch to have a significant impact on Apple’s growth. Apple’s first new product category since the iPad in 2010, and the company’s first foray into wearables, the Apple Watch will launch early next calendar year. It appears to us that Jony Ive and his team have yet again executed at a level that will bring to market a product that revolutionizes the entire category from both a hardware and software perspective, especially given that Apple has developed an entirely new operating system for this device, and catered to the notion that such a device needs to be far more fashionable and personal than other products currently available in this category. As an accessory to the iPhone (model 5 or thereafter), we believe we have included in our forecast sales for the Apple Watch that imply a reasonable attach rate to the iPhone, with unit sales volume resembling that of the iPad in scale, and ramping at a similar incline, selling 20 million units in FY 2015, 45 million units in FY 2016, 72.5 million units in 2017. Although the sales mix between collections, the attach rate of bands to each watch, and the related prices remain unknown, we expect the average selling price to exceed the entry level price of $350, forecasting an average selling price of $450 per unit, including the extra band.   UltraHD  Television While Apple has not announced plans for a TV set and may never do so, we believe we have good enough reason to expect the introduction of an UltraHD TV set in FY 2016. We think television represents a large opportunity for Apple, one that reaches far beyond “the hobby” that Apple TV currently represents. You recently stated, “TV is an area of great interest for Apple” and we agree that it should be. As we highlighted in our previous letter, we believe UltraHD’s (ultra-high-definition television) superior picture quality in comparison to regular HD will drive a major TV replacement cycle as the price gap between them narrows. It should also be noted that Reed Hastings, CEO of Netflix, has referenced UltraHD as a major catalyst for Netflix going forward, and while this is true for Netflix, we believe it is also true for Apple. Against the backdrop of this replacement cycle, FY 2016 represents an opportune time to introduce an UltraHD TV set. Therefore, included in our forecasts, we expect Apple to sell 12 million 55” and 65” TV sets in FY 2016 and 25 million in FY 2017 at an average selling price of $1,500 at gross margins consistent with the overall company. While we think adding a TV set to the Apple ecosystem would be meaningful from a financial perspective, we understand that you may choose not to do so, as you have wisely stated that “the toughest choices for Apple are what not to work on.” But, even if Apple chooses not to offer a TV set, our earnings estimates would only be revised for FY 2016 and FY 2017, and the impact is not significant enough for us to question using a P/E multiple of 19x our FY 2015 EPS for Apple today, especially since, even without a TV set, our forecast shows EPS growth of 19% in FY 2016 and 23% in FY 2017. While the UltraHD replacement cycle alone offers a compelling revenue opportunity, the opportunity is not limited to the sales of an UltraHD TV. Televisions are a centerpiece to the modern living room and thereby a promising gateway into the home for Apple’s growing ecosystem. Apple could sell UltraHD movies and shows through iTunes over the internet to the UltraHD TV since cable companies will likely be slow to upgrade their expensive linear infrastructure, as one example of an incremental opportunity. Another is the user interface of television, which you humorously (but accurately, in our opinion) described as being “stuck in the 1970s.”   HomeKit and HealthKit But like so many of Apple’s opportunities, an UltraHD TV is just one possible point of entry to a much broader overall opportunity, as the living room is just one room in the home and Apple’s growing ecosystem makes the entire home an approachable venue. For example, Apple’s recently released HomeKit, a framework in iOS 8 for communicating with and controlling connected accessories in a user’s home from the iPhone and Apple Watch. The point here is, when considering the overall ecosystem, the iPhone and the Apple Watch become control devices for both the television in the living room, as well as the lights in the living room and throughout the entire house, and the lock for the front door, the thermostat, the alarm system, etc. You said publicly that you enjoy using your Apple Watch as a remote control for your TV, and we look forward to joining you. But we also assume you will soon enjoy using your Apple Watch to control many more devices in your home. The recently released HealthKit platform represents another similarly large opportunity, and while the details of the business model are still unclear, just as they are for the home category, the degree to which both could impact their respective venues is immense. At a minimum, these new efforts in Health and Home will strengthen the Apple ecosystem and drive product sales of the Apple Watch and iPhone. Though it is likely Apple will monetize HomeKit and HealthKit in some way going forward, we have not included any revenues from these emerging platforms in our forecast for the next three years.   Apple Pay As the home represents one compelling category for Apple, payments represents another. Apple Pay will launch in October 2014, and while we expect limited financial impact in FY 2015 as retailers upgrade their infrastructure to incorporate the requisite near-field communications technology (NFC), we expect a more meaningful contribution in FY 2016 that accelerates into FY 2017 and the following years. We estimate that, based upon Apple Pay’s rumored fee of 15 bps of all spend on credit and debit cards (U.S. card spend was $4.2 trillion in 2012) and merchant deployment of NFC reaching 80%+ in 2017, Apple in the U.S. could generate revenues (also equivalent to gross margins, as the variable costs are de minimis) of $2.5 billion in FY 2017 if it reaches 30% market share of all spend on U.S. credit and debit cards. The potential in the U.S. and internationally over a longer term is much larger. Apple, dominant in the premium market, has customers who spend more on average than its peers, and it is therefore unusually well positioned to succeed with Apple Pay where others could not.   Conclusion To be totally clear, this letter is in no way intended as a criticism of you as CEO, nor is it intended to be critical of anything you or your team are doing from an operational perspective at Apple. Quite to the contrary, we could not be more supportive of you and your team, and of the excellent work being done at Apple, a company that continues to change the world through technological innovation. The intention of this letter is to communicate two things to you: (1) given the earnings growth we forecast for Apple, we continue to think that the market misunderstands and dramatically undervalues Apple and (2) the excess liquidity the company continues to hold on its balance sheet affords the company an amazing opportunity to take further advantage of this valuation disconnect by accelerating share repurchases. As mentioned before, we thank you and the Board for being receptive to us when we last communicated our perspective regarding the company’s valuation and requested more share repurchases. It is our understanding that you solicited feedback from various large shareholders concerning our previous request, but we don’t think anyone would deny that we were a key influence with respect to your previous decision to increase share repurchases. We thank you for being receptive to us and other large shareholders, all of whom are investment professionals offering advice concerning an investment decision, as the decision to repurchase shares is in effect the company making an investment in itself. And given the size of our investment and our proven track record with respect to public equity investing, we hope you will be receptive once again. Between January 1, 2000 through September 30, 2014, an investment in the stock of Icahn Enterprises L.P. (NASDAQ: IEP) had an annualized gross return of 21.5%. The Sargon Portfolio (a designated portfolio of assets co-managed by Brett Icahn and David Schechter within the private investment funds comprising Icahn Enterprises’ Investment segment, subject to the supervision and control of Carl Icahn) has generated annualized gross returns of 36.5% since its formation on April 1, 2010 through September 30, 2014 with $6.6 billion of assets under management as of September 30, 2014. We believe this performance speaks for itself with respect to our expertise. At today’s price, Apple is one of the best investments we have ever seen from a risk reward perspective, and the size of our position is a testament to this. This investment represents the largest position in our investment history, reflecting the strength of the convictions we have expressed in this letter. While we recognize and applaud the company’s previously increased share repurchase authorization, we ask you to consider our advice once again (to the benefit of all shareholders) and consider accelerating share repurchases again via a tender offer. Our valuation analysis tells us that Apple should trade at $203 per share today, and we believe the disconnect between that price and today’s price reflects an undervaluation anomaly that will soon disappear. Mutual funds today face fierce competition with index funds that simply match the S&amp;P500 index (in which Apple has a weight of 3.4%). Surprisingly, many mutual funds are underweight Apple, meaning that Apple represents less than 3.4% of their overall portfolio. This also means they are more likely to underperform the index if Apple outperforms, which is obviously an eventuality that should concern them. With more and more funds flowing from mutual funds to index funds (because mutual funds have consistently failed to outperform) the last thing they will want to see is their underperformance exacerbated by remaining underweight Apple as it continues to outperform. As the strength of the earnings growth we forecast materializes, and these funds scramble to correct this mistake, only to find themselves competing in the market to do so, a de facto short squeeze may occur, and we can only hope that the company has repurchased all the shares it can before that happens.   Sincerely,   Carl C. IcahnBrett IcahnDavid Schechter     REMAINING KEY ASSUMPTIONS Gross Margins – higher average selling prices, scale, higher margin new services such as Apple Pay, and our expectation that new product platforms (Apple Watch, TV) will have margins consistent with the overall company, together support gross margins rising from 38.5% in FY 2014 to 40% in FY 2015, and remain at 40% for both FY 2016 and FY 2017. Research &amp; Development “R&amp;D” – we expect continued heavy investment in R&amp;D, rising 17.5%, 15%, and 13% over the next three years to $9.2 billion in FY 2017 (up from $1.8 billion spent in FY 2010) as Apple continues to innovate aggressively. Selling, General, &amp; Administrative “SG&amp;A” – we expect continued investment in SG&amp;A, as it rises by 6.5%, 6%, and 5% over the next three fiscal years. Interest Income – with regards to interest income, since we value the net cash separately from the business, we assume no interest income from the $133 billion of net cash in our earnings forecast. Effective Tax Rate – importantly for the company’s income tax rate, we consider 20% a more appropriate tax rate for the purposes of forecasting real earnings, not the 26% effective tax rate Apple uses in their income statement. Most companies in the S&amp;P 500 state that they plan to permanently reinvest its international earnings and therefore do not have to accrue for an income tax on unremitted earnings and thus show a lower tax rate. Google is a good example of this, as its effective tax rate is 20%. Apple, unlike Google and most companies in the S&amp;P 500 has chosen to accrue income taxes on some of its unremitted international earnings and accordingly has an effective tax rate of 26%. Therefore, when assessing the multiple of earnings at which Apple should trade, we believe it is appropriate to use a 20% tax rate for Apple in order to make such comparisons Apples to Apples, no pun intended. Share Repurchases – we assume Apple continues to repurchase $25 billion of stock per year for our forecast and not the more aggressive pace we hope this Board will undertake Cash Flow – for simplicity purposes, we assume net income equals cash flow other than dividends and share repurchases. Valuation – with regards to valuation of the company at $203 per share, this includes valuing the business $192 per share (at 19x our FY 2015 earnings estimate of $9.61 per share) plus net cash per share of $21 ($133 billion of net cash less the tax effect on international cash for repatriation, which we estimate to ultimately be 6%, and for simplicity purposes, apply to all cash on balance sheet rather than just the international cash). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordA job seeker yawns as he waits in front of the training offices of Local Union 46, a union representing metallic lathers and reinforcing ironworkers, in the Queens borough of New York.Initial jobless claims held steady at 287,000 last week. Expectations were for claims to rise slightly to 295,000, up from last week's 287,000. Last week's report was revised up slightly to 288,000.  The 4-week moving average of claims fell to 287,750, down 7,250 from last week, the lowest 4-week moving average since February 4, 2006.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson wrote, "In one line: The downward trend continues; expect strong payrolls in Q4... With the pace of firings exceptionally low, and surveys signaling robust hiring, we have to expect very strong payroll growth in Q4, at least. Claims are unlikely to tall much further, but equally we see no reason to expect a near-term rebound." FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockGood morning! Yields are falling after stocks had a huge rally yesterday. Via Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are chattering about this morning: Good Morning – US Futures are holding yesterday’s gains, led by a 30bp pop in the Russell, but Nasdaq and S&amp;P just dipped red.   Yesterday’s action had the classic feel of a short-cover across the board – we saw capitulation in Energy (XOP, but not WTI) – and it’s Important we get follow through in the Miners – GDXJ/GDX were among the first commodity ETFs to crack.  GDXJ closed 13% above its low, and bid is up 1% now.  The FTSE is under slight pressure as BOE stays unchanged - Germany just reversed it’s 1% gain to slide towards unchanged, with volume pacing slightly heavy - Draghi speaking at 11 should be a focus into the EU close as we got Bad trade data out of Germany putting more pressure on the Bundesbank.  Over in Asia, Weaker Dollar against the Yen hit Tokyo, Nikkei lost 80bp despite better machinery orders – while Shanghai continued marching forward, India recovered 1% and Miners boosted Aussie, ASX gaining over 1%.    The US 10YY is dropping quick, breaching 2.29% this morning – sharp demand for Sov paper overseas has Germany’s 10YY taking out lows, and  seeing Record Lows in some Sovereigns:  Portugal, Spain, France, Finnish.   Japan’s 10YY is under 50bp (US yielding 1.75% more), and Germany’s 10YY at 86bp (US 1.4% higher) – that’s keeping a sharp bid under Treasuries.   Dovish tailwinds in last 24hours from the Fed minutes (idea of being “lower for longer”), as well as speeches by China’s Premier Li (Targeted Easing) Kuroda (BOJ has “many options” for additional easing), Bernanke (Stock prices are “within historical norms” relative to returns on bonds) all pushing yields lower.   Fed Fund Futures this Am have pushed the 1st Fed hike to November ’15, from Oct ’15 last week.   That “Policy Sensitive” 2YY is coming in sharply as hawks retreat.  The $ is under some pressure this morning, losing ground against Yen, Euro and Pound.   Despite this tailwind, the energy complex is under pressure, with WTI, Brent, Natty and Gasoline all red.   The upshot continues in Gold, with the metal up 2%, and beaten-up silver up 3%.  Copper is moving higher, so we may see some follow through in Industrials today.    We get Weekly claims at 8:30, Fed's Bullard (centrist) at 9:45, Wholesale Inventories at 10 – there is NO POMO at 11, but we do get ECB's Draghi, Fed's Fischer (Hawk) Speaking on Europe.  At 12, the beleaguered retail sector will be getting Chain Store Sales Trends, and we have a 30Y auction at 1.   The afternoon closes with 3 Fed speakers - Fed's Tarullo (dove) Speaks on Bank Regulation Panel at 1:10, Fed's Fischer (hawk) Speaks on Global Economy Panel at 1:30, and Fed's Williams (dove) Speaks on the Economy at 3:40.  FREE AppDownload
Bond yields are tumbling. A little after 7:00 a.m. ET, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.2787%, the lowest level since June 2013. This is according to data from Bloomberg. This is down from a high of 2.3356% earlier today. This comes after Wednesday release for the Federal Open Market Minutes in which Fed members expressed concerns over the strengthening of the dollar, the risk of slowing inflation, and the deterioration of global economic growth. The tone was interpreted as dovish, which implies the Fed will keep interest rates at low levels for longer. The minutes ignited a massive stock market rally as well as a global rally in bonds. Spain's 10-year yield fell to an all-time low of 2.03%.  Austria's fell to 1.074%, Here's a chart of the 10-year Treasury yield from Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
Rightmove/The GuardianThe kitchen, living room, and bedroom are all seen in this photo.Think you can’t buy a flat in London for under £100,000? Think again. This pad in Streatham, south London, has just been reduced to $162,000 (£99,950) – or less than the cost of an underground parking space in Kensington. In recent months average prices in the capital have hit more than $810,177 (£500,000) and affordable properties have become thin on the ground. However, some experts have claimed the tide is turning, with Rightmove reporting falling asking prices in the capital and the CEBR suggesting, across the UK, that prices could drop by 0.8% in 2015. In the meantime, however, auction properties aside, this is currently the only home costing below the $161,000 (£100k) mark with a London postcode listed on the main property websites. Rightmove/The GuardianThe kitchen has a mini-fridge and a microwave and lots of cabinets. There is a drawback of course. It’s the very definition of “bijou” at just 206 square feet, including the bathroom and entrance hall and despite there being a kitchen area, as the pictures show, any cooking you want to do will end with a ping. Also both agents marketing the property suggest it needs updating, but would be great for buy-to-let, which suggests a would-be buyer might struggle to raise a mortgage on it. Still, someone might decide they are getting a bargain. Zoopla shows that it was originally put on the market in August for $210,704 (£129,950) but the price has been cut twice since. And when across London you can pay £1.25m for a studio flat that is only two-and-a-half times the size that may be something to consider. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleGermany's export numbers don't make for happy reading.Good morning! These are the major stories making an impact on global markets so far Thursday. Italy Just Passed Major Labor Market Reforms. Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi won the most important parliamentary confidence vote of his eight-month-old government early on Thursday on a labor reform proposal. German Exports Plunged. Germany’s outward trade slumped by 5.8% in August, the biggest fall since the height of the global financing January 2009. India Is Braced For A Major Cyclone. India began stocking shelters with rations, deploying disaster response forces, and planning mass evacuations as an increasingly powerful cyclone hurtled toward its southeast coast on Thursday. Facebook Has No "Near Term" Plans To Monetize WhatsApp. Chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook would not be trying to monetize its newest acquisition in the near future, but he didn't clarify further than that. After 3 Years, London’s Home Prices Are Finally Slowing. A group of surveyors has recorded the first drop in prices in the city since 2011. US Initial Jobless Numbers Are Coming. The numbers are out at 8:30 a.m. ET, and analysts are expecting a reading of 294,000.  The Ruble Is In Trouble. The Russian central bank was forced to intervene again in currency markets to defend the ruble, having spent about $55 billion of its reserves defending the currency so far in 2014. Alcoa Earnings Beat Their Forecast. Rising aluminum prices are boosting Alcoa, and its latest results sent stock prices up in after-hours trading. ISIS Now Controls 'More Than A Third' Of Crucial Syrian Border Town. Islamic State group jihadists were in control Thursday of more than one-third of the Syrian border town of Kobani. European Markets Are Up. Despite the terrible trade data, Germany's DAX is up 0.82%, the UK's FTSE 100 is up 0.24%, and France's CAC is up 0.02%. The Nikkei closed down 0.75%, while the Hang Seng closed up 1.17%.  FREE AppDownload
PepsiNEW YORK (Reuters) - PepsiCo Inc &lt;pep.n&gt; said on Thursday that it was raising its full-year earnings per share guidance as its quarterly profit rose on strong snack sales. The company, which sells Frito-Lay snacks as well as beverage brands like Mountain Dew and Tropicana, said that net income was $2 billion, or $1.32 a share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 6, up from $1.9 billion, or $1.23 a share a year earlier. The company increased its full year earnings per share growth forecast to 9 percent from 8 percent before taking into account currency impacts. (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley, Editing by Franklin Paul) FREE AppDownload
YouTubePatrick Modiano. Modiano, 69, has written about 30 books, mostly novels. He has also written some film scripts and children's stories. Modiano's works "center on topics such as memory, oblivion, identity and guilt," the Nobel Foundation said. His latest novel, "Pour que tu ne te perdes pas dans le quartier," was published in 2014.  Some of Modiano’s works have also been translated into English, including Les boulevards de ceinture (1972; Ring Roads: A Novel, 1974), Villa Triste (1975; Villa Triste, 1977), Quartier perdu (1984; A Trace of Malice, 1988) and Voyage de noces (1990; Honeymoon, 1992). FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr / aaayyymm eeelectriikI was in Seattle, Washington, recently, to congratulate union and community organizers who helped Seattle enact the first $15 per hour minimum wage in the country. Other cities and states should follow Seattle’s example. Contrary to the dire predictions of opponents, the hike won’t cost Seattle jobs. In fact, it will put more money into the hands of low-wage workers who are likely to spend almost all of it in the vicinity. That will create jobs. Conservatives believe the economy functions better if the rich have more money and everyone else has less. But they’re wrong. It’s just the opposite.  The real job creators are not CEOs or corporations or wealthy investors. The job creators are members of America’s vast middle class and the poor, whose purchases cause businesses to expand and invest.  APAmerica’s wealthy are richer than they’ve ever been. Big corporations are sitting on more cash they know what to do with. Corporate profits are at record levels. CEO pay continues to soar. But the wealthy aren’t investing in new companies. Between 1980 and 2014, the rate of new business formation in the United States dropped by half, according to a Brookings study released in May. Corporations aren’t expanding production or investing in research and development. Instead, they’re using their money to buy back their shares of stock. There’s no reason for them to expand or invest if customers aren’t buying. Consumer spending has grown more slowly in this recovery than in any previous one because consumers don’t have enough money to buy.  All the economic gains have been going to the top. The Commerce Department reported last Friday that the economy grew at a 4.6 percent annual rate in the second quarter of the year. So what? The median household’s income continues to drop. Median household income is now 8 percent below what it was in 2007, adjusted for inflation. It’s 11 percent below its level in 2000. It used to be that economic expansions improved the incomes of the bottom 90 percent more than the top 10 percent. But starting with the “Reagan” recovery of 1982 to 1990, the benefits of economic growth during expansions have gone mostly to the top 10 percent. Since the current recovery began in 2009, all economic gains have gone to the top 10 percent. The bottom 90 percent has lost ground. We’re in the first economic upturn on record in which 90 percent of Americans have become worse off. Why did the playing field start to tilt against the middle class in the Reagan recovery, and why has it tilted further ever since? Don’t blame globalization. Other advanced nations facing the same global competition have managed to preserve middle class wages. Germany’s median wage is now higher than America’s. One factor here has been a sharp decline in union membership. In the mid 1970s, 25 percent of the private-sector workforce was unionized. Then came the Reagan revolution. By the end of the 1980s, only 17 percent of the private workforce was unionized. Today, fewer than 7 percent of the nation’s private-sector workers belong to a union. This means most workers no longer have the bargaining power to get a share of the gains from growth. Another structural change is the drop in the minimum wage. In 1979, it was $9.67 an hour (in 2013 dollars). By 1990, it had declined to $6.84. Today it’s $7.25, well below where it was in 1979. Given that workers are far more productive now – computers have even increased the output of retail and fast food workers — the minimum wage should be even higher. By setting a floor on wages, a higher minimum helps push up other wages. It undergirds higher median household incomes. The only way to grow the economy in a way that benefits the bottom 90 percent is to change the structure of the economy. At the least, this requires stronger unions and a higher minimum wage. It also requires better schools for the children of the bottom 90 percent, better access to higher education, and a more progressive tax system. GDP growth is less and less relevant to the well being of most Americans. We should be paying less attention to growth and more to median household income. If the median household’s income is is heading upward, the economy is in good shape. If it’s heading downward, as it’s been for this entire recovery, we’re all in deep trouble. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Francois MoriEDF chief Henri Proglio. France might be "finished," but the German energy policy is "a disaster," the boss of EDF (Electricity of France) said on Wednesday. In what has been so far a very ugly week for Berlin, Henri Proglio, the chairman of France's top energy provider, focused on the unstable status of the German energy sector in a meeting in London, The Financial Times reported. "When it comes to energy, they are in a disaster," he said. "The two major companies, E.On and RWE are under huge pressure. One is more or less dead, the other is in a very difficult situation.” In August, RWE, a German utility company, admitted its profit plunged by 62% and announced it will take more plants offline because of the difficulties faced by conventional energy providers. Tensions in Eastern Europe, combined with the boom of shale gas in North America and the consequential decrease in the price of coal means that many gas plants in Europe have not been economically profitable for most of the year, the AFP reported.  RWE preferred not to comment the news while E.On was not immediately available for a remark.  Germany is also at the forefront of the shift toward renewable sources. The country wrote off all its nuclear plants following the Fukushima's disaster and generated 31% of its energy from solar, wind, and hydro power in the first half of 2014, Bloomberg reported  On the contrary, EDF is one of Europe's main investors in atomic energy: In 2013, it produced three-fourths of its total energy output through nuclear power. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel and Turkey's Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan address the media after talks in Berlin February 4, 2014.  Berlin (AFP) - Germany's leading economic institutes on Thursday slashed their forecasts for growth this year and next year and said the government needed to increase spending in order to boost growth. The German economy, Europe's biggest, would grow by just 1.3 percent in 2014 and 1.2 percent in 2015, the institutes predicting, much less than the 1.9 percent and 2.0 percent they had previously expected. "Economic growth in Germany has cooled noticeably," the institutes said in their widely watched half-yearly report. "After gross domestic product contracted in the second quarter and likely stagnated in the third quarter, the economic engine is finding it difficult to get going," the report said.  Domestic demand was weak, with the consumer climate deteriorating and companies continuing to scale back investment.  And foreign demand was also weak, with "only sluggish growth in the global economy and slowing momentum in the euro area," the institutes said.  The European Central Bank was "trying its best to stimulate the eurozone economy and interest rates are very low in Germany as a result.  "However, the latest raft of measures are unlikely to provide any additional impulses for the economy," the institutes warned.  The government should therefore increase spending in the public sector, the experts believed. "On the spending side, public spending should be increased in those areas which can  potentially boost growth," the report said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinVladimir Putin at an oil conference.You wouldn’t know it from the Chanel boutiques and Maserati dealerships lining the boulevards inside Moscow’s Garden Ring, but economic conditions in Russia are becoming dire.  The ruble has weakened to record lows not seen since the 1990s, capital is bleeding out of the country for the first time since the 2008 financial crisis, and the economy is projected to grow a piddling 0.5 percent this year. You wouldn’t realize any of this from the statements of Russia’s president. At a forum last week, Vladimir Putin ensured investors that the country had enough reserves to implement all of its budget proposals, including an $80 billion increase in military spending next year. The president certainly seemed confident, telling investors that Russia’s “strategic course remains unchanged” and that he foresaw “a country that is strong, flourishing, free, and open to the world.” Putin’s optimism rests on some pretty big assumptions, including 1.2 percent growth next year — the World Bank thinks 0.3 percent is more realistic — and $100-a-barrel oil prices. Despite turmoil in the Middle East, the price fell below $90 last week. Russia relies on oil and gas revenues for about half of its budget. These trends could be read as a victory for the sanctions regime imposed in recent months by the US and the European Union to punish Russia for its actions in Ukraine. But the truth is that the economy was looking dismal long before the sanctions came down. “The situation became very complicated before there were any sanctions,” Andrei Nechayev, who served as Russia’s economics minister in the early 1990s, told me in an interview this week. “The main reasons are internal problems of the Russian economy: low competition, low protection of property, a bad investment climate. In 2013 we were like a falling jet fighter.” Though sanctions against corporations have cut off access to easy Western capital, Nechayev said that Russia’s own sanctions — restrictions on food imports from the US and Europe — are “much more stupid.” While it’s not as notable in Moscow, food prices have been skyrocketing in some Russian regions. The government argues that it can replace these imports by stimulating local food production, but this will take time. “You can’t speed up biology,” noted Nechayev, who is now president of the Russian Finance Corp., an investment bank. “It takes a certain amount of time to make a new cow.” Reuters/Sergei KarpukhinA man walks past a board displaying currency exchange rates in Moscow on Sept. 16. The struggling Russian ruble plumbed new depths on Tuesday as punitive economic sanctions, sinking oil prices, and an acute dollar shortage combined to trigger what one observer called a mood of panic on the currency market. But again, even if the food restrictions were lifted tomorrow, Russia would still be in trouble. Even under a blue-sky scenario in which all geopolitical tensions vanished, the World Bank sees only 0.9 percent growth next year. Nechayev believes budget cuts are necessary, particularly to the military, though this seems unlikely given current tensions. The government has also been reluctant to find cuts elsewhere. For instance, a proposal to eliminate the country’s maternity subsidy program, which aims to combat Russia’s demographic decline by awarding lump sum payments to mothers who have more than one child, was shot down by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev last week. But Nechayev says that the most important thing weighing down the Russian economy is corruption. “Russian businesses face two taxes,” he said, “the legal tax and the corruption tax.” He also feels that too often, Russia’s local and regional governments have been asked to shoulder the burden of budget cuts. “The result is that they declined investment programs, road construction, innovations programs, etc. Now regional governments are a husk just to pay salaries.” Obviously there’s a political component to this. It’s nearly impossible for regional governors to be elected without the approval of the Kremlin. As Nechayev, who also leads a small opposition political party called Civic Initiative, noted: “Psychologically it’s not so easy to come to the person who made you the governor to say, ‘Sorry, but you have very stupid financial policies.’ The response will be, ‘OK, we’ll find another guy who’ll solve the problem.’ ” Maxim Shemetov/ReutersRussia's Finance Minister Anton Siluanov at the Reuters Russia Investment Summit in Moscow on Sept. 24.It would be one thing if it were only liberal former officials with opposition ties like Nechayev making these arguments, but they’re increasingly being voiced by the country’s top economic officials. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said this week that Russia’s high rates of military spending were unsustainable. “We want to reconsider the amount of resources devoted in the course of this new program, so that they are more realistic,” he told the news agency RIA Novosti. The current economics minister and the head of Russia’s central bank have publicly voiced concerns about the drying up of foreign investment. More dramatically, the head of Russia’s largest bank, Sberbank, said last week that Russia’s current government could be repeating the mistakes of the Soviet Union, which also faced “huge structural problems” and an overreliance on oil prices. “There is one key reason which determined the rest: It’s mind-boggling incompetence of the Soviet leadership. They did not respect the laws of economic development … We cannot allow the same situation,” said German Gref, whose bank has been targeted by international sanctions. He added that in contrast to Soviet days, today’s Russian government “cannot motivate people through the Gulag.” The house arrest of oligarch Vladimir Yevtushenkov last month on what are widely seen as politically motivated money-laundering charges also doesn’t seem likely to reassure investors that Russia is a safe bet. AP / RIA-Novosti, Alexei DruzhininIn this May 5, 2009, file photo, Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, left, and Russian tycoon Vladimir Yevtushenkov, owner of Sistema Holding, during their meeting in Moscow. As I’ve written before, Russia’s economic woes are unlikely to affect public opinion much in the short term. Putin’s political policies are extremely popular, the media is loyal, and the sanctions give the government a convenient political scapegoat. But the degree of alarm among some of the most senior figures in the Russian economy is striking. Ultimately, however, these arguments probably don’t hold much sway with the one man whose opinion matters. Nechayev thinks Putin may be overestimating the degree to which Russia can continue to rely on high energy prices — Russian companies are pushing ahead on plans to expand oil drilling in the Arctic — and the ease of substituting trade with countries like China, India, and Brazil for its former partners in Europe and the United States. But economic concerns may simply not be Putin’s top priority. Putin is “very disappointed with the Western position,” Nechayev said. “Psychologically it’s very appealing to make life unpleasant for his former partners.” FREE AppDownload
The Russian central bank was forced to intervene again in currency markets to defend the ruble as it continues its collapse. So far in October the central bank has spent about $1.85 billion trying to keep the ruble from falling too much against the dollar and the euro. Since the start of the year, the country's international reserves have shrunk to $454 billion from $509 billion — a $55 billion drop. As you can see from the chart below, it has so far been unable to halt the slide: Bloomberg Why is this happening? Well, the cause of the latest pressure has come mostly from the worsening outlook for Russia's most important export — oil. Brent crude oil prices slid to a 27-month low on Wednesday, over 20% down from its June peak, meaning that it has now technically entered a bear market: EIA Falling prices are being attributed to a supply glut after Russia produced a post-Soviet record of 10.61 million barrels a day in September while surprise improvements to output in Libya helped push up OPEC production as well. The Russian economy is dependent on its oil industry, and if oil prices collapse, then the ruble follows as investors make bets against the Russian economy. Fitch Ratings warned on Wednesday that prices could continue to decline to $80 a barrel, a level that hasn't been reached since the second half of 2010. The ratings agency writes: Further declines might be possible, especially if evidence grows of further weakening of global demand or increasing OPEC spare capacity. Demand has been the clearest change in the short term, but is also the element that may most reliably reverse in the long term. If China and India grow as expected, demand could rise by up to a third in the next 20-30 years, but this does not preclude short-term weakness. What this suggests is that, for the moment at least, Russian currency interventions are here to stay, and they are likely to take a huge chunk out of the country's foreign currency reserves. But a more pressing problem for the Kremlin will be that if the oil price continues to decline, it will also take a significant toll on government tax revenues, limiting its ability to deliver on spending promises. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthBad news for people selling houses, better news for buyers and renters.London house prices are finally falling, for the first time in three years.  That's according to the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, a trade group that gives a reliable early look at how more delayed official figures will play out. They ask thousands of property surveyors whether prices are up or down over the past three months. For the first time in three years, most in London are reporting a drop. The average house price was an eye-watering 80.98% higher in July this year than at the post-crisis low in July 2008, according to official figures. The average price hit £514,000 ($832,900), over half a million pounds for the first time, according to the most recent official figures.  Despite the massive demand for property, London is the only part of the UK in which prices are falling. The city was the region where prices picked up most quickly as the economy rebounded, and it's now the first to hit a wall.  RICS There's only so far that house prices can surge without any wage growth. London is a global city, with huge demand from both young people moving from the rest of the country and also the rest of the world, but depressed earnings are going to hold back the number of people trying to buy: RICS The number of new buyers is going through the floor, while there's an understandable increase in the number of people looking to cash in on the rapid appreciation in their home's value. But they might have missed the peak: London is now the only part of the country in which price expectations are now negative for the three months ahead. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/NASA/Carla Cioffi/HandoutEuropean markets are bouncing back early Thursday morning, despite bad export data out of Germany. Exports fell 5.8%  in August, the biggest drop since 2009.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is up 0.84% Spain's IBEX is up 0.67% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.49%% Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.64% Germany's DAX is up 1.21%, leading the way again. Asian markets closed mixed. The Hang Seng bounced back overnight, closing up 1.17%, while the Nikkei closed down at 0.75%.  US futures are mostly flat. S&amp;P futures are up 0.01% and Dow futures are down 0.02%.  From Europe, the Bank of England’s latest decision on monetary policy is out at 7:00 a.m. ET and European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi is making a speech at 12.00 p.m. ET. Analysts will be looking for any hint of further easing, as the outlook for the Eurozone seems to get grimmer by the day. In the US, jobless claims come out 8.30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate weekly claims climbed to 294,000 from 287,000 a week ago. We'll also get US factory orders. Economists estimate orders fell by 9.5% in August. FREE AppDownload
Jose Goulao / Flickr(Reuters) - Fidelity Investments was among 13 financial institutions attacked by hackers who are believed to have been responsible for a breach at JPMorgan Chase, but there is no indication that Fidelity customer data were stolen, the Financial Times reported on Thursday. When contacted by Reuters, Fidelity spokesman Vincent Loporchio said in an email, "We have no indication that any Fidelity customer sites, accounts, information, services or systems were affected by this matter." The company gave no further details. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said last week that the names, addresses, telephone numbers and emails of 76 million households had been compromised by a cyber attack, making it one of the largest such thefts on record. The newspaper, which attributed its information to two people familiar with the matter, said the attacks are now believed to involve more than a dozen targets and originated in Russia. http://bitly.com/19XGL0n Not all the 13 institutions’ security infrastructure was breached, FT said. The U.S. Secret Service and Federal Bureau of Investigation are leading an investigation. JPMorgan is the only company to have confirmed that information was stolen. (Reporting By Sudarshan Varadhan; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShipping terminals and containers are pictured in the harbour of BremerhavenBERLIN (Reuters) - German exports slumped by 5.8 percent in August, their biggest fall since the height of the global financing January 2009, in yet another sign that Europe's largest economy is faltering amid broader euro zone weakness and crises abroad. The Federal Statistics Office said late-falling summer vacations in some German states had contributed to the fall in both exports and imports, but the figures still painted a gloomy picture for Germany following steep drops in industrial orders and output data earlier in the week. They are likely to intensify a debate over whether Chancellor Angela Merkel's government should be ratcheting up public investment in infrastructure instead of prioritizing deficit reduction. "We are no longer growing," said Volker Treier, chief economist at the German Chambers of Commerce and Industry (DIHK). "We have had too little investment in Germany for years now." Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING, added: "No more Sommermaerchen (summer fairy tale) but rather a German summer horror story." The data showed seasonally adjusted imports falling 1.3 percent on the month, at odds with expectations in a Reuters poll for an increase of 1.0 percent. Exports had been expected to fall by a more modest 4.0 percent after rising 4.8 percent in July. The trade surplus stood at 17.5 billion euros, down from 22.2 billion euros in July and less than a forecast 18.5 billion euros. Germany's economy had a strong start to the year but shrank by 0.2 percent in the second quarter. Evidence is mounting that it barely grew in the third quarter and some economists are forecasting another contraction in that period, which would amount to a technical recession. On Tuesday, the IMF slashed its 2014 growth forecast for Germany to 1.4 percent from 1.9 percent, and its 2015 forecast to 1.5 percent from 1.7. Later on Thursday a group of leading economic institutes is poised to sharply cut its forecasts for German growth. The poor data comes at a time when pressure is mounting for Germany to use its healthy budget situation to boost public spending and spur growth in Europe. However for now, the top economic priority of Merkel's government is to deliver on its promise of a "schwarze Null" - a federal budget that is in the black, or fully balanced - in 2015.  (Reporting by Alexandra Hudson; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungA worker in a hazardous material suit seals up a barrel at the apartment unit where a man diagnosed with the Ebola virus was staying in Dallas October 5, 2014. Thomas Eric Duncan, the first person diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, was fighting for his life at a Dallas hospital on Sunday and appeared not to be receiving any of the experimental medicines for the virus, a top U.S. medical official said.  Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 1. World Bank chief Jim Kim said on Wednesday that global leaders had "failed miserably" to respond to the Ebola outbreak, which has now killed nearly 3,900 people in West Africa. Kim told the Guardian: “We should have done so many things. Healthcare systems should have been built. There should have been monitoring when the first cases were reported. There should have been an organized response.” 2. Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan, who flew from Liberia to the US at the end of September, died on Wednesday morning at a Dallas hospital.  3. The presidents of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone — the three West African countries most affected by the Ebola virus — will meet with leaders of important international organizations on Thursday, The Financial Times said.  4. US Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday that preventing the fall of the Syrian Kurdish town of Kobani to Islamic State militants was not a "strategic US objective," The Independent reports.  5. Fidelity was one of 13 financial institutions attacked by hackers who are believed to have been responsible for the JP Morgan hack, the Financial Times reports.  6. The media will be watching to see if North Korean leader Kim Jong Un appears at an event on Friday to mark the 69th anniversary of the founding of the North Korea Workers' party. "Should he fail to appear, it will fuel speculation that the young North Korean leader has fallen on hard times of one kind or another," Curtis Melvin, a researcher at Washington's Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, told Reuters.  7. Tesla CEO and founder Elon Musk said Wednesday night that another surprise announcement, in addition to the "Tesla D," will come on Thursday.  8. The Nobel Prize in literature will be announced at 8 a.m. ET (1 p.m. local time in Sweden).  9. Lego has ended its multimillion deal with Shell after a Greenpeace video against Arctic drilling went viral. 10. Apple said it's surprised that GT Advanced Technologies, the maker of the super-hard sapphire glass material that had been rumored to be used in the new iPhone 6 screens, filed for bankruptcy on Friday, according to Reuters.  And finally ... An expert explains what happened to the 35,000 walruses that gathered in one spot off the Alaskan coast last week.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Foxconn, the trading name of Hon Hai Precision Industry, is seen on top of the company's headquarters in Tucheng, New Taipei cityBEIJING/TAIPEI (Reuters) - More than 1,000 employees went on strike at a China factory owned by Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd , the world's biggest electronics contract manufacturer, demanding higher wages and better benefits, a labor watchdog said on Thursday. The workers held the strike at the factory run by Foxconn, Hon Hai's trade name, in the southwestern city of Chongqing on Wednesday, after the company "significantly" cut workers' overtime hours in the wake of reduced orders from client Hewlett-Packard Co (HP) , said U.S.-based China Labor Watch (CLW). It was unclear if the strike had continued into Thursday, Kevin Slaten, a program coordinator with CLW, told Reuters by telephone from New York. Slaten estimated the factory employs about 100,000 workers. Pictures provided by CLW of the strike which were reviewed by Reuters showed about a thousand workers in front of the gate to an industrial zone holding red banners that stated: "We want to eat and raise our families" and "We aren't robots". The Taiwanese company is frequently plagued by labor disputes, a growing point of tension in China where disputes often flare up over workers' rights and compensation. Critics of such strikes say people use them as a negotiating tactic to improve wages, benefits and severance packages. Hon Hai declined to provide immediate comment. CLW said it was the second strike this year at the same factory related to HP production cuts. HP also declined to provide immediate comment. Hon Hai assembles Apple Inc's  iPhones, iPads and laptops, as well as computers and servers for HP and Cisco Systems Inc . The factory in Chongqing is not listed as a certified Apple supplier. Other Taiwanese companies have seen similar protests. Workers at a plant in Dongguan owned by Taiwanese touch-screen maker Wintek Corp  went on strike in mid-September to protest what they considered poor holiday benefits. Hon Hai has come under fire from labor groups before, particularly in China where many of its production facilities are located. Worker's deaths have been closely scrutinized and reported following a spate of employee suicides in China in 2010. In July, a Hon Hai employee was found dead outside the company's campus in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen. The company said it was working with authorities on finding the cause. Last month, Hon Hai said it was in talks with union representatives in Brazil to end a strike at one of its plants in the South American country.  (Reporting by Paul Carsten in BEIJING and Michael Gold in TAIPEI) FREE AppDownload
