REUTERS/Nguyen MinhAn officer of the Vietnamese Marine Guard speaks on a radio as he monitors a Chinese coast guard vessel (top) on the South China Sea, about 210 km (130 miles) offshore of Vietnam May 15, 2014. Anti-China violence subsided in Vietnam on Friday after the prime minister called for calm, but the U.S. said China's "provocative" actions in maritime disputes were dangerous and had to stop.Territorial tensions in Asia continue to rise. The latest: A Chinese ship has reportedly sunk a Vietnamese fishing boat near a disputed Chinese oil rig in the South China Sea, reports the Nikkei. Hanoi claims about 40 Chinese fishing boats surrounded a Vietnamese vessel before one of them began ramming it. China's official Xinhua news agency reported that the boat capsized after "harassing and colliding with" a Chinese fishing boat. Vietnamese and Chinese ships have been running into each other near the rig ever since China towed a platform to the site earlier this month. No ships have sunken until now. The recent tensions have ignited major anti-China protests in Vietnam. The demonstrations started peacefully have turned deadly. In addition to Vietnam, China has recently amped up territorial disputes with Japan and the Philippines. China claims about 90% of the South China Sea.  Incidentally, there's a Wall Street Journal story about Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and his goals for a more assertive foreign policy, including more aid to Vietnam. RNGS Reuters FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonTobias Levkovich, Chief U.S. Equity Strategist for Citigroup, speaks during the Reuters 2011 Investment Outlook Summit in New York.The stock market continues to hit new highs while experiencing very little volatility and few notable sell-offs. The CBOE Volatility Index — aka the VIX, aka the "fear gauge — closed on Friday at 11.3, its lowest level since March 2013. All of this has some experts freaked out that complacency has run rampant, making markets more vulnerable and sensitive to bad news. While this might be true, history shows that a low VIX isn't a great reason to dump stocks. Sure, the VIX may eventually move higher as market volatility returns. But there's little indication that it'll happen soon. "Looking back at volatility data reveals that there are much higher probabilities for market gains when the VIX is sitting between 10 and 15 than when it is in the 20-25 range," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich during a luncheon earlier this month. Since 1990, a VIX at current levels saw positive returns over 3-month periods 75% of the time, 6-month periods 86% of the time, and 12-month periods 88% of the time. The average 12-month return was 11.1%. For those looking for short-term trades based on the VIX, the best opportunities seem to occur when it falls below 20 or jumps above 30. Citi Research To be clear, Levkovich's market outlook doesn't rely on the VIX alone. "We continue to think that a 1H14 correction (in the 5%-10% range) is possible given weak EPS forward guidance trends and previous euphoric investor sentiment, not to mention the impact of the yield curve's shape on future market volatility," he said. "While credit conditions remain favorable in the US, disappointment in emerging economies and a lackluster though improving Europe could hold back the earnings story. Admittedly, better hiring intentions are encouraging. Plus stock buyback activity has stepped up and money has begun to flow into equity funds. With a 1,975 S&amp;P 500 target by year-end 2014 driven by EPS gains as economic conditions improve next year, we remain generally constructive longer term while continuing to advise nearer-term tactical caution." FREE AppDownload
Investors are becoming increasingly uneasy with the nation's property markets, which JPMorgan called "a major macro risk". Volumes of unsold real estate are now at record levels and sales continue to slow. Nomura's researchers are convinced "that the property sector has passed a turning point and that there is a rising risk of a sharp correction". Of course since the authorities can easily intervene, the situation may not be as dire as Nomura predicts. Nevertheless, the nation's property markets continue to pose significant risks. Moreover, some high frequency indicators are once again flashing warning signals. According to the ISI Group research, exports to and sales in China by US corporations have turned materially lower after remaining stable since early 2013 - indicating weakening demand. Anecdotal evidence suggests that a similar slowdown has also occurred for Japanese and euro area firms selling to China. The most worrying indicators however are the key industrial commodity prices. Futures on iron ore sold at China's ports fell below $100 for the first time in years. Sober Look And steel rebar futures on the Shanghai exchange are also continuing to fall. Some of these declines are of course related to declining construction activity. Sober Look Once again, most economists do not expect a "hard landing" for PRC because the government has enormous resources to "backstop" the nation's economy. Nevertheless, a number of indicators from China still point to persistent risks to growth. FREE AppDownload
For investors, one of the most important metrics of a company is return on equity (ROE), which can be calculated by taking net income and dividing it by equity. "The decision to expand into the market of a competitor and seek additional return is not a decision driven by the expected profit margin, the expected return relative to the anticipated quantity of sales," said Jesse Livermore, the pseudonymous author of the Philosophical Economics blog. "Rather, it’s a decision driven instead by the expected ROE, the expected return relative to the amount of capital that will have to be invested, put at risk, in order to earn it." Unfortunately, ROE alone doesn't tell you much about a company's operating or capital structure. That's why analysts decompose the ROE into multiple components, including a measure of profit margin (see below). The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam, which will be administered on June 7, is among the advanced Wall Street exams that tests test-takers on at least two decompositions of ROE.  The more complicated one is the DuPont model. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Kaiser recently included the formula for reference in an April 2 note sent out to its clients. Goldman SachsAs you can see, the DuPont model breaks ROE down to five components. From left to right: The DuPont framework offers much more information than what you would get from just net income and equity. You begin to understand that the negative effects of a shrinking operating profit margin can be offset by a combination of higher asset turnover, lower borrowing costs, higher leverage, or lower taxes. Everyone in the CFA program must remember and master this concept. Everyday investors who want to take their analysis to the next level should master this too. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauThomas PikettyMost of the econ blogosphere has so far dismissed the most devastating charge leveled by the FT's Chris Giles in his critique of Thomas Piketty's best seller, "Capital In The 21st Century": that inequality is not in fact getting worse. But most agreed other issues Giles has highlighted are valid. So now, everyone is waiting to hear how Piketty himself will respond. Well, we now know that a response will come soon. In an email to BI, Piketty called Giles' report "not really constructive," but said he was planning on updating his data tables to address some of the issues Giles has highlighted: I welcome constructive discussion of data (that's why I put everything on line); but the FT people are not really constructive; although they try to pretend the opposite, the small changes they made to my series (and which I disagree with) do not change anything to the long run evolutions and to my analysis. I will update the book's technical appendix in the coming days so as to clarify this further. Let's see what happens next. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierThomas PikettyEditor's note: Branko Milanovic is the Visiting Presidential Professor and Senior Scholar in CUNY's Luxembourg Income Study center. He also served as the lead economist in the World Bank's research division. He wrote the first English-language review of Thomas Piketty's "Capital In The 21st Century," for the Journal of Economic Literature. We thank him for letting us republish his response to Friday's FT report challenging Piketty's findings.   I think the FT case is blown out of proportion. It is well-known that wealth data are uncertain. I for one do not know where Piketty's wealth data come from and  I am sure very few people do.  There is also a myriad choices you have to make re. wealth estimations (e.g. capitalization or not; forward-looking or backward-looking) which you do not have to do when you use income. (Although there are there, that is re. income too, many issues and many choices. If one were to go through my data, point by point, he could also detect a number of problems or inconsistencies: treatment of zero and negative incomes, imputation for housing, imputation of home consumption, what prices do you use for home consumption, how to get correct self-employment income etc etc. And many of these decisions vary from survey to survey and are not well documented, or the documentation is so immense that you cannot go through it or figure it out.) The situation with wealth data -- that much I know -- is much  worse. I was a referee twice for Davies  et al. global wealth inequality papers: there were many assumptions used in their papers, and there are even many more things you have no idea about, e.g. how is wealth defined in India, who is covered or not, how reliable it is, what prices are used etc. You just have to accept the numbers they (Indian statistical office or Davies et al) come up with. People may not realize that behind one such summary number there are 1000s of household-level data or even hundreds of thousands  and no one can go through hundreds of surveys and 1000s of individual data to verify them all. And if you create (as Piketty did) bunch of data for a bunch of countries, there are bound to be issues. The question is, was there intentional data manipulation to get the answer one desires. I do not know it but it strikes me as unlikely that if one wanted to do it, he would have posted all the data, complete with formulas, on the Internet. And Thomas's data are not there since the book was published but were there for months or even years. Now: Consider FT points one by one: "One apparent example of straightforward transcription error in Prof Piketty’s spreadsheet is the Swedish entry for 1920. The economist appears to have incorrectly copied the data from the 1908 line in the original source."  Okay, quite likely. When you transcribe hundreds of data, transcribing some wrongly is very likely. They give only one example. Are there more? "A second class (sic!) of problems relates to unexplained alterations of the original source data. Prof Piketty adjusts his own French data on wealth inequality at death to obtain inequality among the living. However, he used a larger adjustment scale for 1910 than for all the other years, without explaining why." Piketty has to explain why he used a a different adjustment scale. Let's wait to hear from him. "In the UK data, instead of using his source for the wealth of the top 10 per cent population during the 19th century, Prof Piketty inexplicably adds 26 percentage points to the wealth share of the top 1 per cent for 1870 and 28 percentage points for 1810." Same thing.  "A third problem is that when averaging different countries to estimate wealth in Europe, Prof Piketty gives the same weight to Sweden as to France and the UK – even though it only has one-seventh of the population."  This is neither here nor there. Perhaps the weights should be country wealth shares, not population shares. At times, you want to have unweighted averages and at times population- or income- or wealth-weighted. The question is whether one or another averaging makes more sense for the issue at hand and whether you stick to whatever you have chosen. "There are also inconsistencies with the years chosen for comparison. For Sweden, the academic uses data from 2004 to represent those from 2000, even though the source data itself includes an estimate for 2000." I do not understand this well. I have sometimes used (say) a 2003 survey to stand for the benchmark year 2000, sometimes for the benchmark year 2005. It just depends for what countries you have what data and also when. My data for (say) benchmark year 2011 improve as time goes by and I get more countries and more recent surveys.  So if you compare my global inequality estimate for a given year in the first draft of the paper and in the final version, they would often differ a bit.  In conclusion, the only real issue is why Piketty adjusted the data for several years differently, whether it is explained in the files, whether that explanation is reasonable, and if it is not explained, whether he can provide one. Out of the three "classes" of issues raised by FT, only the second has some validity. So far. Branko FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauFrench economist and academic Thomas Piketty, poses in his book-lined office at the French School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences (EHESS), in Paris May 12, 2014.What’s at stake: While everyone praised the data collection effort behind the bestseller book “Capital in the 21st century”, Chris Giles of the Financial Times has dug up data-entry errors and dubious adjustments, which appeared unexplained in the book. While Piketty appears confident in his response to the FT that the overall conclusions of his book are robust, he hasn’t yet provided a point-by-point response to the questions raised. Matt O’Brien writes that the nine most terrifying words in the English language for a researcher are: "You made spreadsheet errors like Reinhart and Rogoff did." But that's what Chris Giles of the Financial Times thinks rockstar economist Thomas Piketty did, among other mistakes, in his groundbreaking new book, "Capital in the Twenty-First Century." Matthew Yglesias writes that the universally praised element of Capital is its collection of historical data on wealth, so allegations that his construction of data series is riddled with errors is a really big deal. Neil Irwin writes that one of the most common approaches for people writing about Piketty’s blockbuster book has been to critique his theories and predictions while effusively praising his data collection. Piketty, after all, did yeoman’s work compiling data from tax and other records to try to determine a history of wealth inequality around the world. Ryan Avent writes that this does look quite a lot like the Reinhart-Rogoff contretemps. The errors identified in their spreadsheet turned out to be far more embarrassing to the authors than a threat to their work. But none of that mattered when the news broke. Partisans took to their bunkers to lob bombs at each other, the truth of the matter be damned. It would be unfortunate were that to happen in this case, but it almost certainly will, and indeed it has already begun. James Hamilton writes that the contrast between Krugman’s defense of Piketty and the zeal with which he jumped on top of the Reinhart-Rogoff dog pile is amusing.  Branko writes that if you create (as Piketty did) bunch of data for a bunch of countries, there are bound to be issues. The question is, was there intentional data manipulation to get the answer one desires. I do not know it but it strikes me as unlikely that if one wanted to do it, he would have posted all the data, complete with formulas, on the Internet.  Matt O’Brien writes that Giles identifies three basic types of issues. The first are simple transcription errors. He finds, for example, that Piketty accidentally entered Sweden's wealth data from 1908 instead of 1920. There are data-entry errors, and they're embarrassing, but they don't change the big picture. The next concern is methodological. Giles thinks Piketty should average European data by population, not by country. He doesn't like that Piketty draws trends between large gaps in the numbers. Or that Piketty labels data from, say, 2004 as "2000" on some of his charts. And Giles isn't sure why Piketty has put together some of his wealth data—which is sparse, and needs to be adjusted, if not constructed—the way that he has. But these aren't errors. They're questions. Ones that Piketty should answer, but still just questions. The last problem is the most significant. Giles points out that Piketty seems to have mixed up different sources on British wealth the last few decades, and overestimated their inequality.  Ryan Avent writes that while some of the data and adjustments in the spreadsheets lack adequate documentation, Giles does not have the evidence to justify the implication that figures are drawn "from thin air". Data fabrication is a serious charge to make, and I am surprised Mr Giles would allege it without clearer proof. Simon Wren-Lewis writes that the only issue of substance involves trends in the UK wealth income ratio, but of course an article headlined ‘Data sources on UK wealth income ratio differ’ would not have had the same punch. Justin Wolfers writes that while it’s quite natural for a journalist to emphasize the differences between his findings and those of a famous author, the most striking fact is how closely The F.T.'s analysis agrees with Mr. Piketty’s. Their preferred time series for the evolution of wealth inequality are remarkably similar. To the extent that the FT and Piketty disagree it’s not yet clear whether the cause is obvious errors as pointed out by the newspaper, or judgment calls where perhaps the professional economist deserves the benefit of the doubt. Jordan Weissmann writes that the FT argues that Piketty’s graphs simply “do not match” his underlying data on the UK, and that official estimates show no significant increase in the country’s concentration of wealth since the 1970s. Once Britain’s corrected data is included in the picture, the FT argues, the evidence that wealth inequality is growing across Europe disappears. FT Money Supply Source: FT Money Supply Jonathan Hopkin writes instead of a U-shaped trend over the 20th century, claimed by Piketty, the FT's alternative data suggests a flatlining distribution since the 1970s, thus invalidating the claim of rising inequality. But this is misleading, because by throwing in new data that gives a lower figure in the same chart, the visual impact is of a different trend that is not really supported by the data. The IRS numbers that Giles throws in raw were used by Tony Atkinson and Piketty to construct the longer series, with adjustments to attempt to make them consistent with different sources for earlier periods. The fair test of whether Piketty's trend exists or not is to compare the IRS numbers with data for the earlier period. In fact those numbers track the trend of the Piketty series fairly closely, but with lower absolute values. Mike Konczal writes that the idea that the ownership of capital will become more concentrated isn't an essential part of the theory. Though obviously if it does grow, then it's an even greater problem. Rising inequality in the ownership of capital is not the necessary, major driver of the worries of the book. It isn't that the 1% will own a larger share of capital going forward. It's that the size and importance of capital is going to go big. If the 1% own a consistent amount of the capital stock, they have more income and power as the size of the capital stock increases relative to the economy, and as it takes home a larger slice. Ryan Avent writes that Piketty's wealth-inequality analysis certainly matters as a component of the book's argument, but it is not accurate to say, as Giles does, that the results in Chapter 10 constitute the "central theme" of the book. Much of the data was collected by Piketty and other economists in a series of published papers that have since been used to create the World Top Incomes Database. None of this work appears to be at issue. Rather, Giles focuses on wealth inequality, to which Piketty turns in Chapter 10 of his book. Piketty has not published nearly as much research on the question of wealth inequality, and it seems that much of the analysis in Chapter 10 was done specifically for the book, based on others' research. FREE AppDownload
Stephen Brashear / Getty ImagesMicrosoft cofounder and chairman Bill Gates, who is consistently ranked as one of the richest people in the world, speaks at the 2013 Microsoft shareholders meeting.If you ask Thomas Corley, being rich has very little to do with luck and everything to do with habits. Corley, who spent five years monitoring and analyzing the daily activities and habits of people both wealthy and living in poverty (233 wealthy and 128 poor, specifically), isolated what he calls "rich habits" — and many of them are simply patterns of thought. "I found in my research that wealthy people are by and large optimists," he says. "They practice gratitude and look at happiness like a habit." Corley, who presents and explains many of his findings in his book "Rich Habits: The Daily Success Habits Of Wealthy Individuals" and on his website, defines "rich people" as those with an annual income of $160,000 or more and a liquid net worth of $3.2 million or more, and "poor people" as those with an annual income of $35,000 or less and a liquid net worth of $5,000 or less. Here are 10 ways Corley found that rich people think differently, based on statements with which they identify. "Daily habits are critical to financial success in life."Rich people who agree: 52%Poor people who agree: 3% Wealthy people think that bad habits create detrimental luck and that good habits create "opportunity luck," meaning they create the opportunities for people to make their own luck. "When I looked at luck," Corley remembers, "a lot of rich people said they were lucky and a lot of poor people said they were unlucky." "The American dream is no longer possible."Rich people who agree: 2%Poor people who agree: 87% "The American Dream is the idea of unlimited potential, that you can make it on your own," says Corley. In his study, the vast majority of rich people believed that wealth is a big part of the American dream (94%), and that the dream is still possible. "Relationships are critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 88%Poor people who agree: 17% Not only do rich people feel that their relationships are critical to their success, but they put a lot of effort into maintaining them, making a habit of calling up contacts to congratulate them on life events, wish them a happy birthday, or reaching out just to say hello. "When I applied the hello calls and the life event calls to my own life," recalls Corley, "I ended up making another $60,000 as a result." "I love meeting new people."Rich people who agree: 68%Poor people who agree: 11% Hand in hand with valuing relationships comes making new ones. Rich people both love meeting new people and believe that being liked is important to financial success (in fact, it's a whopping 95% that believe in the power of likability, compared to 9% of poor people). "Saving money is critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 88%Poor people who agree: 52% "Being wealthy is not just making a lot of money," explains Corley. "It's saving a lot, and accumulating wealth. Many of the people I studied aren't wealthy because they made a lot, but because they saved a lot." He's trying to instill what he calls the 80/20 rule in his own children: Save 20% of your income while living on 80%. "I believe in fate."Rich people who agree: 10%Poor people who agree: 90% Poor people are significantly more likely to believe that genetics are important to becoming wealthy, and significantly less likely to believe that they're the cause of their own financial status in life. "Most of the wealthy people I talked to were businesspeople who weren't always wealthy," Corley explains, "but they had this attitude that they could do anything." "Creativity is critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 75%Poor people who agree: 11% While rich people are more likely to believe that creativity influences success, poor people are more likely to think that being "intellectually gifted" is critical. They're also more likely to believe that wealth is usually accidental. "If you look at my stats, you'll find that a lot of wealthy people were C students," says Corley. "There's more to wealth than just being smart." "I like (or liked) what I do for a living."Rich people who agree: 85%Poor people who agree: 2% "Many of the wealthy in my study loved their job — it's not an accident," says Corley. In fact, 86% of the wealthy worked an average of 50 hours or more per week (compared to 43% of the poor), and 81% say they do more than their job requires (versus 17%). Corley says it's related to the idea of creativity being important to financial success: "These people found a creative pursuit that could turn into monetary value. When you engage in a creative pursuit that can make money, the rewards are often obscene." "Good health is critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 85%Poor people who agree: 13% "One of the individuals in my study told me 'I can't make money in a hospital bed,'" Corley remembers. "Wealthy people think that being healthy means fewer sick days, which translates into more productivity and more money." "I've taken a risk in search of wealth."Rich people who agree: 63%Poor people who agree: 6% "A lot of the wealthy people in the study were business owners who started their own businesses," Corley explains. "They became successes because they were master self-educators who learned from the school of hard knocks." In fact, 27% of the wealthy people in Corley's study admit they've failed at least once in life or in business, compared with 2% of the poor. "Failure is like scar tissue on the brain," Corley says. "The lessons last forever." FREE AppDownload
It may be an exercise in hyperbole.  The duopoly of the center-right and center-left will persist and still dominate the EU parliament.  This will likely become clearer when the new EC President and Commission are put together.  The first such discussions will be on May 27.  The anti-EU vote is far from a unitary bloc. They are a disparate collection of national parties.   In addition, the voter turn-out of a little more than 43% of the eligible voters raises questions over the validity of drawing strong national implications.  Moreover, it is difficult to tell determine how much of the anti-EU vote was a protest vote and how much was a genuine endorsement of their platforms.  For example, it appears that the majority of those that voted for the UKIP actually favor the UK remaining in the EU.   The anti-EU vote appears to be the strongest in three countries: France, the UK and Greece.  The National Front in France did a little better than expected, drawing 25% of the vote and topping the other parties.  Still, the immediate impact on French policy is likely to be minimal.  The Socialist government is terribly unpopular, but it is not even halfway through its mandate.   On the eve of the election, the French government asked Germany to boost infra-structure spending by 50 bln euros over the next three years.   The government was also moving toward more stimulative measures and this likely means targeted tax cut.   The electoral results may hasten the efforts of the center-right UMP to put aside their internecine rivalry.  Out of the ashes, Sarkozy may see his opportunity.   In Greece, which has local and regional elections alongside the EU parliament election.  While the anti-EU Syriza did well, the government's 2-seat majority appears safe.  It will be able to rebuff pressure to hold snap elections.  Investors seemed unconcerned.  Greek 10-year bond yields dropped 25 bp to 6.1%.   Greek stocks rose 2.3%, compared with a 0.5% gain in the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 (which was up for its 4th consecutive session and at new 6 year highs).  The gains built on last week's 9.6% pre-election rally.  A little more than 1 in 3 eligible UK voters participated in the elections.  The UKIP drew more votes than the other political parties.  While this is notable, it is not clear how UKIP is going to be able to convert its strong showing into political influence.   In local elections, it did pick up 161 seats in local elections, but failed to win any councils.   On the other hand, support for the Lib Dems evaporated.  In local elections, it lost 307 seats and two councils.  There is an effort to replace Clegg, the deputy Prime Minister, but it likely will not be successful, and even if it is, unless the Lib Dems are prepared to quit the government, which at this juncture, would expedite their political demise, it may be of little significance to investors.   Italy's Renzi may be among the largest winners.  Recall Renzi become the fourth consecutive unelected Prime Minister when a party putsch forced out the former Prime Minister Letta.  This was the first national vote and Renzi carried the day.  His center-left PD drew about 41% of the vote; almost twice what the votes that anti-EU 5-Star Movement.     Italy's 10-year bond yield fell 16 bp to push the benchmark yield back below 3.0%. Italian shares were snapped up, and the FTSE-MIB led major European bourses higher with a 3.4% gain.  Italian banks were the strongest sector.  Investors also liked the results of the Ukrainian election that appeared to show Poroshenko win the presidency in the first ballot.  Ukraine's PFTS index rallied almost 5% and brought the year-to-date gain to 45%.  With the passing of the Ukraine election, it may be difficult to get the US and EU to agree on more sanctions on Russia and Russian shares advanced by about 0.7%, which pares its year-to-date loss to about 3.6%.  With the two largest financial centers, the UK and US closed for national holidays, full liquidity was lacking and this helped keep the major currencies mostly within their pre-weekend ranges. The main focus remains on ECB meeting on June 5.  That first week of June features four central bank meetings and the May US employment data.    Since at least last July, the rally in the peripheral European bonds coincided with the euro's appreciation.  However, that relationship appears to have loosened and the direction of the Spanish and Italian premium over Germany has not been a particularly good guide to the euro recently.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBrian Taylor, Founder and CEO of Pine River Capital Management, speaks at the Reuters Private Equity and Hedge Funds Summit in New YorkAs a $14.8 billion hedge fund with a reputation for savvy mortgage trades and a record of double-digit returns, Pine River Capital Management has long signed up multi-billion-dollar pension and sovereign wealth funds as investors. Now the exclusive hedge fund is making some of its strategies available to Main Street investors who've been warned that bets on stocks and bonds may not see them through retirement. For as little as $1,000, they can include hedge funds in their nest eggs. As one of seven firms managing money in Wells Fargo's new Alternative Strategies fund, Pine River is among the latest big-name funds to crack its doors to private clients with look-alike products known as liquid alternative funds after years of courting only the super-wealthy. "Sub-advising portfolios in the (mutual fund) space is a new and diversified source of capital for a firm like ours," said Brian Taylor, who founded Pine River with $350,000 of his retirement money in 2002. "Like anything new, we are taking a measured approach, but we believe it could be a growing part of our business over time." In the last two years, several big name hedge funds have signed on as sub advisers to liquid alternative funds, offering them through mutual funds to average investors: D.E. Shaw, York Capital Management, Jana Partners, Two Sigma Advisers, and HealthCor Management are managing pieces of the funds sold by mutual fund giant Fidelity. Brigade Capital Management and Graham Capital Management manage money for a Goldman Sachs fund while Passport Capital Management manages money for the Wells Fargo fund. The trend provides private investors with fresh options beyond stocks and bonds and allows hedge funds to tap a vast new pool of capital. But it has also sparked fears that the original products - which demand high fees - could be cannibalized, drawing traditional investors to the cheaper ones. Lackluster performance among traditional hedge fund portfolios in recent years are fanning those fears, giving pension funds - the giant pools of retirement money that have formed the backbone of hedge fund clientele - fresh ammunition to complain about funds' 20 percent performance fee coupled with a 2 percent management fee. "What was worth paying a 2 percent management fee and a 20 percent performance fee for a few years ago, isn't worth it anymore," said one investor, whose company puts billions into hedge funds and didn't want to be named for fear of angering clients. The fee structure among hedge funds is referred to in the industry as "the 2-and-20". With hedged mutual funds there are no performance fees. And while individual funds' basic fees vary, analysts said they usually cost about 2.75 percent, a bargain compared to straight hedge funds' overall hefty costs. WEIGH ON PERFORMANCE Plenty of skeptics say that mixing hedge funds' more illiquid strategies with a mutual fund structure - where investors can pull out money daily - will weigh on performance and ultimately won't work. "I love vanilla ice cream. I also love red wine vinegar. But when you pour the vinegar over ice cream, it tastes terrible," said Anthony Scaramucci, who runs SkyBridge Capital and hosted industry conference SALT where liquid alternatives dominated panel discussions and private poolside conversations. "That's like trying to combine alpha and daily liquidity." Hedge funds for the masses are not new but until recently only smaller, lesser known players with less impressive track records signed up. Pine River's 6-year old fixed income fund, for example, boasts an average annual return of 32.6 percent, having caught investors' attention with a 93 percent surge in 2009. Last year the fund rose 10.2 percent after gaining 34.8 percent in 2012, far more than the average, similar mutual fund. To be sure, the new products offer only a sliver of what many of the original hedge funds promise to deliver. The original funds' strategies can be labor intensive, research heavy and complicated, focusing on non-agency credit trading, for example. Liquid alternative funds' strategies are generally simpler, often involving stock picks. But the draw is powerful. Assets in open-ended alternative mutual funds stood at $142 billion at the end of January, up 44 percent from a year ago, data from Morningstar show. McKinsey &amp; Company consultants forecast that retail alternatives, including hedge funds, will likely make up 13 percent of U.S. retail fund assets by 2015, from 6 percent in 2010. "Being able to add some hedge fund DNA to the 401(k) market is going to be an essential benefit for investors as well as the hedge funds that are participating," said Averell Mortimer, chief executive officer of Arden Asset Management, which raised more than $1 billion for its liquid alternatives fund sold through Fidelity. Private equity funds are also eyeing the retail space. David Rubenstein, co-founder of industry giant The Carlyle Group, said that there will be a time for private clients to enter his types of funds, adding "that will be an enormous growth opportunity for people like us." But for hedge funds, getting into the liquid alternatives space early could also be a defensive play, as big institutional investors start to push back against high fees and returns that sometimes fail to beat the stock market indices. "Hedge fund managers should be hedging their business," said Brad Balter, Managing Partner of Balter Capital Management which invests in hedge funds and is now offering its own liquid alternatives fund. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsStatistics genius Nate Silver spoke at a conference in Seattle a few weeks ago. He made a point that stuck with me. Radar technology was in its infancy in the early 1940s. To protect U.S. interests like the Pacific Fleet in Pearl Harbor, Navy planes circled the Hawaiian Islands, searching for threats. "You were just sending a couple of planes that would go around a circumference until they ran out of fuel and then head back to base," Silver said. Alas, the Japanese military knew exactly how large that circumference was, and in November, 1941, sent its aircraft carriers just beyond the range our reconnaissance planes could fly. On December 7th, it attacked. "My point is that everyone has a viewpoint," Silver said, and that viewpoint usually shows just a fraction of the whole picture. There are important events sitting outside your viewpoint that, if you knew about them, would totally change how you view the world. There's a similar problem with investors and history. Your view of history is heavily influenced by your own experiences. But just like the Navy, your own experiences are an incomplete view of the world, arbitrarily blocked by when and where you were born -- the equivalent of reconnaissance planes with limited fuel range. There are important events sitting outside your viewpoint that, if you experienced them, would totally change how you view the world. Take what the stock market did in your teens and 20s. There's a body of research showing that events experienced in your youth shape how you'll feel about a topic for the rest of your life. And depending on when you were born, stock market performance has ranged between dreadful and phenomenal during your teens and 20s: If you were born in 1970, stocks increased nine-fold during your teens and 20s (adjusted for both inflation and dividends). This probably had a profound impact on you. You saw your parents gawk at their 401(k) statements, watched the E*TRADE commercial during the Super Bowl, and maybe had friends who retired early without much effort. To you, the market was a place easy fortunes could be made. If you were born in 1950, stocks went almost nowhere during your teens and 20s. You probably saw your parents shake their head in frustration as what little gain stocks produced were eaten by inflation. It's unlikely you knew anyone who made a fortune in stocks, and you probably knew several who lost one. To you, the market was kind of a joke. Neither of those views is "right." They're both just half-baked observations of the market's boom-bust cycle. But it's hard to convince people of that. To them, history is what they experienced. Everyone assumes they can think objectively, but if you were born in a different year you would probably have a totally different view of how the stock market works. It's the same with inflation. I started paying attention to the economy when I was about 16. Since then inflation has averaged 2.3% per year, and the highest it's been is 4%. When my parents were the same age, inflation had averaged 7.1% per year and the lowest it had been was 4%. We've had totally different experiences, and those experiences shape how we think about inflation. But both are arbitrary and incomplete, and both could be dangerous. My experience may fool me into discounting the risk of future inflation, and my parents' generation may overestimate it. Part of the reason people are bad at predicting the future is because everyone thinks the future will resemble the past, and people have totally different definitions of what the past is, biased to our own experiences. As Silver might say, everyone has a viewpoint, and that viewpoint usually shows a fraction of the whole picture. FREE AppDownload
Bass changed one aspect of his outlook on Japan. Instead of predicting a collapse of the Japanese bond market, he focused on a severe weakening of the yen – without predicting when that might happen. His predictions for China were equally distressing. He said that its banks will be saddled with non-performing loans and that its economy is actually contracting. “I don’t think the markets are discounting what’s really happening in China,” he said. Bass is the founder of Hayman Capital, a Dallas-based hedge fund. He was featured prominently in Michael Lewis’ recent book, The Big Short, for profiting from investments during the sub-prime crisis, which he accurately predicted. He spoke on May 19 at in San Diego at the Strategic Investment Conference, which was sponsored by Altegris and John Mauldin. I’ll look at Bass’ predictions for Asia’s two biggest economies – and how Bass believes investors can profit from their plights. China’s economy isn’t just slowing down, according to Bass: It’ contracting. While China’s published rates for annual growth are still positive, Bass said the nation’s economic growth was negative from the fourth quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014. That is a result of excessive government spending on unproductive sectors of the economy. Bass said the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) has been more aggressive in its quantitative easing (QE) that the Federal Reserve has, but much of that money has gone into unproductive credit expansion. China’s banking assets have grown to over 100% of its GDP in the last three years, according to Bass. If the U.S. had engaged in similar policies – which he said would translate to $17 trillion in lending over that time period – it, too, would have achieved more than 7% GDP growth. China’s banking assets now total approximately $25 trillion, or almost three times the size of its $9 trillion economy. Its low default rate on bank loans – about 1% – is about to rise, according to Bass. Much of that lending is construction-related. Bass said that 55% of China’s GDP growth has been in the construction sector. The marginal return on those loans must be very small, he argued. “A rolling loan gathers no loss,” Bass said, “and that’s what’s been going on in China for the last few years.” He said it is impossible to believe China could “manipulate” the inputs of its financial system without losing control of the outcomes. Deflation is also threatening China. Bass said that its GDP deflator is now below zero. He expects the PBoC to engineer a devaluation of the renminbi as a way to stimulate exports and avert further deflation. Bass said that if non-performing loans go from 1% to historical norms “somewhere in the teens” with loss severities of 100% for the worst loans, then China would delete its $4 trillion of foreign exchange reserves. Bass implied that China would need those reserves to stabilize its banking system, though he did not say so. China’s leaders are fully aware of the dangers its economy faces, Bass said, and they hope to slow growth in a measured fashion, including through the restructuring of its banking system. “The jury’s out whether or not they can do it,” he said. “We actually believe they might be able to do that and that GDP [growth] is just going to slow down a lot more than people expect.” “I’m not saying it is a calamity, a disaster or it’s going to end badly for the world,” Bass said. “All I’m saying is China is slowing down a lot faster than people think, and you need to think about how to position your portfolio for this.” Bass advised against shorting Chinese equity as a way to capitalize on his forecast. Instead, he said, investors should look at China’s trading partners – Australia, New Zealand and Brazil. Those countries will be forced to loosen their monetary policy, raising rates and creating carry-trade opportunities. Read The Rest Including Bass' Take On Japan At AdvisorPerspectives.com » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren StaplesA worker stacks bars of chocolate at Cadbury World in Birmingham, central England, October 7, 2008.Chocolate maker Cadbury Malaysia, a part of Mondelez International Inc, on Monday recalled two chocolate products after they tested positive for traces of pork DNA, the Nikkei Asian Review website reported. The traces were found during a periodic check for non-halal ingredients in food products by the Ministry of Health, which on Saturday said two of three samples of the company's products contained pork traces, the website said. The two products, Cadbury Dairy Milk Hazelnut and Cadbury Dairy Milk Roast Almond, were readily available in stores throughout the country, Nikkei said. Cadbury Malaysia, like most food makers in the country where Muslims make up more than 60 percent of the population, has all of its products certified halal to conform with Islam's dietary restrictions, one of which is a prohibition on pork. The company said it was undertaking a full review of its supply chain to ensure halal standards, according to the report, and the Malaysian government said it will conduct inspection of all Cadbury Malaysia's products. Cadbury Malaysia was not immediately available to comment on the Nikkei report. (Reporting by Shubhankar Chakravorty in Bangalore; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
In 2013, financial institutions brought in $31.9 billion in overdraft fees alone — and that doesn't include fees for things like maintaining a checking account or withdrawing from an out-of-network ATM. Magnify Money, an educational financial website founded by two former bankers, breaks down FDIC bank fee data into revenue per branch in the infographic below. It shows that Fort Hood National Bank — a bank with branches inside Walmart stores that focuses on lending to military families — is the leading fee collector in the country, gathering about $1.2 million a year per branch. Check out what your local bank is making in fees: Magnify Money FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrea ComasPodemos leader Pablo IglesiasOne of the most stunning victories from the European elections held on Sunday came from Spain's new left-wing, anti-austerity party, which celebrated its wins Sunday night only three months after its formation. According to The Financial Times, Podemos stunned analysts and pollsters by winning 8% of the vote and capturing five seats in total. In some regions, including Madrid, it now stands as the third-largest political force — behind only the ruling Popular Party of prime minister Mariano Rajoy and the opposition Socialist Party. Podemos (in English, "We Can") accrued a shocking amount of votes in large part thanks to younger voters, turned out in big numbers to support the Podemos party that has ridden a wave of anti-establishment sentiment. The face of Podemos is 35-year-old Pablo Iglesias, who has helped build the party's media presence.  Iglesias has been especially critical of Germany and its economic leaders for their austerity-led response to the recent financial crisis in Europe. He has said he wants Spain's leaders to move away from that path.  "From tomorrow, we will work together with other partners from southern Europe to say that we don’t want to be a colony of Germany and the troika," Iglesias told supporters Sunday night, referring to the tripartite committee led by the European Commission with the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Podemos is expected to be an ally of Alexis Tsipras’s anti-austerity Syriza party in Greece, which won the biggest share of the vote in Greece, along with six more seats. FREE AppDownload
At the end of last year, we wrote a post titled: Pretty Soon We Need To Talk About Inflation. The argument was not that inflation was going to be a problem, or that the Fed needed to tighten rates, or anything like that. It simply pointed out that since the crisis, there's been no legitimate reason to even be discussing inflation, since there wasn't any.  But that that was about to change. And indeed, here in 2014, there are a lot of people talking about inflation. Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart writes in a recent note: Our analysis also suggests that we’ve passed the lows and will see a gradual inflection higher in core inflation back towards the Fed's 2% target through 2015. Since the fall of 2012, the Fed has been communicating that the appropriate timing for the first rate hike will be around mid-2015. That expectation has been predicated on the assumption that inflation will move gradually, and convincingly, toward its 2% goal. The fact that we are likely on the cusp of seeing the Fed's expectation for inflation play out should have no bearing on the FOMC's forward guidance - a forecast coming true is not a reason to change the forecast. Last Thursday, Wells Fargo wrote: The debate over how much slack remains in the labor market is heating up within the FOMC. Where participants’ views currently lie and how they evolve in the coming months will shape members’ outlooks for the two sides of the Fed’s mandate and, by default, the timing of when to raise interest rates. Fed Chair Janet Yellen has emphasized a range of data indicative of labor market slack beyond the traditional measure of the unemployment rate. In this note, we review many of the alternative data points that have formed what is frequently being cited as Chair Yellen’s “dashboard.” On a level basis, we agree with Chair Yellen that there remains a “considerable degree of slack” in the labor market, but recent trends amid a few key indicators point to a strengthening in wage growth in the not-so-distant future. Last Week, Deutsch Bank's Torsten Slok sent clients this chart, indicating that the Fed would soon need to hike its inflation outlook: Deutsche Bank And on that same theme, this chart from BNP says the same thing about wages (via @barnejek) BNP Bottom line: Inflation isn't a problem. But the chatter has grown quite a bit, extending well beyond the hyperinflation chicken-littles who dominated the discussion over the past several years. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Startup Stock PhotosMost people don’t realize it, but your vesting schedule has an enormous impact on the potential value of your equity package. That’s why the topic of vesting deserves a deeper dive than our discussion in The 14 Crucial Questions About Stock Options. Before we analyze what vesting schedule is appropriate and how it can affect you, we need to provide a little background on why vesting came to be associated with stock options and RSUs. Vesting refers to the process by which an employee earns her shares over time. The most common form of vesting in Silicon Valley is monthly over four years with a one-year cliff. That means you earn the right to 1/48th of the shares you were originally granted per month over four years (48 months), but you don’t get anything if you leave prior to your one-year anniversary (and go over the cliff). In other words, on your one-year anniversary you earn 1/4th of your stock and then vest an additional 1/48th per month thereafter. For example, if you leave two years into your employment, you would earn the right to exercise 1/2 your options. The one-year cliff was created to protect companies against issuing stock to bad hires, which typically are not recognized at least until at least a few months into their tenure. Vesting should not be confused with time to exercise. Most companies require you to exercise your shares within 90 days of your departure (we covered the downside of this term in When Success &amp; Stock Options Make It Expensive to Leave) and 7-10 years from the time of grant even if you stay with the company. Many founders I talk to get annoyed when the subject of vesting comes up. They find it quite offensive that they are required to vest their stock when they accept venture capital. In their minds the question is: “Why should we have to earn our stock when we gave you the privilege of investing?”  In reality, as the founder, it is highly unlikely you will leave your company if it is successful. However, the odds that someone you recruit doesn’t work out, or leaves before their fourth anniversary, are extremely high. By accepting vesting on your shares, you have the moral high ground to insist on vesting of the people you hire, thereby protecting the company from a potentially bad hire. Unvested shares can be put back into the pool and used to hire a replacement. Based on the argument raised above it should come as little surprise that founders typically get preferential vesting relative to regular employees. In my experience they usually forego the one-year cliff and get vesting credit from the time they started thinking about their idea. Their unvested shares then might get vested over three or four years. For example, if a founder has worked on her idea for a year and a half before venture financing, she might get 37.5% vested upfront (1.5 years/4 years) and the remaining 62.5% of her shares would vest over three years. As I said before, non-founder employees typically vest their stock over four years. In some instances on the East Coast I have seen companies require their employees to vest over five years, but I have never seen less than four years. Companies backed by buyout firms, who are not used to broadly sharing equity with employees, often require the strangest and most unfair vesting. Skype, which was acquired by Silver Lake Partners, took a lot of heat in 2011 because there was a clause buried in their option agreement that required employees to be employed by the company at the time of a liquidation event (sale or IPO) to qualify for their vesting.  In other words employees who left after one and a half years into their four-year vesting got nothing when the company was acquired by Microsoft because they were no longer employees at the time the deal closed. That’s not the way vesting is supposed to work. You are supposed to get your share of the acquisition proceeds whether you are there at the time of the deal or not. Unfortunately Skype employees who left after their one-year cliff thought they had vested their stock because that is the norm. The more non-standard the vesting, the harder it usually is for a company to recruit outstanding people. Why should someone agree to five-year vesting if they can get four-year vesting across the street? Unfortunately some founders look at vesting through the lens of their desire to lock up employees and minimize their personal dilution, and fail to see the unattractive and unfair nature inherent in the packages they offer. Some companies offer vesting acceleration to employees in the event of an acquisition. By that I mean the employee might earn an extra six or 12 months of vesting at the close of the deal. For example, if you were two and a half years vested at the time of an acquisition and your company offered six months' acceleration, then you would have earned three quarters of your equity (2.5 years + 0.5 years/4 years) once the acquisition closes. The logic behind this benefit is the employee didn’t sign up to work for the acquirer, so they should be compensated for having to accept a significant change in environment. I should point out that acceleration upon merger is typically only offered with what is known as a double trigger. This phrase means that two events are required to trigger the acceleration: acquisition and a diminution of duties post acquisition (i.e. you have a lesser job). Most companies don’t like to offer acceleration of vesting upon acquisition to anyone other than executives, because acquiring firms don’t like having to pay the extra price that results from having to buy more vested shares, which often leads to a lower per-share price being offered. The reason executives are able to command the acceleration is benefit because ironically, they are the ones most likely to lose their job in an acquisition. (For more insights on the acquisition process and what it might mean for you read The Wildly Different Financial Outcomes for Employees in Acquisitions and WhatsApp: What an Acquisition Means for Employees.) One of the most confusing aspects of vesting is that it is calculated on a per-grant basis. For example, I was recently talking to a friend who left her company eight years after joining and she didn’t understand why her exercisable options didn’t equal her shares granted. The problem was that the follow-on grants she received didn’t fully vest. Let’s say you joined your company on January 1, 2010 and were awarded 40,000 options. After three years, your company gave you one additional grant of 10,000 shares (not as generous as what we recommended in The Wealthfront Equity Plan). If you leave after six and a half years on June 30, 2016, you will have vested all of your original grant (because you stayed the required four years post hiring date) and 87.5% of your follow-on grant (3.5 years/4-year vesting) for a total of 48,750 shares (40,000 + 10,000 * 0.875). You don’t vest all your stock just because you stayed more than four years. The good news about follow on grants is that they typically don’t have a one-year cliff. The logic is you are already a known quantity, so there’s no need for another evaluation period. Therefore in the example above you would have vested 36,250 shares if you stayed 3.5 years ((40,000 * 3.5/4) + (10,000 * .5/4)) and nothing if you only stayed six months. Sure, vesting and its intricacies can be a challenge to understand. Keep in mind though, that the concept and its permutations did not evolve overnight, but rather through many years and in order to address multiple aspects of the hiring process and retaining the best talent. Vesting of stock options has become a fixture among Silicon Valley companies and you are better off having a solid understanding of the concept. Learn about your grants and their terms.  After all, a lot of your net worth will be affected by decisions related to your vesting. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Mean-reversion in a system doesn’t happen simply for the sake of happening.  It happens because forces in the system cause it to happen.  With respect to profit margins, the following questions emerge: What are the forces that cause profit margins to mean-revert? Why do those forces pull profit margins towards any one specific mean value–11%, 9%, 7%, 5%, 3%, 1%–rather than any other?  And why can’t secular economic changes–for example, changes in interest rates, corporate taxes, and labor costs–affect those forces in ways that sustainably shift the mean up or down? In what follows, I’m going to explore these questions.  I’m going to argue that profit margins are simply the wrong metric to focus on.  The right metric to focus on, the metric that actually mean-reverts in theory and in practice, is return on equity (ROE).  Right now, the return on equity of the U.S. corporate sector is not as elevated as the profit margin, a fact that has significant implications for debates about the appropriateness of the U.S. stock market’s current valuation. The piece has three parts.  In the first part, I critique profit margin mean-reversion arguments grounded in the Kalecki-Levy profit equation, put forth most notably by James Montier and John Hussman.  In the second part, I challenge the claim that competition drives profit margin mean-reversion, and argue instead that competition drives mean-reversion in ROE.  In the third part, I use NIPA and flow-of-funds data to quantify the current ROE of the U.S. corporate sector, and discuss how a potential mean-reversion would impact future equity returns. A common argument for the mean-reversion of profit margins involves an appeal to the balance of payments between different sectors of the economy.  We can crudely summarize the appeal as follows.  Assuming constant total income for the overall economy, the profit margin reflects the quantity of income that goes to the corporate sector.  If that quantity rises, the quantity that goes to other sectors–households, the government, and the rest of the world–must fall.  Trivially, if the quantity that goes to the other sectors falls, those sectors will have to reduce their expenditures.  But their expenditures are the revenues of the corporate sector.  All else equal, the revenues of the corporate sector will have to fall, in direct opposition to the profit margin increase. James Montier and John Hussman state the argument in more precise terms by appealing to the Kalecki-Levy profit equation, which we derived and explained in a previous post: (1) Corporate Profit = Investments + Dividends – Household Saving – Government Saving – Rest of the World (ROW) Saving If you divide each of the terms in the equation by GNP, you get an equation for Profit/GNP, which is an approximation of the aggregate profit margin of the U.S. corporate sector.  Thus, (2) Profit/GNP = Investment/GNP + Dividends/GNP – Household Saving/GNP – Government Saving/GNP – ROW Saving/GNP The equation expresses the intuitive point that if corporations hoard profit–that is, if they earn profit, and then hold it idle, rather than invest it back into the economy–they will suck the economy dry.  The other sectors of the economy will lose income.  To maintain constant expenditures and avert recession, those sectors will have to either: (1) lever up their balance sheets–that is, borrow funds and invest them–which will create new income for the economy to make up for the income that the corporate hoarding has pulled out of the economy, or (2) reduce their savings rates. With the possible exception of the government, there’s an obvious limit to how much any given sector of the economy can lever up its balance sheet or reduce its savings rate. Likewise, there’s a limit to how much the corporate sector can realistically invest.  There are only so many profitable ventures to invest in–to invest beyond what those ventures warrant would be to incur an effective loss.  Citing the equation, Montier and Hussman therefore conclude that an upper limit exists on Profit/GNP. But this conclusion misses what is arguably the most important term in the equation: the Dividend/GNP term.  Profit/GNP can be as high as you want it to be, without any sector needing to increase its investment or reduce its savings rate, as long as the “leftover” profits are distributed back to shareholders in the form of dividends.  And why wouldn’t they be?  The purpose of a corporation is not to earn profit for the sake of earning profit, but for the sake of paying it out to its owners.  Those owners are not going to tolerate a situation where cash sits idly on the corporate balance sheet, particularly if the stock is languishing.  They will demand that the cash be invested in something productive, or paid out to them.  Ultimately, they will get their way. The Profit/GNP term is hovering near a record high right now.  But so is the Dividend/GNP term.  The following chart shows U.S. corporate profit (red) and U.S. corporate dividends (blue), both as a percentage of GNP, from 1947 to 2014 (FRED):  As you can see, the two terms have risen to record highs together.  Relative to the historical average, the Profit/GNP term is elevated by around 383 bps.  But of that amount, 252 bps is already accounted for in a higher Dividend/GNP term.  To achieve an equilibrium at current Profit/GNP levels, then, all that is needed is an additional net 131 bps of reduced Saving/GNP from the other sectors of the economy.  That’s a relatively modest amount–a small increase in the government deficit relative to the average could easily provide for it, and almost certainly will provide for it as baby boomers age over the next few decades. So there really isn’t any problem here.  Corporations will earn whatever amount of profit they earn.  If they can’t find useful targets for reinvestment, they will distribute the profit as dividends (or buybacks–which get ignored here because of the way NIPA calculates “saving”), in which case the balance of payments condition set forth in the Kalecki-Levy equation will be satisfied. It turns out that the application of the Kalecki-Levy profit equation to the profit margin debate is flawed in a much more fundamental way.  The equation makes an arbitrary distinction between retained corporate profit and household saving.  But households own the corporate sector, therefore retained corporate profit is household saving, in the fullest sense of the word “saving.” In the current context, “saving” means “increasing your net wealth.”  When corporations that you own increase their net wealth by retaining profit, your net wealth also increases, therefore you are “saving.”  This saving is not some imaginary construct; it’s fully tangible and liquid, manifest in a rising stock market.  You can monetize it at any moment by selling your equity holdings. To be clear, in describing retained corporate profit as a type of household saving, I’m not referring to gimmicky, transient household wealth increases that might be accomplished by pumping up the stock market’s valuation.  I’m talking about real, durable, lasting wealth increases that are backed by increases in corporate net worth and a larger implied streams of future dividend payments.  Those are the kinds of wealth increases that indirectly accrue to households when corporations retain profits.  The stock market doesn’t create them by rising in price; rather, it reflects them, makes them liquid for shareholders. The wealth that corporations create for households can be retained and stored on the corporate balance sheet, in which case equities will sell for higher prices, leaving households with a larger reservoir of savings in the stock market that they can monetize, or the wealth can be paid out as dividends, in which case it will be stored in the bank accounts of the households directly.  In the first case, households will “save”–accrue wealth–through increases in the market value of their equity holdings; in the second case, households will “save”–accrue wealth–through increases in the quoted values of their bank accounts. There’s no difference. Now, for obvious practical reasons, the BEA chooses not to classify retained corporate profit and associated increases in the market value of equity holdings as a type of household saving.  But it’s a real type of saving nonetheless, a type of saving that the Kalecki-Levy profit equation, in its present form, completely ignores. The blue line in the following chart shows the household savings rate as a percentage of GNP from 1980 to 2014.  The red line shows the housing savings rate as a percentage of GNP adjusted to reflect the household share of retained corporate profits (FRED):  As you can see, the blue line is significantly below its average for the period.  Since the mid 1980s, it’s fallen by more than 50%.  The more accurate red line, in contrast, is only slightly below its average for the period.  It’s actually on par with the level of the mid 1980s–a period generally considered to be economically “normal.”  If, to maintain expenditures and avert recession in the presence of persistently high profit margins, households should need to reduce their savings rates, there’s plenty of room for them to do so–the current level is twice that of the cycle troughs of 2000 and 2007. When you hear claims that record high corporate profits are coming at the cost of record low household savings, remember that the wealth in question is ultimately fungible.  When it shifts from household “saving”, as defined in NIPA, to corporate profit, it’s not disappearing from the household balance sheet–rather, it’s going from one part of the household balance sheet (the bank account) to another part (the brokerage account).  The Kalecki-Levy equation’s dichotomy between the two accounts, while helpful in some contexts, creates a distortion in this context. A number of bullish Wall Street analysts have argued that high profit margins will likely persist because they’ve been driven, to a significant extent, by low interest rates, which are presumably here to stay.  In an interview from a few months ago, James Montier responded to their argument: “Low interest rates are another pretty good example of the framework, because ultimately those interest rates would have to be paid to somebody. It’s generally the household sector that benefits from higher interest rates. What that really means is that household savings have to be altered, because household income is less than it would be if you had high interest rates. The household-savings element of the Kalecki equation is where low interest-rate effect shows up.” This point misses the fact that what households are losing in the form of lower interest income, they’re gaining in the form of higher dividends and higher stock prices.  Income is not being removed from the household sector; rather, it’s being transferred from the cash and bond portions of household portfolios to the equity portions of those portfolios.  The Kalecki-Levy equation, as constructed, ignores stock market appreciation as a form of household saving, therefore it doesn’t register the transfer.  But the transfer is real, and 100% sustainable from a balance of payments perspective. Low interest rates have helped drive a shift from household interest income to corporate profit.  That shift is sustainable because the same upper-class households that own the majority of the cash and credit assets in the U.S. economy, and that would receive the interest payments that corporations would otherwise pay on accumulated debt, also own the majority of the U.S. economy’s equity assets.  All that low interest rates do, then, is take income out of one part of their portfolios, and insert it in another part. Now, a more powerful driver of increased corporate profitability has been the shift in income from wages–primarily those of the middle and lower classes–to profit.  If the ownership of the corporate sector were distributed across all classes equally, the shift would not have much effect.  What the middle and lower classes would lose in wages, they would gain in dividends and stock price appreciation.  Unfortunately, the ownership of the corporate sector is not distributed equally–far from it.  Right now, the top 20% of earners in the United States owns roughly 90% of all corporate equities. So when we talk about a shift from wages to profits, we’re talking about a shift in income and wealth from the 80% that needs more to the 20% that already has plenty. This shift is obviously an ugly development for the larger society.  But the question for investors isn’t whether it’s ugly–it is what it is.  The question is whether it’s economically sustainable. Though it unquestionably reduces the natural growth rate, long-term financial stability, and aggregate prosperity of the U.S. economy relative to more progressive alternatives, it is economically sustainable. One of the reasons that it’s economically sustainable is that it’s been coupled to a corresponding shift in expenditures.  The bottom 80% earns a smaller share of overall income than it did in the past, but it also conducts a smaller share of overall spending.  The simultaneous relative downshift in its income and spending has cushioned the implied blow to its savings rate.  Similarly, the asset-heavy top 20% earns a larger share of overall income than it did in the past, but it also conducts a larger share of overall spending.  The increase in its overall spending has helped to offset the otherwise recessionary implications of reduced relative spending from the bottom 80%. The following table shows the consumption expenditure share of each income quintile for 1972 and 2011, with data taken from the census bureau’s consumer expenditure survey:  Since the early 1970s, we’ve seen a 3.90% shift in consumption expenditures from the bottom 80% to the top 20%.  Not only have the rich come to represent a larger share of total income, they’ve also become bigger consumers of the overall pie. Likewise, just as the middle and lower classes have come to represent a smaller share of total income, they’ve become smaller consumers of the overall pie.  Again, an ugly development, but a theoretically sustainable one nonetheless. Roughly 40% of the U.S. consumption economy is driven by the consumption activities of the top quintile.  That quintile consumes twice its population share–a huge amount.  Its elevated consumption is critical in offsetting the depressed consumption of the other quintiles, especially the bottom two quintiles, which together consume half their population share. Now, a spending reduction on the part of the bottom 80% equal to 3.90% of the total may sound like a small amount, and it is. But so is the corporate profit increase relative to the average–it’s also a small amount, 3.71% of total national income.  Corporate profit is a very thin slice of the economy.  Small changes in it as a percentage of GNP can have a big effect on the stock market and on the behaviors of corporations and investors. But the effect on the economy as a whole, in terms of the balance of payments of the various sectors (what the Kalecki-Levy equation is ultimately trying to get at), is exaggerated. If, as income shifts from the bottom 80% to the top 20%, the spending of the top 20% fails to increase, then the bottom 80% will simply have to reduce its savings rate.  Either that, or aggregate expenditures will drop, and the economy will fall into recession (assuming no government help).  In practice, the bottom 80% has proven that it’s very willing to reduce its savings rate in order to avoid forced reductions in its consumption.  It wants to keep consuming. It may not be desirable for the bottom 80% to save less, but that doesn’t mean that it’s “unsustainable.”  There’s no rule that says that households have to save, i.e., increase their wealth, by any specific amount each year.  In theory, the fact that households aren’t reducing their wealth–that their savings rate is positive in the first place–is enough to make the situation sustainable (if they were reducing their wealth each year, they would be on a path to bankruptcy; that obviously can’t be sustained). The U.S. economy recently conducted a “household saving” experiment in real time.  In 2012 and 2013, it embarked on a grossly misguided fiscal austerity program that took income out of the pockets of the bottom 80% and put it into the black hole of increased government saving.  If households had insisted on maintaining their savings rates amid the lost income, they would have had to have reduced their expenditures.  Revenues, profit margins, and profits would have been pulled down, and the economy would have slipped into recession.  That was the outcome that many people, myself included, were expecting. But it didn’t happen.  Households simply reduced their savings rates to make up for the portion of lost income that other income sources–specifically, rising corporate and residential investment–failed to provide.  Here we are, a year and a half later, with the government deficit roughly half what it was at the peak, and yet profit margins continue to snub their noses at the Kalecki-Levy equation, making new record highs as recently as this last quarter.  Another common argument for the mean-reversion of profit margins involves an appeal to competition.  On this logic, profit margins cannot sustainably rise to elevated levels because corporations will undercut each other on price to compete for them.  The undercutting will drive profit margins back down to normal. But if corporations are inclined to undercut each other on price when profit margins are “elevated”, so that profit margins fall to “normal”, why wouldn’t they be inclined to undercut each other on price when profit margins are “normal”, so that profit margins fall to “depressed”?  And why wouldn’t they be inclined to undercut each other on price when profit margins are “depressed”, so that profit margins fall to zero?  Why would the process of price undercutting stop anywhere other than zero, the terminal point of competition, below which there’s no worthwhile margin left to take? If a competitor’s 11% profit margin is worth pursuing, why wouldn’t that competitors 9% profit margin also be worth pursuing?  And the competitor’s 7% profit margin?  And the competitor’s 5% profit margin?  And the competitor’s 3% profit margin?  It’s all profit, right?  Why would a corporation leave any of it on the table for someone else to have, when the corporation could go in and try to take it? On this flawed way of thinking, there’s no reason for the margin-depressing effects of competition to stop at any specific profit margin number; corporations should cannibalize each other down to the bone.  They should try to take every meaningful amount of competitor sales volume that is there to be taken.  Profit margins in unprotected industries should therefore be something very close to zero.  But, in practice, profit margins in unprotected industries are not close to zero. Why not? Corporations seek to maximize their total profits–not their profit margins, not their sales volumes.  They sell their output at whatever price produces the [profit margin, sales volume] combination that achieves the highest total profit.  In environments where there is significant excess capacity and weak demand, that combination usually entails a low price relative to cost, i.e., a low profit margin.  Corporations aggressively undercut each other to sell their output.  In environments where there is tight capacity and strong demand, the combination usually entails a high price relative to cost, i.e., a high profit margin. Corporations don’t have to undercut each to sell their output–so they don’t.  They do the opposite–they’ll overcut each other, raise prices. The mistake we’re making here is to assume that corporations “compete” for profit margins.  They don’t.  Profit margins have no value at all.  What has value is a return.  The decision to expand into the market of a competitor and seek additional return is not a decision driven by the expected profit margin, the expected return relative to the anticipated quantity of sales.  Rather, it’s a decision driven instead by the expected ROE, the expected return relative to the amount of capital that will have to be invested, put at risk, in order to earn it. Suppose that you run a business.  There is another business across town similar to your own whose market you could penetrate into.  If operations in that market would come at a high profit margin, but a low return on equity–i.e., a low return relative to the amount of capital you would have to invest in order to expand into it–would the venture be worth it? Obviously not, regardless of how high the profit margin happened to be. Conversely, suppose that the return on equity–the return on the amount of capital that you would have to invest in order to expand into the new market–would be high, but the profit margin would be low.  Would the venture be worth it?  Absolutely.  The profit margin would be irrelevant–you wouldn’t care whether it was high or low.  What would attract you is the high ROE, the fact that your return would be large relative to the amount of capital you would have to deploy, put at risk, in order to earn it. In a capitalist economy, what mean-reverts is not the profit margin, but the ROE, adjusted for risk.  The ROE in an adequately-supplied sector cannot remain excessively high because investors and corporations–who seek returns on their capital–will flock to make new investments in it.  The new investments will create excess capacity relative to demand that will provoke competition, weaken pricing power, and drive the elevated ROE back down.  Likewise, the ROE in an adequately-demanded sector cannot remain excessively low because investors and corporations will refrain from making new investments in it.  In time, the sector’s capital stock will depreciate.  The existing productive capacity will fall, and a supply shortage will ensue that will give the remaining players–who still have capacity–increased pricing power and the ability to earn higher profits.  The ROE will thus get pushed back up, provided, of course, that what is being produced is still wanted by the economy. Not only does the increased investment that abnormally high ROEs provoke lead to increased capacity and increased competition, it also leads to increased wage pressure and increased interest rates, both of which hit the corporate bottom line and pull down the corporate ROE, all else equal.  The same is true in the other direction–the depressed investment that inappropriately low ROEs provoke leads to downward wage pressure and falling interest rates, both of which boost the corporate bottom line and increase the corporate ROE, all else equal.  The “all else equal” here obviously requires an appropriate monetary policy and the existence of automatic fiscal stabilizers–those have to respond to maintain aggregate demand on target, otherwise the situation will spiral into an inflationary boom or a deflationary recession. At the open, we posed the question: why can’t the natural mean for profit margins change in response to secular changes in the economy–changes, for example, in corporate tax rates, interest rates, labor costs, etc.?  There is no answer, because the thesis of profit margin mean-reversion is not a coherent thesis.  But for ROEs, there is an answer.  The answer is that investors and corporations do not distinguish between the causes of high returns.  As long as high returns are expected to be sustained, investors and corporations will seek them out in the form of new investment, whether the underlying causes happen to be low taxes, low interest rates, low labor costs, or any other factor.  The elevated ROEs will therefore get pulled back down, regardless of their explanatory origins. The only force that can sustainably cause ROEs to increase for the long-term is an increase in the risk-premium placed on investment.  By “investment”, we mean the building of new assets, new physical and intellectual property–new stores, new factories, new technologies–not the trading of existing assets.  Psychological, cultural and fundamental conditions have to shift in ways that cause capital allocators to get pickier, stingier, more cautious when it comes to investment, so that higher prospective returns become necessary to lure them in.  If such a shift occurs, the competitive process will have no choice but to equilibriate at a higher ROE. Right now, there is a sense that the aging, mature, highly-advanced U.S. economy, whose low hanging productivity fruits have already been plucked, and whose households are weighed down by the heavy burdens of private debt, is locked in a permanent slow-growth funk.  When coupled to the traumatic experience of the financial crisis, that sense has dampened the appetite of capital allocators to make new investments.  The perception is that the returns to new investment will not be attractive, even though the existing corporate players in the U.S. economy–the targets of potential competition–are doing quite well. Additionally, an increasingly active and powerful shareholder base is putting increased pressure on corporate managers not to invest, and to recycle capital into dividends and buybacks instead, given that capital recycling tends to produce better near-term returns than investment.  The data suggests that from a long-term perspective, shareholders are not entirely wrong to have this preference.  Historically, a large chunk of corporate investment has been unprofitable, an unnecessary form of “leakage” from capital to labor. For that reason, corporations that have focused on recycling their capital have generally produced better long-term returns for shareholders than corporations that have opted to frequently and heavily reinvest it. For these reasons, it’s been harder than normal for presently elevated ROEs to get pulled back down.  If these conditions–investor hesitation and a preference for capital recycling over investment–last forever, then ROEs might stay historically elevated forever.  Let’s hope the condition doesn’t last forever. To return to the issue of profit margins, in practice, profit margins and ROE are reasonably well-correlated.  That’s what creates the perception that profit margins mean-revert.  But, in actuality, profit margins do not mean-revert, not out of their own accord.  The variable that mean-reverts out of its own accord, in both theory and practice, is ROE.  If the profit margin and the ROE are saying different things about corporate profitability, as they are right now, the ROE is what should be trusted. To measure the aggregate corporate ROE, we take the profit of all national U.S. corporations (CPATAX: NIPA Table 1.12 Line 15, which includes foreign and domestic profit), adjust that profit to reflect its non-financial share, and then divide the result by the net worth of those same corporations measured at replacement cost (Z.1 Flow of Funds B.102 Line 33, which appropriately includes foreign assets in the calculation).  The following chart shows the metric from 1951 to 2014 (FRED):  Right now, the corporate ROE is 31.2% above its historical mean–elevated, but nowhere near the 60% to 70% elevation that the bogus profit margin metric “CPATAX/GDP” was previously conveying. The following table presents a running tally of all of the profitability metrics that we’ve examined so far.  As you can see, the reduction in elevation has been significant.  We started out with a deeply flawed metric that was telling us that corporate profitability was 63% above its mean.  By making a series of careful, intuitively-sound, uncontroversial distinctions, we’ve managed to cut that number in half.  Some have expressed concern with our singular focus on “domestic profitability”, given that abnormally high foreign profit margins may be a significant factor driving the overall increase profit margins.  But the ROE metric presented here includes the ROE associated with foreign profits, so those concerns no longer apply. If we want to look at purely domestic returns on capital, we can use domestic fixed asset data from the BEA.  NIPA Fixed Asset Table 6.1 Line 4 gives the total value of all fixed assets of domestic non-financial corporations, measured at replacement cost.  This is actually the series off of which “consumption of fixed capital” in the NIPA profit series is calculated. Dividing domestic non-financial profit (NIPA Table 1.14 Line 29) by domestic non-financial fixed assets, we get a reasonable approximation of the domestic non-financial ROA–return on assets:  This measure is even less historically elevated than the U.S. corporate ROE–it’s only 24% above its historically average.  Domestic corporations clearly aren’t generating as much profit on their asset base as a superficial glance at the profit margin would suggest, which sheds doubt on the claim that “competitive arbitrage” is going to drive corporate profitability dramatically lower over the coming years.  Will we see a retreat from current record levels of corporate profitability as the cycle matures?  Probably.  But not the 40% plunge that advocates of profit margin mean-reversion are calling for. In an earlier piece, I conservatively estimated that the S&amp;P 500, starting from a level of 1775, would produce a 10 year nominal annual total return of between 5% and 6% per year.  The market is now at 1900.  I’m certainly not going to recommend that anyone rush out and buy it up here; using my 5% to 6% estimate, it’s roughly where it should be at year end 2016.  However, I will claim credit for warning valuation bears that they’ve been focusing on the wrong factors, that they should be focusing on monetary policy and the business cycle, not on the market’s perceived expensiveness, which participants will eventually anchor and acclimatize to. Markets fall not because of “overvaluation”, but in response to unexpected, unsettling changes to the narrative, changes that negatively impact expectations about where prices are headed over the near and medium terms.  Rather than worry about the nebulous, unanswerable question of what “fair value” is, investors should focus on getting those changes right, particularly as they relate to monetary policy and the business cycle; the rest will take care of itself. It turns out that we can arrive at the same 5% to 6% 10 year annual return estimate by assuming that the corporate ROE will fully revert to its mean.  At 1775, the S&amp;P 500 P/E multiple would be around 16.5, a normal value.  So there’s no need to model for any P/E multiple contraction.  If a mean-reversion in ROE from 7.6% to 5.8% were spread across 10 years, the implied annual drag on profit growth would be 2.7%.  If the normal nominal return is 8%–say, 3% for real book value per share growth after dilution, 3% for the shareholder yield, including buybacks, and 2% for inflation–then the return implied by a full reversion in the corporate ROE would be 8% minus 2.7% = 5.3%, roughly what we estimated via different methods. A nominal equity return between 5% and 6% isn’t “attractive” per se, but it’s acceptable, particularly in an environment where nothing else is offering any return.  The return will surely beat out the emaciated alternatives on display in fixed income markets, especially when properly adjusted to reflect tax preferences that only equities enjoy. Crucially, the current valuation isn’t so dangerously high that investors should be boycotting U.S. markets outright–and definitely not so high that they should be boycotting more attractively priced foreign markets, as some have done, on the false expectation of an impending downturn that restores “normalcy” to U.S. markets.  Corrections and pullbacks? Absolutely.  A dramatic market fall that finally clears 20 years of perceived valuation excess, causing pain around the world?  No. Now, I readily admit, all of the arguments that I’ve given for why we should focus on ROE instead of profit margins are just that–theoretical arguments.  Valuation bears don’t have to accept them.  But I’ve also provided a metric that clearly mean-reverts.  If we want to measure mean-reversion mathematically, with ADF statistics, the ROE metric that I’ve offered is actually more mean-reverting than every iteration of the profit margin thus presented, as expected given its more intuitive connection to the competitive forces that drive mean-reversion. When valuation bears say that CPATAX/GDP, or some other profit margin metric, is going to fall to its historical average, and stay there, they are effectively saying that my metric, the ROE of the U.S. non-financial corporate sector, is going to fall substantially below its historical average, and stay there.  Why should that happen?  Why should competitive forces drive the ROE of the U.S. corporate sector permanently below its historical average, particularly in the present environment of corporate hesitation, where shareholders continue to forcefully demand dividends and buybacks in lieu of competition-stimulating new investment? This article originally appeared at Philosophical Economics.  Copyright 2014. Follow Philosophical Economics on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Yesterday, all of Europe held elections for the European Parliament. One of the big stories was the success of anti-EU, anti-immigrant, right-wing parties. Via Mats Person, here's a look at how they did in various countries. Open Europe FREE AppDownload
There is a persistent concern about recession in the current environment where growth is operating below trend, but there are signs of hope.  Three of my preferred real-time economic data points continue to show signs of positive economic trends: 1)  Rail traffic continues to perform nicely in Q2 after a slowdown earlier in the year.  The latest intermodal reading of 6.8% year over year brings our 12 week moving average to 8.5%.  That’s the highest reading in three years. Orcam 2)  Markit’s monthly US PMI registered a flash reading of 56.2 in May, up from 55.4 in April.  Output was up to 59.6 and new orders fell slightly to 58.2, all solid readings. Orcam 3)  The trend in weekly jobless claims, one of the best real-time indicators of the health of the labor market, continues to trend lower.   Continuing claims were down 13,000 this week to a new recovery low of 2.653 million.  The 4 week average is down to a recovery low of 2.689 million. Orcam FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriThe U.S. is closed Monday for the Memorial Day holiday. That'll give us an extra day to read up on all of the hot debates in the economy and the markets. Market-watchers will continue to obsess over low volatility and high profit margins, both topics we will discuss shortly. Economists, on the other hand, will focus on housing data this week. Friday's new-home sales report was very encouraging. Societe Generale's Kit Juckes expects more good news will keep coming.  "These data will help ease some of the concerns expressed by Fed Chair Yellen before Congress on 7 May that “readings on housing activity - a sector that has been in recovery since 2011 - have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching”," noted Juckes. "These concerns were also expressed in the 29-30 April FOMC minutes." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Folks like Deutsche Bank's David Bianco have argued that profit margins have made a structural move higher. Meanwhile, bears like GMO's James Montier and John Hussman have argued that margins are doomed to revert to a mean. In an unexpected twist, the profit margin bulls are now saying we've been missing the point. Rather than quibbling over profits as a percent of sales, we should be considering profits relative to capital (e.g. return on equity, return on assets). After all, this is the primary metric a business considers before making an investment. "Profits of GDP and net margins are incomplete profit metrics," said Bianco in a research note on Friday. "Profits should be measured relative to capital employed and both NIPA based ROA and S&amp;P financial statement based ROE measures are consistent with history."" Jesse Livermore, the pseudonymous author of the brilliant Philosophical Economics blog, explains in a post on Sunday. The mistake we’re making here is to assume that corporations “compete” for profit margins.  They don’t.  Profit margins have no value at all.  What has value is a return. The decision to expand into the market of a competitor and seek additional return is not a decision driven by the expected profit margin, the expected return relative to the anticipated quantity of sales.  Rather, it’s a decision driven instead by the expected ROE, the expected return relative to the amount of capital that will have to be invested, put at risk, in order to earn it. Suppose that you run a business.  There is another business across town similar to your own whose market you could penetrate into.  If operations in that market would come at a high profit margin, but a low return on equity–i.e., a low return relative to the amount of capital you would have to invest in order to expand into it–would the venture be worth it? It obviously wouldn’t be worth it, regardless of how high the profit margin happened to be. Conversely, suppose that the return on equity–the return on the amount of capital that you would have to invest in order to expand into the new market–would be high, but the profit margin would be low.  Would the venture be worth it?  Absolutely.  The profit margin would be irrelevant–you wouldn’t care whether it was high or low.  What would attract you is the high ROE, the fact that your return would be large relative to the amount of capital you would have to deploy, put at risk, in order to earn it. This is not to say that the return on capital metrics are high. They're just not as out of whack as the profit margins we usually hear about. "Domestic corporations clearly aren’t generating as much profit on their invested capital as a superficial glance at the profit margin would suggest, which sheds doubt on the claim that 'competitive arbitrage' is going to dramatically drive down profitability in the coming years," said Livermore. Philosophical Economics For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Watch out. Bitcoin is moving again. After a long period where it was just sitting in the mid-$400s, the digital currency is rising again. It's had a big holiday weekend and in the last couple of days has neared $600. Bitcoinwisdom Of course, it's got a long road back to where it was late last year, when it was over $1,000. But after being dead money for awhile, signs of life are back. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comGood morning! It's going to be a quiet day in markets thanks to the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. But European markets are largely open, and they're currently digesting yesterday's European Parliamentary elections. There are two storylines that played out yesterday. One was the rise of the anti-EU right wing. In the U.K. and France, the big winners were the UKIP and National Front respectively. Both parties are extreme right, and are Euroskeptics. The right win also turned in strong showings in other European countries. The other storyline — and this is the one the markets seem to be reacting to — is the vote for political stability in Italy, and to a lesser extent Greece. In Italy, the party of sitting liberal Prime Minister Matteo Renzi scored a massive 40% of the vote, giving the government a mega mandate for reform. As such, the Italian stock market is up 2.5%, leading a generally green day across the continent. FREE AppDownload
