(Reuters) - Herbalife Ltd &lt;hlf.n&gt; would pay $15 million to settle an 18-month battle over a class action lawsuit brought by a former distributor claiming that the nutrition and supplements company is running an alleged pyramid scheme, according to a U.S. court filing. The company would pay $15 million in cash, plus up to $2.5 million for product returns, according to the court filing that granted preliminary approval for the settlement on Friday. Under terms of the settlement, Herbalife would also make "numerous changes" to its business model for at least three years after the settlement receives final approval, the court filing said. Short-sellers and other critics have accused companies such as Herbalife, NU Skin Enterprises Inc &lt;nus.n&gt; and USANA Health Sciences Inc &lt;usna.n&gt; of running pyramid-type schemes, questioning their sales model under which distributors make money not only from their own sales but from people they recruit as distributors. Final court approval is still needed. Dana Bostick, a California housing inspector, filed the lawsuit in April last year, claiming that hundreds of thousands of other distributors have failed to make much money by trying to sell the products. "The potential cost, as well as the distraction, disruption and burden of prolonged litigation on the company and its management team, led the company to decide that the terms set forth in the settlement agreement provided the best path for moving forward," Herbalife said in a statement on Friday. The company said the settlement did not contain an admission of liability or wrongdoing. Herbalife gave Carl Icahn three additional seats on its board earlier this year, after the activist investor openly voiced his support for the company. Pitted against him is the company's most prominent critic, fellow activist William Ackman, who unveiled a $1.16 billion short position against Herbalife in December 2012. Under the agreement, Herbalife must make a number of changes to its corporate policies, including how it defines its distributors, paying shipping charges for products that are legitimately returned by members and making clarifications in its membership agreement to make them less confusing. The product return fund would be available to distributors who file valid claims for the return of unused and unopened products, according to Friday's settlement. The plaintiff lawyers expect to seek fees equal to 30 percent of the combined sum of the settlement amount, the court filing said. "In return for the economic and corporate policy changes provided in the settlement agreement, the settlement class will agree to fully release Herbalife from all claims that were or could have been raised in the complaints in this action," Judge Beverly Reid O'Connell said in the filing. Herbalife shares closed up about 3.7 percent at $52.46 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. The stock has lost about a third of its value so far this year. The case in United States District Court Central District of California is Dana Bostick v. Herbalife International of America Inc. et al CV 13-02488-BRO.   (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Aaron T. Goodman / FlickrChina's manufacturing PMI missed expectations, coming in at 50.8 rather than 51.1. This is also down from September's read of 51.2. Remember that any number lower than 50 in this metric suggests a contracting economy. So this is bad. What people watching the China slow down have been hoping for is some consistency here. In August PMI got walloped along with a whole host of other economic indicators. That was a warning to the government that China's economic landing was getting rough, and so they responded with some capital injections — nothing major — to keep cash moving through the economy as demand slowed. In September, numbers came in a little rosier. There was a bit of a sigh of relief. This October PMI number will have everyone on edge again. FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  To Beat The Robots, You Must Join The Robots (Financial Advisor Magazine) Charles Schwab and Fidelity Investments unveiled "robo" advice programs that offer relatively inexpensive, algorithm-driven portfolio-management programs for investors. This follows several others including Ritholtz Wealth Management. Obviously, this has gotten traditional advisers nervous. The best way to "beat" the new crop of robo-advisers is to join them. Advisers at other firms should also start to offer online services to clients. For example, Merrill Lynch recently rolled out with Merrill Clear, a digital service that allows advisers to help clients plan for retirement. "Flesh-and-blood advisers who use digital tools have an advantage over algorithms because they can 'marry technology and human behavior,'" said Daniel Satchkov, the president of Rixtrema. The European Government's 'Shutdown' Isn't Going To End Well (Charles Schwab) The European Central Bank was basically shut down following the enactment of a more aggressive stimulus: two government-led plans including the ECB bond-buying program and the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership were effectively ended. This is critical because these two plans were a large part of plan to save the eurozone. "A year ago the US shutdown ended with a bang, as it was resolved fairly quickly, clearing the way for a strong 2013 for US stocks and continued economic growth. However, we think the shutdown in Europe is more likely to end with a whimper, as Europe's economy and stocks continue to suffer at its own hands," writes Jeffrey Kleintop. Ultra-Wealthy Clients Have Global Needs (Financial Planning) Ultra-wealthy clients are living increasingly global lives, and so their finances must also be addressed in a global manner. "The world has become more global and clients have become more global. They expect to be able to work with the entire bank," says Chip Packard, the cohead of wealth management at Deutsche Asset and Wealth Management. Additionally, banks are increasingly attracting wealthy clients outside of the US, who also needed to be served locally. So as time goes on, banks and advisory firms will be addressing these changes in wealthy-clients preferences. UBS Wealth Management Is On Par With A Major Rival (The Wall Street Journal) "The UBS AG's Wealth Management Americas unit saw strong inflows, but poor market performance during the third quarter outpaced those gains," reports Michael Wursthorn. "Still profit rose at the wealth management group on higher operating income for the quarter." However, the productivity of advisers was up by 9% from last year, and up 1% since the second quarter. The US advisers had up to $1.08 million in average revenue. This puts UBS on the same playing field as its rival, Bank of America's Merrill Lynch brokerage group, according to Wursthorn.  It's Not About Minimizing Risk, But Rather About Being Adequately Compensated For That Risk (Morningstar) "[I]nvestors need to understand that every investment comes with risk. There's no such thing as a risk-free investment, expecting maybe Treasury bonds. But certainly when it comes to stocks, every company involves risk, and it's a matter of understanding which risks are worth taking and which risks are being rewarded for," says Matt Coffina. It's also important to understand what "risk" means. It's not volatility that's important, but the fundamental risk to business. In other words, the things that can affect a company's intrinsic value negatively in the long run. There are 12 such risks: business-cycle risk, industry-cycle risk, technological-disruption risk, competition, regulatory risk, interest-rate risk, financial-market risk, commodity-price risk, currency risk, stewardship risk, event risk, and valuation risk. FREE AppDownload
One story has dominated Wall Street this week — the sad divorce and custody battle between Jefferies global head of healthcare, Sage Kelly, and his ex-wife Christina.  In an incredibly detailed deposition, Christina alleged that she and her ex-husband used drugs and engaged in extramarital sex. What's more, she said they routinely did so with business associates, naming the names of high-powered Jefferies staff. Kelly is now on a leave of absence. On Friday Jefferies CEO Richard Handler and Chairman Brian Friedman responded to all of this in a memo supporting his employees and condemning the media circus surrounding Kelly's private matter. As the week progressed, the media and some of our major competitors have piled on, using categorically denied allegations made by one individual as the basis to launch a judgment of everything Jefferies. While we would like to ignore the tabloids, the blogs and whoever is feeding them, we know they continue to scrounge around for more random tidbits to string together, and we just cannot sit by silently. We are proud that the one thing that has allowed Jefferies to persevere and, more often than not, prosper, is our attitude. Handler and Friedman said that they met with each of the individuals named in the deposition and maintained their belief that they represented the culture of the firm. They also said that the Jefferies healthcare team had volunteered to take drug tests. "The two of us can of course attest that all tests came back drug-free," they wrote. Their words for the rest of Wall Street weren't as warm. One reporter publicly confirmed that a CEO of a top 5 bank personally emailed him the lurid details of the lawsuit, and we also have heard directly from other reporters that they also are getting information and encouragement to pile on from some of our competitors. When Jefferies competes, we do it in the financial markets by trying our best to help our clients succeed, not by spreading baseless rumors and lies in order to damage our peers. We expect you will hear more lies about us and even hear from reporters who would like to dredge up old news because, at this point, there is absolutely nothing new to write about the unfortunate custody proceeding. We are aware that there is an ongoing campaign that includes calling former employees to get “dirt” to string together fabricated themes of “bad people” and a “broken culture.”  Read the full memo below: To Our Clients and Friends: The two of us have worked at Jefferies for a combined 39 years. We have survived challenging times and direct assaults, but that is what happens when you are working with partners to build a business that will endure. We have always met challenges honestly and directly, and we will not stop or back down now. We are not devoid of issues or problems at Jefferies, and we believe even one example of bad behavior or the smallest of fines, lawsuits, or penalties is one too many. However, we would gladly put our track record of compliance and regulatory focus up against the record of any one of our major competitors. This past week has been beyond painful for us, as a child-custody case has led to groundless questions about the integrity of our firm. As you may have read, our partner who is in the middle of all this has taken a voluntary leave to focus on his personal life and the best interests of his two children. This is a terribly sad situation and our hearts go out to him and his family. As the week progressed, the media and some of our major competitors have piled on, using categorically denied allegations made by one individual as the basis to launch a judgment of everything Jefferies. While we would like to ignore the tabloids, the blogs and whoever is feeding them, we know they continue to scrounge around for more random tidbits to string together, and we just cannot sit by silently. We are proud that the one thing that has allowed Jefferies to persevere and, more often than not, prosper, is our attitude. Jefferies’ culture is based on integrity, putting our clients first, a truly entrepreneurial spirit, transparency, tenacity and humility. It is the driving force that enabled Jefferies to grow from a firm with $7 million of net income in 1990 to a firm that today has a $45 billion balance sheet, north of $3 billion in annual net revenues (with over half from Investment Banking), and a global full service platform with 3,850 employee-partners. Although if other companies found themselves in this unfortunate current predicament, they might step back and just send in the lawyers, we did something different, in keeping with who we are and the quality of the people who are our partners. The two of us sat down with each person named in the custody case documents and talked it all through. We then had similar discussions with other folks on our healthcare team and in other parts of our firm. We wanted to know what they all thought. We wanted to gauge for ourselves whether any of our own understanding of our culture was inaccurate. What we found was exactly what we expected – hard-working people doing their best for clients and for Jefferies. With that confirmation, we went to our partners in healthcare investment banking yesterday afternoon and said, “The two of us are going to go take a drug test, and do you want to join us?” Our Global Head of Investment Banking and the three other investment bankers mentioned in the custody-case papers as alleged serial drug abusers stood up and each said, “I do.” They were deeply offended by the allegations and were eager to have the opportunity to set the record straight. Every one of our other healthcare Managing Directors then volunteered to come with us. They were not even mentioned in any document, but they chose to do this to show solidarity with their partners and also prove that suggestions of rampant drug use are pure fabrication. The two of us can of course attest that all tests came back drug-free. Obviously, none of us anticipated the events of the last week or volunteering to take a drug test, so this was truly a random drug test. To be frank, we are embarrassed that we even have to discuss these matters, but this should put to rest the heart of the allegations about our firm. Sometimes truth does come in a jar. As for the “media,” we must carefully and respectfully question whether this past week was approached with objectivity and balance. One reporter publicly confirmed that a CEO of a top 5 bank personally emailed him the lurid details of the lawsuit, and we also have heard directly from other reporters that they also are getting information and encouragement to pile on from some of our competitors. When Jefferies competes, we do it in the financial markets by trying our best to help our clients succeed, not by spreading baseless rumors and lies in order to damage our peers. We expect you will hear more lies about us and even hear from reporters who would like to dredge up old news because, at this point, there is absolutely nothing new to write about the unfortunate custody proceeding. We are aware that there is an ongoing campaign that includes calling former employees to get “dirt” to string together fabricated themes of “bad people” and a “broken culture.” Nobody wants to hear from the hard-working Jefferies people who deliver for our clients every day across our firm, our thousands of satisfied and loyal clients, or the thousands of us at Jefferies who are proud of our firm and our culture. Good news does not sell newspapers, but you, our clients, know us and know how we do business. We believe our work for each of you, our results over time and our enviable regulatory record speak louder than any of this titillating nonsense. Honesty, Integrity, and Humility — we have tried to live by these guideposts and will continue to do so, regardless of what distorted old stories or made up new ones are slung at Jefferies. We will focus on doing the best job possible for the considerable business you have entrusted us with. In closing, let us extend our sincere apologies for the distraction of this past week. The two of us are available to meet or speak with any of you at any time. We look forward to getting back to what we do – putting our clients first, always. Respectfully,Rich and Brian   FREE AppDownload
 I once bought 20 custom suits in just over a week. Why? Well, back in 2007 when I founded my first business, A Tailored Suit, I needed a manufacturing partner. I wanted to work with an established tailoring company or a group of tailors that could help me grow my business. My vision was that I was going to be the front end and they were going to be the back end – together we’d make a splash in the custom clothing world. Unfortunately it didn’t work out that way (I did find success – just not in custom clothing). Now I don’t regret that decision one bit – I wasn’t going to go out there and build or buy a factory. However in a short span of time I needed to test these tailors’ skills. I wanted to make sure that these tailors would be able to deliver what they promised. In about seven days I seriously met with over a hundred tailors (no joke!) mostly in Hong Kong and Bangkok- cluster cities where some of the world’s best tailors are known to be based. I also traveled to London and New York as I wanted to look at some of the best suits in the market. In the middle of all of that travelling and all of those meetings I managed to take away 5 important lessons. These lessons are sure to help you build your wardrobe. Allow me to start with this premise: Building a classic wardrobe takes time. I consider myself pretty knowledgeable on the subject of men’s clothing having read multiple books and generally conducting much research. However I still found myself making numerous mistakes by attempting to build a full wardrobe on such a short amount of time. This is partly because of these reasons which are also the 5 things I learned: Out of those 20 custom suits that I purchased only two remain in my wardrobe. The fact is about ten of those suits weren’t up to my quality standards. It is also very fair to say that what I was drawn to then and what I like now have changed drastically. The two suits that I still wear are the ones that were “simplest." I had them made in classic worsted wool fabrics- navy and charcoal and their styling was timeless. My point? Your style will evolve over time so stick with menswear that has stood the test of time. Classics are classic for a reason- they never go out of style and will still be on trend year after year. This saves you money and time as you’re not having to reload your wardrobe. Because I didn’t have a lot of time to spare I lost the opportunity to negotiate and bargain with these tailors. I ended up buying everything at full retail prices. I overpayed and wasted about $3,000 to $5,000! If you have the time (about 12 months) you can actually build a timeless wardrobe very affordably. The way to do that is to spend time finding sales, thrifting, comparing prices and just looking for good deals. Everyone has a case of wanting it all- this is where adding too many details comes in. Don’t make this mistake – in fact the most elegant and timeless outfits in menswear such as black tie are incredibly simple! You may love checked fabric, slanted hacking ticket pockets, peak lapels, gold buttons, and elbow patches…….but don’t try putting all of this into one coat. If you add in too many details – especially ones that contradict each other in formality you’ll end up creating a bad suit…….or at best one that is not at all versatile. Just like cooking- if you add every spice you can think of you’ll end up with a dish no one wants. Granted some of my bad suits were not entirely my fault. I was also at the receiving end of not so good advice that steered me in the wrong direction. Be careful of salesmen who will say anything just to get a sale or even tailors who don’t really have a clear understanding of fit and fabric. Look for a menswear rep who understands fit, function and fabric. And when you find them – stick with them and send them referrals! All of us have different budgets and priorities but one of the most important things I learned is that if your finances allow it work with the best. In the long run this will save you money AND time.   One of my biggest frustrations was the time I had to spend going back and forth with a manufacturer who was constantly sending me clothing with errors. I understand the occasional mistake, but the person yu work with has to own up and be willing to fix and get better/reduce error through better quality control. The best decision I made was to pay a 25% premium for the best tailor in a city – immediate errors were not only reduced, but he also made suggestions that improved my vision of the final product. That is what you pay extra for – an artist and engineer who can help you create a suit or sport jacket better than you could have designed alone. Quality custom suits are certainly not cheap but to the right man they are worth the investment. Don’t waste your money and take the lessons I learned and use them to save yourself from headache……. …..and 18 useless suits!   This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Some interesting data from Pew Research on life satisfaction by age... Pew Research The scale of the chart is tight, so the broader conclusion is that we're all generally satisfied (but not thrilled) with our lives. But there's a clear pattern. 20 year olds are relatively upbeat. Then life gets worse until age 55.  Then, by the time we're 80, we're pretty happy again. FREE AppDownload
The 3D printing industry is set for some major innovation now Autodesk, Inc. has launched the world’s first investment fund for the industry. With plans to invest up to $100 million into entrepreneurs, startups and researchers pushing the acceleration of the new technology over the next several years, Autodesk hopes the fund will unlock 3D printing’s potential. Samir Hanna, Autodesk’s vice president and general manager of Consumer Products and 3D Printing, said “the days of taking a closed, top-down approach to innovating for additive manufacturing are behind us”. “Numerous industries recognise the value of tapping into entrepreneurs or startups with better ideas and approaches, and 3D printing is no exception.” Companies and individuals in the 3D printing industry with big ideas and developing software will have to apply to become apart of the The Spark Investment Fund portfolio. If successful, not only will they receive funding but they will also become part of the Spark partner program and have access to marketing and other developer services. In 2012, Business Insider US listed Autodesk as one of the hottest investment ideas on Wall Street due to its high foreign sales exposure. Two years on, Citi is saying the company’s 4D technology is set to utterly transform the world – watch this space. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe stock market set a record high on Friday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The rally really began in Japan when two pieces of news crossed. First, Nikkei reported that Japan's $1.2 trillion behemoth Government Pension Investment Fund would ramp up its exposure to foreign and domestic stocks. Second, the Bank of Japan unexpectedly announced a big boost to its quantitative-easing stimulus program. The Nikkei went bonkers, surging 4.8% to close at a seven-year high. 2. The US had some good economic news. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index unexpectedly jumped to 86.0 in October from 84.6 a month ago. The Chicago PMI unexpectedly spiked to a 12-month high of 66.2 in October from 60.5 in September. "The bounceback in the Barometer marks a solid start to Q4 and suggests that against a backdrop of concerns about weakening growth in Europe and China, the US economy is still growing firmly," ISM-Chicago said in its release. 3. In a sign of labor market tightness, the employment cost index jumped 0.7% in Q3. "This is the fastest pace of quarterly compensation that we have seen since late 2008," BNP Paribas' Bricklin Dwyer noted. "The measure popped up to 2.2% y/y, accelerating from the previous 10-month's 1.8-2.0% range." 4. The stock market has been on an absolute wild ride in the last two months. It went from its all-time intraday high of 2,019 on Sept. 19 (all-time closing high 2,011.36 on Sept. 18) down its Oct. 15 low of 1,820.66. The Dow set an intraday all-time high of 17,395 today. Don't Miss: WALL STREET'S BRIGHTEST REVEAL THE MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD » FREE AppDownload
SpaceX founder Elon Musk told Management Today recently: "I like Richard and I think he’s doing some cool things. But technology is not really his whack you know. But once the technology's developed in terms of operating it in a way that people really like, I think he’s quite good at that." We asked Richard Branson to respond to Musk's comment and tell us about the progress of his own space project.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Real Vision Television Raoul Pal This is coming as central banks in the rest of the world maintain loose monetary policy or even go as far as to loosen monetary policy further. All of this is bullish for the US dollar relative to other major currencies. Business Insider recently asked the smartest people in finance for what they considered to be the "most important charts in the world." Without hesitation, former global macro fund manager Raoul Pal sent us a long-term chart of the US dollar index. "The chart of the US dollar is by far and away the most important chart on earth," said Pal who is author of The Global Macro Investor and founder of Real Vision Television. "If we break the trend line we will be entering potentially one of the biggest dollar bull markets in decades, if not ever. This would be the biggest technical break in the history of fiat currencies." The US dollar is involved countless amounts of international transactions around the world. In the financial markets, it's used broadly in what's called a carry trade. Simply put, a carry trade is one where a trader sells one asset and uses the proceeds to buy another, in this case selling one currency to buy another. "Considering the dollar is the world's funding currency this has the ability to create havoc on the unprecedented $5trn carry trade — with China at the epicenter," Pal said.  Raoul Pal      FREE AppDownload
 For two decades, Singita lodges have been a destination for the world's wealthy to experience an African safari in the lap of luxury. So naturally Wall Street has taken notice. With 12 different safari experiences at five destinations that represent a combined total of half a million acres in three countries — South Africa, Tanzania and Zimbabwe  — Singita promises equal parts adventure, relaxation and cultural experience. One high-powered hedge fund manager told Business Insider its Pamushana Lodge in Zimbabwe was the nicest place he'd ever stayed. That's saying something. "Our guests are looking for exclusivity on many different levels," says Jason Trollip, Tourism Executive at Singita. In addition to world-class cuisine, he says, the lodge offers "exclusive access to some of the most pristine areas of land without bumping into other vehicles or feeling rushed at animal sightings." It's also known for its extensive learning and conservation programs. This is what your day looks like when you're on safari: You wake up at sunrise, eat breakfast, pile into a vehicle and head to the bush with your guide. That's when the show starts. Depending on which camp they're visiting, guests can spot elephants, lions, leopards, cheetahs, giraffes, crocodiles, hippos, monkeys, buffalo, and more. Sometimes they're in herds. Leapords play at the Singita Sabi Sand 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Vimeo				 Singita Grumeti in Tanzania offers a safari on horseback for seasoned riders. For eight days it's just you, your guide and your horse — with daily stops at Singita's luxury lodges along the way. The wild animals have gotten so accustomed to seeing horses around that riders can get extra close. Of course, all of the nature comes at a price. A five-bedroom  villa at the luxurious Pamushana Lodge will cost you in the range of $8,280 per night for 1-6 guests. For a double suite, each adult needs to shell out approximately $1,380 per night.  Compared to Singita's South African lodges, though, that's not so steep. A family suite at the Singita Sabi Sand costs $3,953 per night for 1-3 people. Wildebeests wade in the river at Singita 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Vimeo				 SingitaOne of the stops on the horseback  safari, the Singita Sasakawa Lodge. So more and more of the jet set are getting out of their comfort zones and into Africa. Well-known hedge fund manager Whitney Tilson has his own bond with Africa. He lived for 3 years in Tanzania as his father worked in developing and running education programs. Last year, Tilson amused many in Wall Street circles by sending out a mass email asking if anyone wanted to rent his parents' beach home in Kenya — $500 per adult per night, during the holidays. It includes access to "deep sea fishing, swimming with dolphins and dhow cruises," according to Tilson's parents' website. lamubeachhome.comHedge fund manager Whitney Tilson lived in Tanzania whiile his father worked in education in Africa. His parents' home in Kenya is available for rent. Increasingly, luxury vacations are about customizations. Singita is no different. Guests can build the experience they want, including going on safari by hot air balloon. "Spotting a pride of lions or some cheetah from the balloon is a treat! Low flying over the tree tops is an incredible experience, as you can almost touch the earth, and its creatures below," Singita's Trollip says. A lot of guests head to Singita because they're interested in conservation. They go through education programs on wildlife, sustainability and protecting animals from poachers. Others like to go into local villages and check out how Singita supports communities through The Singita Community Development Trust. Over the years the trust has worked with governments to create a wide variety of programs.  At the Singita Sabi Sand in South Africa, the Trust has established the 'Growing To Read' program. It helps local teachers hone their skills in the classroom. The Singita School of Cooking, at the Kruger National Park lodges in South Africa, is a competitive program that prepares eight to ten for a career in the culinary arts. Singita also has an environmental education centre for local kids at Singita Grumeti in Tanzania, which is comprised of Singita Sasakwa Lodge, Singita Faru Faru Lodge, Singta Explore, Singita Serengeti House and Singita Sabora Tented Camp. "Africa changes every day, and it changes you," Trollip told Business Insider. "Having access to this luxury of space resonates with our guests who are seeking meaningful, life-changing experiences rather than just a vacation." SingitaSingita Castleton in South Africa FREE AppDownload
When it comes to gasoline prices, what goes up must come down – and vice versa. Or so it seems to US motorists, who have been on a roller coaster ride with gas prices over the last decade. In 2008 alone, the national average jolted above $4 a gallon in the summer before plunging to around $1.85 a gallon in November. Gas prices are notoriously fickle, spiking unexpectedly or suddenly tumbling at various points throughout the year. Why do gasoline prices go up and down so much across the US, and what causes the changes? There are a variety of factors at play – some seasonal, some state-specific, some globally significant, and some the result of unpredictable natural disasters. At about $3 a gallon, current rates at the pump are good news for motorists who’ve paid closer to $4 a gallon for many of the past several years. It means money everyday Americans save at the pump can be spent elsewhere, giving the overall economy a lift. But low prices can hurt energy firms that depend on higher prices to finance exploration. Cheaper fuels also promote the everyday use of larger, less-efficient vehicles and can delay investments in cleaner energy sources.   The most recent price drop can be attributed mostly to basic supply and demand. “If it were not for the recent boom in North American crude production and improving fuel efficiency of US cars, it’s likely drivers would have paid $4 a gallon or higher in recent years,” says Michael Green, spokesman for automotive group AAA. “The US is making more crude and gasoline – improving the supply situation – at the same time that cars are growing more fuel-efficient and demanding less gasoline.” So with all the new oil, shouldn’t US gas prices be even lower than $3? Not necessarily. Gasoline is inextricably linked to the crude oil from which it is refined. Oil is traded globally, which means developments halfway across the world can influence the price at the corner gas station. Right now, demand might be relatively flat and supply rising in the US, but developing Asian economies are increasingly dependent on oil. Last year, China overtook the US as the largest oil importer, using it to fuel cars and create products for an expanding middle class. That extra demand – combined with the rising cost of oil production – has kept upward pressure on oil and gasoline markets. Still, prices today are lower than they’ve been in years – and lower than they would be without the US oil boom. Here are five major factors that determine gasoline prices: The most obvious determinant of gas prices – making up 67 percent of the price according to the US Energy Information Administration – is the cost of the resource gas comes from: crude oil. Fluctuations in gas prices tend to track fluctuations in crude – and currently, with oil prices sliding to the lowest levels in years, gas prices are sliding as well. That fall in oil prices is the result of booming North American production, Saudi Arabia’s hesitance to cut output, and a drop in Asian demand. For more on why crude oil prices have fallen 25 percent over the course of summer 2014, check out the Monitor’s explainer on the precipitous oil price drop. Gas stations sell summer blend gas during the hot summer driving season, and revert to cheaper winter blend gas in the winter. Summer blend gas creates less smog – particularly important during warm summers, when more drivers hit the road and travel longer distances. But that summer blend gas comes at a cost, says Mr. Green: “It can add anywhere from 10 to 15 cents a gallon.” Most states follow Environmental Protection Agency rules for introducing summer blend in June and phasing it out mid-September. If you’re in California, though, you’re buying the “summer blend” earlier than June and into October – raising the cost of gasoline, but reducing smog in a state historically plagued by air quality problems. Drivers tend to hit the roads more in the summer, driving up demand for gas, and driving up prices as well. In the winter, rough roads and inclement weather encourage motorists to keep the car in the garage – or at least avoid long road trips. That drives demand down, making gas cheaper in the winter. Weather-related disasters like hurricanes can also push up gas prices. The bulk of American refineries are concentrated near the Gulf Coast, where late summer tropical storms and hurricanes sometimes disrupt both refining capacity and offshore oil drilling. And those disruptions can be passed along to the rest of the country if the coast loses power. “If the pipelines don’t have electricity they cannot supply gas to the Northeast and Midwest, and you can see prices go up outside of the affected region,” says Green. Gas prices vary widely based on where you are in the US. In remote Hawaii, where it’s costly to ship products, gas prices were above $4 a gallon in October – even as the US average flirted with the $3 mark. But proximity to refineries isn’t the only reason locations matters, according to Green. “The biggest determinant of gas prices in individual states is the tax they have on fuel,” he says. Varied tax rates mean gas in South Carolina – which taxes only 35.15 cents a gallon – is significantly cheaper than gas in North Carolina, which taxes 55.15 cents a gallon, according to information compiled by the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group. And those tax differences are passed along to consumers: Gas in South Carolina was $2.76 a gallon on October 30, while it sold for $2.93 in higher-taxing North Carolina, according to data from GasBuddy.com, a website that collects gas prices nationwide. Refineries tend to do regular upkeep work in the fall and spring, which can lead to interruptions in the supply of gas. And when supply is limited, prices go up. “Spring often has the highest prices because demand is increasing, refineries are conducting maintenance, and they’re getting ready for the switch over to summer blend gasoline,” says Green. Refinery problems are less of a threat in the summer and winter – i.e., outside of the maintenance seasons – and those periods tend to have stronger production. But with demand for gasoline high in the summer, Green says, winter is the only time when steady supply and low demand result in cheap gas. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVMike Mayo"Just by becoming mediocre, Citi stock can double in 4 years," CLSA analyst Mike Mayo told Business Insider. He reasoned that the stock should be able to make that gain no matter who's running the company.  This, ladies and gentleman, is optimism. On Thursday, Citi revised down its Q3 earnings after a $600 million addition to its legal reserves. But in a note on Friday Mayo argued that the bank is only using 2% of the cash it could use for its legal cushion.  So the question isn't whether or not the bank has enough cash. The question is whether that $600 million number is liberal or conservative. Is management giving the bank enough room to handle legal costs stemming from the financial crisis, impropriety at its Mexican subsidiary Banamex, the Libor exchange rate scandal and more?  Or will we keep seeing Citigroup's name in the media for this kind of activity over and over, concerning stockholders? "Taken collectively Citi is a poster child of the problems in banking for the last 4 decades," said Mayo, "But what I like is they're not trying to be the next G-whiz growth stock. Now does that mean they still need to clean up from what they had, yes..." But the cleanup, as long as the bank is able to pass its stress test in March, shouldn't be G-whiz stuff either. "Citi stock should double over four years merely by moving back to average," Mayo wrote in his note. "It should improve efficiency back to historical and peer levels, redeploy capital aided by big tax benefits, run-off legacy assets and pursue “restructuring by a 1,000 cuts.” This should lead to greater stability and an increase in ROA by half (to 1.2%). This thesis fell short for the past year, partly given the failed Fed stress test, but the math still works, especially with higher capital." That said, if the bank doesn't pass its stress test in March, "heads will roll," he told Business Insider. Mayo out. FREE AppDownload
The latest employment cost index report came out from the Bureau of Labor Statistics this morning. Overall compensation increased by increased by 0.7% in Q3, and wages increased by 0.8%. Year-over-year, compensation is up 2.2%, with wages up 2.1%. This looks like the wage growth that everyone has been looking for after signs the labor market is tightening up. "The acceleration in wages is not really a surprise given how tight the labor market is, see also all the work we have done on this topic in recent months," Deustche Bank's Torsten Slok said. "The wage acceleration we are seeing tells us that the NAIRU in the US economy is around 5.9%. Fixed income investors should be paying attention to the rising trend in wages because the FOMC will not be ignoring it. In other words, it is time to protect your portfolio against higher rates." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe stock market set a record high on Friday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The rally really began in Japan when two pieces of news crossed. First, Nikkei reported that Japan's $1.2 trillion behemoth Government Pension Investment Fund would ramp up its exposure to foreign and domestic stocks. Second, the Bank of Japan unexpectedly announced a big boost to its quantitative-easing stimulus program. The Nikkei went bonkers, surging 4.8% to close at a seven-year high. 2. The US had some good economic news. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index unexpectedly jumped to 86.0 in October from 84.6 a month ago. The Chicago PMI unexpectedly spiked to a 12-month high of 66.2 in October from 60.5 in September. "The bounceback in the Barometer marks a solid start to Q4 and suggests that against a backdrop of concerns about weakening growth in Europe and China, the US economy is still growing firmly," ISM-Chicago said in its release. 3. In a sign of labor market tightness, the employment cost index jumped 0.7% in Q3. "This is the fastest pace of quarterly compensation that we have seen since late 2008," BNP Paribas' Bricklin Dwyer noted. "The measure popped up to 2.2% y/y, accelerating from the previous 10-month's 1.8-2.0% range." 4. The stock market has been on an absolute wild ride in the last two months. It went from its all-time intraday high of 2,019 on Sept. 19 (all-time closing high 2,011.36 on Sept. 18) down its Oct. 15 low of 1,820.66. The Dow set an intraday all-time high of 17,395 today. Don't Miss: WALL STREET'S BRIGHTEST REVEAL THE MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD » FREE AppDownload
ReutersTraders work on the floor of the Buenos Aires Stock ExchangeThe Argentine government has been facing a serious question — to devalue the peso or not to devalue — so of course traders are betting on the future strength of the currency. Some, naturally, are on the losing side. Traders on the wrong side of this bet have lost $480 billion since Oct. 1st, reports Bloomberg's Camila Russo. It was on Oct. 1st that Alejandro Vanoli was appointed head of Argentina's Central Bank. The man he replaced, Juan Carlos Fabrega, was at loggerheads with President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Axel Kicilloff, the country's Economy Minsiter and a former Marxist professor, over how to steer the economy. Wall Street basically saw Fabrega as the more market friendly voice in the room — a voice the country needs. Argentina's inflation sits around 40%, industrial activity and exports have fallen. Currency reserves are low, and capital flight is endemic. However, Kirchner's government has made it clear that does not want to devalue the peso after already devaluing it back in January. When Vanoli took over, he reassured Argentines that he wouldn't be devaluing the peso either, throwing the Central Bank behind the President's policy. So now the currency market is repositioning itself, and some traders at Argentina's big banks are getting caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. On Thursday night, President Fernandez de Kirchner told the nation that there was no need for alarm. Yes, growth had slowed, but employment remains stable. A battle with a group of hedge funds over sovereign debt had not damaged the economy, she said. And another bright spot — the Buenos Aires just received its first currency swap payment from China. The country took in $814 in yuan and has a line of credit up to $11 billion. Of course, the Chinese have to approve it first. FREE AppDownload
Buffett can perhaps best be understood as a manager/investor/philosopher whose primary objective is turnover reduction. . . . To Buffett and Munger, there is a compelling, Zen-like logic in choosing to associate with the best and in avoiding unnecessary change. Not only is it a path to exceptional economic returns, it is a more balanced way to lead a life; and among the many lessons they have to teach, the power of these long-term relationships may be the most important. —William N. Thorndike, Jr., The Outsiders: Eight Unconventional CEOs and Their Radically Rational Blueprint for Success Any professional investor who hopes to have a long and sustained track record of success must be willing to adapt to changing market conditions and time horizons. Even Warren Buffett, the legend of long-term investing, can’t always rely on the same tricks. At the recent Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholders’ meeting, Buffett was the subject of some unusual criticism for his decision not to vote against Coca-Cola’s executive compensation plan — a plan he publicly opposed. Many people were taken aback by Buffett’s uncharacteristic behavior of neglecting shareholder interests, especially considering how vehemently he has defended shareholders in the recent past. But in Buffett’s early days, he actually engaged in numerous activist investments, including his takeover of Berkshire Hathaway. Much like today’s most notorious activist investors (Carl C. Icahn, Bill Ackman), Buffett made a name for himself by identifying market inefficiencies that could be exploited for the benefit of his investors and public shareholders. But unlike the corporate raiders of the 1980s, Buffett wasn’t out to tear companies down. In fact, he wanted to help build them up. Here’s a look back at some of Buffett’s most notable activist campaigns and how he’s adjusted his approach to take advantage of a constantly evolving investment environment. Sanborn Map In 1958 Buffett bought a major stake in the Sanborn Map Company, a publisher of detailed maps of all US cities and towns. Buffett noticed that the company had built up a sizable investment portfolio, so he joined with other shareholders to lobby the board to realize the value of the portfolio. The board had virtually no ownership of the stock — a telltale red flag for today’s activist mavens — and protested the efforts of the “outsider” attempting to make change. But Buffett ultimately got what he wanted when Sanborn Map executives voted to exchange a portion of their investment portfolio for company shares, narrowly avoiding an ugly proxy fight. Buffett’s lesson: Beware of corporate executives with minimal stock ownership. Their interests likely won’t be aligned with common shareholders. Dempster Mill Manufacturing Company In 1961, Buffett obtained majority control of Dempster, a manufacturer of farm implements and water systems, purchasing 80% of the stock at nearly a third of its value. Initially, Buffett worked with the old management to try to improve operating numbers, but the effort proved fruitless. Instead, Buffett brought in his own manager to clean up the balance sheet by getting rid of slow-moving inventory and selling off unprofitable facilities. The company quickly became profitable again, allowing Buffett to exit his investment in 1963 with a nearly threefold gain. Buffett’s lesson: Try working with current management to improve the company. If it doesn’t work, don’t be afraid to cut the cord and move on. Berkshire Hathaway Beginning in 1962, Buffett began buying up shares in textile manufacturer Berkshire Hathaway, and by 1965, he had acquired majority control of the company. Buffett then met with management and offered to sell his shares back at a discounted rate, but the company lowballed him. Infuriated, Buffett forced out the management team and installed Ken Chace as manager. Since then, the company stock has soared by about 500,000% (no, that’s not a typo). Buffett’s lesson: If you can’t trust someone to keep their word, you probably can’t trust that person as a business partner. Coca-Cola Buffett first bought Coke stock in 1988 — right at the cusp of the beverage company’s emergence as a global brand — and is today the largest shareholder. Yet when it came time to cast his vote against a controversial executive compensation plan, Buffett abstained from voting altogether and opted to speak privately with Coke CEO Muhtar Kent. Buffett defended his actions by explaining how corporate boards are “part-business and part-social organizations,” rationalizing that an open dialogue would be more effective than going to “war” with Coke, a company which he still considers a core part of his portfolio. Buffett’s lesson: Don’t go to war with your business partners if you don’t have to. The potential short-term gain is not worth the long-term consequences. Although the outcome of Buffett’s inaction has yet to be determined (according to reports, Coke will indeed revise the plan), the incident represented quite a departure from his earlier days of shareholder activism and “control” positions. As Buffett’s investment sizes and time horizons have changed, he has moved toward a more collaborative model of activist investing. As a long-term investor, he realizes the importance of his relationships and does not want to be hostile to corporate boardrooms. In the case of Coke, he views his relationship with the company and Muhtar Kent as more of a marriage than a transaction, and it takes much more than a lavish shopping trip to break up a marriage. Buffett is and always has been one of the world’s great activist investors. But like an astute general, he’s careful about picking which battles to fight and which weapons to use. If you liked this post, don’t forget to subscribe to the Enterprising Investor. All posts are the opinion of the author. As such, they should not be construed as investment advice, nor do the opinions expressed necessarily reflect the views of CFA Institute or the author’s employer. FREE AppDownload
ESPN The survey asked respondents of 43 nations to measure their happiness on a scale of 0 to 10, where 10 represents the highest rung of life's ladder. Those who answered between 7 and 10 were counted as being happy.  Mexico, a country plagued with crime and corruption, had the overall highest score in the survey, measuring in at 79% satisfaction in life. Mexico's response represents a shift in what The Economist called a "fraying link between happiness and income." On average, people residing in countries with advanced economies like Germany, France, Japan, and the US answered with a median of 53% of having a comfortable and gratifying life. Of the 10 countries with advanced economies, Israel is the leader of the pack at 75%.  Half of Mexico's counterparts, like Venezuela and Brazil, weren't too far behind by listing their lives as highly satisfying. Meanwhile, people in countries in the Middle East, including Tunisia, Jordan, and Egypt, said they were the least satisfied among the emerging nations. The Pew report also noted that few Ukrainians were happy, which may "reflect the considerable turmoil in their country." Representing the developing economies, Uganda, Tanzania, and Kenya were the most dissatisfied with their lives out of the 43 nations sampled. Here is the full list of all 43 surveyed countries:  Pew Research Center FREE AppDownload
Married women are increasingly the breadwinners in their families, and are basically the only reason that median incomes in the US have risen at all in the last 45 years.  This chart is from Betsey Stevenson, an economist on President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.  Here's more detail from a recent White House report on work and family: Among married women who are working, 24 percent earn more than their husbands compared to only 7 percent in 1970. Growth in married women’s earnings has been an essential component of growth in family incomes with most of the growth in family income over the past several decades coming from women’s rising earnings. In 2013, the income of employed married women comprised 44 percent of their family’s income, up from 37 percent of household income in 1970.  This has partially been because women’s real incomes have risen at a time when male income has stagnated. As a result, nearly all of the rise in family income since the 1970s has been due to women’s earnings. FREE AppDownload
Halloween brings lots of sweets — sweets we know are bad for us. But just how bad? We did the science and found out.
Mikhail Prokhorov thinks that his American basketball franchise, the Brooklyn Nets, has grown eightfold in value in the five years since he acquired it for $223 million. For the time being, though, no one agrees with him. That’s to say there is no buyer at Prokhorov’s asking price of $1.7 billion. If Prokhorov drops his price to $1.2 billion, as some sports media reporters say, there is still no buyer. When Prokhorov bought the Nets — his stake is 80% — he told Bloomberg: “There is only one way to go — up. I like to find cheap assets with problems. It gives me power.” Today, if he’s obliged to accept a deal at the current industry valuation of $780 million for the team, Prokhorov must count that he has spent an additional amount of more than $600 million in player purchases, loss cover, debt service, and luxury taxes, ending up with no profit at all. If up was power in 2010, is down impotence today? So, is Prokhorov selling out of the US? On Thursday, according to his spokesman in Moscow, Prokhorov "will not comment on this subject, and he has not commented on it before for anyone." This isn't the buzzer. It's just the beginning of the game, though basketball, this isn't. On Prokhorov's profit-loss record and his score for delivering on his promises, Bloomberg and the New York sports media have been mesmerized by Prokhorov's how-to-spend-it advertising. The Russian media have investigated his corporate performance more carefully to discover that what Prokhorov advertises in asset value, he often fails to realize or deliver. Here is the loss-making record at Polyus Gold, Uralkali, Rusal, and Renaissance Capital. Five hundred miles north of New York City, Prokhorov has been unable to persuade the Toronto stock market to buy shares of his Intergeo mining company at two attempts. At the third, he found a way of reversing into an already listed, if insolvent stock. Prokhorov also appears to have failed to persuade the National Basketball Association, the professional league’s corporate authority, that it should allow him to change the legal domicile of his ownership of the Nets from the US to Russia. The impetus for that move was Prokhorov’s ambition to run for political office at home, and the 2013 Russian statute forbidding election candidates from holding foreign assets. Prokhorov called the asset prohibition a “trick.” This is how the publication of the Nets reported Prokhorov’s withdrawal from the Moscow mayoral race in September 2013. Earlier this year, after receiving a Kremlin award for his support of the Sochi Olympic Games, Prokhorov announced that "a Russian company will own the basketball club. This does not violate any NBA rules and I will bring it [under Russian jurisdiction] in accordance with Russian law." The NBA responded negatively. "The Nets are owned by Mikhail Prokhorov through a US-based company," Mike Bass, an NBA spokesman, said: "We have received no official application nor is there a process underway through our office to transfer the ownership of the Nets to another company." The NBA statement was issued almost a year after Prokhorov had opened negotiations with the NBA on the change of domicile. "Preliminary discussions with the NBA were held in spring, 2013," Onexim Sports &amp; Entertainment, Prokhorov’s US company, revealed on March 25. "At that time, the League indicated its willingness to work with us in the event we needed to reregister the ownership vehicle of the Nets as a Russian entity to comply with the Russian law regarding candidates for political office. This is a long process which may or may not come to fruition and nothing is imminent. Of course, no steps in this direction could or would be taken without the full knowledge and approval of the NBA." John Helmer/Dances With Bears In reality, US sports reporters believe, there are US rules against foreign domicile for a professional sports team. There is also no precedent for the US sports leagues or the US courts to allow the change Prokhorov has been seeking. Public skepticism toward Prokhorov's contributions to New York sports and to Brooklyn has grown as he attempted to extricate himself. Selling the Nets, according to one theory of Prokhorov's intention, followed his failure on the domicile issue. A second theory is that Prokhorov is trying to exit now — before the sale price of the Nets concession starts to tank. When Prokhorov first bought the Nets, he promised to do whatever it would take to produce an NBA championship for the unsuccessful team. That included spending big money to buy players. One reported estimate is that between 2010 and 2012 Prokhorov had paid out $330 million for player contracts. At first, Prokhorov said the Nets would win the championship within five years (2015); then three years (2013). "Every team has a grand plan," he announced, "and we're moving slowly, step by step, because it's easy to make a strong team, but it's very difficult to make a championship team. So we are on the right way and I'm expecting our championship within three years now." The Nets general manager, Billy King, was more cautious. "He said five, so we're down to three. To me, it's a great goal. I'd rather him say that than say, 'Hopefully we're going to win a championship at some point.' That's the goal, and I look forward to the challenge." A year later, King and Prokhorov had hired and fired three coaches. At present, there is little optimism the Nets can end their losing streak. "In Year 5 of the Mikhail Prokhorov regime," reports EPSN, "which he openly hoped would deliver a championship in five years or less, Brooklyn just wants to hang on as a playoff team until it has cap space to play with in 2016. 'Til then? Everything hinges on big comebacks by Brook Lopez and Deron Williams." For the NBA championship record since 1946, click here. For the losing record of the Nets, click again. Prokhorov's team has acknowledged that last season it suffered a loss of $144 million. Why wait, Prokhorov may be calculating, for another year of outlays if the championship remains as out of reach as ever? At the start of this month, Prokhorov signaled that he was looking to cut his losses and sell part or all of his stake. Several transaction formulas were reported. But the deal reports have stopped as abruptly as they appeared. The New York papers have concluded either that Prokhorov had found no takers for his price, or that he wasn’t a serious seller at all. In Moscow there is much greater conviction that Prokhorov is trying to sell out of the US and that the reason is the US government’s sanctions campaign to isolate and topple President Vladimir Putin. Other oligarch groups are also selling, or have already sold out; they include steelmakers Alexei Mordashov and Roman Abramovich, and pipemaker Dmitry Pumpyansky. US asset-holders who aren’t feeling the same patriotic pinch include Anatoly Chubais and Mikhail Abyzov. According to domestic calculations, some oligarchs have more sensitive problems than others in the way their capital is aligned with the country’s conflict with the US. Prokhorov's problem with the Nets has been compounded by his political ambitions and by his sister, Irina Prokhorova. The director of the Prokhorov Foundation, she has also been the head of the Civic Platform, Prokhorov's political party. In July she resigned from the party because she opposes Russian policy in Ukraine, particularly the accession of Crimea. Other party members believe it is suicidal for the party to take that line. In her resignation statement, Prokhorova said: "this is an incredibly knotty situation, and I'm in the grips of a conflict between emotions and the sense of duty. I am unable to express my position openly because I'll otherwise start contradicting the majority of the party members." Prokhorov has tried to say a good deal on the Ukraine problem, but he has carefully avoided saying a word about Crimea. His manifesto of April, published in Kommersant, can be read here. Last week, Rifat Shaikhutdinov, the Civic Platform's chief executive, said there would be no split in the party over Crimea, and that Prokhorov intended to resume his leadership. The sale of the Nets and other foreign assets, he said, were part of Prokhorov’s political comeback strategy. “In order to lead the party into the parliamentary election, Mikhail Prokhorov must sort out the issue of his Western assets. In line with the law, participation in political activity is impossible with foreign assets … We are the right [wing] party, but we are still patriotic towards the country and our people.” David Butler II/ReutersBrooklyn Nets forward Mason Plumlee shoots against Boston Celtics center Jared Sullinger in the first quarter at TD Garden on Oct. 22.Prokhorov is in an awkward spot, Shaikhutdinov concedes, because the prices of his assets are falling. “I know that a deal is close on the Brooklyn Nets basketball club. But for a number of assets, [the sell-off] is not so fast, unfortunately.” Prokhorov responded to Shaikhutdinov with a blog comment last week. "Not without surprise do I read Rifat Shaikhutdinov’s interview to the Izvestia newspaper today. I didn't know that reading my thoughts belongs to his duties at the post of chairman of the Civic Platform’s federal political committee. I am engaged in planning for the political future myself, and I will inform the public too, on my own."   This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, Janet Yellen gave a speech at the Fed about how more diversity among economists might have helped them figure out some of history's most recent economic crises. That's obviously impossible to know. But we can be pretty sure that diversity matters. After the speech, Ann Mari May, an economics professor at the University of Nebraska - Lincoln contacted Business Insider to let us know that she and a team of colleagues recently published a paper confirming that gender does matter in economics: women in the profession are likely to hold different beliefs than their male colleagues, even controlling for place of current employment and decade of Ph.D.  The sample size in the study is small but the key point is that, all (well, most) else being equal, female economists seem to have slightly different views on how the economy should work. They aren't hugely different, but they clearly reflect the idea that these women, who are just as smart and just as well-trained and just as capable as their male colleagues, look at the world from a slightly different angle. And that's worth digging into. Summing it up, May told us, "Generally speaking, women in our study were less likely to favor limiting government-backed redistribution than men and were far more likely to view gender inequality as a problem in the labor market, and were more likely to favor government intervention over market solutions."  How different were the women's views? The paper notes that, "the mean views of women economists on government spending, taxing, and redistribution and on gender inequality are both approximately one standard deviation away from the mean opinion of male economists." This isn't a well-studied phenomenon, so there isn't a lot of other data to back this up. But May did do a follow up study of European economists that hasn't yet been published. Here's the full paper:   FREE AppDownload
He left his role as chairman of the Luxembourg-based Leyne Strauss-Kahn &amp; Partners on Oct. 20 for reasons that aren't totally clear (officially "to dedicate himself to other activities"). Three days later, his business partner, Thierry Leyne, fell from a building to his death in an apparent suicide in Tel Aviv, Israel. Leyne owned just over 30% of the company, while Strauss-Kahn owns a little more than 20%. Now, The Wall Street Journal is reporting allegations that the firm made “totally unauthorized” trades with its clients' money, dating back to 2011. (DSK joined only in 2013.) A Swiss hedge fund, Insch Capital Management, has accused LSK of taking money without permission from Insch's bank account to buy shares in a Swiss insurance company called Firstcaution, which happened to be majority-owned by LSK. LSK, which had an agreement with Insch to buy and sell shares from the latter's account, says that it did indeed have permission to make those trades. Insch, obviously, disagrees. Details from the The Journal: According to data from Euronext, on most of the days when trades occurred in 2011, only 10 shares of the little-trafficked firm typically changed hands per day, while there were no trades at all in 2012 or the first two months of 2013. But volumes then spiked last year, with hundreds of thousands of shares changing hands on single days over the course of 2013, amounting to €6.6 million worth for the year. Part of this trading included a transaction worth more than $400,000 from Insch’s account at VP Bank, a Luxembourg-based private bank, according to Insch’s letter. Another insurance group, Bâloise Luxembourg, has filed documents in court in Luxembourg accusing LSK of failing to return a €2 million ($2.5 million) portfolio that had been invested by LSK's fund-management division, Assya Asset Management. Regulators from Switzerland and Luxembourg are still looking into these allegations, it seems. The website for LSK partners appears to have been taken down, and we were unable to reach the company for comment. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/STKNewYork It's Friday evening. You're out on a date. And you order a Manhattan. Again. A classic is always a great choice taste-wise, but variety is the spice of life. Sometimes you should venture out and go for a bolder, lesser-known option — if for no other reason than to impress your date with your cocktail savvy. And there's a lot to discover here. Business Insider collected a list of outstanding but relatively unknown drinks that every cocktail enthusiast should try at least once. So what are you waiting for? FREE AppDownload
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has seen it all. Skyrocketing inflation, widespread food and medicine shortages, and one of the world’s highest murder rates — not to mention furious protesters blaming the misery on 15 years of “Bolivarian” socialist rule by Maduro and his late political mentor, Hugo Chavez. Way up the proverbial creek, the president has so far managed to navigate all those national calamities. But, as these charts show, he may now face losing the paddle. Alex Leff/GlobalPost Crude oil prices have sunk by about one-fifth since June. On Thursday, a Reuters poll marked the biggest downgrade to oil rate forecasts since the global economic crisis. Cheaper oil — that’s fantastic news, right? For consumers maybe. But these numbers paint a bleak picture for South America's leading crude oil exporter. Alex Leff/GlobalPost The Chavez and Maduro governments have relied on Venezuela’s vast oil bounty — its reserves of 298 billion barrels are the largest in the world — to shore up support through massive social spending on the poor. The problem is that Caracas’ dependence on oil is now almost absolute. Global crude prices have dropped by about 25 percent since June. That’s prompted speculation that Venezuela may be headed toward a debt default. Even if that doesn’t happen, Maduro’s room for political maneuver at home has been seriously trimmed, says John Saucer, vice president of Houston-based analysts Mobius Risk Group. “We are carving out a new range,” he adds, predicting that global oil prices will settle in the medium term at somewhere between $75 and $85 a barrel. Nevertheless, the Maduro administration still has a few cards up its sleeve, especially if it hangs an ideological U-turn and allows Western oil majors to make new investments in its energy sector. “You have got to remember they are sitting on just huge reserves,” Saucer says. Does the future of Chavez’s “revolution” now depend on cutting deals with the likes of Exxon or Chevron, some of the most powerful players in a global capitalist system that “El Comandante” once declared an enemy? FREE AppDownload
Social media has been circulating this chart on US crude oil, that seems to indicate that the US is sitting on excessive inventories. That's simply not true. In fact US crude oil availability in storage, as measured in days of supply, is tighter than it was last year. EIA The same holds true for gasoline. EIA Furthermore, the WTI futures curve is in backwardation, indicating that the demand for physical crude in the US remains robust (this is not the case for Brent). Sober Look Sharply lower crude oil prices is a global phenomenon and is by no means an indication of slack demand or excessive inventories in the US. FREE AppDownload
FORT LAUDERDALE Fla./ZURICH (Reuters) - From bundles of cash inside scraps of newspaper to setting up shell companies, the trial in Florida of a former UBS executive is a reminder of the extreme methods some Swiss bankers used to hide clients' cash.     Raoul Weil, 54, is the highest ranking Swiss banker to be arrested in the United States and prosecutors are seeking to paint him as a facilitator of efforts that helped conceal up to $20 billion in taxpayers' assets in secret offshore accounts. Weil's main defense has been that these efforts were done by people below him and that the U.S. cross border business was a tiny fraction of his overall responsibilities. If convicted, Weil faces up to five years in prison for conspiracy to commit tax fraud. Weil and his attorneys declined comment on the trial.     At the trial, which pits Weil against several former UBS colleagues who have chosen to cooperate with U.S. authorities in exchange for favorable sentencing, Swiss bankers have testified about using an arsenal of James Bond-like tactics to avoid detection while in the United States, and to help U.S. clients keep their accounts hidden from tax authorities.     Bankers were given laptops with two hard drives, Hansruedi Schumacher, who formerly ran UBS' cross-border business, told the trial, which began on Oct. 14 and is expected to run for about four weeks.     One hard drive was filled with anything from family photos and personal emails while another contained a password-protected database with the U.S. citizens' code-named bank records. Another witness said the drive with the bank details could be wiped simply by typing in a short password.     "It was known all those account holders were not paying their taxes, and for the Swiss bank it was a very profitable business," Schumacher said during testimony at the trial.        Eskander Ensafi, who banked with UBS, told the court about a clandestine meeting in 2005 at a Los Angeles hotel with bank adviser Claude Ullman. The adviser handed him roughly $50,000 in U.S. bills wrapped in newspaper, Ensafi testified, tax-free interest from a Swiss bank account in the name of Ensafi's father, who had just suffered a debilitating stroke. Ullman was sued by a number of U.S. individuals -- who were jailed for not paying U.S. taxes by hiding their money in Swiss bank accounts -- for alleged racketeering, along with UBS and a number of high ranking bankers, including Weil, in a 2009 lawsuit in the Eastern District of California. The case was dismissed with prejudice in September 2014. An attorney for Ullman did not respond to a request for an update on the case.     German businessman Juergen Homann, 72, who pleaded guilty to a U.S. charge of failing to report a foreign account to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in 2009, told the court one UBS client adviser, Hans Thomann, helped him set up a Hong Kong-based shell company. The company, the Prodon Foundation, was then used to funnel income Homann made from his raw minerals business venture in China. Attempts to reach Thomann for comment were unsuccessful. In 2012, he was charged in the Southern District of New York with conspiracy to defraud the United States and conducting an unlicensed money transmitting business.         SHADOW OF SECRECY     Switzerland's biggest banks have paid a heavy price to settle their U.S. tax evasion cases. UBS admitted to helping U.S. taxpayers hide money and paid a $780 million fine in 2009, while Credit Suisse pleaded guilty in May to a U.S. criminal charge and will pay more than $2.5 billion in penalties. Since U.S. authorities began to chip away at the wall of Swiss banking secrecy in 2008, details have trickled out of the extraordinary lengths bankers would go to in order to smuggle assets in and out of the United States.     A U.S. Senate report published earlier this year described how a customer at Swiss bank Credit Suisse was given statements tucked into the pages of an issue of Sports Illustrated magazine at a hotel meeting. Former UBS financial adviser Bradley Birkenfeld admitted in 2008 to smuggling diamonds in a tube of toothpaste for a client. Birkenfeld was a whistleblower in the tax fraud case against UBS and won a record-setting $104 million reward from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.     On top of the fines forked out by Switzerland's two biggest banks, about a dozen smaller Swiss players are still under U.S. criminal investigation and face serious penalties, while many more have joined a government-brokered program allowing them to make amends if they aided tax evasion by wealthy Americans.     The United States is not the only jurisdiction that has cracked down on tax evasion by its wealthiest citizens. UBS is under investigation in France over whether it helped wealthy individuals there dodge taxes. Investigating magistrates have proposed that UBS pay a fine of 4.88 billion euros ($6.2 billion), according to a judicial source.     The bank also booked a near-$300 million charge in the second quarter of this year, mainly to settle claims it helped wealthy Germans evade taxes.     The bankers who helped move clients' money around undetected are themselves faced with a legal bind that goes beyond financial penalties.     Since 2009, the U.S. Justice Department has charged more than 30 bankers and advisers in the offshore investigation, including several Swiss bankers set to testify at Weil's trial, while others have been arrested by European authorities.     In some cases, the accused can cooperate with foreign authorities in exchange for lighter penalties. However, such a move could put them at risk of violating Swiss banking secrecy laws, an offence punishable by up to three years in prison and a fine of up to 250,000 Swiss francs ($262,000). Failure to cooperate, though, can expose the bankers to the danger of being detained by foreign authorities whenever they leave Switzerland. FREE AppDownload
Robert Libetti for BI Studios This post is sponsored by Spark Business<U+2120> from Capital One®. Starting your own company is arguably one of the hardest — and most rewarding — things you can do, so it's no surprise that entrepreneurs have interesting and inspiring stories to share. As part of our Fast Track Q&amp;A series, we spoke with the owners of six small businesses, including a duo that started a wildly successful sandwich chain and a couple that opened the first post-Prohibition brewery in their hometown. They all talked candidly about their strangest jobs, their greatest talents, and their tips for aspiring entrepreneurs. We've selected some of the best answers to highlight here.  FREE AppDownload
Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba said its online sales volume would exceed the global sales volume of US retail giant Walmart in two years. "Within two years, the online retail volume of Alibaba will exceed the sales of Walmart," Xinhua news agency quoted Alibaba's president Jin Jianhang as saying at a global e-commerce summit in east China's Hangzhou city. In the first half of 2014, Alibaba's total trading volume reached 931bn yuan ($151bn, £94bn, €120bn). Its trading volume in the second quarter hit 501bn yuan, up 45% year on year. In 2013, Alibaba reported a gross merchandise volume of $248bn on its three major trading platforms, more than the combined volume of its US rivals eBay and Amazon.com. After completing its mammoth IPO in the US, the e-commerce company is looking for a multi-faceted expansion. The company's plan involves reaching billions of consumers within China and expanding its presence across the globe. It recently announced plans to expand its reach across borders by upgrading its upcoming 11 November shopping festival into a global online shopping carnival. In addition, the company plans to invest 10bn yuan within three to five years to build thousands of facilities in rural China to tap rising demand in these areas. For the year ending on 31 January 2014, Walmart reported total sales of $476bn, the largest in the world. The retailer also reported combined revenues of about $235bn for its first two quarters of 2014. FREE AppDownload
ReutersArgentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner.After a whipsaw summer that included the close of a decade-long lawsuit, a technical default, the most dramatic of political theatrics, and a contempt ruling from a US court — things have been relatively silent out of Argentina. But some rumblings out of Wall Street indicate that there could be a change afoot. One word — "acceleration" — threatens to force an end to the stalemate between Buenos Aires and its creditors that has been in place since the country went into default this summer. Acceleration is the nuclear option. It is the ultimate expression of the collective belief that Argentina will not pay bondholders. With acceleration, all bondholders call in their entire debt immediately. In its fullest expression, that amount in the tens of billions of dollars — far greater than what Argentina, with only $28 billion in its central bank reserves, can pay. The country went into default this summer for refusing to pay a group of holdout bondholders led by Paul Singer of Elliott Management. For years the holdouts insisted on being paid 100 cents on the dollar for Argentine bonds dating back to the country's 2001 default. They argued that all bondholders, regardless of whether they had accepted a haircut on their debt, should be paid equally. That argument won, but Argentina did not care. And in not caring, Argentina made it impossible to pay the bondholders who had restructured their debt, the exchange bondholders. That is, until January, when the country says it can finally legally negotiate with the holdouts. It is the frustrated exchange bondholders who are now dangling the threat of "acceleration" in Argentina's face. After default, Argentina set up a mechanism for exchange bondholders to get paid in Buenos Aires, instead of New York, but it hasn't worked. The country missed an interest payment due at the end of October. The money, $161 million deposited last month, still sits in custody and the government won't talk say whether or not anyone has collected. That is why exchange bondholders have been talking about acceleration — a move that could lead to yet another protracted legal battle with The Republic. "We were asked in very theoretical terms what our thoughts were on acceleration," one bondholder told Reuters. "It was something intermediated by an investment bank. The shop leading the offer did not want to be identified." In August, exchange bondholder hedge fund Owl Creek Asset Management gave a presentation about Argentina, Bloomberg says. In it, the fund detailed how it could use the threat of acceleration to get a better seat at the negotiating table in January. Owl Creek said the bondholders had "the right to accelerate and have their principal immediately payable in full ... This would lead to a seat in settlement negotiations in January, likely resulting in an exchange into new bonds which trade closer to par." For that to happen, Owl Creek would have to get 25% of bondholders holding debt maturing in 2038 to agree to acceleration. Argentina, for its part, has said these exchange bondholders should blame the holdouts for their troubles — and US judge Thomas Griesa, who ruled in the holdouts' favor. So what could actually happen? If no one accelerates, the saga between the holdouts continues into next year. Exchange bondholders have said that they're looking to January to see if Argentina actually negotiates with the holdouts. But, of course, there is the potential that enough bondholders do agree to accelerate. "That's actually a win situation for Argentina," said David Fernandez, a public finance lawyer at Buchanan, Ingersoll &amp; Rooney. "There is a strategy there that could force a settlement." Because Argentina could not pay all the exchange bondholder debt at once, it would have to restructure. This could take negotiations out of the country's hands and place them in the hands of a court and bondholders. That would save face for Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who has said that her hands are tied as long as the holdouts, which she calls "vultures," will not allow her to make any payments to anyone. "Here you're talking about a sovereign nation that definitely has assets, so right now you have a stalemate created by the circumstance," the lawyer Fernandez said. "This gives you the possibility of other bondholders coming in and assuming a position of authority and direction ... Then Argentina can still stand there on the sidelines and wave their hands and say it's unfair but also look they accomplished something without doing anything." Of course, Elliott Management's Singer and the holdouts may not like the terms they get in this type of restructuring. Argentina might not like them either, and another legal battle could ensue — if Argentina has the stomach for it. "It's a very explosive, high-risk type of strategy," said economist Claudio Loser, a founder of the Centennial Group.  "I don't understand what they [the exchange bondholders] are trying to get unless they just want to put fear into the hearts of the Argentines so that they negotiate." Given how Argentina has behaved through this entire drama, it's not crazy to think The Republic may in January continue to resist negotiating with holdouts. It could be that this threat of acceleration is one way exchange bondholders ensure that they do. "It is very scary because what is clear is that the Argentines can't pay that [accelerated debt]," Loser said. "If they accelerate, the Argentines have to call for a restructuring of the whole debt and everyone will end up in a worse position, especially now that Argentina is not doing so well economically." That worsened economic situation means that Argentina is running out of time. It is hard to read the signs out of Buenos Aires, but the president and her administration may have been waiting for a new government to deal with this issue — one that would not take power until December 2015. Now that option is gone. Low commodity prices, capital flight, inflation, and inclement weather have all wreaked havoc on the country's economy, Argentina doesn't have time to waste. Dollar reserves are low, and to continue to pay the debt it is servicing, those reserves could dwindle down to $15 billion by the middle of next year. "The most time they have is through the end of summer vacation in Argentina, which is February," Loser said. Now, it seems, the vultures are truly starting to circle. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneMichigan fans cheer before the start of the NCAA football game between the University of Alabama and the University of Michigan at the Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas September 1, 2012. Consumer confidence in America is in great shape. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index jumped to 86.9 in October from 84.6 in September. This was also much higher than expectations for 86.4. This comes despite stock market volatility and fears over things like the spread of the Ebola virus. It's worth noting that gasoline prices have been tumbling, which frees up lots of spending power for consumers. Click Here For Updates » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressWorkers dye the Chicago River green as part of the city's annual St. Patrick's day celebrations in Chicago.Great news out of the midwest. The Chicago purchasing managers index jumped to a12-month high of 66.2 in October, up from 60.5 in September. This smashed expectations for a 60.0 reading. "The bounceback in the Barometer marks a solid start to Q4 and suggests that against a backdrop of concerns about weakening growth in Europe and China, the US economy is still growing firmly," ISM— Chicago said in its release. “Concerns about the global economy and the continued low level of inflationary pressures may persuade the Fed to keep rates lower for longer, but the domestic economy is growing healthily," MNI Indicators' Philip Uglow said. FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, Mohamed El-Erian remarked briefly on CNBC that the QE trade was not dead, but rather evolving. We were interested in hearing more. Here is what Mohamed came back with. Given that the Federal Reserve terminated Wednesday its large/scale asset purchase program, it's tempting to also call an end to QE’s influence on trading strategies. That would be a mistake. Rather than become an irrelevant input, the QE influence is evolving. The prior QE trade was essentially a bet on the length and effectiveness of the Fed’s repression of volatility across markets and, therefore, its ability to boost asset prices in excess of what would be strictly warranted by fundamentals. It worked extremely well, and virtually for all asset classes as the Fed’s experimental policies also altered traditional correlations. By announcing Wednesday that its getting out of the QE business, and doing so before the “lift off” of the real economy, the Fed is now shifting its policy emphasis fully to forward policy guidance. And while our central bankers re-iterated that interest rate would be low for a “considerable time,” this is likely to be a less potent approach to repressing volatility. Yet this doesn’t mean that QE should no longer be an input into the formulation of trading strategies. Rather, its influence is changing both is scale and scope, starting with the international dimension. The Fed’s QE exit contrasts to what will likely happen in Europe and Japan in the next few weeks. There, central bankers are likely to do more QE rather than less. As such, and after an October respite, we should expect the now more differentiated QE regimes to impart greater volatility to the foreign exchange markets in the context of general dollar strengthening. For technical reasons discussed earlier (including here), such volatility would also likely spill over to other markets. The evolution of the QE influence also means that, when it comes to favorable fundamentals. America’s lead over the rest of the world (and over Europe in particular) would need to increase even more if it is to maintain its equity market out-performance. And in all this, investors in risk markets would be getting even more dependent on a durable growth lift off here, fewer headwinds from abroad, and robust macro-prudential policies to minimize the risks of a market accident. FREE AppDownload
Forget Halloween... Let's just call it Stephanie Ruhle Day!  All Hallows Eve is the Bloomberg TV star anchor's favorite holiday and she owns it.  "I love Halloween because—unlike most holidays—there is no gift, travel, family or meal pressure. It's just about a great party. I especially like costumes because everything is better when you are wearing an afro or a mustache. I spend my days interviewing people, so the last thing I want to do on a Friday night is walk into a crowded cocktail party and discuss jobs, real estate or school admissions....I am however interested in where a stranger may have picked up his chaps or her go-go boots," Ruhle told Business Insider.  She's going to debut two costumes this year. Here's the first one of Ruhle and her husband dressed and Bruce and Kris Jenner. Twitter.com/SRuhle Here's another shot to get the full effect.  Stephanie Ruhle In case you're in need of some inspiration, check out some of Ruhle's past costumes she's been posting to social media for the month of October.  Stephanie Ruhle Stephanie Ruhle Stephanie Ruhle Stephanie Ruhle Stephanie Ruhle Stephanie Ruhle Stephanie Ruhle FREE AppDownload
Flickr / PolycartPersonal spending fell by 0.2% in September, and personal income climbed by 0.2% in September, according to the latest personal income and outlays report from the BEA. Expectations were for personal spending to rise by 0.1 and for personal income to rise by 0.3%. PCE Core rose by 0.1% month-over-month and 1.5% year-over-year, which were in line with expectations. The report showed that private wages and salaries increased by $12.6 billion in September, less than the $30.4 billion increase in August. Supplements to wages and salaries increased by $3.5 billion in September, which was less than August's increase of $4.7 billion. In a note to clients following Friday's report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Marcoeconomics said the next few months would "see spending pick up strongly as people start to spend their windfall from falling gas prices." Last month, personal spending rose by 0.5% and personal income rose by 0.3%. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Federal ReserveA Federal Open Market Committee meeting in the 1970s.The employment cost index increased by 0.7% in Q3, which was higher than the 0.5% expected by economists. "This is the fastest pace of quarterly compensation that we have seen since late 2008," BNP Paribas' Bricklin Dwyer noted. "The measure popped up to 2.2% y/y, accelerating from the previous 10-month's 1.8-2.0% range." A high number is a big deal, because it's both a sign of inflation and labor-market tightness, two forces that put pressure on the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy sooner than later. "This is the Fed’s preferred measure of wage growth and sustained rises of this magnitude could tilt officials towards raising rates earlier next year rather than later," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. Three months ago, traders were quick to blame the surprise 0.7% jump in the ECI for one of the biggest stock market sell-offs of the year. The prospect that the Fed could tighten monetary policy sooner than expected is frequently blamed for causing market volatility. The idea is that if the Fed tightens, then it pulls liquidity out of the credit markets, which indirectly would pull liquidity out of the stock markets. FREE AppDownload
How the Birthday Paradox can be used to explain a remarkable concurrence of events or circumstances without apparent causal connection. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersA Exxon Mobil gas station is shown in Encinitas ,California(Reuters) - Exxon Mobil Corp , the world's largest publicly traded oil company, on Friday reported a 3 percent increase in quarterly profit on higher results in its refining and chemicals businesses. Profit in the third quarter rose to $8.07 billion, or $1.89 per share, from $7.87 billion, or $1.79 per share in the year-ago period. Oil and gas production fell 4.7 percent, the Irving, Texas company said.  (Reporting by Anna Driver) FREE AppDownload
Sir Martin Sorrell, CEO of the world's largest advertising holding group WPP, made the bold statement on the company's third quarter earnings call Friday that its $25 million investment in adtech company AppNexus earlier this year leaves rivals like Publicis Groupe and Omnicom with "nowhere to go." The deal saw WPP take a huge stake in one of the hottest tech startups in New York to help Sorrell's company better compete with Facebook and Google in the online advertising space. On paper it appeared to be a massive bargain as WPP invested $25 million in cash for a 15% stake in AppNexus, which at the time was valued at $1.2 billion following a series of funding rounds. But the deal also comes with the implicit understanding that WPP will continue to funnel its clients' ad money through AppNexus and a newly created Xaxis for Publishers Unit (which AppNexus acquired from WPP as part of the deal.) It's similar to the deal WPP cut with social media marketing platform Buddy Media, on which WPP made a huge profit when the company was sold to Salesforce. Salesforce went on to offer "volume-based incentives" to WPP's larger ad clients because Buddy was the ad group's preferred partner, helping Sorrell's company leverage even more value out of the sale. Sorrell said he prefers these kind of deals with adtech businesses (or "application of technology" companies as he calls them) rather than simply "plonking down a couple of billion dollars in xyz company and the feeling that you might control the application of that technology," because that would be "too risky and dangerous." Instead he believes the injecting some cash and working in a partnership is more flexible and brings WPP's media and data businesses much closer together. He also said it now means there is "no other agnostic platform" between Google's Double Click and Facebook's Atlas on the market, which leaves rival advertising holding groups in a quandary. Sorrell added that the AppNexus investment caused a "considerable amount of consternation and disruption" in the industry. Sorrell revealed rival Publicis Groupe had been trying to cut a deal with AppNexus in Europe, a discussion that has now ended, and Omnicom "would very much like to establish a relationship with AppNexus," which it now can no longer do.  Sorrell suggested strength of Google's Double Click business and the potential rise of new competitors was also one of the reasons Facebook "accelerated" the launch of its Atlas advertising platform to give it a "countervailing force" to go to battle with in the increasingly competitive adtech market. WPP beat analysts' estimates on revenue growth for the third quarter, but posted slightly lower than expected net sales, which it blamed on ongoing geopolitical tensions making clients more cautious and a slowdown in the global economy. Like-for-like net sales were up 3% year on year to £2.41 billion ($3.8 billion, below estimations of 3.3%) and like-for-like revenue (which WPP strips out due to the way it books some of its income) grew 7.6% to £2.76 billion ($4.4 billion.) While missing estimates, WPP was ahead of rivals' recent reported like-for-like revenue growth. Omnicom reported a 6,5% uplift  in its Q3 earnings while Publicis reported 1% revenue growth.  WPP's Q3 performance was buoyed by its advertising and media investment management division, which posted growth of 17.1%  year on year. The UK was the geographical region marking the strongest revenue growth and the second strongest net sales (10.2% and 3.7% lifts respectively.) In North America, revenues grew 7.8%, while net sales were at 2.3% — slower than in the first half of the year. WPP's results often serve as a barometer of the health of the wider global economy — if advertisers are spending, it usually means the economy is going through a purple patch too. In the Q3 results statement, WPP said clients appear to be more confident than they were in 2008 but they "broadly remain unwilling to take further risks, particularly given multiple geopolitical flash points." On the earnings call, Sorrell listed out a number of what he terms "swans" — both known and unknown geopolitcal events that pose risks to businesses and the wider macro and micro economy. More recent developments include the Ebola crisis, the rise of ISIS and the effect of recent demonstrations in Hong Kong on China. "If China sneezes, we all catch cold," Sorrell said.  WPP detailed all the swans in this slide below: WPP FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (AP) — The sight is so surprising that Americans are sharing photos of it, along with all those cute Halloween costumes, sweeping vistas and special meals: The gas station sign, with a price under $3 a gallon. "It's stunning what's happening here," says Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. "I'm a little bit shocked." The sight is so surprising that Americans are sharing photos of it, along with all those cute Halloween costumes, sweeping vistas and special meals: The gas station sign, with a price under $3 a gallon. "It's stunning what's happening here," says Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. "I'm a little bit shocked." The national average price of gasoline has fallen 33 cents in October, landing Friday at $3.00, according to AAA, and will soon dip under $3 for the first time in four years. When the national average crossed above $3 a gallon in December of 2010, drivers weren't sure they'd ever see $2.99 again. Global demand for oil and gasoline was rising as people in developing countries bought cars by the tens of millions and turmoil was brewing in the oil-rich Middle East. Now demand isn't rising as fast as expected, drillers have learned to tap vast new sources of oil, particularly in the U.S., and crude continues to flow out of the Middle East. Seasonal swings and other factors will likely send gas back over $3 sooner than drivers would like, but the U.S. is on track for the lowest annual average since 2010 — and the 2015 average is expected to be lower even still. Trisha Pena of Hermitage, Tennessee, recently paid $2.57 a gallon to fill up her Honda CRV. Like many around the country these days, she was so surprised and delighted by the price she took a photo and posted it on social media for her friends to see. "I can't remember the last time it cost under $30 to put 10 or 11 gallons in my tank," she said in an interview. "A month ago it was in the $3.50 range and that's where it had been for a very long time." How long has it been since you've seen this? Gas for less than $3/gallon has arrived in SoCal http://t.co/h0eyLaWM9f pic.twitter.com/uDRXnOVibw  Seasonal swings and other factors will likely send gas back over $3 sooner than drivers would like, but the U.S. is on track for the lowest annual average since 2010 — and the 2015 average is expected to be lower even still. Trisha Pena of Hermitage, Tennessee, recently paid $2.57 a gallon to fill up her Honda CRV. Like many around the country these days, she was so surprised and delighted by the price she took a photo and posted it on social media for her friends to see. "I can't remember the last time it cost under $30 to put 10 or 11 gallons in my tank," she said in an interview. "A month ago it was in the $3.50 range and that's where it had been for a very long time." Here are a few things to know about cheap gas: — Crude prices came off the boil. Oil fell from $107 a barrel in June to near $81 because there's a lot of supply and weak demand. U.S. output has increased 70 percent since 2008, and supplies from Iraq and Canada have also increased. At the same time, demand is weaker than expected because of a sluggish global economy. — In the past, a stronger economy in the U.S., the world's biggest consumer of oil and gasoline, typically meant rising fuel demand. No longer. Americans are driving more efficient vehicles and our driving habits are changing. Michael Sivak of the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute calculates that the number of miles travelled per household and gallons of fuel consumed per household peaked in 2004. — The drop from last year's average of $3.51 per gallon will save the typical U.S. household about $50 a month. — The drop will save the U.S. economy $187 million a day, and also boost the profits of shippers, airlines, and any company that sends employees out on sales calls or for deliveries. — It will take an extra 1.5 years of savings on gasoline to make purchasing a Toyota Prius instead of a Toyota Corolla pay off. — New York's average of $3.37 is the highest in the continental U.S. South Carolina and Tennessee are the lowest, with an average of $2.75. — Politicians are either going to take the credit for lower gasoline prices or blame the other party for not helping them fall further. Don't listen. There are small things politicians can do over long time horizons, like implement fuel economy standards or ease drilling regulations, but the decline in prices is mainly due to market forces. — Gasoline is cheaper than milk again. In September the national average price of milk was $3.73 per gallon. The annual average for milk is on track to be more expensive than the annual average for gasoline for the first time since 2011. The gap is even bigger for some bottled water lovers. A case of a dozen 1.5 liter bottles of Evian on Amazon.com costs $38.99, which makes for a price per gallon of $8.20. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!   US Futures are in the “Scalded Dog” formation, running well over 1%.  The late afternoon rally on the GPIF news squeezed higher in the overnight, as a double-dose of good news shot Tokyo nearly 5% higher to 7Y peaks (and Nikkei futures are up ANOTHER 2% this AM) - The BOJ said it would expand its annual asset purchases to Y80T from the prior Y60-70T.  Most of the incremental buying would be targeted at JGBs but the pace of stock and property fund purchases would triple, while the GPIF confirmed moving domestic stocks to 25% (vs. 12%), domestic bonds 35% (vs. 60%), foreign stocks 25% (vs. 12%), and foreign bonds 15% (vs. 11%).  In Europe, the DAX is up 2%, led by a nice rebound in the Financials, but volumes remain light.  Over in Asia, the Ruble is collapsing again, despite headlines Ukraine, Russia Reach Deal on Gas Dispute – but the MICEX is still rallying, up 1.5%.   Shanghai added 1.2%, but India leaps another 2% to new all-time highs.    Aussie added 1% despite some of the carnage going on in the Miners.    There is no global sector I could find in the red overnight – China fins among the worst performers, but still added 40bp. The US 10YY is slightly higher, despite a persistent bid in Bunds – after that deflationary CPI print yesterday freaked out the Germans, and their retail sales for December just posted its biggest monthly fall since May 2007.    The real story though is that Greenback, as it leaps near Y112, and looks to take out 2014 peaks against Euro.  Stronger dollar is a huge headwind for commodities this AM – but it’s encouraging to see a bid under Industrial commods like Copper and Lumber, albeit small.   Gold is not happy today off 2%, hit with deflation, a stronger dollar, and momentum/technical selling.  Mixed picture in Energy – with the Oils off roughly 1% and nearing last week’s lows, while the Ukraine gas deal, coupled with cold weather, has that massive short base in Natty bidding it up almost 3%.  Scheduled Catalysts today include PCE at 8:30, at 9:45 we get Chicago Purchasing Manager (Released 9:42 for paying subs), at 1 watch Natty/Oil on the Baker Hughes Rig Count, and 3:30 brings that “Commitment of Traders” data – Late tonight we get Chinese PMI. We have a Russell and S&amp;P month End rebalance today on the close – more details will be in WTAW – I’ll be watching today: REITS as Japanese property REITS leapt over 11% overnight / Watch for a sharp rebound in the SOX after MCHP’s guidance is much better than feared / Capitulatory selling in the Miners, as GDX/GDXJ are making all-time lows this AM / Oil ETFs with the commodity looking to go out October under more pressure – heavy short interest there, if Oil pops today, u will see those 3 ETFs squeeze / Natty – Due North, been saying it all week / Finally – look for people setting up in front of the “Good Harbor” rebalance that may occur Monday - Since the wild session on Oct 15th, The S&amp;P has climbed 10%+ from a intra-day low, while the 10YY is 45bp higher.  In what can only be a amazing coincidence, that's when Good Harbor went to "25% large cap and 75% treasuries" FREE AppDownload
Nacho Doce/ReutersMen fish next to cracked ground as the Atibainha dam lake dries up due to a prolonged drought in Nazare Paulista, Sao Paulo state, October 17, 2014.By this point, everyone knows how the script unfolds. It goes like this: the Federal Reserve makes an announcement about curtailing asset purchases, talk of U.S. yields rising is renewed, and investors pull out of emerging markets in droves. That was how it played out last May after the Fed announced its plan to scale back quantitative easing. And we saw a repeat performance in January when the Fed actually began tapering. Yet both times, there was a surprise ending: U.S. yields did not rise as expected. And in both instances, emerging market currencies bounced back, defying analyst predictions that tapering – or even talk of tapering – would lead to an inevitable and prolonged period of pain for countries heavily reliant on foreign capital. In recent weeks, markets have again reenacted the first part of pattern: the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly, yields began rising and EM currencies depreciated across the board. Since the beginning of September, the Russian ruble has fallen 15 percent against the dollar, while the Indonesian rupiah and Mexican peso have depreciated 3 percent. Equities have kept pace, too: the MSCI Emerging Markets Index has dropped 11 percent since September 5. And this time, Credit Suisse expects the script to unfold differently, and considers it unlikely that emerging markets will bounce back like they did after the last two episodes. It’s true that U.S. yields took a sharp dive two weeks ago on fears of a global economic slowdown, and that temporarily arrested declines in EM currencies. But yields have already partially corrected and should continue to do so as the Fed moves closer to a rate hike. And Credit Suisse has stuck to its call for the first rate increase to occur next June. That view is premised on the fact that the U.S. economy seems to be finally gaining lasting momentum, growing 4.6 percent in the second quarter, the largest expansion since the final quarter of 2011. Barring a complete surprise, then, the Fed is still likely to raise rates next year. In a global market, capital flows change direction because of changes on the margin. So even if the Fed seems likely to start tightening with a mere 25 basis point increase in rates, such a move will nonetheless constitute a major shift in policy, and the effect should be anything but marginal. There will be outflows, say Credit Suisse analysts Ray Farris and Matthias Klein. The only question is how large they will be. There are other factors at play, too. Falling commodities prices — for everything from oil to coal, wheat, maize, copper, and fertilizers — are hurting EM countries whose export sectors depend heavily on commodities, including Russia, Venezuela, and Argentina. Current account deficits in countries such as Indonesia and South Africa have widened considerably as well. Economic slowdowns in Europe and China have also affected those EM countries that trade heavily with those regions of the world. Slowing demand in China, for instance, has especially impacted Chile, Indonesia and South Africa. It’s not all bad news for emerging markets. India, for example, is actually benefitting from lower oil prices because the country is a significant importer of energy. Consumers there are spending less on fuel and slowing inflation may lead the central bank to lower interest rates. Countries more exposed to the U.S. than to China—such as Mexico and Israel—are also benefitting from improving U.S. demand. So while it’s easy to view emerging markets as a unified bloc of countries that only stand to lose by the dollar’s rise, the reality is much more nuanced. A stronger dollar can produce winners, too. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Rodrigo Campos NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures rallied on Friday after the Bank of Japan significantly ramped up its stimulus program just days after the U.S. Federal Reserve wound down its own package of economic incentives. * The BOJ's board voted 5-4 to accelerate purchases of Japanese government bonds, increasing its holdings at an annual pace of 80 trillion yen ($723.4 billion), while tripling its purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment trusts. * At the same time, Japan's $1.2 trillion Government Pension Investment Fund announced new allocations for its portfolio, including raising its holdings of domestic and foreign stock holdings to 25 percent each from 12 percent. A Nikkei newspaper report on this announcement on Thursday contributed to an afternoon rally in U.S. stocks. * Japan's Nikkei  rose 4.8 percent, while S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures rallied shortly before 1:00 a.m. New York time in a sharp volume increase. * The U.S. economic schedule is busy on Friday with key inflation data and a quarterly gauge of worker compensation due at 8:30 a.m. EDT as well as a Chicago survey of business activity and a measure of consumer sentiment both shortly after the opening bell on Wall Street. Futures snapshot at 6:59 a.m. EDT: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were up 22 points, or 1.11 percent, with 281,269 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were gaining 60 points, or 1.47 percent, in volume of 47,050 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were up 187 points, or 1.09 percent, with 47,966 contracts changing hands.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSan Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Williams speaks during an interview with Reuters in Washington(Reuters) - A top Federal Reserve policymaker on Friday said global central banks have had good success with inflation-targeting, but should consider other methods that may work better in the face of low interest rates and the risk of asset bubbles. While San Francisco Fed President John Williams was careful to say he was not advocating either of the approaches he discussed - price-level targeting and nominal-income targeting - both imply even easier monetary policy than what the Fed has used as it has battled low inflation since the Great Recession. His comments came just two days after the U.S. central bank ended its controversial bond-buying stimulus and upgraded its assessment of the labor market, laying the groundwork for the Fed to tighten monetary policy sometime next year. Williams is seen as a centrist policymaker whose views are largely aligned with Fed Chair Janet Yellen. His remarks, prepared for delivery to a conference held at the South African Reserve Bank, did not include comments on his outlook for the U.S. economy or monetary policy. Most major central banks, including the Fed, currently aim at a longer-term inflation rate of 2 percent to 3 percent. That approach, first adopted 25 years ago by New Zealand's central bank, has been "remarkably successful at providing a nominal anchor and keeping inflation low and relatively stable during a period of severe turbulence," Williams said. "Nonetheless, recent events have revealed some chinks in the armor of inflation targeting." Boosting inflation to acceptable levels is hard to pull off when interest rates are near zero, he said, as they are now and as they may be more often in the future, given slowdowns in productivity and other drags on economic growth. That has been an ongoing challenge in the United States, where inflation has lingered below the Fed's 2-percent target for years, despite the central bank's extraordinarily accommodative monetary policy. A second challenge is the ongoing risk of housing, debt, or other bubbles fueled by low interest rates. While central banks may want to raise rates to protect against such risks, he said, doing so would also lower inflation, a potentially costly move if inflation expectations are already low. Given those two challenges, he said, price-level targeting and nominal-income targeting "may have some advantages" over inflation targeting, he said. Under price-level targeting, a central bank allows inflation to run hot for a time to make up for periods when the economy labored under too-low inflation. Under nominal-income targeting, the Fed targets a path for GDP. Both approaches can protect against debt-fueled booms and busts, he said. Still, he said, "it's too early to judge" whether either would be better than inflation targeting, and they could have unintended negative consequences or could be difficult to carry out because they are hard to explain.   (Writing by Ann Saphir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Stringer/ReutersIgnazio Visco The eurozone faces a real risk of deflation, with medium and long-term inflation expectations now at historically low levels, European Central Bank governing council member Ignazio Visco said on Friday. Noting that the outlook for economic growth has weakened across the euro zone, Visco, who is also governor of the Bank of Italy, said 5-10 year inflation expectations had fallen below 2 percent, the ECB's level for price stability. "We are not in deflation but we cannot ignore the concrete risk of it," he said, in a speech to a conference in Rome. He said worsening macroeconomic prospects had brought a return of instability to financial markets which he said could hit Italian government bonds unless there were clear signs of recovery after years of severe economic crisis. "Investor interest in Italian securities is continuing but our economy has to show clear signs of recovery to prevent low growth being reflected in their valuations," he said. Visco also endorsed Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's calls for more flexibility in the application of European Union budget targets, saying that respecting the targets to the letter risked worsening budget imbalances. "Very low inflation, far from the price stability objective and which does not only reflect weak commodities prices, can make the strict respect of deficit rules not only more burdensome but can create pro-cyclical effects," he said. He said a more ambitious pursuit of budget objectives "could worsen the very imbalances which it is intended to contain."  (Reporting by James Mackenzie) FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here are the major stories making headlines and moving markets globally early Friday. Japan Shocked Markets With More QE. In the face of disappointing inflation, Bank of Japan governor Haruhiko Kuroda has hiked Japan’s bond purchases, and the Nikkei soared to a six-year high.  The Eurozone’s Inflation Ticked Up A Little. Eurozone inflation rose to 0.4%, taking pressure to ease off the European Central Bank a little, but not much: the core measure of inflation is at its joint-lowest in history.  Russia Hiked Interest Rates Massively. The Russian central bank raised rates by 150 basis points to 9.5% in a gamble that higher rates will halt the ruble's slide against the dollar and the euro. German Retail Sales Fell Through The Floor. Germany's retail sales dropped 3.2% in September, the worst monthly decline since May 2007.   European Stocks Are Surging. France's CAC 40 index is up 2.03%, Germany's DAX is up 1.75%, and the UK's FTSE 100 is up 1.11%. That's after a massive rally that sent the Nikkei up 4.83%. Ukraine Seems To Have Brokered A Gas Deal With Russia. Russia agreed to resume gas deliveries to Ukraine through the winter in an EU-brokered deal reached by the three parties in Brussels on Thursday, an EU source told AFP.  Consumer Spending Is Coming. Personal income and spending figures from the US are coming, at 8:30 a.m. ET, figures that should give some idea of the economy's strength in September.  RBS Is Braced For $639 Million Of Fines. The state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland has set aside £400 million (€509 million, $639.4 million) to settle allegations of price-rigging in foreign exchange markets.  Sony Reported A Narrower Q2 Loss Than Expected. Operating loss reached 85.6 billion yen ($771 million) in July-September, compared with the average estimate of 164.3 billion yen by three analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. FREE AppDownload
More than 84,000 buildings worth over $129 billion lie in flood zones in New York City, according to an analysis released by the Office of New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer on the two-year anniversary of Hurricane Sandy. "It's easy to think that Sandy was a 'once-in-a-lifetime event,'" Stringer told VICE News, "but climate science tells us that rises in sea level and more frequent severe weather will put lives, property, and communities at increased risk." The report examined new flood maps from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which extend the areas of the city that are at-risk from a flood that occurs once in a hundred years, meaning areas that have a one percent chance of flooding each year. That area now includes an additional 60,000 structures that were not identified as at-risk in FEMA's 2010 maps.  The value of properties located within areas now identified as at-risk of severe flooding has increased 120 percent since 2010, according to the report. The biggest spike occurred in Brooklyn, where the value of at-risk properties jumped nearly 200 percent, from $12 billion to $36 billion. Manhattan saw an increase of 120 percent, while the Bronx, the city's northernmost borough, saw the smallest increase of 36 percent.  "When we talk about events like Sandy, I think sea level is really the big elephant in the room," Adam Sobel told VICE News. Sobel is an atmospheric scientist at Columbia University and author of Storm Surge, a book about Hurricane Sandy and climate change. Storm surge occurs largely due to storm winds pushing ocean waters to shore. As global warming causes sea levels to rise — New York has already seen a foot increase since 1900 — less intense storms are needed to create a level of storm surge that threatens coastal property — and lives.  When Sandy hit, waters around New York City were five feet above a typical low tide. The storm pushed water levels up another nine feet, meaning a total of 14 feet of water surged above the city's usual low-tide.  "People that are born now could see Sandy levels of flooding every other year because of rising sea levels," Kim Knowlton, a scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), told VICE News. "A storm even less powerful than Sandy could cause that amount of flooding in the city. We really need to take this into account." In April, NRDC released a report stating that nearly 65 percent of the area flooded during Sandy was not listed on FEMA's flood maps. And though FEMA's maps detail only areas at risk from a 100-year storm, the report also found that FEMA is using outdated data that doesn't fully account for future effects of climate change on flooding, including leaving out sea-level rise that has occurred in the last 10 years.  The New York City Panel on Climate Change has predicted sea-level rise of between 11 and 31 inches by 2050. MTA / Creative CommonsSouth Ferry station in Manhattan during Hurricane Sandy.The new FEMA maps are expected to take effect in 2016, and have in some cases dire consequences for homeowners, who now find themselves in flood zones and in need of flood insurance. Stringer's report identified 28,000 homes that could see their insurance premiums rise astronomically, from $429 a year to between $5,000 and $10,000 annually.  The Comptroller's analysis also criticized FEMA's mapping process for failing to take into account tax-payer funded resiliency efforts, like sea walls along Battery Park City or water permeable street surfaces, which over time should reduce flood risk. "FEMA must regularly revisit and revise flood maps to chart the effects of an encroaching tide and take resiliency measures into account to mitigate increases in insurance premiums," Stringer told VICE News. While the exact rates of future sea level rise are difficult to pin down, Sobel says, FEMA already incorporates some level of uncertainty into its risk assessments, and leaving sea level rise out of the mix is "overly optimistic." "I think FEMA knows this, but they haven't decided how to deal with it," Sobel told VICE News. "Yes, it's a problem, and everybody knows it's a problem. Including FEMA." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a man in front of the fully burnt Kadonowaki elementary school after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in IshinomakiThirty billion dollars in funding for roads, bridges and thousands of new homes in areas devastated by the tsunami in Japan three and a half years ago is still languishing unspent in the bank. That means Keiko Abe is heading into a fourth winter of sub-zero temperatures in a cramped, temporary dwelling that is succumbing to the elements. "I'm just clenching my teeth until I can move out and live like a human being again," says Abe, 66, as she stands in the dim light of her living room with enough space for a couch, table and television. A gray mould clings to some walls of the prefab structure, where Abe has lived with her husband since shortly after a 9-metre (30 feet) wall of water obliterated large swathes of the city of Ishinomaki on the afternoon of March 11, 2011. Abe, who lost her home and everything in it that day, is now the victim of a funding quagmire that has left her and tens of thousands of other evacuees stranded in temporary units that were supposed to house them for no more than two years. Japanese government funds budgeted for reconstruction and transferred to local governments are stuck in banks across the tsunami-ravaged northeast, a Reuters review of budget and bank deposit data and interviews with bank officials reveals. The central government has paid out more than $50 billion directly to local governments in Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima prefectures, the areas hardest hit by the disaster. But about 60 percent of that money remains on deposit in the region’s banks. Ishinomaki, where more than 3,700 people died in the tsunami – the most casualties of any city in the disaster – has been deeply affected by the funding paralysis. The port city, where 56,000 buildings were damaged, has been showered with money for reconstruction – about $4.1 billion in the three years after it was hit. But almost 60 percent of the money, or $2.3 billion, remains in bank deposits. And fewer than five percent of the planned new homes for the city’s nearly 25,000 evacuees have been completed. “I've given up on the local authorities,” says Abe. “They don't think about us.” Paula Bronstein / Getty ImagesChieko Chiba walks through the rubble after going to see her destroyed home March 16, 2011 in Kesennuma, Miyagi province, Japan. The 9.0 magnitude strong earthquake struck offshore on March 11 at 2:46pm local time, triggering a tsunami wave of up to ten metres which engulfed large parts of north-eastern Japan. As the death toll continues to rise, the country is also struggling to contain a potential nuclear meltdown after the nuclear plant was seriously damaged from the quake. (Photo by Paula Bronstein/Getty Images)A few minutes' drive from Abe’s temporary home, the mayor of Ishinomaki sits in his office directing part of the blame for the hold-ups at bureaucrats in Tokyo. “It’s a massive disaster but central government officials are acting as if these were normal times,” says Hiroshi Kameyama, referring to the red tape he confronts in getting building plans approved. “It’s one of the reasons why public works are delayed.” Makoto Kitamura, the deputy director general of the Reconstruction Agency, says local government spending of reconstruction money has been accelerating. “The pace of the construction projects has also been picking up,” he told Reuters, sitting in his office in Tokyo. “So it is not something you should worry about.” For Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the reconstruction delays are a potential time bomb. Before he became prime minister in December 2012, Abe campaigned in parliamentary elections on a pledge to speed up reconstruction – a promise he has repeated on both anniversaries of the disaster since he took office. As opposition leader he chided the government for not moving fast enough on rebuilding: “Japan has no future without reconstruction of disaster-hit areas,” he declared during a tour of Fukushima, where the tsunami crippled a nuclear plant. As prime minister, he vowed in March 2013 that “reconstruction will have made a lot of progress and our lives will be better by March 11 next year.” A year later he repeated the promise: The government would make the year ahead one in which “everyone in disaster-hit areas feels the progress of reconstruction.” So far, about 2,700 housing units of a planned 29,000 have been completed in the tsunami-hit areas. In its housing plan issued more than a year ago, the government said it aimed to complete 15,000 homes by March next year. It has since scaled back that target to 10,000 units. A labor shortage exacerbated by the siphoning of workers away from the disaster zone to build commercial facilities for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games has slowed reconstruction. So have a spike in the cost of building materials and problems in procuring land in the disaster zone. Initial government estimates for the cost of building a new home have been far off the mark. In 2011, the Reconstruction Agency budgeted $158,000 for a new home. In April, it revised that estimate upward, for a second time, to $217,000 – almost 40 percent higher than the original figure. “We are struggling to keep up with the rise in costs,” Michio Oka, a section chief in Ishinomaki's reconstruction office, told Reuters. “Because of the sharp rise in material and labor costs we have failed to attract contractors.” Carlos Barria/ReutersA house and vehicles damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami are seen in Ishinomaki, northern Japan March 31, 2011.Much of the reconstruction cash has ended up on the ledger of 77 Bank in Sendai, some 50 kilometers (30 miles) west of Ishinomaki. Government deposits at 77 Bank, the region’s largest lender, have jumped four-fold to almost $17 billion in the past three years as reconstruction money flooded in, the bank said. Yoshikazu Onodera, a 77 Bank executive, said the rapid inflow of deposits has been a challenge for the bank to manage since the money could be withdrawn on short notice. The solution, said Onodera, has been to invest in short-term government bonds. As a result, 77 Bank's government bond holdings have risen two and a half times to $20 billion since 2011. Like 77 Bank, other regional lenders have also plowed funds into Japanese government bonds, creating a closed loop of financing. By buying government bonds, the banks’ investments are essentially helping to fund the borrowing that the government undertook to make the disaster-related allocations in the first place. The central government issued $130 billion worth of reconstruction bonds in the three years after the disaster. The unspent funds sitting in bank deposits also come at a cost to Tokyo. The government is under mounting pressure to cut a public debt load that is more than twice as large as annual economic output. Bank officials said they did not expect the money to be withdrawn soon because building projects face further delays. "It’s almost certain reconstruction efforts will not be completed within the national government's five-year period,” said Ryutaro Katsube, a spokesman for the Bank of Iwate. “Municipalities are already asking for extensions." Forging consensus among residents over reconstruction plans “is a time-consuming process,” said Kitamura of the Reconstruction Agency, which is responsible for the disbursement of $20 billion out of the $50 billion allocated directly to local governments. “This is the result of going through the necessary process.” Separate from the money allocated directly to the prefectures, the central government has poured $140 billion into disaster-relief and reconstruction projects, including emergency loans to small- and medium-sized businesses hit by the tsunami. Yomiuri Shimbun/ReutersA woman looks at the damage caused by a tsunami and an earthquake in Ishimaki City, Miyagi Prefecture, after the magnitude 8.9 earthquake struck the area March 13, 2011.In the Ishinomaki suburb of Hebita where Keiko Abe has been told her new home will be ready by spring, six workers pumped water out of a construction site on a mid-September afternoon after heavy rain had swamped the area. The foundations have been laid for some homes but there were few signs of building activity. Several cranes and trucks stood idle next to piles of sand and gravel. A group of women sitting around a wooden table in a nearby evacuee community, eating pickled onions and cake, discussed their predicament. “We feel abandoned and forgotten,” said Mitsue Sasaki, 69, who has been living in a temporary home for three years. “They think they can keep us here forever.” “I was allocated a flat, but so what,” said Mitsuko Muramatsu, 67, an ex-tax office official. “Right now it’s a cloud, it’s an empty space.” Mayor Kameyama, 72, a former chemistry professor, is concerned with the mental health of the evacuees. “I’m worried that many people are becoming weak and depressed,” he said, sitting in a deep armchair in his office. “If they don’t stay healthy and lose the will to move to a new place, it will be a huge problem.” The government’s five-year reconstruction plan was built on unrealistic assumptions, said Yoshikiyo Shimamine, the chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Given bottlenecks such as labor shortages and material cost rises and difficulties in getting consensus among residents who are relocated, reconstruction budgets are not something that can be spent within five years,” he said. Officials in Ishinomaki, home to 150,000 people, say spending the more than $4 billion in reconstruction aid has proven tough. With all of the city-owned land having been designated for temporary housing after the tsunami, the local government had to negotiate the purchase of an additional 9,000 plots to build permanent homes, the reconstruction office’s Oka said. That inflated the price of a plot of land in Ishinomaki by 15 percent last year, the biggest jump anywhere in Japan. Before the city could buy land, it had to track down the legal owners. That proved tedious, said Oka. Officials discovered that in many instances, properties had been passed down without proper inheritance procedures. Toru Hanai/ReutersA Japanese national flag flutters near an area where debris cleaned up after from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami is being collected in Ofunato, Iwate prefecture, September 9, 2011, some six months since the disaster. Other areas have been beset by similar delays. Miyagi, the prefecture that includes Ishinomaki and Sendai, planned to build some 15,000 public housing units by March 2016. In early October it extended that deadline by two years. After the tsunami, about a third of public works projects in Miyagi failed to attract bidders in the first round as construction companies say they held back for fear the projects would be unprofitable, Miyagi prefecture officials said. That failure rate compares with just 3 percent before the disaster. To be sure, rebuilding a city like Ishinomaki is a vast logistical undertaking. Parts of the city need to be built from scratch. A strip of Ishinomaki’s shoreline where 6,500 homes once stood has been declared too dangerous to build on. And many local government officials, who would otherwise have played a role in reconstruction, either died in the tsunami or had their homes destroyed and are themselves living in temporary dwellings. “It’s the largest such operation ever attempted in modern Japan,” says Kazusue Konoike, a special adviser to Konoike Construction Co., which is building public housing units in the country’s northeast. “The construction industry as a whole has several times the amount of work it used to have before the disaster. That’s why naturally there is a shortage of workers and machines.” Prior to the earthquake and tsunami there were five buildings with reinforced concrete that were taller than five stories in Ishinomaki, says Hirotaka Kamata, a sales representative at Endo Kogyo, a construction company working in the city. “Right now the city is building about 20. It’s like building something in three years that took 50 post-war years to build.” Kamata says his company is also worried about making long-term investments when it knows the tsunami-fueled building boom will only last a few more years. “The reconstruction budget is huge,” he said. “The more money you pump the faster the construction companies will run away. There’s no way we can take on any more work.”   (Editing by Peter Hirschberg, Bill Tarrant and Kevin Krolicki.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinCentral Bank of Russia Governor Elvira Nabiullina.The Russian central bank raised rates by 150 basis points to 9.5% in a gamble that higher rates will halt the ruble's slide against the dollar and the euro. The bank's board decided to raise rates despite a weak economy after the ruble hit historic lows against the dollar and the euro this month. Over October the central bank burned through more than $15 billion of Russia's foreign exchange reserves buying rubles in an effort to soften the impact of falls on the country's businesses. Since the start of the year the country's international reserve stockpile has dropped over $30 billion to $439.1 billion from $469.5 billion. The ruble, however, is still falling: BloombergRuble vs the dollar. By raising interest rates the central bank is effectively wagering that the positive impact of stabilizing the currency and looking tough on inflation (which is currently running at 8%) will outweigh the potential economic hit of raising the cost of capital in an already sluggish economy. The International Monetary Fund forecasts growth in Russia of a meager 0.2% this year as international sanctions over the crisis in Ukraine and falling oil prices weigh on activity. Announcing its decision, the central bank acknowledged that price pressure had diverged from the underlying economy, meaning further rate hikes may be necessary despite evidence of economic slack (emphasis added): According to the Bank of Russia estimates, annual GDP growth rate in 2014 Q3 was 0.2%. Economic slack does not have considerable restraining effect on consumer prices increase as it is mostly caused by structural factors ... Consumer prices growth is very likely to persist at the current level till the end of Q1 2015 due to remaining sizeable impact of restrictions on the import of certain food items and ruble depreciation in August-October 2014 on prices. FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/Getty Images The eurozone's inflation just rose to 0.4%, from 0.3%. Unemployment stayed flat at an eye-watering 11.5%. On inflation, analysts were expecting the slight climb to 0.4%. That might be a signal that Europe isn't heading into a deflationary spiral, but the figure is still far below the European Central Bank's 2% target, and it is likely to be very low for a long time.  And it's not all good news on inflation: The eurozone's measure of core inflation, which strips out the most volatile prices in the index, is still falling. It's down to 0.7% from 0.8% in September. That's the joint-lowest level in the currency union's history. So while it has some room to breathe, the ECB isn't off the hook yet. Capital Economics' Jennifer McKeown explains in a note:  Analysts weren't expecting a change in the unemployment figure. It has slowly declined from 12% earlier this year. However, Italian unemployment figures just out showed an unexpected spike to 12.5% from 12.3%. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVisitors use phones underneath of logo of Tencent at Global Mobile Internet Conference in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Tencent Holdings Ltd said on Friday it would collaborate with International Business Machines Corp (IBM) on a new cloud software business for corporate customers, a marked departure for one of the dominant forces in China's consumer Internet industry. Best known for its popular WeChat messaging app and its online games rather than business software, Tencent said its cloud unit would now target small and medium enterprises in the healthcare and "smart city" industries. Many technology firms are jockeying for a slice of China's enterprise software market, which promises to grow sharply in coming years as businesses modernize their IT operations and move data onto the cloud. Tencent's alliance with IBM, which has deep experience providing computing and consulting services to corporate clients, provides the Shenzhen company a competitive answer to its Chinese rival Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's nascent cloud efforts. An e-commerce giant, Alibaba has been slowly building its cloud unit, which recorded just $38 million in revenue in the three months ended June 30. Tencent said it would tap IBM for its "industry expertise and enterprise reach" but did not disclose financial terms of the deal. For IBM, the Tencent deal is just the latest in a recent spate of new software partnerships in China, where its hardware sales have been sliding. IBM announced a deal earlier this year to install its cutting-edge DB2 database software on Chinese rival Inspur International Ltd's machines. Big Blue also agreed to license its database and big data technology to Chinese software vendor Yonyou Software Co Ltd. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc said it will expand its offering of discounted products during the holiday season and may broaden a price-matching scheme to include online rivals, in the latest sign of an escalating price war among big U.S. retailers. Wal-Mart said it was bracing for competition to be as tough or tougher than in 2013, when heavy discounting depressed earnings across the industry. Wal-Mart's profits dropped in the holiday quarter last year and it has posted six straight quarters of flat or declining same-store sales. “It is starting to heat up right now, and I would expect it to be at least as competitive as last year," Steve Bratspies, executive vice president of general merchandise for Wal-Mart's U.S. operations, said on a call with media on Thursday, referring to competition during the holiday season. Wal-Mart said it plans to have 20,000 "rollbacks", or a product discounted for at least 90 days, on offer starting on Saturday. While it did not disclose a comparable number, it said the program was bigger and included a wider line-up of products, with a focus on toys and electronics, than last year. Other retailers have been stepping up promotions, with a focus on attracting more customers online. Target Corp said earlier this month that it would drop shipping fees for online purchases from Oct. 22 to Dec. 22. Wal-Mart said it would provide free shipping for online orders of a selected list of 100 gift items. It normally waves shipping for purchases above $50. Wal-Mart is also considering expanding a price-matching program for local bricks-and-mortar rivals to include online comparisons, Bratspies said, although he stressed a final decision on the strategy had not been made. It would mean Wal-Mart matching prices with Amazon.com in addition to local retailers and grocery stores. The moves come ahead of what is expected to be a fiercely competitive year-end season. Research firm Customer Growth Partners (CGP) predicts spending will rise 3.4 percent, up slightly from last year's 2.9 percent growth, which was the slowest growth since 2009. "Demand is sluggish and consumers of all stripes are looking for value," said Craig Johnson, president of CGP. "This is going to be a pretty promotional Christmas." However, Johnson said he expects Wal-Mart to return to same-store sales growth in its fiscal fourth quarter, helped by food inflation, strong demand for consumer electronics and a move to put labor back in stores to address long checkout lines and better stock shelves. Wal-Mart said it planned to hire 60,000 additional workers for the holidays, up 10 percent from last year, and would aim to have all of its cash registers open during peak hours. (Reporting by Nathan Layne; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
DonkeyHotey | FlickrARVADA Colorado (Reuters) - Political groups that took advantage of loosened campaign-finance rules spent hundreds of millions of dollars in the 2012 U.S. presidential election. This year, they're cropping up in state and local races as well. Wealthy individuals and interest groups of all stripes are increasingly setting up political committees that can steer unlimited sums to small-dollar contests for state legislature, sheriff and school board. Four years after the Supreme Court ruled that Congress cannot restrict spending by political groups not directly affiliated with candidates, the "Super PACs" and other spending committees that sprung up in the wake of that decision are becoming a fixture in races farther down on ballot sheets, where their money can have a greater impact. In some cases, they are looking to bypass a gridlocked Washington that likely will not be more productive after the Nov. 4 congressional elections. In other cases, local operators are adopting tactics first developed at the national level. In Cumberland County, Maine, a property developer spent $100,000 on attack ads this spring in an unsuccessful attempt to defeat the county sheriff in a Democratic primary. In Arkansas, a conservative entrepreneur routed money through a network of committees to help a political neophyte topple a Republican legislator who had worked with Democrats to expand health coverage for the poor. Americans for Prosperity, a conservative network backed by the billionaire industrialists Charles and David Koch, has sought to influence judicial contests in North Carolina and school board races in Tennessee and Wisconsin. "Our activists are motivated to affect change in their own communities, and often enjoy seeing results that are more tangible than with working on national issues," said Americans for Prosperity spokesman Levi Russell. The increased activity reflects a new focus at the state level by interest groups that have made little progress in Washington. Everytown for Gun Safety, a gun-control group backed by former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, plans to spend $12 million on a ballot initiative in Washington state and legislative races in Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Minnesota and Nevada to counteract the pro-gun influence of the National Rifle Association. Though firearms restrictions foundered in Congress in 2013, several states have since passed measures of their own. "Washington's broken, not just on guns but on many issues," said John Feinblatt, the group's president. It's not easy to track outside spending at the state level, as reporting requirements vary and many states don't require any sort of disclosure at all. In the 21 states tracked by the National Institute on Money in State Politics, a watchdog group, independent spending jumped from $175 million in 2006 to $245 million in 2010. The amount is likely to jump by a similar amount this year, said Paul S. Ryan, senior counsel at the Campaign Legal Center, a nonpartisan watchdog group. "It's often the way things work in money and politics: practices are developed at the national and federal level, and those that work are replicated at the state and municipal level," Ryan said. screenshot Independent groups have a mixed record at the top of the ticket, where candidates for governor and the U.S. Senate typically have substantial war chests. It is a different story further down the ballot, where candidates often have limited name recognition and their budgets amount to thousands, rather than millions of dollars. Colorado state Senate candidate Rachel Zenzinger, a Democrat, has struggled to rebut TV ads and mailers that accuse her of voting to use taxpayer money for a trip to China while serving on the city council in the Denver suburb of Arvada. Zenzinger has never been to China, and official records show she sponsored a measure to prohibit public money for a proposed trip to visit a sister city there. Colorado Citizens for Accountable Government, the Republican-funded group responsible for the ad, maintains it is accurate. Zenzinger has raised at least $240,000, nearly twice as much as her Republican challenger, and outside Democratic groups have also spent more than $120,000 to boost her candidacy. Still, it's been difficult to fight back against the ad, she said. "It's my reputation that's at stake here. If they're saying stuff that's blatantly false, it could affect the outcome of this election," Zenzinger said. (Additional reporting by Gabriel Debenedetti; Editing by Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
The UK Treasury has announced plans to buy back £218 million ($349 million) of loans first issued by Winston Churchill in 1927, when he was Chancellor. The majority of the bonds being redeemed were issued to refinance debt taken on during the First World War. However, some of the debt goes back even further — with part of the borrowing pre-dating the signing of the US Declaration of Independence. Also included in the government buyback are: loans originally taken out to cover losses from the collapse of the South Sea Company in 1720, debt taken on to fund Britain's fight against Napoléon Bonaparte, and some that helped finance the Slavery Abolition Act of 1835. These loans are unusual because they were issued as perpetual bonds. This means that they payed out interest but have no maturity date, in effect making them more like owning a stock that pays a dividend than a traditional bond. The government has the right but no obligation to pay off the debt. So why have they done it now? The Debt Management Office estimates that the UK has paid £1.26 billion ($2 billion) in total interest on these bonds since 1927 and, with a yield of 4%, these bonds were paying a much higher interest rate than the government would have to pay if it raised the same amount of money now. For example, the yield on the 30-year UK government bonds is currently 2.96%. As Toby Nangle, head of multi-asset investment at Threadneedle, wrote in the FT earlier this month: And so the £1.93bn 3.5 per cent 90-day callable perpetual bond issue could be redeemed and replaced with a £1.63bn 3.5 per cent 30-year callable perpetual bond delivering a no-brainer £300m debt reduction to the taxpayer and an associated £9m per annum saving in interest costs (in perpetuity). Alternatively the same savings could be delivered by refinancing the War Loan into the large and liquid 30-50 year part of the conventional Gilt market. Value of the call to the UK taxpayer using Market rates as of 2nd October: £300m.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP John ThysAlexander Novak, Russian Energy Minister, arrives at the European Union Commission headquarters in Brussels on October 30, 2014Russia agreed to resume gas deliveries to Ukraine through the winter in an EU-brokered deal reached by the three parties in Brussels on Thursday, an EU source said. The details will be outlined by European Commission head Jose Manuel Barroso as well as the Russian and Ukrainian energy ministers during a press conference announced for 2045 GMT, the source said on condition of anonymity. Ukraine's debt of $3.1 billion (2.5 billion euros) will be settled in two installments, one immediately and the other at the end of the year, another source said. "The Ukrainians have the money to pay," the source added. The deal sets a price of $385 per 1,000 cubic metres for the duration of the contract, which runs from November this year to the end of March 2015, the source said. Payments will be made in advance for the following month. Kiev sought and obtained a guarantee that the price would not change during the contract, the source added.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hannibal HanschkeGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel. Germany's retail sales just hit a wall, dropping 3.2% in September for the worst monthly decline since May 2007. The eurozone's powerhouse economy didn't see anything this bad during the financial crisis, or in the years of the euro crisis that followed it.  This all follows the grim news earlier in October that the country's industrial sector seemed to be grinding to a halt. There's no doubt that this data point is going in the pile suggesting that Germany might be about to fall into recession. Here's what Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics had to say about the grim numbers: The plunge in German retail sales, the biggest drop since May 2007, indicates that the German economy was very close to a technical recession in Q2 and Q3. Retail sales were on track for a decent quarterly expansion before September data, but today’s data are bad enough to indicate that retail sales fell back to a modest contraction in Q3. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda caught the markets by surprise Friday.The Nikkei closed up 4.83%, hitting a seven-year high after the Bank of Japan (BoJ) unexpectedly announced it was expanding its monetary easing policy Friday morning. In a tight vote, the BoJ backed an 80 trillion yen ($720 billion) target for expanding the monetary base (a measure of the amount of money held by the central bank and in the economy). That's up from a previous target of 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen. Analysts were basically not expecting anything Friday: this one was a genuine surprise. Just as the Fed this week announced the final tapering of QE3 (in which the monthly bond purchases the Fed had been making were stopped), the Bank of Japan is hitting the gas.  No prizes for spotting the announcement on this graph of the Nikkei:  Bloomberg This was a major unexpected move by Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan's governor, and a big new chapter in the country's "Abenomics" experiment, named after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  It's all in reaction to a slowdown in inflation. The BoJ has committed itself to reaching a 2% inflation target, but core inflation dropped to 1% from 1.1% in October, the lowest in nearly a year. Kuroda has repeatedly expressed this goal, but it seems as if markets only halfway believed him. The dollar and yen are reacting pretty much as one would expect, too. Here the dollar is up 2.23% against the yen; 111 yen to the dollar is the highest since 2008.  Bloomberg Here's the reaction from a Rabobank analyst's note on what the fresh expansion means: And here's Chris Scicluna at Daiwa Capital Markets outlining a couple of the other, smaller measures the Bank of Japan just announced that it would take: And it's not just Japanese markets that are moving on the news.  After tanking Thursday, gold is getting smashed again.  It's down to just $1,171.80 an ounce, down 2.26% on the news. See below: Bloomberg Markets were also reacting to a Reuters report that the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan’s fund for state employees and the largest one of its kind anywhere in the world, was about to hike its equities allocation. After the Nikkei closed, this was confirmed. The $1.1 trillion fund made these changes: FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan unexpectedly eased monetary policy on Friday in a 5-4 vote, due to concerns that a decline in oil prices would weigh on consumer prices and delay a shift in sentiment away from deflation. The central bank decided to increase the pace at which it expands base money to about 80 trillion yen ($726 billion) per year. Previously, the BOJ targeted an annual increase of 60-70 trillion yen. The BOJ also decided to increase its purchases of government debt by about 30 trillion yen and extend the average duration of JGB holdings to around 10 years. The BOJ also decided to triple its purchases of exchange-traded funds and Japan real estate investment trusts. (Reporting by Leika Kihara, Stanley White and Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Sony Corp. logo outside the company's showroom in Tokyo.Japan's Sony Corp reported a second-quarter operating loss on Friday that was narrower than analysts had estimated, as blockbuster sales of its PlayStation 4 games console reduced the impact of a sluggish smartphone division. Operating loss reached 85.6 billion yen ($771 million) in July-September, compared with the 164.3 billion yen average estimate of 3 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. In the same quarter last year, Sony booked a profit of 14.8 billion yen. The company posted a net loss of 136 billion yen for the quarter and held its full-year net loss forecast at 230 billion yen. Sony also lowered its smartphone sales outlook to 41 million handsets from 43 million, compared with 39 million last year. Shares of Sony closed 0.8 percent higher before the earnings announcement, compared with a 4.8 percent rise in the Nikkei benchmark index after the Bank of Japan announced furthering monetary easing.     (Reporting by Sophie Knight; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
