REUTERS/Jason LeeChinese consumer prices climbed 2.5% year-over-year in May. This modestly beat expectations for a 2.4% rise and compares with a 1.8% rise in April. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.4% YoY. This was slightly less than expectations for a 1.5% fall, and compares to a 2% fall the previous month. Ahead of the release, Jian Chang and Serena Zhou at Barclays wrote that CPI will likely be driven higher by rising food, especially pork prices. “We think the turnaround in pork prices is mostly attributable to the government’s efforts to reverse the decline in prices in this sector," they write. "But we do not expect this to pose a significant risk to our 2014 CPI inflation forecast of 2.4%.” Here's a look at the recent drop in sow stock and the rise in prices: Barclays FREE AppDownload
Mikhail Markovskiy/ShutterstockWealthy Austrians have gotten together to demand their government tax them more. In a cover story in the Austrian weekly magazine Profil, a dozen or so bankers, CEOs, real estate moguls and inheritors say they have a civic duty to give back to a country that's allowed 70% of its wealth to concentrate in the hands of the top 10%, according to France's Libération.fr. "A wealth tax is not only a question of morality, but also of pragmatism," says Christian Köck, a health economist and businessman who also inherited a large sum. "I don't want to be rich in a society that can't pay to invest in a fair education system." Austria lacks an inheritance tax, and wealth brackets are not scaled. Property and rent taxes are practically non-existent. "Austria, country of millionaires. Austria, country of inequalities," the Profil feature begins. "Nowhere in Europe work is so highly taxed, while other assets so greatly spared. A skewed situation, which even for many wealthy seems prohibitive. So they are now demanding, in our profile, higher taxes on wealth - and to lower those on work." Social-Democratic Chancellor Werner Faymann has proposed a "millionaire's tax" that would involve creating an inheritance tax while lowering income taxes, although Libération predicts it could get held up by the more conservative members of the country's ruling coalition.  Let's see what happens. FREE AppDownload
United TherapeuticsMartine Rothblatt, Founder and CEO of United TherapeuticsNext time you're contemplating the pay gap between male and female executives, put this one in your pipe: The highest-paid woman CEO was born a man. That's what the New York Times' Claire Cain Miller observed in her recent article about a study of CEO pay. The CEO in question is named Martine Rothblatt. She was born Martin Rothblatt. She founded Sirius Satellite Radio in 1994, as Martin, then had a sex-change operation. Then she founded United Therapeutics in 1996 and has served as its CEO ever since. She made $38 million last year, mostly in stock options. That $38 million put Ms. Rothblatt a fair ways above the second-highest paid woman CEO on the New York Times' list, Marissa Mayer of Yahoo. Mayer made $25 million. Those are big pay packages. And, in fact, the average female CEO on the list makes only $1.6 million less than the average male CEO (a statistical wash, apparently, once you adjust for relative ages and experience). But Rothblatt and Mayer are two of only 11 female CEOs on the list. The rest of the 200 companies with market values over $1 billion, the 189 other CEOs, are men. In other words, only 6% of CEOs at the top 200 companies are women. And the percentage of women on boards and in other senior management positions, as well as their pay, has stopped increasing as a percent of the total. Why? According to some recent studies, there are a bunch of reasons: One relative bright spot is the technology industry. More of the 11 female CEOs in the top 200 are in tech than in any other industry. And these women CEOs make more, on average, than their male counterparts. Read Claire Cain Miller's whole article at the New York Times &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan PostlesGood morning! Hope you enjoyed the long weekend. Let’s get started with some good news on the US recovery… 1. Goldman Sachs says it now believes, despite the 1% contraction over the winter quarter, that US GDP is now growing above trend. In a statement, the bank’s top economist Jan Hatzius said that its “current activity indicator (CAI), which grew at an annualized rate of 3.4% in May, similar to the average of the prior two months.” Hatzius says “the CAI is a far more reliable indicator of economic activity than real GDP because it is more timely, more broadly based, less noisy, and less subject to revision.” 2. But by comparison, Goldman’s CAI does not deliver as healthy an assessment for Australia. As we reported earlier this month, the GS Australia economic team says its CAI is showing “growth momentum has slowed materially” in the second quarter of this year, following the huge GDP print last week for Q1 at 3.5%. This is why Goldman is forecasting an RBA rate cut in September. 3. To the markets and US stocks overnight carved out record highs yet again. The Dow as up 0.1% to 16,943.10, the S&amp;P 500 up 0.1% to 1,951.27, and the Nasdaq up 0.3%. 4. Japan roars. Revised Japanese Q1 GDP data yesterday showed an eye-popping annualised growth rate of 6.7%. The Nikkei rose only 0.3% with investors wary of the increasing likelihood of stimulus reduction. China’s decision to cut the reserve ratio for banks lending to the rural sector by 50 basis points helped lift the Hang Seng 0.7%, but Shanghai was up just 0.05%, possibly on the very specific nature of the stimulus. ASX futures are pointing to a solid rise on the open today. 5. Big data week. This morning in Australia we get the NAB business survey – always an important indicator on investment and employment – and tomorrow there’s the Westpac-MI Consumer Sentiment Survey, which showed a very sharp drop following the federal budget last month. Both will give an important read on the mood around the federal budget with at least some of the noise from the initial shock removed. On Thursday we get Australian employment, with the market expecting another 10,000 jobs added in May to add to the stellar run of job creation so far this year. That night we get US retail sales for May. 6. Budget problems. From Canada, where he’s on an official visit, Tony Abbott has had to remind some his partyroom that the Coalition took its paid parental leave scheme to two elections, after reports that Senators are prepared to help defeat the program in the Upper House. 7. Inactive bank account bonanza. The Australian government has claimed around $360 million from 80,000 inactive bank accounts in the year to May. It follows a change under the Labor government to the thresholds at which funds in idle accounts can be seized, making it much easier for the state to claim deposits. For comparison, only around $300 million was seized between 1959 and 2012. More here. 8. Rik is dead. British comedy actor Rik Mayall has died. He was best known for his roles as Rick, “the People’s Poet”, in The Young Ones, and as Richie in Bottom, which he worked on with Adrian Edmondson. In a statement, Edmondson said: “There were times when Rik and I were writing together when we almost died laughing… I feel privileged to have shared them with him. And now he’s died for real. Without me. Selfish b*****d.” Vale, Rik. 9. Outsource packing for camp. New York mums will pay you $1000 to pack their kids’ summer camp suitcases. Proving there is indeed a market for anything, Resourceful Consultants say the annual US kids’ pilgrimage can be very stressful for mums and has filled requests for French-milled soaps, scented candles as trunk necessities while charging $250 an hour for a four-hour packing session. They “want to duplicate the bedding that they have at home” says one consultant who clearly has no time for any authentic camp experience. 10. Scotchpocalypse. BoAML is out with a note looking at the potential impacts of a yes vote in the September referendum on Scottish independence. In short, it’s not good. Scotland could lose some of the aggressive protections around naming and counterfeiting that the EU provides. Morehere. Bonus item: Here are 16 phrases that will help make you sound smart when talking about the World Cup. You’re welcome. Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo Follow Business Insider Australia onFacebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Florian HirzingerThe country's big wire services aren't going to be a full-time presence in the U.S. Treasury's press room. However, a source in Treasury and spokespeople for multiple media outlets told Business Insider the change has nothing to do with rumors of reporters being upset with the agency's treatment of the press. In a move that was reportedly rolled out last week, four wire services — Associated Press, Reuters, Dow Jones, and Bloomberg — "are giving up" manning the room, according to a Monday post on Jim Romenesko's media blog. The room will remain open and accessible to equipment, the report said. One of Romenesko's sources described the move as a response to the Treasury's unproductive relationship with media outlets. "They complain there’s no news and no access, so they’re taking their ball and going home," the source said of the wire services. However, a source in the Treasury department and several media reps downplayed the significance of the change to Business Insider. Instead, they stressed the declining need to constantly have on-the-scene Treasury reporters in the age of electronic communication. "'Abandon,' in the post you cite, is inaccurate," Paul Colford, the AP's director of media relations, wrote in an email. "This is purely a technical move," Colford continued. "We are keeping our equipment at Treasury and, of course, we continue to report on the department. We will get vital information just as fast and we will still report on major events from our workstation inside the Treasury press room. However, we are confident that we don’t need to be rooted to a desk in the Treasury press room all day, every day." A spokesperson for Dow Jones had a similar take.  "In an effort to improve coverage of the Treasury Department, Dow Jones is working with other news organizations as well as the department itself, to modernize communication and dissemination of information. Dow Jones will continue to maintain desks and equipment to report news from The Treasury Department," Colleen Schwartz, Dow Jones' director of corporate communications, echoed. A Treasury source emphasized the reporters would still have "work space" in the press room.  "We discussed our commitment to continuing to provide as much information by email as possible. At the same time, there was broad agreement among the wires that maintaining their work space in the press room was something they found valuable and planned to continue," said the source. FREE AppDownload
Lots of people are saying wage growth may be about to turn. We really need it. Today, UBS' Maury Harris brings us this simple chart that subtracts the rate of jobs growth in low-wage industries from the jobs growth rate in high-wage ones.   Anything greater than 0 means growth in high-wage industries is up. If it's less than zero, then low-wage industry jobs growth is up. And we've been in less-than-zero territory for about the past two years. Harris: Over the first two months of Q2, private sector hours worked have risen at a 4.1% annual rate—in the neighborhood of our 5.0% forecast for Q2 annualized real GDP growth. Purchasing power is improving, with payroll earnings so far in Q2 rising at a 5.4% annual rate versus 4.0% in Q1 and 3.6% in Q4. That improved purchasing power reflects past job growth and is coming despite some deteriorating incremental job quality, as jobs in low-wage industries are rising faster than jobs in high-wage industries. Chart: UBS FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve is really close to its policy goals. This was the message of St. Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard, who spoke today in Palm Beach, Florida at the Tennessee Bankers Association Annual Meeting.  Bullard's presentation used a formula to show that the Fed is closer to its stated policy goals of maximum employment and 2% inflation than at any time in the past five years. For maximum employment, Bullard used the midpoint of the Fed's most recent projection for longer-run unemployment of 5.4%. The Fed views maximum employment as largely determined by nonmonetary factors that are hard to directly measure. Core inflation currently stands at 1.8%. The unemployment rate is 6.3%. Bullard plugs the these into a formula that spits out a summary "distance" from the overall target. The '0' on the x-axis of the charts below corresponds to the point at which the Fed satisfying its policy goals. James Bullard/Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The square root of Bullard's formula provides a different scale factor to more easily see where the Fed's policy currently stands in relation to its goals. It is well ahead of its 50-year average.James Bullard/Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis This chart shows how the Fed is as close as its been to its policy goals since the 2008 financial crisis, and is beating its distance-from-target average since 2006. James Bullard/Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis In addition the the Fed closing in on its goals, the U.S. economy appears to be rounding into form. Last Friday's May jobs report showed the U.S. economy added a solid 217,000 nonfarm payrolls, while the unemployment rate was steady at 6.3%. And following the jobs report, Citi's Steven Englander noted that economic data have given the Fed no reason to change its narrative ahead of its next policy meeting, scheduled for June 17-18. You can see Bullard's full presentation here.  FREE AppDownload
Steven Perlberg/Business Insider In September, Scottish citizens will vote on independence and whether it should withdraw from Great Britain. There are all kinds of interesting angles here — politics, debt, currency, oil rights, etc. — but for many people the big question is, what does this mean for Scotch export? Bank of America is out with a long note titled What if Scotland votes for independence? At the very end, they look at some risks that a yea vote would pose for the industry. The firm notes several ways that the Scotch industry could be affected. The most straightforward way is on the currency side: At present, the large producers typically invoice Scotch whisky in U.S. dollars irrespective of the final destination market. As such the main transactional FX risk faced is the movement in Sterling/US$ which is typically hedged on a 12-month basis. A volatile currency would likely be more difficult and expensive to hedge making pricing and planning decisions harder. There would also be free-trade issues: — Loss of protected status for scotch: Scotch whisky enjoys the protection of ‘geographical indication status’ under E.U. law. This protected status could therefore be put at risk leaving the industry exposed to greater overseas competition/private label brands and reversing the progress that industry has made in tackling counterfeit products. — Loss of tariff free trading opportunities: E.U. membership allows scotch producers to export tariff free across the E.U.'s 28 member states. Scotch producers might also lose their global support networks: As a major exporter the scotch industry currently benefits from access to the U.K.'s extensive network of overseas embassies, agencies and trade delegations. And finally, producers might come under more burdensome pension and tax regulations: Given the uncertainty over the eventual fiscal position of an independent Scotland, there is the risk that business rates and taxes have to rise to plug the fiscal gap. The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) has also voiced a number of concerns over the potential impact on company pension schemes – pension schemes are typically run on a U.K. wide basis. Such schemes may have to apply with onerous E.U. cross border rules, potentially raising costs for business. So higher costs, higher tariffs, the loss of marketing power, and more volatility for Scotch producers. Seems plausible that availability will go down and prices will go up for consumers. Meanwhile, here's a chart of the big export markets for Scotch: Bank of America (Via @fastFT) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho DoceThe 2014 FIFA World Cup kicks off in Brazil this week. Much has been written about the negative economic impact that major sporting events have on host nations.  But what about the political implications of the elections? President Dilma Rousseff has been losing popularity as Brazil's economic growth has slowed  and concerns about higher inflation and lower employment have been stoked.  While Rousseff is still favorite to win the election, support has fallen to 34% from 37% the previous month, according to a poll cited by Reuters. So many are wondering what a Brazilian win or loss at the World Cup could mean for the incumbent. Alejandro Arreaza of Barclays writes that the longer Brazil stays in the tournament, the better it is for Rousseff. "If Brazil wins the tournament, this should help lift sentiment temporarily," he writes. "But the challenge for re-election is increasing, especially as the economy is slowing more than expected and the popular demand for change in policymaking is rising."  In a paper for Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) Andrew J. Healy, Neil Malhotra and Cecilia Hyunjung Mo found "clear evidence that the success or failure of the local team before the Election Day significantly influences electoral prospects for the incumbent party," writes Guilherme Loureiro at UBS.  A victory 10 days before an election gives the incumbent government an additional 1-2 percentage point of extra votes in presidential elections. That figure is larger for teams with a stronger fan base. But the paper also found that in instances when games took place more than 14 days before the elections they had no significant impact on the election results. (Remember, Brazil's general elections are slated to take place in October). While this study was focused on the United States, Loureiro writes that "provides good evidence about the mechanisms of underlying voters’ assessments of a candidate’s performance." In trying to see how this would impact Brazil, he looks how far Brazil got in the last five World Cups and the changes in the government's approval rating. His results basically imply that "the World Cup should have no direct impact on the election." Both Loureiro and Arreaza, however, think we should watch for a possible spike in street protests during the World Cup. "Street protests are once again building momentum and could get worse, especially if Brazil is eliminated early in the competition," writes Arreaza. A recent poll from the CNT/MDS showed that nearly 76% of voters rejected the World Cup investment, and if the event ends up being a failure, "it could eventually trigger a return of street protests, as happened in mid-2013," writes Loureiro. "Although we believe there is less room for deterioration in the government’s popularity now than a year ago (as Dilma’s approval rating now is supported by a harder core of PT voters), if the World Cup proves to be a sporting failure for Brazil, it would have the potential to tarnish the government’s image and work as a catalyst for the revival of social protests." So perhaps we should be watching, not for a Brazilian World Cup victory or loss, but whether the World Cup ends up being a sporting failure or success. And maybe, even in a football crazy nation like Brazil, some in the opposition might secretly be hoping for the World Cup to be a failure. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'A Successful Succession Plan Is The Holy Grail Of Firm Management' (ThinkAdvisor) "The process of transitioning a firm to new leadership is difficult; enacting a successful and sustainable succession plan is the elusive holy grail of firm management," writes Mark Tibergien, CEO of Pershing Advisor Solutions in ThinkAdvisor. Often key employees choose to jump ship, others don't want to make partner because they like their current work-life balance.  When hiring and developing staff members, Tibergien thinks employers should watch five key areas to make succession plans down the line, easier. 1. During the selection process look beyond the resume to see what they are passionate about, how they handle different situations, what their ideal work culture is. 2. Make employees feel at home. Ensure that the rest of the team is helpful and welcoming of the new hire. 3. Examine your management style. "Do you empower others, recognize their contributions, create a positive learning environment, act with transparency and provide frequent constructive feedback?" 4. Is your compensation plan fair, is it competitive? 5. Examine other factors that could be a distraction. ROSENBERG: 'We Are Into A New Secular Bear Market In US Treasuries' (Gluskin Sheff) The 40 basis point drop in the 10-year Treasury note yield this year has been a big surprise. The rate was 2% around this time in 2013, and on its way to 1.5% two years ago. "So the way I see it, we are into a new secular bear market on U.S. Treasury securities," writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. "This does not mean we can't revisit 2% again — I spoke at a retreat this weekend with Marc Faber (and others) and he sees this prospect as being non-trivial — but it would still be in the context of a new long-term uptrend. At the same time, we are unlikely to come anywhere close to prior yield peaks (over 5% in 2007, over 6% in 2000)." Why Investors Should Seek Out High-Quality Dividend Paying Stocks (Investment News)  Investors are beginning to look for dividend paying stocks, writes Matt McCormick, portfolio manager at Bahl &amp; Gaynor Investment Counsel, in Investment News. "According to FactSet, the average trailing P/E for non-dividend stocks in the S&amp;P 500 was 27.7 times (cap-weighted) as of May 23, while the trailing P/E for dividend-paying stocks was 16.3 times," he writes. "The average trailing price-to-book value for non-dividend stocks was 3.6 times, versus 2.5 times (cap-weighted) for dividend stocks." "I have previously asserted that the “risk-on” trade will eventually end in tears; valuations, fundamentals, quality and dividends will become paramount to investors sooner or later, and I've asked when that will occur. It appears that many investors believe the answer is “now” or “soon.” Thus, I recommend that investors continue to seek high-quality, dividend-growth stocks." Advisors Working With Unmarried Couples Should Remember A Few Key Things (The Wall Street Journal)  There are an increasing number of couples that choose to live together but not marry and this brings a whole host of challenges for advisors. Russ Weiss, a certified financial planner with Marshall Financial Group who specializes in working with unmarried clients, writes that cohabitation agreements is one way to tackle the issues that might come up. "Since divorce laws don't apply to unmarried couples, cohabitation agreements outline certain rules in case the unmarried couple breaks up," he writes. "Who gets the house? What happens to money that one partner gifted to the other?" Advisors should also be aware of tax benefits from not being married. Since a married couple falls into the highest income tax bracket of 39.6% for income over $457,600. But for unmarried partners, they need to make $406,750 each before being subject to the rate. Advisors should also suggest trusts, instead of wills, to their unwed clients. "A lot of times, the family members of unmarried couples will contest a will in court," he writes. "But with a trust, when you die it circumvents the probate process." Goldman's Top Economist Just Made The Call We've Been Waiting 5 Years To Hear (Business Insider) "Despite the 1% drop in real GDP in the first quarter, we believe that the US economy is now growing at an above-trend pace," writes Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. This, writes Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal, is the call we've been waiting to hear for five years. "The best way to see this is via our current activity indicator (CAI), which grew at an annualized rate of 3.4% in May, similar to the average of the prior two months." "Although an estimated ½ percentage point of this sequential growth is due to a bounceback from the weather distortions of the first quarter, even the year-on-year CAI now stands at 2.7%, the fastest pace of the expansion so far and above our estimate of potential growth of 2%-2½%. In our view, the CAI is a far more reliable indicator of economic activity than real GDP because it is more timely, more broadly based, less noisy, and less subject to revision." FREE AppDownload
YouTube/GoDaddyGoDaddy has filed for its IPO. GoDaddy sells domain names for websites. You can read the full filing here. Here are some important numbers: Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan, and Citigroup are underwriting the IPO. GoDaddy did not say in its filing how much it wants to raise. FREE AppDownload
FacebookDavid Marcus.PayPal President David Marcus is stepping down from his position to join Facebook, where he'll work on the company's mobile-messaging products. In a public Facebook post, Marcus writes that he has decided to leave PayPal now so that he could once again focus on building products, and "because I feel that PayPal has never been in a better position to capitalize on its unique place in the market." Marcus joined PayPal as vice president in 2011, after it bought his company, Zong, and was promoted to president in 2012. PayPal's leadership team will report to eBay president and CEO John Donahoe until a replacement for Marcus is found.  In his Facebook post, Marcus writes that he decided to make the move after a get together with CEO Mark Zuckerberg. "Mark shared a compelling vision about Mobile Messaging," he says. "At first, I didn’t know whether another big company gig was a good thing for me, but Mark’s enthusiasm, and the unparalleled reach and consumer engagement of the Facebook platform ultimately won me over. So ... yes. I’m excited to go to Facebook to lead Messaging Products. And I’m looking forward to getting my hands dirty again attempting to build something new and meaningful at scale." According to Re/code's Kara Swisher, Marcus will be dealing with Messenger, Facebook's standalone messaging app with 200 million monthly active users, but not WhatsApp, the mobile-messaging company that Facebook bought for $19 billion in February.  It hasn't exactly been an easy year for Marcus. In February, an internal memo was leaked in which he angrily scolded PayPal employees for not using company products, and, in May, ex-PayPal director of strategy Rakesh Agrawal went on a public Twitter rampage against some PayPal employees and, eventually, the company in general.  "As the head of PayPal, David helped make a great business better, reinvigorating product design and innovation and energizing the team to deliver compelling consumer experiences," Donahoe writes.  Marcus learned to code at age 8 and started his first company when he was only 23, according to Facebook's announcement of the news.   Here's the full press release from PayPal:  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today announced that PayPal President David Marcus is leaving the company on June 27 to lead Facebook’s messaging products. “As the head of PayPal, David helped make a great business better, reinvigorating product design and innovation and energizing the team to deliver compelling consumer experiences,” said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. “An entrepreneur at heart, David has made a career decision to focus on what he loves most – leading smaller teams to create great product experiences,” Donahoe said. “We wish him well. He leaves behind a strong leadership team, committed to not skipping a beat on executing our plans, scaling product innovation and driving global growth.” The company, which expects to report second quarter results on July 16, said PayPal continues to build good momentum and is on track to meet its guidance for 2015. PayPal’s leadership team will report to Donahoe until a new president is named. “Leading PayPal has been one of the most amazing experiences of my career,” Marcus said. “I’m proud of what we’ve done together over the past two years, reinvigorating and accelerating product innovation and strengthening PayPal’s global leadership in mobile and digital payments. I believe PayPal is poised for long-term success in creating the future of money. And I know the business has a strong leadership team in place. That’s why now felt like the right time to make a change and return to how I most love to spend my time, leading smaller teams to build great product experiences.” PayPal has more than 148 million active accounts and in 2013 processed $180 billion in payment volume. A mobile commerce payments leader, PayPal processed $27 billion of mobile payments volume in 2013. PayPal accounted for 41 percent of eBay Inc. revenue in 2013. In addition to safe, secure and easy to use online payments solutions, PayPal is driving offline, point-of-sale payments innovation with products such as PayPal Beacon, PayPal Here and PayPal mobile. PayPal also is offering best-in-class merchant solutions including Credit, small business lending products with PayPal Working Capital and simple to integrate developer tools with its global Mobile SDK. In late 2013, PayPal completed its acquisition of Braintree, which provides payments for next-gen mobile leaders such as Uber, Airbnb and TaskRabbit. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipFrench artist Paulo Grangeon throws one of his papier-mache pandas displayed at the arrival hall of the Hong Kong airport June 9, 2014The market was little changed, but meager gains was all it took for the Dow and S&amp;P 500 to make new record highs. First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,943.10, 18.8, 0.1%S&amp;P 500: 1,951.27, 1.8, 0.1%Nasdaq: 4,336.24, 14.8, 0.3% The top stories of the day: Don't Miss: The 19 Most Controversial Stocks in America » FREE AppDownload
At the beginning of this year, hedge funder Whitney Tilson declared he was short Tesla.  Year-to-date, Tesla shares have climbed nearly 40%. Which is why in an interview with BenzingaTV spotted by ValueWalk, Tilson said the short was one of the worst bets of his entire career.  "Being short one Tesla, as I was, can undo a dozen good short positions when you get the occasional moonshot that runs against you," he said. "By the way, I'm no longer short Tesla — and it was one of the biggest mistakes long or short of my investment career." In fact, he added, only the most experienced investors should ever be short.  "Don't do it," he said. "It is exceptionally hard — I can give you a dozen good reasons why shorting is a tremendously difficult and dangerous business, and I can show you a lot of scars on my back from dozens of years of doing it myself, learning a lot of lessons the hard way." Tilson added that his portfolio is currently 2:1 long to short, but that he's recently been "finding quite a bit more on the short side." "I guess I would say [I am] cautious but not bearish," he said. Here's the clip:  FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsJan Hatzius. Goldman's top economist, Jan Hatzius, just said the words we've been wanting to hear for five years. He believes the economy is now growing at an above-trend pace. Goldman's own proprietary current activity indicator (CAI) is showing its fastest growth since the crisis, and though he acknowledges that some of the strong May activity is the result of a snapback from a tough winter, he says that even without that snapback we're still growing at a strong rate. Here's his statement: Despite the 1% drop in real GDP in the first quarter, we believe that the US economy is now growing at an above-trend pace. The best way to see this is via our current activity indicator (CAI), which grew at an annualized rate of 3.4% in May, similar to the average of the prior two months. Although an estimated ½ percentage point of this sequential growth is due to a bounceback from the weather distortions of the first quarter, even the year-on-year CAI now stands at 2.7%, the fastest pace of the expansion so far and above our estimate of potential growth of 2%-2½%. In our view, the CAI is a far more reliable indicator of economic activity than real GDP because it is more timely, more broadly based, less noisy, and less subject to revision. One key reason why we expect a further pickup in the underlying growth pace to 3%+ is an improvement in the housing sector. The impact of the 100bp increase in 30-year mortgage rates last summer should now be mostly behind us; in fact, the 40bp drop in rates since the start of the year could provide a modest boost in coming quarters. More fundamentally, we are optimistic on household formation. From 2006 to 2012, the share of 18-34 year olds who live with their parents increased by nearly 5 percentage points, equivalent to an extra 3½ million individuals. Although the reversal of this surge—which seems to have started last year—is unlikely to be rapid given the gradual pace of labor market improvement and financial factors such as the high levels of student debt, ultimately we do expect much of it to reverse. This probably means that household growth will exceed population growth in percentage terms, and supports our forecast that household formation will average 1¼ million per year over the next half-decade. For what it's worth, we agree with Hatzius. We wrote last week that the economic snapback is here and we wrote this weekend that signs of a breakout are happening in credit expansion. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesElon Musk's says he's been contemplating what it would take to produce flying and submersible cars. "I've thought about it quite a lot...We could definitely make a flying car – but that's not the hard part," Musk told The Independent in an interview this weekend. "The hard part is, how do you make a flying car that's super safe and quiet? Because if it's a howler, you're going to make people very unhappy." For now, Musk said, the project would be "just for fun." But Musk rarely ends up doing anything for kicks. Musk also said he was interested in making a submersible car, like the one driven by James Bond in "The Spy Who Loved Me." That vehicle, by the way, is now owned by none other than Elon Musk.  "We will be making a submarine car. It can transition from being a submarine to a car that drives up on the beach. Maybe we'll make two or three, but it wouldn't be more than that. It's not like we'd sell it, because I think the market for submarine cars is quite small."  In the interview, Musk also discussed installing the next nationwide Tesla charging network in the UK, where he'd landed to deliver the country's first vehicles.   For now, here's the closet thing we have: Massachusetts-based Terrafugia's vehicle that needs a whole runway to work.   FREE AppDownload
Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public RadioThe Ordos Shopping Mall sits empty, much like the rest of the city that surrounds it.China's ghost cities aren't going away. Even as Beijing wants local governments to move away from GDP targeting and is more focused on developing social housing, wasteful construction still plagues China. A report from CLSA's Nicole Wong, cited by The Wall Street Journal, found that the problem lies in the excess supply in China's third-tier cities. Vacancy rates for homes constructed in the past five years stand at 15% but are projected to rise over 20% in 2016-17, according to Wong. Rob Schmitz, China correspondent for Marketplace/American Public Media, recently ran a story titled "China's economic boom leaves a trail of ghost cities." We reached out to Schmitz to get an update on Kangbashi and Yujiapu. Schmitz points out that one of the key differences between visiting Ordos now and back in October 2010 was people's attitudes. Back in 2010, residents of Kangbashi (new city of Ordos) were defensive when the place was dubbed a ghost city, but now many had come to accept it. Schmitz said that many people had abandoned these ghost cities and moved back home. He also points out what China bulls like Stephen Roach have got wrong when they argue that these cities tie into China's urbanization plan. Here is an excerpt from our email interview with Schmitz: Business Insider: How has Ordos changed now from when it first started making headlines a few years ago? Rob Schmitz: I first visited Ordos in October 2010, the same year many other Western journalists had reported on the city. When I returned this year, there were a lot of interesting differences. Back in 2010, the few people who lived there seemed defensive about the Western media labeling the place a ghost city. This time, everyone I spoke to had come to an acceptance that Kangbashi (the proposed new city of Ordos) was most likely going to remain mostly vacant, and many seemed OK with that.  I spoke to one of the largest developers while I was there and he told me that Kangbashi had a population density similar more to a city in Canada or the U.S. than of a city in China, and he thought this was a draw for the city. But my conversations with folks didn't confirm this. I've never seen a city of similar physical size in Canada nor in the U.S. as empty as Kangbashi is today, and most of the people I spoke to during my latest visit didn't seem very happy to be living in a place where most of the buildings were empty. Another big difference between this time and last was that the Ordos government has moved its headquarters to Kangbashi, so there are more people there during the day around the city's civic center. That said, the government of Ordos has actually increased the size of the city since 2010 by building more skyscrapers and infrastructure including a park with a large lake, three sports stadiums, and a skyscraper office park on the banks of the lake which are under construction. I walked through a development of more than a dozen 20-story high-rises built adjacent to this office park, and there were no signs of life. The same developer I mentioned above also expressed concern over the fate of three gigantic sports stadiums built specifically for China's 'Ethnic Minority Traditional Sports Games' of 2015 outside of Kangbashi. It was surprising that after being admonished by China's own state-run press, Ordos' government has continued to build at the same rate as it had done before. Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public MediaAn empty street in front of a vacant residential complex in the city of Kangbashi, Ordos.The last difference from last time is that real estate prices in Kangbashi have plummeted since my visit in 2010, and I met dozens of migrant workers who were renting vacant office spaces as apartments for as low as $65 a month. These spaces weren't built to house people, but one office building I visited was full of migrant workers at night, living in windowless office spaces and using an office bathroom down the hall to bathe. I also visited a government office in charge of mediating disputes between shadow bankers and those who couldn't afford to repay their loans. This is a very big problem in Ordos, as most businesses there would never qualify for a loan from a state bank, and now that the local economy is doing so poorly, many businesses have gone bankrupt. The office was in charge of repossessing whatever assets they could get from those who owed money. Their storage room was full of refrigerators, flat-screen TVs, and shelves full of dozens of bottles of high-priced Baijiu (Rice Wine) which they had seized. BI: Do the people that you meet in these ghost cities have any plans of returning to their hometowns or are they optimistic?  RS: Many have already returned home. Those who are left are looking to make a little money and then leave when the economy finally fizzles out for good. Keep in mind that nearly twenty miles away from Kangbashi (the largely empty city) is Dongsheng, which is known as the old city, and actually has a functioning economy and population, so many people are watching this unfold from there. Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public RadioConstruction work on Yujiapu, planned to be "the financial capital of the world," has been largely put on hold.BI: Some, like Stephen Roach, have argued that these ghost cities can be explained away as part of China's urbanization plan. In your experience, does this add up? RS: Perhaps some of them can, but for the most part, I don't agree with this statement. While it is true that some cities are filling up – the outskirts of Zhengzhou, which the TV program "60 Minutes" profiled a couple of years ago as a ghost town is a good example of a city that has defied early criticisms – other cities like Ordos do not fit neatly into China's urbanization plan. Roach uses the Pudong district of Shanghai as an example of a place that was built, stood empty for a while, and then filled up, the message being other empty cities like Ordos just need time. It's important to remember that 1. Pudong was built in the 1990s, before China had even entered the WTO and was on the cusp of more than a decade of double-digit GDP growth. China's economy today is very different. It's slowing down and China's economic planners are taking the first steps to rebalance the economy from one built on investment-led growth to one built on consumer growth. That's not an easy transition to make, especially for an economy of this size, and it's going to require years of slower economic growth. 2. Pudong is in Shanghai, which is strategically located and is home to one of the world's largest ports. Ordos is in the middle of the desert and is running out of groundwater. If all of these ghost cities and ghost suburbs were part of a master plan hatched in Beijing by the central government, I'd imagine we'd see more affordable housing, as that's what is needed in China. Instead, most of the housing that's been built in these empty districts are luxury condos and villas. I have a hard time believing people will eventually move into these empty complexes in the next five years, especially in the scenario of a cooling economy. The other thing to keep in mind is that many of this new housing isn't built well, and it's hard to imagine them retaining their value over the time it may take for China's economy to return to its glory days. I think another danger is that once housing prices begin to plummet – which we are already seeing initial signs of in second tier cities in China – it'll devastate the financial stability of cities like Ordos.  I think it's important to remember, too, that the ghost city phenomenon in China is partially due to how local governments are forced to finance themselves. Local governments in China are in a perpetual cash squeeze because they have to hand over a bulk of their tax revenue to the central government and because the central government often orders localities to build all sorts of infrastructure projects but Beijing often neglects to help with funding. Because the Party owns all of the land in China, local governments solve their funding problems by seizing land from their poorest residents, giving them a paltry sum in return, and then they sell the land to developers, essentially flipping real estate on a massive scale. Of course this has the added benefit of raising GDP figures, increasing the chance that local leaders will be promoted within the Party. Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public MediaOrdos has issued a construction ban to halt any further wasteful projects, scheduled to go into effect in three years. Before then, the government is spending hundreds of millions of dollars on three gigantic sports stadiums for the 2015 Chinese Ethnic Games. BI: Do you see more Chinese ghost cities propping up? Is it possible that some ghost cities are worse than others?  RS: I think each ghost city/ghost suburb should be treated differently – each of them has its own unique background and circumstances. Some of them will survive – we've already seen that happen in places like Zhengzhou and even in some of the exurbs of Shanghai that have filled out – but many won't. I was talking with Arthur Kroeber at GK Dragonomics a couple of months ago, in my mind one of the best experts on China's economy, and he was telling me about the city of Guiyang and how the province it belongs to, Guizhou, has an 80% debt-to-GDP ratio, which is incredibly dangerous. Arthur's usually pretty bullish on China's prospects, but he threw his optimism out the window when talking about the empty suburbs of that city, where hundreds of thousands of apartments sit, empty, while the largely mountainous province continues to plod along as one of China's poorest. The FT's (moving to The Economist soon) Simon Rabinovitch did a great story about all of Guiyang's empty housing, and what's happened there looks pretty scary.  I think whether we see more ghost cities popping up depends on whether the central government is serious about promises to overhaul the GDP-based local official evaluation system and the way that local governments finance themselves.Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/America Public RadioBI: What's the most bizarre experience you've had in China's ghost cities? RS: My first morning in Kangbashi, I woke up and walked through the empty hotel lobby to take a look outside onto the public square. There wasn't a soul in sight, and the first birds of spring were singing outside. The only other sound was Muzak pumping through the speakers from the hotel. As I looked around for any signs of life, I suddenly recognized the song. It was a Chinese version of Simon and Garfunkel's "Sound of Silence" played with a Chinese erhu. Click here for Schmitz's full story » Note: Photos and captions reproduced with permission from Marketplace. FREE AppDownload
Last month, we talked about the difficulties mobile payment systems have experienced in breaking into emerging markets, and why the challenge for Bitcoin penetration would thus seem to be even greater. Despite a seemingly massive opportunity — which we also just discussed — customers or bank regulators in Africa and Asia have thrown up resistance to tools that would upend at-times centuries-old transaction practices.  Now, Tim Swanson of the Of Numbers blog has posted a chart that further demonstrates Bitcoin's sluggish adoption. It shows worldwide transaction volumes of the digital currency compared with those in M-Pesa, Kenya's cellphone-based banking system and the so-far lone success story among emerging-market mobile payments processors.  Despite its global reach, Bitcoin flows now pale in comparison to those among Kenya's 45 million people over the course of their six-odd years in existence. Tim Swanson You could argue this is not a fair comparison. Bitcoin was started in the functional equivalent of a guy's basement, with angel and VC investment only taking off in the past year. M-Pesa had from Day 1 the backing of a telecom conglomerate, Vodafone.  Even so, M-Pesa had about a 12-month period of growing pains, yet is now the medium through which 43% of Kenyan GDP passes. Swanson says he's not suggesting Bitcoin is dead in the water. Instead, he writes, "I think that once the hype and hyperbole is dispensed of, the underlying tech (especially the “2.0” variety) is clever and potentially transformative later this decade for certain segments." But he still goes in hard. "Bitcoins are not currently fulfilling the role of both a store of value and a medium of exchange...If one builds a tool that has few immediate uses besides gambling then it should not be surprising that mostly gamblers use it," Swanson writes.   The Bitcoin community likes to say it is playing a very long game. But it sure could use a jolt from somewhere.  FREE AppDownload
Cliff/flickrIt's pretty placid out there...too placid?People on Wall Street are talking volatility and how little of it there seems to be right now. Simply put, volatility is how much and how fast the price of an asset, for example a stock or a bond, changes. To track this volatility, Wall Street watches the CBOE Volatility Index, or the VIX. The VIX is one of the most closely watched indicators in the market, its just not exactly what some people think it is. According to the CBOE's website, the VIX is a, "measure of market expectations of near-term volatility conveyed by S&amp;P 500 stock index option prices."  But when the lack of market volatility becomes the overriding market meme, as it has over the last couple months, the way we talk about the VIX runs into a chicken-or-the-egg problem.  It may seem like markets are complacent or sleepy or calm right now. But as Jonathan Golub at RBC Capital Markets notes, the current "slower for longer recovery" and easy monetary policy from central banks (like the ECB cutting rates last week) is driving this market environment, not the VIX reading. The VIX reflects investor behavior but does not necessarily determine it. What the VIX really shows is how much traders anticipate the market can move in a given trading session, not really "how complacent" investors are. In a research note today, Golub gives a great crash course in what the VIX really is.  Golub writes (emphasis ours): "Many market pundits suggest that a weak reading on the VIX indicates complacency. Our work shows that the VIX (3-month implied U.S. equity volatility) is not a fear gauge, nor is it signaling complacent behavior. Rather, the data suggest a decline in realized volatility. This is consistent with more modest daily stock market gyrations. Furthermore, a 10.7 VIX is not unprecedented, having fallen into the 9s in both 1993 and 2007." When Golub talks about "realized volatility," he's talking about the day-to-day moves in the market and not necessarily bigger market events.  The VIX is called the "fear gauge," perhaps for lack of a better reading for fear than anything else. More aptly, the VIX might be called the "arbitrage gauge," a less sexy term that indicates how many opportunities a trader might have to make money in a given day. In his note, Golub notes that in low volatility environments, investment managers need to work harder for their "alpha," or performance relative to the benchmark they track. In some ways, volatility makes investors work harder for return, not allowing them take the summer off and play golf as a "complacent" market environment might imply. Golub notes that while the VIX is at historically low levels, it can still go lower from current levels. This chart from Golub shows how the VIX stacks up historically: RBC Capital Markets This chart from Golub shows how volatility moves with the economy into and out of recessions, and drifts lower in the middle of economic recoveries.  RBC Capital Markets Golub believes that lower volatility will lead to multiple expansion — which means the end of the current post-crisis bull market is still out of sight.  FREE AppDownload
J. CrewRetailers are starting to push a new trend in menswear: the short suit.  The ensemble looks like a regular suit from the waist up, with a sport coat over a button-down shirt and sometimes a tie or bowtie. Instead of trousers, however, the suit's bottoms are cropped at the knee.  J. Crew, Topman, Asos, and Barneys are among the retailers selling the short suit this season. They may be taking cues from fashion icon Pharrell Williams, who donned tuxedo shorts to the Academy Awards earlier this year. "It’s definitely having a moment, particularly with younger guys," Jon Patrick, the creative director at menswear company J.Hilburn, told Businessweek.  J. Crew is offering four different kinds of short suits that cost about $400. "We have wanted to make a suit short for a long time but knew it had to be just right for it to look good," reads the product description for one of the suits. "We would like to finally introduce you to the Ludlow short. It has an old-school country club vibe (more 'Gatsby,' less 'Caddyshack') and is almost guaranteed to win the battle for best-dressed at nearly every summer occasion." J. CrewTopman's short suit runs $390. "For a contemporary and stylish silhouette, our skinny fit suits offer a figure hugging and trend-led shape," reads the item's description. TopmanThe U.K.-based fashion brand Reiss sells a pair of khaki suit shorts for $130. "Ensure that even on warm days your style remains sharp," reads the retailer's product description. Reiss recommends pairing the shorts with a plain black crew-neck T, suede driving shoes, and a pair of aviator glasses for a look that says "smart and informal." ReissFor a less traditional look, Barneys New York carries a $859 Comme des Garcons short suit trimmed with chiffon panels. We think it looks pretty bizarre. Barneys New York  This short suit by Asos is definitely less bold, but it's still pretty expensive at $409. Asos FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen Lam A frequent stock market meme over the last year or so has been that it is a "stock pickers market": With volatility seemingly absent across Wall Street, investors are under more pressure to find individual investments that help their portfolios outperform. And there are no shortage of stocks where investors have staked their claim, arguing that some stocks are going to $0, and that others are going to the moon.  This year's list of the most controversial stocks includes the world's largest technology company, a troubled mobile game maker, and two companies lead by the incredible Elon Musk. Some of these companies are facing attacks from hedge funders or analysts that believe their businesses are fraudulent or illegal, or simply a little overhyped. Other stocks are facing extinction, or are new to the public markets and have found out quickly how fickle stock investors can be Based on our analysis of the current stock market landscape, here are the stocks, ranked from least to most controversial, that we will be keeping an eye on into the summer. FREE AppDownload
It is illegal to trade dollars in the streets of Venezuela, so those who have them are able to make a killing in the underground market, where dollars are worth 11 times the official rate. That, of course, has produced unintended results and consequences for society. One of those, Bloomberg's Anatoly Kurmanaev reports, is that prostitutes and other people with access to dollars are doubling as currency traders. Prostitutes get their greenbacks from sailors carrying them into the country. From Bloomberg: A typical stint with a dollar-paying foreigner would earn a prostitute about 6,800 bolivars in fees and currency exchange arbitrage in the black market. The same service paid in bolivars ... would earn them 3,000 bolivars. “We can make more in two hours here than working in a shop in a month,” said a prostitute who calls herself Giselle, as she sipped a 12-year-old whiskey in Club 440 striptease joint. The prostitutes consider this the only way to get not just decent whiskey but also everyday products like sugar, flour, and other staples. The last time Venezuela published a scarcity index, back in January, one in four basic products was unavailable. People form epic lines to get into grocery stores, only to find their shelves complete empty. Experts are afraid that the underground market that Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro calls "perverse" is turning the country into a place of dollar haves and have-nots. Meanwhile, protests continue in the streets, and Leopoldo Lopez, the leader of the opposition, rots in jail waiting for his trial for treason to begin in August. "I am in jail because I have denounced the Venezuelan government for being corrupt, inefficient, repressive and anti-democratic," he wrote from his cell in April. "I am in jail for calling on the Venezuelan people to go to the streets and exercise our historical and constitutional right to protest until we achieve a political change that guarantees peace, well-being, and progress for the Venezuelan people." Prostitution, for the record, is legal in Venezuela. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesThe latest jobs report may look pretty bland on the surface, but I can assure you that it will generate plenty of intrigue among close observers of the Fed. After falling sharply in April, the unemployment rate held at 6.3%, in contrast to expectations that it would partially reverse course. At this point unemployment forecasts from the Fed and many economists will need to come down. At the March FOMC meeting the central tendency unemployment forecast in the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) was 6.1-6.3% for Q4 2014. This now looks too high. Similarly, the consensus of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is that the unemployment rate will end Q3 at 6.3%—unchanged from the May level despite expectations for solid GDP growth. In a forecast update after the April employment report New York Fed staffers lowered their Q4 2014 unemployment rate projection by two tenths. Look for a revision of about this size (one or two tenths) in the SEP at the June 17-18 FOMC meeting and in upcoming surveys of economic forecasters. The intrigue arises because it is not entirely obvious what lower unemployment rate forecasts would imply for monetary policy. After all, the unemployment rate already declined to 6.3% in April, and yet we could detect no meaningful change in communication from the Fed afterward. So do unemployment surprises matter for policy or not? Naturally there are competing opinions on this point. One view holds that while the unemployment rate matters at some level, Fed officials are focused on much broader measures of slack, and have perhaps put renewed emphasis on wages as well. For instance, a recent paper by economist Andrew Levin (previously Janet Yellen’s chief of staff) puts the degree of broad labor market slack at around 5.5 million full-time equivalent workers (see figures 1 and 2; these are our estimates using Levin’s methodology). Although FOMC members frequently talk about cyclical weakness in labor force participation and slack in hours worked, they rarely provide quantitative estimates like this. The Levin slack estimates are very large, and if these views were shared by Fed officials it would help to explain their limited response to declines in the U3 unemployment rate. Similarly, Adam Posen and David Blanchflower—economists with similar ideological stripes as Janet Yellen—argued in a recent paper that wages should be used as a central guide to policy due to uncertainty about resource slack. With wages not yet definitively moving higher, Fed officials can afford to look past faster-than-expected declines in unemployment for now. Exhibit 1: Labor market slack by type (Levin 2014) Pandl/Columbia Exhibit 2: Total labor market slack since 1960 (Levin 2014)  Pandl/Columbia The alternative argument is that the lack of response to recent unemployment surprises reflects a kind of message discipline by the FOMC. Knowing that the data can be volatile, and also that markets hang on their every word, it’s possible that Fed officials wanted to see another payroll report before adjusting their tone about the timing or speed of rate hikes. For example, here’s what Janet Yellen said in her May 7 testimony to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress (i.e. right after the decline in the unemployment rate to 6.3% from 6.7%): “So it’s a little bit hard for me to give you an estimate of that. We had a huge move. It is very unusual to see a four-tenths percent decline in the unemployment rate in a single month with a comparable move in labor force participation. We always tell ourselves, and I’ll state, I think one should not make too much of any single month’s numbers.” (Our emphasis) We think this debate—which has big implications for the level of rates and shape of the yield curve—could get resolved at the upcoming FOMC meeting. If the U3 unemployment rate still matters, there’s a good chance we will see an upward shift in the “dots” (Fed officials’ forecasts for the funds rate) and possibly a subtle change in message about the risks around the lift-off date at the press conference (e.g. an emphasis on “mid” rather than “late” 2015). On the other hand, if the dots remain unchanged and the press conference sounds much like recent public remarks, then perhaps we have misread the Fed’s worldview. Either way we should learn a lot about the Yellen Fed this month. FREE AppDownload
Nassef Sawiris, the richest man in Egypt, has broken the record for the priciest co-op sale in New York City after purchasing the penthouse at 960 Fifth Avenue for $70 million, according to The New York Daily News. The co-op belonged to Edgar Bronfman Sr., chairman of the Seagram Co., until he passed away in December 2013. The property was listed with Brown Harris Stevens for $65 million in February 2014, and the buyer has been a mystery since it went into contract for $70 million a little over two months ago. Before this, the record for the priciest co-op sale belonged to David Geffen who paid $54 million for a Fifth Avenue penthouse in 2012.  Sawiris' new home features 16 rooms, five fireplaces, a built-in safe, and a wraparound terrace with views of Central Park, among many other luxurious perks. One real estate source told The New York Post back in April that the new owner will likely gut the place.  See photos of the co-op as it currently stands below.  This living room in Sawiris' penthouse features one of five fireplaces.Curbed NY The decor in the home is somewhat outdated.Curbed NY The color palette in the 16-room apartment is reminiscent of the 1970s.Curbed NY But the penthouse still maintains the architectural details common in a prewar building.Curbed NY The formal dining room has a classical layout.Curbed NY The apartment offers sprawling views of Central Park.Curbed NY The wrap-around terrace got a lot of praise when the floor plan was released ahead of the interior photos.Brown Harris Stevens Paige Cooperstein also contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
Daybreaker is an early-morning dance party with yoga, fresh juice, heavy beats, spoken word poetry, a live band, and mascots — but no alcohol or mind-altering drugs. Want to get in on the action? Sign up at dybrkr.com and follow the party on Instagram (dybrkr). You can read more about the party from Business Insider's Madeline Stone and Melia Robinson. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Denis BalibouseThis is a buying opportunity.David Yermack, a finance professor at New York University, has written a wonderful paper showing a correlation between the times CEOs take private jets to their vacation homes and movements in the company's stock. It is, perhaps, not surprising that CEOs go on vacation after announcing good news, and that they stay in the office when bad news is announced — propelling their stock up and down, respectively. But it is delicious to know the phenomenon is statistically significant in terms of stock movements. It means you can buy or sell stock based on when a CEO hits the golf course. Yermack demonstrated the correlation by using flight records from The Wall Street Journal's Jet Tracker database. The data comes from a Freedom of Information request that produced FAA data for private corporate jets and their flight plans. Yermack then used property records to identify CEO vacation homes, and made the assumption that when a corporate jet landed at Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, or Key Largo, Florida, that it was for vacation purposes and not a merger negotiation. Here's his conclusion: I find that CEOs go to their vacation homes just after companies report favorable news, and CEOs return to headquarters right before subsequent news is released. More good news is released when CEOs are back at work, and CEOs appear not to leave headquarters at all if a firm has adverse news to disclose. When CEOs are away from the office, stock prices behave quietly with sharply lower volatility. Volatility increases immediately when CEOs return to work. Mandatory Form 8-K disclosures of material company news are more likely to be filed late if news occurs while CEOs are at their vacation homes. As an example, Yermack produced this chart of the travels of Boeing CEO W. James McNerney Jr., who owns a vacation home in Hobe Sound, Florida, 34 miles from the Palm Beach airport. It shows Boeing stock moving up and down in January 2010 around the dates when he was working on his tan: David Yermack Yermack says: Flight records for Boeing's Executive Flight Operations unit show that its Bombardier CL-600 corporate jet flew from its headquarters airport near Chicago, Illinois to Washington, DC on the night of January 7, and then from Washington to Palm Beach, Florida, at mid-day January 8, returning to headquarters later than afternoon. On January 24, the same aircraft flew from Chicago to Palm Beach and then back to the headquarters airport. Boeing's chairman and CEO, according to real estate records. And, yes, you could trade on the information, Yermack says: The movements of company aircraft to and from CEOs' vacation residences provide visible signals of pending news announcements and silences. With a trivial amount of research and monitoring, investors could observe flights of corporate aircraft in real time between the headquarters airport and CEOs' vacation locales, either by watching live FAA data on the Internet or stationing scouts for tailspotting of the tail numbers of planes that land at leisure airports favored by CEOs such as Nantucket, Massachusetts or Naples, Florida. This information could support straightforward trading strategies, such as using derivatives to bet on declines in volatility when a CEO arrives at his vacation airport and increases in volatility when he departs. In defense of CEOs, Yermack also found that CEO don't actually take much vacation: 17 days a year on average — the same as middle managers. Read the whole paper here. FREE AppDownload
World Economic ForumHey guys, I'm Vikram Pandit. I used to run Citigroup.Sometimes it feels like a pile-on, but when you hear stories about SEC officials being this clueless, you just have to share them (we spotted this one via Bloomberg's Matt Levine). Cathy O'Neil, a former employee of hedge fund D.E. Shaw and current program director at Columbia's School of Journalism, was telling stories about her experience with the SEC on Slate's Money's podcast this weekend.  For years, O'Neil has been an advocate for more transparency on Wall Street. She was a part of Occupy Wall Street's Alternative Banking Group, and even applied for work at the SEC in 2009. They never responded. Three years later the agency tried to recruit her to work on insider trading cases, so O'Neil met with an SEC official over lunch. She said that that lunch just happened to be on the same day that then-Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit was supposed to call her. Her Occupy group had released a press release asking Pandit to answer questions about his bank. So, as one does to be polite in situations like this, O'Neil told her interviewer that she may have to take a call during their lunch. She apologized for her rudeness, of course, but Vikram Pandit was obviously a very busy man. O'Neil interviewer responded with a simple —  "Who's Vikram Pandit?" "I was like, oh wow. Wow," O'Neil said. She went on to say that she had asked her interviewer if, instead of working on insider trading cases, she could dig into mortgage-backed securities (MBS) dating back to the financial crisis. O'Neil wanted to prove that people structuring those securities knew that they were crap. She asked if the statute of limitations had passed on MBS cases, making that kind of work a waste of time. To which her interviewer responded — "I have no idea... I hadn't thought about it." You can't make this stuff up. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyThis morning, Family Dollar adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill," after Carl Icahn reported a new 9.39% stake in the company on Friday afternoon. Poison pills are a defensive measure often adopted by companies facing activist investors that prevent any-one shareholder from taking a controlling stake, typically 10%. Poison pills remain in effect for one year and don't prevent an offer to buy the company, but are designed to allow a company to digest any possible alternatives that may arise from the involvement of new shareholders. A recent example is Allergan, which adopted a poison pill after Bill Ackman took a stake in the company as part of his efforts, along with Valeant Pharmaceuticals, to acquire the Botox maker.  Following Icahn's filing with the SEC, Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino said on Twitter that Icahn will push for "some kind of merger" of Family Dollar, with its discount retail peer Dollar General a possible partner.  Any merger has already gotten more expensive, as shares of Family Dollar are up more than 14% and Dollar General shares are up 13% in morning trade. Family Dollar's adoption of a poison pill suggests that it believes Icahn's intentions are to push for something more radical than the mere "[seeking] to have conversations with member's of [Family Dollar's] senior management" his SEC filing indicates.  Icahn has been quiet since tweeting out his new position Friday afternoon, but he has typically appeared on television to discuss his stakes after disclosing them, so we would expect to hear from Icahn at some point later today. FREE AppDownload
The average age of all U.S. light vehicles in 2014 stands at 11.4 years-old, unchanged from 2013 but still a record high, according to Polk-IHS data. IHS predicts the average vehicle age will remain at 11.4 years through 2015, and then rise to 11.7 years by 2019, AutoNews.com reported. "The slower rate of growth in the average age of a light vehicle, compared with the last five years, reflects the rebound of the auto industry and increase in new-vehicle sales," AutoNews' Nora Naughton writes. Here's the chart: Business Insider, data from USDOT Indeed, BI recently made an RBC survey showing vehicle age was the No. 1 reason for buying a new car its chart of the day: RBC/Business Insider Meanwhile, IHS-Polk also recently posted data showing the average age of new car registrants, and that age for every car in the U.S. This data is slightly skewed by the fact that the registrant population skews older — when a dad buys his son a car, the son is driving it but pops is the one who went to the DMV and got the insurance — but it is nonetheless instructive.  Polk-IHS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewShares of Idenix Pharmaceuticals are up more than 230% after announcing Merck will buy the company for $3.85 billion.  The deal values Idenix $24.50 per share; shares of Idenix closed at $7.23 on Friday. Idenix is engaged in the development of hepatitis C drugs, and according to the merger announcement, Idenix has three hepatitis C drugs in clinical development.  Gilead Sciences, which has seen shares gain more than 120% since the beginning of 2013, received FDA approval for its hepatitis C drug Sovaldi in December. Shares of Gilead are down about 1.5% in pre-market trading. Merck and Idenix expect the deal to close in the third quarter. In pre-market trading Merck is down 0.7%.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Bill Ackman was guest host of CNBC's Squawk Box this morning, and following a question about what happens next with Herbalife, Ackman said: "I believe the government will start arresting people." Ackman is famously short Herbalife, announcing his position in an enormous 342-slide presentation in December 2012.  Ackman also said that his bet against Herbalife is now mostly in the form of put options, or contracts to sell shares of the company at a future date, rather than simply holding shares of the company short. Ackman said his bet against Herbalife is notionally larger than it was when he first initiated his short on the company, and if the company went out of business today, Ackman would make about $2 billion.  In March, the FTC launched a formal investigation into the company, which Ackman called a "pyramid scheme" in his presentation.  Following disclosure of the investigation, shares of Herbalife fell below $50, but have subsequently risen to more than $60, a move Ackman attributed mostly to the company buying back stock.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Damir SagoljA man sleeps in front of ATM machines in Paulista Avenue in central Sao Paulo June 8, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Cheap Spanish Debt. Thanks to the ECB's decision to push rates into negative territory, it's now cheaper for Spain to borrow than it is for the U.S. Yields on Spain's 10-year note hit 2.59%, while U.S. treasuries hit 2.61%. In general Europe yields haven't been this low in centuries. Apple Stock Split Kicks In. Apple shares will start trading under $100 Monday. Don't be alarmed; it's merely because Apple's 7-1 stock split will have kicked in. Russian Market Recovers. Russia's MICEX index has recouped all the territory it lost since the Ukraine situation flared up. The index fell as much as 17%. India Stocks Hit All-Time High. The SENSEX was up 1% Monday, and is now 21% higher on the year. Investors remain extremely bullish on new PM Narendra Modi. Chicken Game Over. Tyson has triumphed over Pilgrim's Pride to win Hillshire Farms, makers of Jimmy Dean sausage and Ball Park franks. The Arkansas-based firm will pay $7.7 billion, one billion more than what P.P. was offering.  Family Dollar General? Jefferies has upgraded Dollar General and Family Dollar to "buy" on merger speculation following Carl Icahn's 13-D filing showing a new 9.4% stake in the latter company. Abenomics Working? Japan GDP beat estimates on an unexpected surge in capital spending.  More China Stimulus. The PBOC cut the reserve ratio 50 bps. for "selected banks." Everyone's still worried China's slow-down will bring bleed over into the rest of the world. No data. Three Fed members speak. Markets. Asia and Europe were higher. U.S. futures are lower. FREE AppDownload
APSAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Apple's resurgent stock may have as much to do with financial engineering as the company's technological wizardry. In late April, the iPhone and iPad maker announced plans to split its stock for the first time in nine years. Since then, Apple's stock has climbed 23 percent, creating more than $100 billion in shareholder wealth while the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 edged up just 4 percent. Other factors contributed to the Apple rally: The company raised its quarterly dividend, committed an additional $30 billion to buying back its stock, struck a $3 billion deal to buy headphone maker Beats Electronics and previewed its latest software for iPhones, iPads and Mac computers. But the stock split helped renew investor interest in Apple Inc., already the world's most valuable company. The reason has more to do with psychology than logic. Splits lower a stock's trading price by substantially increasing the number of outstanding shares. Even though the company's market value remains the same, the prospect of a lower price per share often excites investors who previously shied away from a stock because it looked too expensive. Companies executing splits hope to attract more buyers by making the stock appear more affordable. The concept will be tested Monday when Apple's stock begins trading for the first time since the split's completion. Apple is executing a 7-for-1 split. That means every Apple stockholder gets six additional shares for every share they owned as of June 2. The distribution will increase Apple's outstanding stock from about 861 million shares to about 6 billion shares. To adjust for that swing, Apple's stock price will likely fall from Friday's closing price of $645.57 to the $90 to $95 range....AND BRING APPLE MORE PRESTIGE Although it's unclear if this was Apple's intent, the lower price could clear the way for the company to be included among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average. The closely watched benchmark is supposed to mirror key sectors of the economy, a role that seems perfectly suited for Apple given the popularity of the company's products and its $171 billion in annual revenue. But Apple's high stock price made it impractical to include the company in the Dow. That's because the Dow's value is calculated in a way that gives greater weight to the companies with the highest stock prices. The method has discouraged the Dow Jones selection committee from picking companies with stock prices trading at more than $300. Visa Inc. is the only Dow Jones company with a current stock price above $200. Whether Apple will now make it into the Dow Jones is the "$3 trillion question," says Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&amp;P Indices. Stock splits once seemed reflexive whenever a company's share price neared $100. In recent years, though, splits have dwindled as companies became more comfortable allowing their stocks to trade for hundreds of dollars. Even though the overall stock market has been soaring, only 57 splits have been completed since 2009 among companies in the Standard Poor's 500. That compares with 375 splits from 1997 through 2000, a period that coincided with the dot-com boom. Apple has completed 2-for-1 splits on three previous occasions: May 1987, June 2000 and February 2005. The stock rose 2 percent in the first year after the 1987 split and surged by 60 percent in the first year after the 2005 split. The shares plunged 57 percent in the first year after the 2000 split, which occurred amid a steep downturn in technology stocks. Before the split, the all-time high for Apple's stock stood at $705.07. With the split, that peak has now been revised to $100.72. Apple went public in December 1980 at a split-adjusted 39 cents per share. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Screen shotWithout a doubt, 2014 will be declared the year mobile became mighty in healthcare. No matter where in the world you live, whether you are talking about patients, consumers, or healthcare providers, mobile is revolutionizing the future of healthcare – so much so, that it's worth taking a closer look at 10 powerful trends emerging throughout the mobile health space. We'll also be showcasing our findings on mobile health user experience at the Mighty Mobile seminar at the inaugural Cannes Lions Health festival. 1 Increased mobile usage Every day there are more mobile phones sold than babies born. In fact, mobile (vs TV, desktop computers, print, and radio) is the only medium that is currently growing. Google receives more search queries from mobile devices than ever before. A recent Milward Brown study reports that across 30 countries, people spend an average of 147 minutes a day using a smartphone. And 91% of adults have their mobile device within arm's reach 24/7. It should come as little surprise, then, that the collecting and sharing of health information through mobile phones is projected to grow exponentially. Mobile health has become an indispensable part of this hyper-connected world, where physicians and patients alike are prolific mobile adopters. The stats for obtaining health information via mobile are impressive, to say the least, but the key takeaway here is the enormous opportunity to benefit a global population with an endless variety of healthcare needs. 2 Apps One of the biggest components within mobile health is apps. According to Research2Guidance, there are more than 100,000 mobile health apps in app stores around the world, with more than 4m free downloads every day. By 2017, these app services are projected to reach $26bn (£15bn). Mobile health apps can be broken into two categories: wellness and medical; 85% of apps are for wellness, designed to be used primarily by the consumer and patient, and the remaining 15% are medical, used by physicians. Consumer wellness apps fall into a few sub-categories: physical fitness or training, self-measurement (eg pregnancy trackers), health information (predominantly nutrition based), and self-testing (including calorie monitoring or sensor triggering to monitor things such as heart rate). Today, more people than ever before are feeling empowered to take a proactive role in monitoring their health. Physicians are using apps as an equipment supplement, and advances in mobile sensors are helping them identify potential health problems. The findings can then be geo-located, synced to patient records and shared with partner physicians. Physicians are also tapping into medical apps to record and access patient information on the spot. They are also using apps as disease management and drug administration tools. Medical app regulations continue to be a hot topic within this space: what qualifies as a medical device? How do you weigh safety and reliability considerations, along with the need for a timely approval process? 3 Location Leveraging location-based user information through geo-targeting, Near Field Communication and iBeacon technology were popular topics at this year's Mobile World Congress and South by South West Interactive Conference. Location-based content delivered through methods such as push notifications enable patients and physicians to receive relevant information at the right moment, based on their geo-location. For example, when a patient walks into a waiting room, an iBeacon can deliver relevant patient materials to a patient's mobile device to discuss with his or her doctor. 4 Personalization This is about you being you – your habits, your likes, and your dislikes. Mobile enables consumers, patients, and physicians to have a more personal, ongoing experience. Technology has the ability to tailor health content according to a patient or healthcare provider's mobile history and current behavior. Personalized mobile experiences can initiate direct one-to-one conversations and interactions, and deliver highly relevant information at the right time, based on user preferences. However, for health content providers, it's important to find the right balance between personalization and privacy. 5 Wearable technology Admittedly, wearable technology (wrist bands, glasses and even jewelery) is an offspring of mobile technology but often syncs with devices. This category's explosive potential for growth in the healthcare space can't be ignored. Thanks to enhancements in sensors, wearables are starting to go beyond just monitoring and tracking personal wellness to helping diagnose disease. Augmented sensory perception, data streaming, and even bio-embedded sensors (under the skin) are emerging areas of focus. 6 Video as a constant companion More and more patients and physicians are viewing video content on the go and using it as an information source for diagnostic, drug purchase, and prescribing decisions. Google's Screen to Script study noted physicians on average spend three hours per week watching online videos for professional purposes. They view sites such as Medscape and YouTube, followed closely by pharmaceutical company websites. We are also seeing more patients sharing videos, commenting, and following content creators via mobile. The enhanced power of new mobile devices and their hardware are helping to drive this growth. 7 Increased data and analytics Big data is affecting mobile health in a big way. Better data quality means better health decisions and better patient outcomes. The potential to collect physiological data, contextual data (situation, preferences, and emotions), and usage data can be harnessed to inform purchases, behavioral modification, and prescribing recommendations. Consider this from Forrester Research: 2bn smartphones generate raw data from built-in functions: accelerometers, cameras, and GPS chipsets – creating phenomenal insights about consumer, patient, and physician preferences. 8 Electronic health records Electronic health records have the ability to create a sea change in healthcare. And now, with mobile access patients and providers have the ability to access health records with greater convenience. For example, care summaries can now be shared between care settings with other providers, through mobile, with ease. Drug and medication interactions can be checked through mobile platforms to ensure patient safety. Healthcare professionals can send patients electronic copies of their health information through smartphones. Patients can also view, download, and transmit their health records via a secure electronic mobile messaging service to their healthcare provider. All thanks to electronic health records with mobile accessibility. 9 Quality content Pharmaceutical brands and health and wellness products are moving more and more to the "pill plus" model. This means they are developing and offering more relevant content and services for consumers, patients, and healthcare providers to compliment the benefits of their therapy through mobile experiences. 10 Better small-screen design The fact that more time is being spent on mobile for health information means there is a need for better mobile site design and a more intuitive user experience. There are many screens in many different sizes, which necessitate mobile optimization, such as responsive design for apps, websites, and display ads. In addition, a design experience that utilizes the device capabilities, such as touch, gyroscope, and accelerometer, is becoming increasingly important in making the interaction with health content that much more immersive. Mobile health has undoubtedly become ubiquitous across our lives and is poised to change the horizon line of the healthcare landscape in a mighty way. Katie Erbs is Google's head of rich media for Northern and Central Europe, and Chris Duffey is senior vice president and group creative director at healthcare communications network Sudley &amp; Hennessey Are you a member of our online community? Join the Guardian healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChina just did another stimulus. The People's Bank of China has just cut the reserve ratio by 50 basis points for "selected banks" according to an announcement. The cuts come in the face of a well-known Chinese slowdown. The country is trying to balance economic growth with a desire to deflate asset bubbles, hence the "targeted" cuts.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyWang Yirong of Hebei province rides his motorcycle in a desert during the China Taklimakan Rally and CCR Xinjiang Station, in Shanshan, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region May 31, 2014. LONDON, June 9 (Reuters) - World shares were within touching distance of an all-time high on Monday, spurred on by the potent combination of record low global interest rates and the improving health of major economies. European markets .FTEU3 were on the front foot again, looking for their 10th straight week of gains after last week's bumper set of easing measures from the European Central Bank. .EU (Full Story) Asian stocks earlier touched their highest levels in nearly three years, while Wall Street ESc1 was expected to start steadily, having notched another record close on Friday following bright U.S. jobs data. MSCI's All-World share index .MIWD00000PUS, which encompasses 45 countries and is generally seen as benchmark of global stocks, was up 0.1 percent at 426.77 points, just below its 2007 pre-financial crisis peak of 428.63 points. It has now risen almost 150 percent since the 2009 lows of the crisis but with central banks like the ECB still hosing markets with cheap money, Peter Sullivan, HSBC's head of equity strategy in Europe, said the rally was likely to continue. "We might be sitting close to all-time highs but valuations are not stretched," Sullivan said. "We got more confirmation last week (from the ECB) that policy is going to remain very loose for a long time." "In the U.S. it's clear that earnings are coming back pretty strongly and there are even signs of life now in Europe... So you put that together and it's certainly more likely that equities rise rather than fall from here," he said. Trading was thinner than usual due to public holidays in a handful of countries including Germany and France, but the strong appetite for risk in the region was hard to miss. Spanish and Italian bond yields ES10YT=TWEB IT10YT=TWEB, a proxy for what their governments pay to borrow on financial markets, were at all-time lows with Spain enjoying lower yields than the United States. US10YT=RR. GVD/EUR Safe-haven gold XAU=, meanwhile, was stuck near a four-month low and market volatility indicators such as the so-called VIC fear gauge .VIX remained heavily subdued. Emerging markets were also performing strongly with stocks .MSCIEF on the cusp of a one-year high and a number of key currencies on the rise. The South Korean won KRW=KFTC touched a near six-year peak although intervention by the foreign exchange authorities capped its upside, while Malaysia's ringgit MYR=MY hit a near seven-month high. EMRG/FRX Among major currencies, the dollar .DXY continued to benefit from rising U.S. Treasury yields, after U.S. jobs data on Friday showed employment back at its pre-recession level. The euro drifted down to $1.3615 as the dust settled after last week's ECB frenzy of activity, though there was plenty of daylight between it and its $1.3502 low. (Full Story) Weekend trade data from China also supported the view of a recovering global economy, with exports gaining steam last month. But the same figures also contained some cause for concern, as a surprising drop in imports could herald weaker domestic demand. (Full Story) China's yuan CNH= rose after the People's Bank of China unexpectedly fixed its daily midpoint higher against the dollar for the second straight session, which in turn also gave a lift to other Asian currencies. (Full Story) The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasuries US10YT=RR shuffled up to 2.6131 percent during the European morning, climbing from Friday's U.S. close of 2.597 percent and well above 11-month lows plumbed last month. Treasuries tend to set the benchmark for borrowing costs around the world, and their rally this year has baffled many economists, who had predicted the U.S. economy would perform more strongly and therefore expected a sell-off in the bonds. "The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries may need to sustain a move back above (the) 2.6 percent area to increase the likelihood of the greenback move through the 102.80 level against the yen," Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, said in a note to clients. For now, the dollar had to be content with a slight gain on the day to buy 102.44 yen JPY= having had some help in the Asian session from a lower-than-expected current account surplus in Japan's April data. In commodities, U.S. crude CLc1 and Brent oil LCOc1 gained about 0.3 and 0.2 percent to $103.02 and $108.83 a barrel respectively, underpinned by the solid jobs report that in theory should translate to higher oil demand. Spot gold XAU= was steady near a four-month low at $1,255 an ounce, while Shanghai copper fell to its lowest in nearly a month and London copper also dropped, unsettled by concerns that a probe into metals storage at China's third-largest port could squeeze financing and buying in metals. (Additional reporting by Lisa Twaronite; Editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
APSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc will start managing subscription payments for start-ups and other companies - the latest in a series of quiet moves the e-commerce giant has made into PayPal's turf over the past year. The service, which launches on Monday, allows the company's more than 240 million active users to use credit card details stored on Amazon.com to pay for services such as a monthly phone bill or a digital music subscription. Amazon then charges a fee on each transaction. EBay Inc's PayPal has long dominated online payments services, but Amazon sees plenty of scope to push into new areas. The new service broadens Amazon's profitable role as a middleman for third-party sellers, which account for 40 percent of its sales and extends its influence beyond its website. It also comes ahead of June 18 unveiling by Chief Executive Jeff Bezos of what is widely expected to be a smartphone key to expanding Amazon's role in mobile payments. "You should see it as one of many things that we'll do to expand where people might think about Amazon helping them," Amazon vice president of seller services Tom Taylor said in an interview. Amazon has been testing the new service over the last several months with start-ups including Ting, a mobile phone company that is part of Tucows Inc. Those who used recurring payments by Amazon spent 30 percent more on Ting's website, product manager Justen Burdette said in an interview arranged by Amazon. Some analysts have said Amazon has been held back in payments because merchants are wary of handing over customer data to the company, which has a record of rapidly expanding into new areas and competing with sellers. But Taylor said the only details collected by Amazon as part of the new service is the dollar amount of each transaction and not any "item-level information." He added that the service would encourage Amazon users who might otherwise be leery of handing over their credit card details to a fledgling companies to try out them out. "If you think about giving a merchant that you may not know very well the right to continue to charge your credit card in the future, you really want to know that a good relationship with Amazon stands behind that," Taylor said. "We hope whoever the next Spotify out there is thinking about Amazon," he added, referring to the privately held, popular digital music subscription service.   (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn illustration picture shows projection of binary code on man holding aptop computer in WarsawLONDON (Reuters) - Cyber crime costs the global economy about $445 billion every year, with the damage to business from the theft of intellectual property exceeding the $160 billion loss to individuals from hacking, according to research published on Monday. The report from the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) said cyber crime was a growth industry that damaged trade, competitiveness and innovation. A conservative estimate would be $375 billion in losses, while the maximum could be as much as $575 billion, said the study, sponsored by security software company McAfee. "Cyber crime is a tax on innovation and slows the pace of global innovation by reducing the rate of return to innovators and investors," Jim Lewis of CSIS said in a statement. "For developed countries, cyber crime has serious implications for employment." The world's biggest economies bore the brunt of the losses, the research found, with the toll on the United States, China, Japan and Germany reaching $200 billion a year in total. Losses connected to personal information, such as stolen credit card data, was put at up to $150 billion. About 40 million people in the United States, roughly 15 percent of the population, has had personal information stolen by hackers, it said, while high-profile breaches affected 54 million people in Turkey, 16 million in Germany and more than 20 million in China. McAfee, owned by Intel Corp, said improved international collaboration was beginning to show results in reducing cyber crime, for example in the takedown last week of a crime ring that infected hundreds of thousands of computers known by the name of its master software, Gameover Zeus. (Reporting by Paul Sandle; Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
A quick reminder: Apple shares split 7-for-1 today. This is a reminder to you not to have a heart attack when you see screwy-looking quotes like this today, like this one from Yahoo Finance: Yahoo Finance Or this from CNBC, which was tweeted by Nicholas Olesen: CNBC, Nicholas Olesen Obviously, Apple shares have not plunged 85.7%. You now have seven times as many shares as you had Friday, and each share is worth one-seventh of what they were on Friday. Apple officially made the split announcement in an SEC filing on Friday, which read: Effective on June 6, 2014, Apple Inc. (“Apple”) amended its Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of common stock, par value $0.00001 per share, that Apple is authorized to issue from 1,800,000,000 to 12,600,000,000 and to provide that as of 5 p.m., Pacific Daylight Time, on June 6, 2014, each share of common stock outstanding shall be automatically, and with no further action by the holder of such share, split into seven shares of common stock. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Restated Articles of Incorporation, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. FREE AppDownload
Amazon Video GamesSony are winning the console wars for the first time in nearly a decade, a company official confirmed Monday, offering a rare bright spot on the firm's otherwise troubled balance sheet. Stellar sales of the new PlayStation 4 gave the Japanese electronic giant a huge leg up over rival Nintendo, which has dominated the console market for eight years. Sony's gaming unit, Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE), sold more than 18.7 million consoles worldwide in the business year to March 31, a company spokeswoman told AFP by telephone, against Nintendo's official sales figure of 16.3 million units. US rival Microsoft trailed in third spot with sales of 11.6 million units in the same 12-month period, despite a jump from the rollout of the popular Xbox One towards the end of 2013, business daily the Nikkei said. Sony sold more than seven million PS4 units worldwide as of early April although the new machine was only released in Japan in February. It was launched in November in the US and Europe. That performance came despite an annual group net loss of 128.4 billion yen ($1.25 billion), but played into the 14.3 percent gain in revenue in the business year,along with a weak yen and strong smartphone sales. "We have informed investors that we will stay solid in our business as PS4 sales are right on the verge of a further expansion," SCE spokeswoman Yoshiko Uchiyama said. PlayStation 4 and its predecessor made up more than 14.6 million of total console sales, with more than 4.1 million PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita hand-held units also shifted, she said. Sony predicts that it will sell 20.5 million units in the current year to March 2015 -- 17 million standing consoles and 3.5 million hand-held units. The slight decline in portable units is partly attributed to Sony's plan to end shipments of the 10-year-old PlayStation Portable (PSP) machines to focus on marketing PlayStation Vita, which hit the domestic market in December 2011, Uchiyama said. Overall sales of home-use videogame hardware by Japanese makers have been depressed in recent years as they battle off fierce competition from increasingly sophisticated smartphone-based games. SCE's hardware sales dipped about 20 percent in the past business year, while those of Nintendo slid back 30 percent, a slump attributed to the failure of the portable Nintendo 3DS system to entice gamers, as well as poor sales of the new Wii U. Sony last topped the world's game console sales table in the year to March 2006 but sales of the PS3 have since struggled against Nintendo's Wii and DS series. Shares in Sony closed at 1,658 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Monday, up 15 points or 0.91 percent. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerPerformers in Qing Dynasty costumes wait for a performance to celebrate the Dragon Boat Festival, at the Imperial Palace Museum in Shenyang, Liaoning province June 2, 2014.For years, when asked whether I thought China would experience a hard landing, I would simply answer, “I don't understand China. Making a prediction would be pretending that I did, so I can’t.” The problem is that today China is the most significant macroeconomic wildcard in the global economy.  To understand both the risks and the potentials for the future you have to reach some understanding of what is happening in China today. Last week we started a two-part series on what my young associate Worth Wray and I feel is the significant systemic risk that China poses to global growth. The first thing in my inbox this morning here in Tuscany was a note from a friend about the growing scandal in Quingdao. For a long time many of us have known that there has been “double counting” in the commodities trade sector in China, where local “entrepreneurs” create multiple warehouse receipts on which to borrow money cheaply, and then invest in what are essentially subprime securities that pay higher rates. Everyone “knows” that the government is not going to let anyone lose money on investments, so what could possibly go wrong? It turns out that Chinese warehouse officials are now emigrating in significant numbers to parts unknown around the world, armed with only their passports and whatever money they made through producing such bogus receipts. My sources suggest that the size of the problem is approaching $1.3 billion (far greater than the number being bandied about in public reports). Since one of the guiding principles operative in any scandal is that there is never just one cockroach, I expect the ultimate losses to be far larger. And it appears that the People’s Bank of China is finally going to let people lose money on these fraudulent schemes. Good for them. But to suggest there is no risk in cleaning up corruption and fraud misses the point of our own subprime crisis. In a world where global economic trade and international banks are so intricately linked, trying to determine the actual risk to the system is difficult. And as I will note in my “final thoughts” section, corruption is a very real issue. We are going to try gamely to finish with China today, having left at least three or four letters worth of copy on the editing floor. There is just so much information and misinformation to cover. I’m going to turn it over to Worth and then follow up with a few final thoughts of my own. (Please note that this letter will print exceptionally long as there are a number of charts and other graphics.) Now let’s do a deep dive into part two. By Worth Wray  In my Thoughts from the Frontline debut this past March (“China’s Minsky Moment?”), I highlighted the massive bubble in Chinese private-sector debt and explored the near-term prospects for either (1) a reform-induced slowdown or (2) a crisis-induced recession. Unfortunately, it was not an easy or straightforward analysis, considering the glaring inconsistencies between “official” state-compiled data and more concrete measures of all real economic activity, which is why I suggested that China is simultaneously the most important and most misunderstood economic force in the world today. With the stakes now higher than ever, I returned to Asia’s “miracle” last week (“Looking at the Middle Kingdom with Fresh Eyes”) and probed deeper into the shadows (including China’s shadow banks) with the help of my new friend Leland Miller and a few illuminating excerpts from his Q1 2014 China Beige Book (the largest and most comprehensive survey series ever conducted on a closed or semi-closed economy). Pulling back the Bamboo Curtain, Leland’s data revealed aspects of the Chinese economy that John and I could have only guessed at before, giving us a rare opportunity to explore regional contrasts in Chinese economic activity, to survey the modest (but still insufficient) rebalancing among sectors, and to identify a series of pressure points within the credit markets that suggest last summer’s interbank volatility may return in 2014. Unfortunately, Leland’s key insights confirmed our fears that China’s consumption-repressing, debt-fueled, investment-led growth model is slowing down and starting to sputter… but not collapsing (at least not yet).  What happens next – with huge implications for global markets – depends largely on the economic wisdom and political resolve of China’s central planners, who must find a way to gradually deleverage overextended regional governments and investment-intensive sectors while also rebalancing the national economy toward a consumption-driven growth model. Finessing the challenges will require not just one but a series of miracles. After 34 years of booming economic growth averaging over 9% per year (the longest sustained period of rapid economic growth in human history), China’s credit-fueled, investment-driven growth model is exhausted and increasingly unstable. As you can see in the chart below, the Middle Kingdom’s credit boom is well past the point of diminishing marginal returns; and no one can deny that the misallocation is widespread, with capacity utilization now below 60%. (I should also note that Societe Generale’s Wei Yao has consistently published some of the best research on China in recent quarters; personally, I won’t be surprised to see her vault to rock-star status as the People’s Republic decelerates.) Wei Yao & Claire Huang, “SG Guide to China Reform.” Societe Generale Research, May 14, 2014. Moreover, state-perpetuated distortions in the cost and availability of financing are (1) funneling huge amounts of capital toward increasingly unproductive, state-directed investments, and (2) pushing household and private business borrowers into the shadows, where the burden of substantially higher interest rates drags on household consumption.  Wei Yao & Claire Huang, “SG Guide to China Reform.” Societe Generale Research, May 14, 2014. It doesn’t require much imagination to connect the dots. Structural distortions in Chinese financial markets are a major cause of debt-fueled overinvestment; and without sweeping structural reforms (along with a major crackdown on corruption at all levels of government), captive capital will continue to flow toward unproductive investments, capacity utilization will continue to fall, and China’s investment boom will continue its march toward a mega Minsky moment. This kind of structural distortion is a classic symptom of an overextended investment boom and a warning sign that rebalancing – whether it’s induced by voluntary reforms or an involuntary debt crisis – will not be easy. The critical adjustments – gradual deleveraging and structural rebalancing – will require a greater slowdown in economic growth and a sharper fall in still-bubbly asset prices than China’s policymakers are letting on. “This is not an easy task,” The Daily Telegraph’s Ambrose Evans Pritchard says, in a truly brilliant article published this week, “not least because land sales and taxes make up 39% of state revenue in China, and the property sector employs 20% of workers one way or another. It is clearly a bubble of epic proportions and already losing air. Mao Daqing from Vanke – China’s top developer – says total land value in Beijing has been bid up to such extremes that is on paper worth 61.6pc of America’s GDP. The figure was 63.3pc for Tokyo at the peak of the bubble in 1990.” Yikes. As Peking University professor Michael Pettis explains in his 2013 book, Avoiding the Fall: China’s Economic Restructuring, “Every country that has followed a consumption-repressing, investment-driven growth model like China’s has ended with an unsustainable debt burden caused by wasted debt-financed investment. This has always led to either a debt crisis or a lost decade of very low growth.” China’s “miracle” is no different from any other investment-driven growth binge where high levels of leverage (directly or indirectly paid for by the household sector), combined with high levels of fixed investment, eventually result in excessive and unsustainable debt loads. Pettis elaborates: While these policies can generate tremendous growth early on, they also lead inexorably to deep imbalances. As demonstrated by the history of every investment-driven growth miracle, including that of Brazil, high levels of state-directed subsidized investment run an increasing risk of being misallocated, and the longer this goes on the more wealth is likely to be destroyed even as the economy posts high GDP growth rates. Eventually the imbalances this misallocation created have to be resolved and the wealth destruction has to be recognized. What’s more, with such heavy distortions imposed and maintained by the central government, there is no easy way for the economy to adjust on its own…. [Furthermore], Beijing [will] not be able to raise the consumption share of GDP without abandoning the investment-driven growth model altogether. In other words, the world’s second largest economy is approaching its debt limit and the end of the line for investment-led growth … but China’s financial system is structurally designed to prevent capital from flowing freely toward more productive uses. One way or another, the world’s largest contributor to global economic growth must slow down – either because Beijing has the foresight, resolve, and political capital to pursue aggressive economic and financial market reforms or because party elites fail to address the country’s structural imbalances and policy-induced distortions before the credit bubble pops. “Debt,” Pettis explains, “as we will learn over the next few years in China, has always been the Achilles’ heel of the investment-driven growth model…” Among the various reforms set forth in last November’s Communist Party Third Plenum, ranging from financial liberalization to a crackdown on corruption and pollution, the most challenging is the gradual deleveraging of the Chinese economy while simultaneously rebalancing the national economy toward a more sustainable, consumption-driven growth model. According to Bob Davis and Lingling Wei at the Wall Street Journal, “That would be a departure from China's old formula of relying on cheap exports abroad and vast investment at home in building roads, railways and even new cities…. Standing in China's way are many of the biggest beneficiaries of China's past growth model.” The transition will not be easy and may require a far greater slowdown than anyone in Beijing publicly admits. While China’s ruling elite don’t appear to be in denial about its debt problem, the distortions caused by widespread corruption, or the urgency to replace its sputtering growth model, the jury is still on whether President Xi Jinping will maintain the political and social capital necessary to follow through on growth-disrupting, job-displacing reforms. Dr. Pettis suggests China’s central planners must choose among six possible paths, and the results of that choice will shape China’s future economic success or failure as forcefully as Deng Xiaoping’s Open Door policy did in 1978. We should all be praying for President Xi and his economic policy architect Liu He to choose wisely and follow through: It will be a sight to behold if China’s central planners can successfully rebalance the economy away from the exhausted fixed-investment and export growth engines toward a truly consumption-led economy… but they are attempting something that has never been done before, and the odds (and the historical record) are not in their favor. Irrespective of the chosen path toward rebalancing, growth is clearly decelerating across the Middle Kingdom… and even a modest slowdown will shake the world. Chen Long, “Testing the Reformers Resolve.” GaveKal Research, May 27, 2014 Our newly illuminated view via the China Beige Book leads John and me to believe that a pronounced slowdown (again, induced either by voluntary reforms or by an involuntary debt crisis) is now inevitable… suggesting that the real story surrounding China’s slowdown is really about the rest of the world, from its trading partners to leveraged investors in seemingly unrelated niches of our highly interconnected global financial system. Our world is far more integrated today in terms of cross-border flows in goods…  … services…  … and financial flows. Source: James Manyika, Jacques Bughin, Susan Lund, Olivia Nottebohm, David Poulter, Sebastian Jauch, and Sree Ramaswamy, Global Flows in a Digital Age. McKinsey Global Institute, April, 2014. We rarely know in advance which hedge fund or mega-bank has massive, leveraged exposures to toxic markets or asset classes, but it is absolutely prudent to assume that at least onesystemically  relevant institution has over-gorged and over-leveraged on positive carry. That’s a fair assumption, since major central banks continue to promote bad behavior with negative real interest rates, large-scale asset purchases, and forward guidance that chaotically distort market signals. Any kind of deflationary collapse in China could send a shock wave through the world’s hyperconnected and highly leveraged financial system, triggering extensive losses in European and American mega-banks and likely tipping the developed world back into a hard recession precisely when the central banking community lacks effective policy tools to soften the blow. As we all experienced in 2008, such a shock could effectively shut the door on global trade finance, unwind carry trades around the world, and trigger a sharp reversal in cross-border capital flows as international trade grinds to a halt. That’s a worst-case scenario that could certainly happen, but it’s not the most likely scenario (thank goodness). However, China doesn’t have to experience a deeprecession in order to disrupt global growth. China is the world’s second largest goods importer, buying the equivalent of more than $1.7 trillion in foreign goods each year (compared to US imports of roughly $2.3 trillion). The Middle Kingdom imports extensively from its immediate neighbors in East and Southeast Asia but also does nontrivial business with Australia, Brazil, the United States, and Germany. (Note: The following analysis relies on 2011 trade data, which is the most recent data-set available in MIT’s online Observatory of Economic Complexity). Origin of Chinese Imports, 2011 Chen Long, “Testing the Reformers Resolve.” GaveKal Research, May 27, 2014 As a result, China accounts for nearly 28% of all Australian exports… Destination of Australian Exports, 2011  24% of all South Korean exports… Destination of South Korean Exports, 2011  19% of all Japanese exports… Destination of Japanese Exports, 2011  14% of all Malaysian exports… Destination of Malaysian Exports, 2011  12% of all Singaporean exports… Destination of Singaporean Exports, 2011  12% of all Indonesian exports… Destination of Indonesian Exports, 2011  and 6% from Europe’s export-led economic hegemon, Germany. Destination of German Exports, 2011  If China’s GDP growth slows to 2–3% (a trend which may already be in progress), a corresponding decline in China’s appetite for commodities and other imports could fire a demand shock across all of these economies and even seriously impact Germany, which simply cannot afford a sudden disruption in its trade surplus if it hopes to preserve the euro system and keep its own banks afloat. Considering the worst-case-scenario consequences for the world’s leveraged and interconnected financial markets, and the base-case potential for serious demand shocks to many of China’s suppliers, China’s slowdown represents a macro sea change – the kind we cannot ignore. As John and I spoke with friends at his Strategic Investment Conference last week – brilliant people like Niall Ferguson, Ian Bremmer, Anatole Kaletsky, David Tice, Lacy Hunt, Dylan Grice, Grant Williams, Jonathan Tepper, Kyle Bass, Rich Yamarone, David Rosenberg, Raoul Pal, Neil Howe, and Jack Rivkin (to mention just a few) – we found everyone worried about China, and we spent late nights talking through the potential linkages. Although the publicly available data can be murky, misleading, and inherently flawed, this is an area we must pay attention to in the coming months and quarters. China’s slowdown, deleveraging, and rebalancing are the most important macroeconomic forces in the world today… because they are the biggest unknowns. We can get our heads around the risks in Europe, the United States, or even across the most fragile emerging markets; but it is impossible to know how long Beijing’s central planners can keep the investment boom going or whether they have any chance of keeping growth above 5% without precipitating a hard landing. That uncertainty leaves us with an incredibly wide range of possible economic outcomes (from a raging bull market in the case of a successful transition to a sharp collapse with global consequences when the credit-driven investment boom inevitably falters) and no way to intelligently assign probabilities. The situation in China demands close attention to risk in a world where very few investors are paying attention. Remember: “China is like an elephant riding a bicycle. If it slows down, it could fall off, and then the earth might quake.” John here. Every time I go to Singapore I hear this story about Deng Xiaoping. It is said he came to Singapore in the late ’70s and saw the progress there under the leadership of one of the great men of the last century, Lee Kuan Yew. Supposedly he said something like, “These are Chinese people doing this. We can too.” He went back to begin the reforms that produced the results we see today. In my opinion he is one of the most important of a small handful of leading figures of the 20th century. It is impossible to think of a modern China today without Deng Xiaoping. Inheriting a country fraught with social and institutional woes resulting from the Cultural Revolution and other mass political movements of the Mao era, Deng became the core of the "second generation" of Chinese leadership. He is considered "the architect" of a new brand of socialist thinking, having developed "socialism with Chinese characteristics" and led Chinese economic reform through a synthesis of theories that became known as the "socialist market economy". Deng opened China to foreign investment, the global market and limited private competition. He is generally credited with developing China into one of the fastest growing economies in the world for over 30 years and raising the standard of living of hundreds of millions of Chinese. (Wikipedia) When we discuss the future of China, it is important that we develop some perspective. Go back to 1978 and the economic disaster that Deng Xiaoping faced. China was coming off the Cultural Revolution, which had seen Deng himself purged at least twice, forced into menial work, and his son tortured. The hard-core party elite saw Deng as a huge threat. If in 1978 someone had shown you a photo of a city like Shanghai or Beijing today and asked you the odds of that happening within 36 years in China, you would have laughed at them. What if that someone had told you then that 250 million people would be moved from the country into the cities and modern jobs created for them? That some of the most important companies and richest citizens the world would be based in China? And that China would be the second largest economy in the world with the potential to become the largest not long thereafter? By this time you would be rolling on the floor laughing, tears in your eyes. Such a thing would have been impossible to imagine in 1978. In a stroke of good timing, Worth has just thrown the following images up on Twitter: a. Shanghai in 1987  b. Shanghai in 2013  (Readers can follow us on Twitter at @JohnFMauldin and @WorthWray.) To get a sense of the history and significance of those times, let me direct you to a marvelous series of interviews with Lee Kuan Yew in his later years. For those who still want more, there is a marvelous biography of Deng Xiaoping called Deng Xiaoping and the Transformation of China, by Harvard professor Ezra Vogel. There are also YouTube videos with Professor Vogel. One of the challenges faced by all those who attempt to do economic analysis is to keep our biases in check. All too often our forecasts agree with our personal beliefs. I must confess that one of my cornerstone beliefs is that free markets are superior to centrally controlled markets. It is not just Hayek vs. Keynes, but Hayek vs. Marx. Westerners are still liable to consider China to be the same sort of command economy it was in the 1970s. But the China of today is vastly different, even though there are significant remnants of the centrally controlled economy. It is far too easy to see the growth of China in terms of centrally planned malinvestment based on leverage and construction and a real estate bubble of epic proportions that must end in tears. Such a stance dismisses the massive entrepreneurial and private-sector contributions that are at the core of the “Chinese miracle.” In a very true sense, Deng Xiaoping slowly and thoughtfully introduced capitalism to China. And the Chinese have responded enthusiastically. The business acumen and entrepreneurship of the Chinese diaspora throughout the world over the last two centuries is legendary. Why would we not think the same cultural forces would be at work inside China, waiting to be unleashed? We’ve spent the last two letters acknowledging the rather severe problems China faces. There is no question that one of the greatest real estate bubbles of the last two centuries has developed in China and that it is massively leveraged. Capitalism is generally messy, and the Chinese have created a dragon-sized monster of a mess. The corruption I mentioned in my opening appears to be somewhat rampant, distorting the use of capital in ways that produce uneconomic results. Many of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) are hopeless basket cases and should be allowed to die, their assets sold off to new owners who can hopefully figure out how to put them to better use. The banking system has often allocated capital according to political rather than economic ends, and it doesn’t take an economic rocket scientist to figure out what the results will be. There are trillions of dollars of bad loans in the Chinese system. It is quite easy to look at these problems and forecast a rather stark ending. When I look at Japan or France (or the US prior to the subprime crisis), I have no problem making a firm forecast, either positive or negative, because I feel I have some understanding of the problems and can diagram a decision tree and ponder the results of possible decisions. As I have noted numerous times, Japan is faced with the rather stark choice of either Disaster A or Disaster B. I can see no decisions they can make that do not end up in economic turmoil. Ditto for France. I am hopeful that the US will use the small amount of time it has left to make the right decisions on entitlements and the budget. I can still see a possible path that could lead to things turning out well. However, when I look at China, the decision tree is not only huge, it has questionable roots in the data. There are some branches, some paths to the future, that could turn out to be semi-benign. But in China, as in the US, I can easily see choices that will create domestic turmoil and macroeconomic chaos around the world. In both countries, big, hard decisions must be made, but it is not clear that we or they will make them. In China, Xi and Li, if they stick to their announced program (and it appears so far that they intend to), promise to become the most important and most revolutionary leaders since Deng Xiaoping. What they are attempting to do is no less difficult than the task Deng was faced with in 1978. The problems are just different in character. No country in the history of the world that I’m aware of has been able to allow a massively leveraged bubble to pop without creating economic turmoil. But then I can’t remember when a country with resources as vast as China’s has tried to proactively manage a bubble. Can a centrally controlled economy (which has never really worked in the long run) pull this off? Can China switch to a consumer-demand-driven, decentralized system without major disruptions? The Chinese do have some considerable advantages that should not be readily dismissed. For one they have a highly educated population. The government of the country consumes a smaller proportion of GDP (if you factor out SOEs), relatively speaking, than the governments of any of the developed-world countries do; taxes are relatively low; and the Chinese people are significant savers, far more so than their Western counterparts, which gives them a large capital base for expansion. They also hold a few trillion dollars in foreign capital (which I expect them to use). And rather than spending their income trying to drive consumption, they are spending on infrastructure that is there to be used by their established businesses and entrepreneurs (in contrast to the Keynesian-fueled US deficits, for which we have little to show!). Further, their consumer market is nowhere close to being optimized. There is massive room for growth in the consumption of all types of products and services, which of course makes China ripe for a burst of entrepreneurial growth to counterbalance the significant deleveraging that will be forced upon them as they try to slowly let the air out of their debt bubble. Xi and Li seem determined to deal with the corruption that is endemic to much political and business activity in China and to redirect the focus of economic activity from land sales and real estate construction to the production of goods and services. If the absolute rule of law cannot be established, the difficulty of attaining these goals will be significantly increased. Further, they have to allow nonviable businesses and banks to go bankrupt in an orderly fashion without threatening the overall system. That is not an easy task. But the Chinese leadership appears to be taking on the tasks, including labor reforms, that will be required if they are to navigate the treacherous waters in which they find themselves. And the Chinese must do this as all the major central banks of the world are creating a significant imbalance by holding interest rates far below the Wicksellian “natural rate” and creating all sorts of potential bubbles and malinvestments, while driving currencies to unnatural valuations. China’s biggest problem may be outside its borders as a world devolves into a major currency war and the protectionism that typically follows. As if they don’t have enough to worry about with their own internal bubbles. To be sure, I can’t see a path that will result in 7.5% annual growth for the next 10 years. That train has left the station. But is there the possibility of more “normal” growth, with the occasional business-cycle recession? If they can continue to unleash the power and drive of their private sector and not continue to prop up failing state-owned enterprises, pumping money into investments that have no final positive economic result, those measures will go a long way to solving the quandary they are in. As Worth pointed out above, 3% growth for China would require significant realignment of expectations in markets around the world. That outcome would be frustrating for those directly involved but not a disaster for the world as a whole.As I said at the conference, the world needs the Chinese to succeed. The world needs a functioning, growing China that is a responsible member of the global community and a force for stability. If the Chinese get this wrong, we will face one of the most significant macroeconomic upheavals of our lifetimes. If they get it right, they could continue to be a key factor for global GDP growth. Every night when we go to bed and say our prayers, we investors should mutter something along these lines: “Now I lay me down to sleep [insert personal requests], and please, God, bless the leaders of China and give them the wisdom to not screw it up.” This letter is already longish, so there is no time to do more than acknowledge the very real and important geopolitical dance that is taking place in the South China Sea. Many of my friends, when they come back from China or Japan or both, express deep concern that things could spiral out of control. Both countries seem intent on proving something that quite frankly many of us in the rest of the world simply cannot get our heads around. Not to mention the involvement of Vietnam, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Korea, all of which feel they have rights in those waters. And there doesn’t seem to be anyone who can make them all play nice in the sandbox. There was a time in the history of this letter when we paid a lot of attention to the US subprime crisis or to the problems in Europe or those of Japan. There are still significant negative forces in those regions and elsewhere around the world. But now we must begin to pay close attention to China. How the Chinese navigate their problems will have significant impact on our economies, our businesses, and our investments. For the macroeconomic world at large, there are a LOT of balls in the air. Unlike in 2006, when everything was just fine, there are now plenty of topics available for future letters. Shoot me a note with your suggestions. I do pay attention. If you are a qualified purchaser or a licensed investment advisor qualified to make private placement recommendations, please join me and my partners at Altegris for an exclusive webinar featuring a couple of investment industry heavyweights, Richard Perry and Jack Rivkin.  Richard founded Perry Capital in 1988 and is one of the originators of event-driven investing – a strategy where hedge fund managers expect big opportunities this year. My friend Jack, as many of you know, brings over 45 years of direct investing, research, general management, and investment management experience at leading financial institutions to his new role as Altegris CIO.  The webinar takes place on Tuesday, June 24, at 1:00 p.m. EDT / 10:00 a.m. PDT. Be sure to register here for this event, as it is sure to be one of the more interesting discussions of the year.  Upon qualification by my partners at Altegris, you will receive an email invitation. I apologize for this discussion being limited to qualified purchasers and investment advisors, but we must follow the rules and regulations. I look forward to having you at this exclusive event. (In this regard, I am president and a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, member FINRA.) For the last seven days I have been pleasantly surrounded by the Tuscan countryside. The weather’s been perfect, and the conversations in the evening have been both enthusiastic and enlightening. I can’t tell you how much I’ve enjoyed spending the last six days with George Gilder. Not only is he a fount of intellectual insights, he is a never-ending source of great stories. I have to rank him right up there with the all-time great raconteurs I have met over the years. George has been working on his latest book, on a new economic theory of money with a healthy dose of bitcoin thrown in. And I don’t want to give away too much, but let’s just say that there was an interview with the mystical, if possibly mythical, demiurge Satoshi Nakamoto held late at night in the grotto here in the villa in Trequanda. The world will just have to wait for George’s book to arrive to learn the details. It’s getting close to time to hit the send button, as we leave in an hour to go to Florence (Firenze) to see the sights and in particular for me to once again see Michelangelo’s statue of David. I’ll again be spending the coming week close to  “home” here in Trequanda, thinking about, outlining, and writing portions of my next book. Then next Saturday I will leave for Rome, where I will spend four days with my good friend Christian Menegatti of Roubini Global Economics, meeting with bankers and policymakers to try to get a handle on Italy in particular and Europe in general. And maybe we’ll take a few side trips to see some of the marvelous historical sites. Then it’s back to Dallas, where I will more or less stay for a month before heading out to Nantucket and New York City for a week, and then of course it will be time for our annual fishing trip out in the Maine boondocks, sometimes called the annual meeting of the Shadow Fed, organized by David Kotok of Cumberland Advisors. One of the great benefits of being here in Tuscany is the local food. In addition to some fabulous restaurants, we have been able to find local chefs who will come in and make meals from scratch. Every night is a feast, but a healthy one. One of the great revelations is that the gardener for the villa here, Ivo, a 70-something spry little elf, is a fabulous cook. Yesterday he came in the early afternoon to begin his preparations, bringing with him only fresh ingredients straight out of his garden. I have always said that one of the great joys of life is a perfect tomato, and Ivo may be the ultimate source of that joy. He literally spent hours hand rolling the spaghetti pasta, and I’m not quite certain what he did to the chicken, but it had the table in awe. It is such a delight to watch him singing old Italian songs (he does a mean Dean Martin) and literally dancing around the kitchen. This is a man who knows how to enjoy life. I really don’t think he is worried about whether there is a bubble in Chinese debt – if he is worried about anything at all. We should all try to figure out how to be more like Ivo. They are telling me the cars are ready to roll, so that means it’s time to take my leave. Have a great week. Next week Ivo promises lasagna. I hope you can have a few great meals of your own. Your thinking I need to visit China analyst, John Mauldin, Editor subscribers@mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesLONDON (Reuters) - Nothing about the narrow cream-colored lobby at 160 Aldersgate Street in the City of London financial district gives a hint of its role at the center of the offshore oil industry. That’s because the building is occupied by a law firm. Yet, on paper at least, it is also home to Rowan Companies, one of the largest operators of drilling rigs in the world. In 2012, Rowan, which has a market value of $4 billion, shifted its legal and tax base from the United States to Britain. But not much else. “We changed our corporate structure and we’re legally domiciled in the UK but our headquarters and our management team remain in the U.S.,” Suzanne Spera, Rowan’s Investor Relations Director said in a telephone interview from Houston. “It has been positive. We take advantage of trying to be competitive with our effective tax rate.” Indeed, Rowan filings say the shift helped cut the company’s effective tax rate to 3.3 percent in 2013 from 34.6 percent in 2008. Spera said Rowan complies with all UK tax rules. A government spokeswoman for the Treasury said recent changes to the tax rules were aimed at supporting "genuine business investment".    “The UK is not a tax haven. In 2015, our main rate of corporation tax will be 20 percent, well above the levels seen in tax havens," she said in an emailed statement. In the last year around a dozen major U.S. companies including media group Liberty Global, banana group Chiquita and drug maker Pfizer unveiled plans to shift their tax bases overseas outside the United States. Historically, when U.S. companies wanted to cut their tax bill they usually reincorporated in Caribbean Islands or Switzerland. However, following recent legal changes whereby Britain largely stopped seeking to tax corporate profits reported in other countries, including tax havens, companies are increasingly choosing the UK as a corporate base. President Barack Obama and Congressional Democrats have proposed measures to stem the flow of so-called “inversions”, although Congressional gridlock on tax reform means new barriers to overseas moves are unlikely anytime soon. There is no official list of companies which have moved their tax base to Britain but government officials, tax advisors and lawyers said at least seven had re-based to London -- Aon Plc, CNH Global N.V., Delphi Automotive Plc, Ensco Plc, Liberty Global Plc, Noble Corp. Plc. Drugs group Pfizer and Omnicom had planned to transfer their tax domicile to Britain, while retaining U.S. headquarters, but the takeover deals which were meant to facilitate this recently failed. U.S. and UK filings and other company statements from the seven that relocated showed that while redomiciling to London can cut a company’s tax bill, it usually involves relocating just a handful of senior executives -- and sometimes not even that many. “The UK has made a very clear policy decision to engage in tax competition for multinationals. It’s fair to say it’s rivaling Ireland,” said Stephen Shay Professor of Law at Harvard University who has testified to Congressional investigations into corporate tax reform. “When I go to tax conferences now, I hear people talk about the UK as a tax haven.” Bernhard Gilbey, tax partner at law firm Squires Sanders said tax competition was common across countries and that companies were within the law and indeed faced competitive pressure to structure themselves in response to such governmental incentives. The companies said that while tax was a consideration in their moves, commercial reasons such as the desire to be closer to customers was also a factor. British finance minister George Osborne has welcomed the trend of U.S. companies such as insurance group Aon redomiciling to Britain, saying it reflects how the government has made the country a more attractive place to do business. In November, Ernst &amp; Young, one of a number of tax advisors which advocated the tax changes that made Britain a magnet for U.S. corporations, published a survey saying that 60 multinational companies were eyeing a move to the UK. EY said this could create over 5,000 jobs and bring in over 1 billion pounds a year in additional corporation tax, the UK’s corporate income tax. However, a Reuters review of company filings and other statements from the seven companies, news reports and interviews with tax advisors and company executives, suggested corporate moves may not mean so many new jobs. Ensco and Noble said they had each created around 30 positions between them, including moving their chief executives to London. Aon declined to say how many UK jobs it created, but filings showed its CEO moved to London and that the newly incorporated London-based parent company employed 16 people last year. None of the most senior officers of Delphi, as listed in its annual report, are based in Britain, the company confirmed. A spokeswoman declined to say if any less senior roles had been shifted to Britain. A spokesman for CNH, which shifted its tax base to London last year, said the company was currently scouting for a London office where some senior managers would be based. He declined to say how many or which roles would be based there. Liberty declined to say if it created new jobs in Britain connected with its re-incorporation. Filings at the UK companies register say CEO Michael Fries resides in the United States while media reports cited the company as saying Liberty's takeover of Virgin Media, which was cited as part of the reason for re-basing to Britain, would lead to 600 job cuts. All the companies said they continued to employ large numbers of staff at and invest in long-established operating subsidiaries in Britain. They declined to identify any new investments tied to their corporate relocation. Lawyers said the small number of new jobs reflected how Britain would give companies the benefits of its tax regime in return for a less substantial investment than was required by some other countries -- including countries previously accused by U.S. and European lawmakers of facilitating tax avoidance. “In terms of governance and presence, it requires actual substance if you want to set up in the Netherlands, whereas you can achieve a UK residence just by having board meetings in the UK,” said Isaac Zailer, global head of tax at law firm Herbert Smith. The seven companies Reuters examined had a combined 73 directors. Only 14 percent reside in Britain, up from 4 percent before the companies moved, company filings, records at the UK companies register and other company statements show. For the six previously U.S.-incorporated companies which shifted to Britain, 80 percent of directors continued to reside in the United States after the move. Accounts for the companies also show little benefit to the UK exchequer from the corporate relocations. Aon and Liberty Global – the only two companies which published figures for group UK tax payments – reported UK corporation tax credits for 2013. Ensco had a UK tax charge of $200,000 last year. That included tax on profits from its UK operating subsidiaries which have revenues of around $300 million a year. Delphi Automotive's most senior UK corporate entity is a partnership, which does not have to pay tax. The company declined to say if other British units paid any corporation tax but said in its annual report that it had UK tax assets which could be used to offset future taxable profits. CNH does not publish UK tax payments. Its main UK operating unit reported a tax credit in 2012, the last period for which accounts were available. Rowan and Noble declined to say if they paid any UK tax in relation to their UK head office activities. Rowan, Ensco and Noble’s North Sea rig leasing businesses have combined revenues of $1 billion a year but have paid almost no tax over the past 20 years, a separate Reuters investigation showed last month. [ID:nL6N0NZ146] What attracts companies like Rowan to Britain is not a headline tax rate that is half the U.S. level but the way the UK has effectively stopped taxing profits reported by UK companies' overseas subsidiaries. The government introduced the measures in the 2012 budget to "better reflect the way that businesses operate in a global economy" and encourage investment in Britain. This means companies can shift profits out of the countries where their employees and customers are based, into tax havens, and then bring the money back to Britain and pay it out to shareholders without paying any tax – something that would not be possible under U.S. or German tax law. “For offshore profits, the UK can literally be a nil tax jurisdiction, which obviously compares very well with traditional tax havens,” Kevin Phillips, International Tax Partner, Baker Tilly said. The UK is also unusual in not charging withholding tax on dividend payments and, for now at least, offers an air of respectability. “Over the last couple of years, companies that have used jurisdictions like Ireland, the Netherlands or Luxemburg have found themselves at the wrong end of some poor publicity for their attitude to tax,” said Gilbey. “It looks less likely that that would be the case if they put themselves in the UK because we’re not generally considered a tax haven.” (Editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesI was a daytrader for many years, and it almost killed me. I made money by making profits on my own money and also taking a percentage of the profits for the people I traded for. I traded up to $40 or $50 million a day at my peak. I did this from 2001 to 2004. I learned about daytrading but I also learned a lot about myself and what I was good at, what I was horrible at, and what I was psychotic at. Things that had nothing to do with daytrading. Daytrading is the best job in the world on the days you make money. You make a trade, then maybe 20 minutes later you are out of the trade with a profit, and for the rest of the day you think about how much money you made. It's the worst job in the world on a bad day. I would make a trade, it would go against me, and then I wanted my heart to stop so my blood would stop thumping so loudly.  I did it for years, though, because I was unemployable in every other way.  Here's what I learned. All of these lessons I will certainly use today, many years after I stopped daytrading.  A) You can't predict the future. Everyone thinks they can. But they can't. This applies not just to trading but everything. You could be married for 10 years and the next thing you know — you are divorced and you would not have predicted that.  You could be healthy all your life and drink your vegetables and exercise and reduce stress and a year later you could be dead from cancer. Much less stress if you let go of trying to predict the future. You can always seek to increase the odds in your favor — if I don't jump off bridges, for instance, it's more likely I'll be alive a year from now — but certainly a path to unhappiness is thinking the future can be predicted and controlled. B) Hope is not a strategy. If you get to the point where you "hope" you don't get ruined, then you did something wrong beforehand.  For instance, if you plan a wedding outside and you don't have a backup plan in case it rains, then you probably mis-planned your wedding, unless you are getting married in a desert.  "Hoping" is not a bad thing. I hope that every day my life goes perfectly. But if Hoping is the only thing I'm relying on, then it means I didn't really look at all the possible outcomes of something that was important to me. C) Uncertainty is your best friend. 100% of opportunities in life are created because people are uncertain about almost everything in their lives.  We are constantly trying to close the enormous gap between the things we are certain about and the things we are uncertain about and almost every invention, product, Internet service, book, whatever has been created to help us close that gap. Sometimes this is hard. If your husband betrays and leaves you, you often feel like crawling on the floor and burning all the self-help books. They all lied. It's hard to feel "in the now" or to "positive think" when life feels like it's over. I've tried. For me it's too hard. But at the very very least you can say..."help me". You can say it to your close friends. You can say it something inside of yourself.  "Help me" is the most powerful, and most forgotten, prayer.  D) Taking risks versus reducing risk.  Some people take too many risks and they go bankrupt. This happened to me. And sometimes people are too cautious and don't take enough risks. When I first started daytrading I was so afraid of risk that if I had a small profit, I'd end the trade. But then I would take big losses and that would wipe out all my profits.  The key is that you can take larger and larger risks if you work on better and better ways to deal with those risks. For instance, I might be able to risk marrying someone if I know she is not a hard-core drug addict who regularly betrays the people she is close to.  I can risk driving without a license if I always stay below the speed limit (I know this is a stupid risk, but still..). Once you have a method of reducing risks, it's easier to make trades or decisions about anything. E) Diversification. Often I get emails, "I really want ONE job but they don't seem to want me and now I'm miserable. How can I get that job?" Well... you can't. And you're going to be unhappy. You can't wish yourself a job. When I was raising money to daytrade I probably contacted over 1,000 people. When I was starting an Internet business I started over a dozen Internet businesses and watched all of them fail but one. When I was trying to sell my Internet business I contacted over a dozen companies (although Google broke my heart — damn you Google!). When I wanted to get married, I went on lots of dates. Claudia's approach was even smarter — she wouldn't waste time with dinners. She would only go to tea with guys. Within the first 20 seconds you know if you are attracted. So keep it to a tea. F) Say no. In daytrading, if something is not working out, even if your heart wants it to work out, you have to say "No" and cut your losses. If a business relationship is not working out, don't put more energy and time into it.  There is a cognitive bias called "commitment bias". We think because we've already put time and energy (or money) into something that we have to stick with it. But this is just a mental bias. Say no to it. You have to decide every moment if this is the situation you want to be in.  Just because you were in the situation a moment ago, or yesterday, or for 10 years, doesn't mean the situation is right for you any more. G) Health. Daytrading pulls everything out of you. It sucks the soul out of your body, blends it up, and then explodes. It doesn't turn into a nice smoothie. It explodes. So you have to take care of yourself. If you don't sleep enough. if you don't eat well, exercise, be around positive people, be grateful for what you have, blah blah blah you will lose all of your money and go bankrupt. And obviously, this applies to everything else in life. Every day, what small thing can you do to become a slightly better You?  The reason we get so attracted to "safe" cubicle jobs is that the pain is more subtle and sneaks up on us. It's not the blender-drama of daytrading so the need for health on a daily basis doesn't seem as important. But it is. I) Laughter.  The only way to survive is to laugh. There's that saying: "men make plans but god laughs." Well, you might as well be on the same side as god.  J) "This is crazy" means you're crazy. I've seen it a million times. Guy makes a trade. The market goes against him. He says "this is crazy" and puts more money into the trade. And then he loses all his money and goes crazy. I've had to talk people off the ledge or tell them to put the gun down. The market is never crazy. The world is never crazy. And I will go so far as to say that your girlfriend who just lied to you about where she spent the night is not crazy. I only care about you. And you're effin crazy if you thought the world was going to line up any other way other than the way it lined up. Tough on you. I know when I feel like, "ugh, this situation is insane" that the first place I need to look is at me. I am insane.  K) It doesn't matter if a trade (or a day, or a life) is good or bad. Good and bad days happen. But life is about a billion little moments that add up to all the things around you. If you let one of those moments have too much control then you are bound to be mostly miserable. I was mostly miserable during the period I was daytrading. I let that aspect of my life take control. So I stopped focusing on being a good husband, a good father, a good friend, a good anything. All of my other constituencies went to hell.  I would have nightmares. I would lose sleep. I would wake up many mornings and go to the church across the street so I could be by myself and pray. What would I pray? "Jesus, please make the markets go in my direction today." I'm Jewish. Nobody answered my prayers. L) It's never about the money. Every day I get emails like, "can you show me how to daytrade?" "NO!" I know 1,000 daytraders and only two that won't go bankrupt. So what makes anyone think they will have an edge? How many people listen to me? About 0. How come? Because people are sick of their lives, their relationships, their jobs, and all the lies that have been told to them ever since they learned how to walk.  They want freedom from the BS. I get it. Daytrading is the dream. You can make enough money to not care. To do it from anywhere. To be happy. It won't work. But people don't want to believe it. Most people think they have that one special something that will make it work for them. And it's true — they do have that one special something. But you can't get there by daytrading first. You can skip right to the being happy part. You can skip right to being Free.  But we never learned that. We were taught we had to DO something first to earn freedom.  We were taught that suffering was the currency to buy happiness.  Ok, go do it. Then cry about it. Then get scared. Then curse the craziness. Then cry more. None of that will make you happy. Then read this blog post again. Not because it will make you happy. But because I like when people read my posts. And laugh. FREE AppDownload
This is something that would have been unfathomable a year ago, or even 6 months ago really. The Spanish 10-year bond is now trading with a lower yield than US bonds. That means at 10-years, Spain can now borrow money more cheaply than the US can. Jamie McGeever has the chart which shows the historical spread between 10-year Spanish bonds and US ones. Jamie McGeever, Reuters The chart's a little blurry, but you can see that in 2012, at one point, Spanish bonds were trading for over 600 basis points higher than US ones (meaning that if the US 10-year was at 2.5%, then the equivalent Spanish one was at 8.5%). This was in the throes of the Eurozone debt crisis, when it looked like peripheral Eurozone countries might default or leave the Eurozone, causing their debt to be denominated into weaker home currencies. But since those tough days, several things have happened. One is that the Eurozone vowed to implicitly backstop government debt, which took away the risk of default basically. Meanwhile, the Eurozone economy has sputtered along, and inflation has dropped to its lowest levels since the crisis, which puts downward pressure on yields. And now just last week, the ECB has taken further steps to reduce interest, causing a further push into peripheral debt. Now it's important to note what this doesn't mean: It doesn't mean that the market deems the US to be riskier than Spain. US credit default swaps (hedges against default) remain much tighter for the US.  In fact, while Spain has come a long way for the dark days, it's gotten to the point where plunging borrowing costs are actually a negative sign as they are an artifact of slow growth and deflation. So while this is a major milestone and moment for Spain, it's not necessarily all good. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a board promoting a bargain sale at a shopping district in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's first quarter growth handily beat initial estimates on an unexpected surge in capital spending, fresh signs the world's third-biggest economy is in better shape to weather a hit to consumption from a sales tax hike. Capital spending, long a weak link in the economy, is a key focus in Tokyo's campaign to engineer a revival after two decades of sub-par growth and grinding deflation. "Companies don't tend to ramp up spending ahead of the sales tax hike, so the increase likely reflects improvements in corporate profits and diminishing slack," said Mitsumaru Kumagai, chief economist at Daiwa Institute of Research. Japan's economy grew an annualized 6.7 percent in the first quarter, data showed on Monday, up sharply from an initial reading of a 5.9 percent rise, and confirmed the fastest pace of growth since July-September 2011. The data beat the median market forecast for GDP to rise 5.6 percent. The upward revision was largely due to a recalculation in capital expenditure that took into account finance ministry data showing a solid increase in spending. Adding to the optimism, current account data showed foreign visitors spent more money than Japanese traveling abroad for the first time in 44 years, boding well for Japanese companies in the retail and tourism industry. In other encouraging news, Japanese consumer confidence rose for the first time in six months in May, further underscoring recent signs that the economic pain from the sales tax hike would be temporary. The service-sector sentiment index also edged up. The tax, which was raised to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1 to fix Japan's tattered finances, has caused distortions in data and raised worries about the outlook. Monday's positive figures, however, back the Bank of Japan's view the economy will recover moderately led by domestic demand, with growing evidence of an uptick in business investment a particularly pleasing result for policy makers. In comments to Parliament, BOJ Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata sounded suitably upbeat, saying that he expects Japan's exports to turn up as advanced nations recover. "The Japanese economy will continue growth above its potential rate as a trend as exports turn up and domestic demand remains firm," Iwata told parliament, adding that the economy is on a steady track to meet the BOJ's 2 percent inflation target.   ON TRACK Corporate capital spending rose 7.6 percent, up from a preliminary 4.9 percent increase, an encouraging sign for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who is keen for companies to spend more of their cash piles to drive a sustainable economic recovery. On a quarterly basis, the economy grew 1.6 percent in January-March, up from a preliminary 1.5 percent expansion. It compared with a median market forecast for a 1.4 percent rise. Some analysts warn of uncertainty ahead as companies start to feel the pinch from an increase in the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in April. "A surge in domestic demand helped Japan achieve high growth in January-March. But a reactionary slump is inevitable, which means the economy will contract in April-June," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. Moreover, analysts say weak factory output and household spending falling at the fastest pace in three years in April point to the tax hike's chilling effect on consumer spending. Still, there are signs the economy will overcome the temporary dips in growth. Under its "qualitative and quantitative easing" program launched in April last year, the BOJ has been aggressively pumping money into markets on hope that banks will lend more to companies, which will then boost wages and capital spending. Bank lending rose 2.3 percent in May from a year earlier, increasing for the 31st straight month and growing at a faster pace than 2.1 percent in April, BOJ data showed on Monday. There was little market reaction to the GDP data. "The market is more focused on data pertaining to inflation and its possible impact on the Bank of Japan's monetary policy," said Shinichiro Kadota, chief Japan FX strategist at Barclays in Tokyo. The BOJ has said Japan can weather the tax hike impact and resume a moderate recovery in July-September as exports - now a soft spot in the economy - gradually pick up. Reflecting the continued weakness in exports, Japan posted its biggest trade deficit for the month of April, leading to a smaller-than-expected current account surplus, Ministry of Finance data showed on Monday. But the current account data also showed that the travel balance swung to a surplus for the first time since 1970 as foreign visitors outnumbered Japanese traveling abroad.   (Editing by Chris Gallagher &amp; Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Zach DischnerGood morning! The big themes on Wall Street these days are low volatility, complacency, and boredom. And that's what we're getting more of this morning, as markets everywhere are quiet. European stocks are up barely. US futures are down barely. Japan was up 0.3%. The UK is up 0.22%. And that's basically what's going on. Everybody's waiting for this low volatility world to end, but nothing's coming along and snapping it, and so we have morning after morning that feels like this. This should be a quiet week overall, as there is very little economic data on the docket. FREE AppDownload
