ReutersAsian stocks are higher on Friday, following on the gains in the U.S. stock market on Thursday. Asian markets are getting a bit of a bounce after the recent rout we've seen on the back of the Fed's moves to taper its monthly asset purchase program. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.9%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.9%. China's Shanghai Composite is flat. Japan's Nikkei is up 0.6%. Korea's KOSPI is up0.9%. Meanwhile, Chinese consumer prices were up 2.5% in January, modestly higher than expected, and producer prices were down 1.6% in line with expectations. Moderating inflation is expected to mitigate a rate hike from China's central bank. Part of the recent emerging market rout came on concerns of an economic slowdown in China and better trade and inflation data could be impacting markets as well. FREE AppDownload
ReutersChinese consumer prices were up 2.5% year-over-year in January. This was modestly above expectations for a 2.4% rise and compares with a 2.5% rise the previous month. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.6% YoY in line with expectations. This compares with a 1.4% fall the previous month. The prices of fresh fruits and vegetables jumped 2.4% on the month, compared to 0.6% in December. Importantly service price inflation was up 3.7%, above the 2% rise in the inflation of goods prices. "Prices of services are the Chinese CPI report's most sensitive measure of underlying inflation pressures," said Bill Adams, senior international economist for PNC Financial Services Group in a note. "This month's relatively high service price inflation shows that price pressures are intense." But Adams points out that headline consumer prices have been held down by "a strong yuan", as the central bank hasn't let the currency depreciate, like other emerging markets currencies. From Adams: "It bears emphasizing that while the yuan isn't moving much against the U.S. dollar this year, it is dramatically stronger vis-a-vis other emerging market currencies like the Mexican peso, Brazilian real, or Indian rupee. The yuan's strength is another headwind to labor intensive manufacturing in China. To Chinese policymakers, structural weakness in labor-intensive export sectors probably seems like a price worth paying to keep inflation so much better controlled than it is in other emerging markets in 2014." But as headline inflation stays below the central bank's 3.5% target, monetary policy should be neutral. "The well below 3.0% CPI inflation could be good news for markets as monetary tightening is not justified," writes Bank of America's Ting Lu. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider VideoDo something crazy with this.A group of mathematicians and hackers have discovered that there are more than 177,000 ways to tie a tie. In a preprint posted on the math and science repository arXiv.org, they built off of an earlier work that identified 85 distinct tie knots. Those knots, however, are variations on a normal tie knot with a flat facade, tied with the broader end of the tie. The expanded group of tie knots was inspired by more complicated knots, like the Trinity knot and the Elderidge knot, that have more elaborate facades, and are tied using the thinner end of a tie.  The process of tying a tie is essentially just a series of moves. The tie wearer's shirt is broken up into three regions — left, right, and center. At each step, the blade of the tie starts in one of those regions and moves into one of the other regions, alternating between going over and under the existing knot. At certain points, it is also possible to tuck the blade of the tie under a fold of cloth in the knot. For conventional tie knots, this is only done at the end to secure the knot. For the expanded universe of knots developed in the paper, tucks are possible throughout the process, leading to more complex textures. The mathematicians, led by Mikael Vejdemo-Johansson of the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, made a rigorous formal language to describe the moves involved in tying a knot. The letter "T" represents a "turnwise" move — taking the tie blade and moving it to the region clockwise in the mirror of its current region. If the tie end is in the center region, near the wearer's neck, a turnwise move sends it to the right. If the end is on the right, it goes over or under the knot to the left. "W" means "widdershins" — a counterclockwise move going in the opposite direction. These moves can be seen in the image below, taken from the paper: Hirsch et. al., 2014 The formal alphabet is completed with "U" is for tucking the tie "under" some previous bow, or fold, in the knot. With this alphabet in place, a tie knot can be described by a sequence of these symbols. The authors of the paper introduce a few rules for making knots — because of practical considerations, only sequences of up to eleven T and W winding moves are allowed. They also observe that a tuck needs to have two moves in the same direction (either TT or WW) immediately before it, so that there is a fold of cloth to tuck the blade into. One of the advantages of using these notations to describe the knot-tying process is that it lends itself well to mathematical analysis. Counting sequences like this is a fairly straightforward process. The authors found 2046 valid sequences of T and W winding moves, and by including optional tucks, a total of 177,147 possible ways to knot a tie. Another advantage is that it is possible for a computer program to actually write out all of these tie knots. The authors made such a program, in the form of a random tie knot generator that includes a knot sequence chosen from the 177,147 possibilities, along with pictures to help guide the process. The majority of these knots, like the Trinity and Elderidge knots that inspired them, are tied using the thin blade as the active blade. Many of the knots look pretty strange. We took a few of the random knots from the generator and tried them out: Vejdemo-Johansson et. al., 2014 And here's how it turned out: Business Insider/Andy KierszHere's another one: Vejdemo-Johansson et. al. 2014And the result: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz FREE AppDownload
Unfortunately, forward revenues isn't as upbeat. It’s been falling over the past year in the UK. Furthermore, the UK's forward profit margin has declined sharply over the past three years, which has depressed forward earnings over that period. That might explain why the forward P/E is relatively low at 12.5, which is a 7% discount to the world. The forward revenues of the EMU MSCI is also falling, and has been doing so at a faster pace recently, suggesting that the region may be especially hard hit by weaker growth among emerging economies. The only good news is that the forward profit margin seems to have bottomed early last year and is recovering slowly. With the forward P/E at 12.9, the region is selling at a 4% discount to the world. I am skeptical that the Eurozone’s economic indicators and MSCI fundamentals justify higher valuation multiples in the region given that they have rebounded back to the previous highs during 2009. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Global Revenues &amp; Earnings. (1) Not much evidence of EM crisis in weekly analysts' consensus estimates. (2) Are EM stocks oversold and cheap? (3) Some Eurozone stocks may be overbought and expensive. (4) Forward revenues rising to record highs in US, meandering elsewhere. (5) Margin squeeze in EMs. (6) China MSCI is cheapest since 2001. (7) Brazil’s revenues up, but margins down with P/E at 33% discount. (8) Eurozone’s weak economic and MSCI fundamentals may cap P/Es. (9) Japan is still relatively choppy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderEarlier this month, a Tesla Model S sitting in a Toronto garage ignited and caught on fire. The car was about four months old and was not plugged in to an electric socket, says a source. Fires are a touchy issue for the company, which reports Q4 2013 earnings on February 19th. Last year, three vehicles caught fire over the course of six weeks. The company has previously pointed out in a government filing that the lithium ion battery cells "have been observed to catch fire or vent smoke and flame." So the fires have raised concerns with consumers and caused a flurry in the media — so much so that CEO Elon Musk has addressed the coverage of these fires himself. This latest fire occurred after the owner came home from a drive and left the car parked in the garage. After a few moments, the owner's fire detector went off and the fire department was called. Though the fire was intense, the firemen were able to put it out quickly. They also had to remove the other car in the garage, a Lexus, which was parked next to the Tesla. Tesla confirmed that the fire occurred and sent Business Insider the following statement: “Dealing with occasional fires is something that every car company has to do, as no vehicle is completely fireproof under all circumstances. What matters is the number of such incidents per car, and it is worth noting that gasoline car companies experience an average of five to ten times more fires per car than Tesla. Also extremely important is the fact that there has never been a serious injury or death in a Model S as a result of a fire or any other cause. The Model S continues to have the best safety track record of any vehicle in the world. In this particular case, we don’t yet know the precise cause, but have definitively determined that it did not originate in the battery, the charging system, the adapter or the electrical receptacle, as these components were untouched by the fire.” Shortly after the fire, seven Tesla employees visited the owner of the vehicle. The company also offered to take care of the damages and inconvenience caused by the fire, but the owner declined. Check out more pictures of the fire below: Business Insider   Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcelo del PozoA horseman pulls a horse during the Sicab International Pre Horse Fair in the Andalusian capital of SevilleFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. PIMCO Manager Explains Three Themes He Exploits In His Income Generation Strategy (PIMCO)  Dan Ivascyn, deputy CIO at PIMCO and Alfred Murata, managing director at PIMCO, were named Morningstar's 2013 fixed-income managers of the year. Murata said there are three themes PIMCO exploits in its income strategy.  1. Flexibility - "Instead of managing the portfolio with a goal of outperforming a particular benchmark, we construct the portfolio with the goal of achieving our objectives of generating attractive income, capital appreciation and capital preservation."2. Harvesting global opportunity - There are valuation differences across the globe both within and between asset classes. 3. Protecting capital - This can be done by picking assets "that are senior in the capital structure" and expected to be more "resilient." It can also be done by investing in assets that could appreciate if economic developments sour. Alternative Investments Are Growing, Albeit Slowly (WealthManagement.com) 70% of retail managers think alternative products will be as important or more important than other products, according to Cerulli. Alternative mutual funds account for 2.8% of overall mutual fund assets now, but Cerulli thinks that figure will growth to 9.7% in five years and 15.8% in 10 years, write Diana Britton in WealthManagement.com.  From Cerulli: "Indeed, Cerulli has heard time and again that the primary challenges for managers looking to capitalize on the demand for alternatives stem from creating trusting relationships with financial advisors and providing them education on effectively employing alternatives within their clients’ portfolios—this is not a “build it and they will come” scenario." The Year-To-Date Performance Of Every Major Asset Class In The World (Deutsche Bank)  Deutsche Bank is out with a chart that shows year-to-date returns of every major asset class in the world. Some assets that did well last year are in correction, like Japanese stocks. While others that took a blow last year are doing well, like gold. Deutsche Bank FINRA Approves Rule Making It Harder For Brokers To Clean Their Records (FINRA)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has approved a rule that makes it harder for brokers to have their record wiped clean. FINRA has passed a rule preventing firms from making conditions on settlements, or compensating customers, if they agree not to oppose a request to expunge information from a registered person's Central Registration Depository (CRD) record. The records are publicly available. "We continually make improvements to the arbitration and expungement process to further enhance investor protections," FINRA chairman Richard Ketchum said in a press release. "FINRA feels strongly that expungement of customer dispute information shouldn't be "bargained for" through settlement negotiations or otherwise." Why It's Different This Time In Emerging Markets (Deutsche Bank) We're seeing turmoil in emerging markets, and many are drawing parallels between the current rout and the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. But in their latest house view presentation, Deutsche Bank analysts explain why emerging markets are better equipped this time around than they were back then.  1. Local currency debt is more common so "FX depreciation is less of an issue from an external financing point of view."2. There's less current account vulnerability. 3. Emerging markets have higher foreign reserves. 4. "Substantial reduction in the use of managed FX regimes means currency adjustment is not compressed in single, destabilizing moves, but done gradually." IMF, Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank Research FREE AppDownload
David Moir/BravoPadma Lakshmi on "Top Chef," one of Bravo's top shows.Comcast announced plans to acquire Time Warner Cable for $45 billion today, which would produce an absolutely massive company if approved. In addition to being the largest cable provider in the U.S. with 23 million subscribers, Comcast owns a huge number of media and entertainment properties, especially since it completely acquired NBC Universal from GE in 2011. Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable provider in the U.S. and has a few media properties, though since 2009 it has been distinct from the major media company Time Warner Inc. For a complete list of everything Comcast owns now, we turn to Columbia Journalism Review's excellent Who Owns What resource. Here's everything Comcast currently owns: NBCUniversal TelevisionNBC Television NetworkNBC EntertainmentNBC NewsNBC Sport GroupUniversal Television (UTV)Universal Cable ProductionsNBC Universal Domestic Television DistributionNBCUniversal International Television Distribution NBC Local Media DivisionNBC New York (WNBC)NBC Los Angeles (KNBC)NBC Chicago (WMAQ)NBC Philadelphia (WCAU)NBC Bay Area (KNTV)NBC Dallas/Fort Worth (KXAS)NBC Washington (WRC)NBC Miami (WTVJ)NBC San Diego (KNSD)NBC Connecticut (WVIT)NBC EverywhereLX TVSkycastle Entertainment TelemundoKVEA (Los Angeles)WNJU (New York)WSCV (Miami)KTMD (Houston)WSNS (Chicago)KXTX (Dallas/Fort Worth)KVDA (San Antonio)KSTS (San Francisco/San Jose)KTAZ (Phoenix)KNSO (Fresno)KDEN (Denver)KBLR (Las Vegas)WNEU (Boston/Merrimack)KHRR (Tucson)WKAQ (Puerto Rico)KWHY (Los Angeles) (Independent) Television ChannelsBravoChillerCNBCCNBC WorldComcast Charter Sports SoutheastComcast Sports GroupComcast SportsNet Bay AreaComcast SportsNet CaliforniaComcast SportsNet ChicagoComcast SportsNet HoustonComcast SportsNet Mid-AtlanticComcast SportsNet New EnglandComcast SportsNet NorthwestComcast SportsNet PhiladelhpiaSNYThe Mtn.-Mountain West Sports NetworkCSSComcast Sports SouthwestNew England Cable News (Manages)NBC Sports NetworkThe Comcast NetworkE! Entertainment TelevisionG4Golf ChannelMSNBCmun2Oxygen MediaClooSproutThe Style NetworkSyfyUniversal HDUSA NetworkThe Weather Channel CompaniesSyfy Universal (Universal Networks International)Diva Universal (Universal Networks International)Studio Universal (Universal Networks International)Universal Channel (Universal Networks International)13th Street Universal (Universal Networks International)Movies 24 (Universal Networks International)Hallmark Channel (non-U.S.) (Universal Networks International)KidsCo (Interest) (Universal Networks International) FilmUniversal PicturesFocus FeaturesUniversal Studios Home Entertainment Parks and ResortsUniversal Parks and Resorts Digital MediaDailyCandyFandangoHulu (32%)iVillageNBC.comCNBC DigitalPlaxo CommunicationsXFINITY TVXFINITY InternetXFINITY Voice Sports ManagementComcast-SpectatorPhiladelphia FlyersWells Fargo CenterGlobal Spectrum (Public Assembly Management)Ovations Food ServicesFront Row Marketing ServicesPaciolanNew Era Tickets (ComcastTIX)Flyers Skate Zone OtherComcast Ventures, which is invested in numerous companies. And now onto Time Warner Cable: Local channelsTime Warner Cable News  Regional Sports NetworksMetro SportsTime Warner Cable SportsTime Warner Cable SportsNet Time Warner Cable DeportesTWC Sports 32SNY  OtherAdelphia — cable television company in PANaviSite — cloud and hosting services companyInsight Communications — cable operatorDukeNet Communications —Fiber optic networkTime Warner Cable InternetTime Warner Cable Media (advertising) Here are all of the cable regions Comcast will now acquire: California - Barstow, Desert Cities, Los Angeles, (north) San Diego, San BernardinoHawaii (Operating as Oceanic Time Warner Cable) Kansas - Kansas City Missouri - Kansas City Nebraska Ohio - Akron, Canton, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Findlay/Lima, and Youngstown Kentucky - Lexington, Louisville, Northern Kentucky, Ashland Pennsylvania - Erie County, Sharon Wisconsin - Green Bay and Milwaukee MaineNew Hampshire - Berlin, KeeneMassachusetts - Athol, PittsfieldUpstate New York New Jersey - Bergen County, Hudson CountyNew York - New York City (Manhattan, Queens, Staten Island, most of western Brooklyn), Mount Vernon (Westchester County, rest of county is Cablevision) North Carolina - Charlotte, Raleigh, Greensboro, and Wilmington South Carolina - Columbia, Sumter, Florence, Summerville, Hilton Head and Myrtle Beach. Texas - Arlington, Austin, Beaumont/Port Arthur, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Harlingen, Killeen/Temple, Laredo, Rio Grande Valley, San Antonio, Waco, and Wichita Falls Alabama - Dothan, Enterprise Arizona - Yuma California - El Centro Colorado - Gunnison, Telluride Idaho - Coeur d'Alene, Moscow Indiana - Terre Haute Virginia Washington - Pullman FREE AppDownload
Earlier today we pointed out that Deutsche Bank's Jun Ma has the most bullish 2014 GDP forecast for China. Ma is looking for 8.6% growth, while consensus is for 7.4% growth this year. This is largely because he thinks concerns about slowing local government spending on infrastructure, and its impact on growth, are "excessive." In a new Deutsche Bank report titled "The House View — February 2014," they argue that growth in China will pick up on the back of stronger exports and reduced overcapacity. Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/ Kevin LamarqueEconomists have spent the better part of this winter wondering if the really lousy weather effectively torpedoed a series of economic reports — specifically, the December and January jobs reports. With Thursday's winter storm now reaching "bombogenesis" status, "The fear is that it will be at least another month before policymakers will be able to get 'clean data' with which to gauge the health of the labor market and the underlying pace of economic activity," Deutsche Bank economist Brett Ryan writes clients.  So it's necessary to look at other data points. From the note: At present, the trend in tax receipts—they are currently tracking near 5% year-over-year as of the second week in February—tells us that income growth remains decent and the labor market has not downshifted as much as the last two employment reports would imply. The chart below shows the trend in employee tax withholding receipts over the past year. We have adjusted the data to account for the tax hikes at the beginning of 2013 in order to make the growth rates in the series comparable. Since January 2013, we have found that income tax receipts have grown on average 4.5% year-over-year, close to the latest February reading (+4.8%). Over the same period, nonfarm payroll growth has averaged +187k. In short, the underlying trend in income growth does not point to any meaningful sustained downshift in the labor market. ...To be sure, the bulk of the economic data over the next month or so could display significant volatility due to the weather. Historically, any negative weather impacts in one month are sharply reversed in the following month. However, as long as high frequency data series such as tax receipts and jobless claims do not show any substantial deviation from the trend, we can be confident that economic growth has not deteriorated. Check out the chart: Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Phil WhitehouseFor millennials, the generation currently in their 20s and early 30s, the Great Recession hit just as they were getting their footing in the adult world: graduating from college, starting their first jobs and shaping their careers. According to several new surveys, that experience had a major impact on their attitudes and behavior toward money, and not always in a good way. On one hand, millennials, also known as Generation Y, seem more interested in financial literacy and taking control of their financial management. In a survey last summer, the investment company Scottrade Inc. found that investors between ages 18 and 30 are the most likely to contribute to their portfolios on a regular basis. Eight in 10 Gen Y respondents (born between 1983 and 1995) said they regularly deposited money into their investment accounts, compared to just seven in 10 Gen Xers (born between 1967 and 1982) and five in 10 baby boomers (born between 1945 and 1966). At the same time, millennials are also less trusting in the stock market as a means of long-term investing and less likely to make appropriately-aggressive investments with their retirement accounts. Hartford Funds, an asset management firm, notes that many millennials “are investing like 75-year-olds” — in other words, very conservatively. Indeed, a 2013 study by the Investment Company Institute found that three in four people under age 35 say they are not willing to take “above-average or substantial” investment risks. See: How to Manage Money in Your 20s “Many of the perceptions that we form are formed between the ages of 18 and 22,” says John Diehl, senior vice president at Hartford Funds. During that time for millennials, he says, “if they weren’t experiencing economic turmoil themselves, they got to experience it through their parents, and that resulted in anxiousness.” As a result, millennials seem to have more trouble trusting financial institutions and with long-term investing. The problem is that now is the time for millennials to jump into the market, to start saving for retirement when they are still young and have a long time for their investments to grow. “In our 20s and 30s, assuming we got a start on our career, is precisely the time we need to take the risk [of investing in equities],” Diehl says. John Nauss, a financial consultant at TIAA-CREF and millennial himself at age 28, notes that young people are also facing unique hurdles that their parents didn’t face. “What’s different here is that they were facing the recession just as they were graduating … Some have mortgage-size student loan payments they have to pay, and they’re facing a job market with the potential for lower income,” he says. As a result, he says, millennials often take longer to settle into their careers and feel financially secure enough to buy a home. One of the best moves his generation can make, he adds, is to start saving for retirement early, so investments have a long time horizon over which to grow. Newer technology, such as online tools and apps that assist with investing and money management, might also help Is. Mike Sha, CEO of SigFig, an investment company that helps people fix and manage their portfolios through its online software platform and mobile app, says he also thinks young people are more hesitant to invest because of the recession. “We saw a generation of people who normally would have started thinking about investing for the future and getting 401(k)s set up sit on the sidelines. They were invested in ultraconservative portfolios, often completely in cash.” See: Why Gen X Lost Big in the Great Recession That meant they not only lost out on the market gains that followed the recession, but they also continue to lose earning power because of inflation and low interest rates. Tools like SigFig can help correct those conservative tendencies, he says. “It’s meant to take a lot of the pain, effort and scariness of investing out as much as possible, especially for those who are not super sophisticated,” he says. When users create accounts on SigFig, they are asked 10 questions designed to measure their desired risk level, and then the tool compares their existing portfolio to an “optimal” one. Nine out of 10 times, Sha says, users face “serious” issues, including not taking proper amounts of risk. For $10 a month (and for free for anyone with less than $10,000 in their accounts), users get help managing their assets. Meanwhile, there are signs that the next generation, those still in high school, might also be coming of age under heavy influence of the most recent recession. A survey from Millennial Branding, a Gen Y consultancy, and the website Internships.com, found that high school students are more focused on their careers, and earlier, than previous generations. The survey of more than 4,700 students in January found that 72 percent of high school students want to start a business one day, and 42 percent feel they are under extra pressure to focus on their careers in high school because of the economy. Read: 25 Ways to Improve Your Finances “High school students have a lot of pressure on them from their parents and the bad economy. … Parents know that half of college graduates are unemployed, underemployed or have given up on their search entirely and they want to prepare their children for their future,” says Dan Schawbel, founder of Millennial Branding. Schawbel adds that the recession has created a greater sense of urgency around personal accountability when it comes to careers. “I think high school students understand this and it will be part of how they progress through their lives,” he says. The recession’s impact, it seems, will continue to be felt for decades to come. This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Every sovereignty uses currency. With it, commerce is transacted, fortunes are made or lost and taxes are paid.  Even the word “sovereign” denotes money, the first of which were gold coins minted in 1489 by King Henry VII.  The bond between a sovereign and its currency is inseparable. Wars have been fought over the pursuit of it and the right to control it.  In the U.S., the power to mint coin and regulate its value is set in the U.S. Constitution.  The E Pluribus Unum (“Out of Many, One”) -- affixed to the Great Seal of the United States since 1782 and printed on U.S. currency -- extols this duty. Trust and faith that a sovereign is firmly standing behind its currency is critical. Sovereigns understand that without consistent economic growth and stability, the standard of living for its citizens will fall, and discontentment will grow. Nation-state treasuries print currency but the vital role of currency management-- needed to spur economic growth -- is reserved for central bankers. These financial stewards have immense power and responsibility. The Federal Reserve Bank gained this authority from Congress in 1913, but central bank-sovereign history spans over 340 years. The first central bank was established in Sweden in 1668 followed by England in 1694.  If not controlled and tightly regulated, Bitcoin -- a decentralized, untraceable, highly volatile and nationless currency -- has the potential to undermine this longstanding bond between sovereign and its currency.  Disrupting this link would impact monetary policy and well-established currencies. If Bitcoin is allowed to flow freely through the global capital markets, in its current embryonic state, it could harm nations, economies and global commerce. Under the Bitcoin model, those who create the software protocol and mine virtual currencies would become the new central bankers, controlling a monetary base.  Their decisions would directly impact the Bitcoin economy and spillover to well-established currencies. Confidence in virtual currencies could quickly evaporate if a sudden price drop, cyber-attack or other market disruptions occurred.  If citizens increasingly began to use virtual currencies over home currency, the sovereign money base would decline, hampering the ability to fully perform beneficial monetary duties. Stability and confidence in home currency also could be eroded.   Excluding Bitcoin, there now are some eighty other globally traded virtual currencies with more coming online each day (http://coinmarketcap.com/mineable.html).  Bitcoin is the bellwether of the industry, representing over 90 percent of stated market value. Therefore, the success or failure of Bitcoin directly impacts the growth prospects of other virtual currencies.   Compared to fiat currency, virtual currency has several distinct weaknesses.  As proven recently, it is more susceptible to destabilizing cyber-attacks, weak exchange controls, market illiquidity, asset bubbles and sudden price swings that could destroy investor confidence and wealth, triggering cascading economic damage. Since inception, Bitcoin has adhered to an anti-regulation and anti-Fed doctrine.  This approach has proven the Achilles heel, creating greater opportunity for market manipulation and fraud, leaving no room for consumer protection. A week in Bitcoin world is like a decade in other markets. Up until recently, Bitcoiners pointed to open source code and five years of existence as proof that software was failsafe. However, in recent days cyber hackers proved otherwise by cracking the code, exploiting a software flaw, triggering a chain reaction, forcing three of the largest exchanges -- representing over seventy percent of all trading volume -- to halt investor withdrawals.  During the 2013 Bitcoin Bubble, these exchanges proved adept at taking in hard currency and turning it into e-currency. But when markets turned turbulent and software unreliable, exchange weaknesses became evident. Investors quickly learned about Hotel California Risk-- you can check out anytime you like but you can never leave -- and converting Bitcoin to hard currency became virtually impossible.  Recent market events are instructive. The speed, in which hackers disrupted global trading, and the level of damage, further illustrates the fragility of the entire Bitcoin infrastructure. Self-regulation allowed this multibillion-dollar industry to be built on clay feet.  Prices remain volatile and market illiquidity high. The Bitcoin cyber-attack debacle triggered a brief flash crash, knocking prices down to $102 before settling back at $600. Remarkably, it only took a minuscule 6000 block trade to inflict this extensive damage. Since the market peak in December 2013, prices have nearly halved.  If Bitcoin currency and infrastructure are unstable, it is increasingly dangerous to subject the global economy to such market risk uncertainty. The longer the virtual currency economy is allowed to grow unchecked, the greater the chance of adverse economic impact.  via ZerohedgeBitcoin flash crash on Feb. 10, 2014. It was an 80% price drop in seconds. In reality, Bitcoiners are not central bankers but high-risk commodity traders.  To suggest they can do the equivalent work of dedicated and experienced central bankers is farcical.  Bitcoin has used a grossly oversimplified fixed-supply formula in an attempt to address panoply of complex, interconnected and ever changing economic variables.  Naively, the Bitcoin approach uses a preset supply formula fixed in 2009 when the first coin-block was generated. Once the supply ceiling has been reached in 2140, no new currency will be produced.  This dogmatic approach is completely decoupled from present or future economic cycles and lacks the needed flexibility to respond to changing economic conditions. Regardless of a strong or weak economy, a preset amount of Bitcoins will be generated.  Such artificial constraints can act as a straight-jacket, retarding an otherwise growing economy. Complicating monetary matters, Bitcoin owners practice extreme hoarding. Over 90 percent of all Bitcoins are retained, leaving only a small portion available to facilitate trading, market liquidity and commerce.  In a robust economy, banks lend and consumers spend.  If money supply is hoarded, the economy -- as measured in GDP and standard of living -- will shrink and incentives to barter will increase. Bitcoin fixed-supply formula has one major fatal flaw; it fails to acknowledge that human behavior, not mathematical formulas, drives markets. Until human behavior can be modeled, predetermined formulas can’t replace the crucial judgment role played by central bankers around the globe.  Regulators failed to prevent the financial crisis, but the commendable post-crash performance of former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke demonstrates the importance of strong, flexible and responsive policy action. Such actions cannot be simply preprogrammed. Responding to Bitcoin risk, many countries including China, Iceland, Russia, Thailand and India have already spoken out against the dangers of virtual currencies, deeming it illegal. Canada also announced it is in the process of tightening its rules. However, other influential countries --- including the U.S., Great Britain and Germany --- have not done enough to address this growing risk.  Much more work on a nation-by-nation and global basis needs to be completed.  The immense value of sovereign and monetary unity cannot be ignored. In determining whether to give legitimacy to nationless currencies, risk-benefit analysis needs to flush out the potential impact on nations’ currencies, monetary policies, risks of cybercrime, market manipulation, consumer fraud, price instability, bubble risk, global commerce and the possible broader systemic-risk implications. In its short experimental history, Bitcoin is better known as the designer-currency-of-choice for money laundering, tax evasion and other unlawful acts, than as a failsafe financial innovation that will improve the global financial markets. Recent market events -- including hyper-price instability, market illiquidity, flawed software and the instability of existing trading infrastructure – reveal the possibility that virtual currencies may not be a safe, stable or usable currency.  But if analysis can prove Bitcoin offers clear economic and societal benefit, then its use should be regulated and tightly controlled by sovereigns and managed through well-established and tested banking channels. Nations, their regulators and financial protectors have an obligation to ensure that the virtues of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are utilized, but only if its major flaws are eliminated. (Williams, a risk-management expert, former Federal Reserve Bank examiner and ex-commodities trading floor senior executive, teaches finance in the Boston University School of Management. In January 2014, he provided testimony before the New York State Department of Financial Services Hearing on Virtual Currencies.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidInsurer American International Group Inc  posted a fourth-quarter profit, compared with a year-earlier loss, and raised its quarterly dividend. AIG shares rose 3 percent in extended trading. The company reported net income of $1.98 billion, or $1.34 per share, for the quarter ended December 31, compared with a loss of $3.96 billion, or $2.68 per share, a year earlier. The year-earlier quarter included a net loss of $4.4 billion related to the sale of AIG's aircraft leasing business and after-tax catastrophe losses of $1.3 billion from superstorm Sandy. On an operating basis, the company earned $1.70 billion, or $1.15 per share. Analysts on average had expected earnings of 96 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. It was not immediately clear if the reported figure was comparable. AIG raised its quarterly dividend to 12.5 cents per share from 10 cents and authorized an additional share buyback of up to $1 billion. The company, which was nearly wiped out by its derivative bets during the financial crisis, restarted paying dividends last year after it repaid the $180 billion taxpayer bailout it received in 2008. The company's shares closed at $49.59 on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTourists pose for a photo with the Charging Bull during a morning snow in New York's financial district near Wall Street February 13, 2014.Some ugly economic data couldn't keep the stock market down today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
CORE: clubJennie Enterprise, founder of Manhattan's exclusive CORE: club"This was a piece of dirt," Jennie Enterprise said over lunch in her flawless dining room at Manhattan's CORE: club. "I found out who owned the dirt." Since opening in 2005, the CORE: club on East 55th Street has become a gathering space for the world's most transient species — millionaires and billionaires. For them, CORE: is a second home (or office, or gym, or theater, or art gallery, or dining room). It is not a place to merely play squash and see everyone you know; it is a place to conduct the business of life.  Enterprise, the club's founder, designed it that way. She turned that "piece of dirt," an empty space in Midtown Manhattan, into a stage where the world's dealmakers can play out their own dramas. That's how she tells it. "Everyone here understands that every moment is a live or die moment," said Enterprise. Her staff is trained to understand how that moment could vary from member to member.  Hedge fund manager Mark Lasry, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, former Microsoft Chief Technology Officer Nathan Myhrvold all pay the $50,000 initiation fee and $15,000 annual membership fee for access to the club's facilities and its most important resource: its members. If you meet Enterprise, you get the sense that she could've built the 40-story building (the club takes up six floors, the rest of the highrise houses condos) herself, beam by beam. She has an infectious energy that pushes everything in her presence forward — people, conversations or ideas. It's probably what drove her, as a 13-year-old from the Bronx, to start a summer tennis camp on Shelter Island as her first job. She made $10,000 in three months. "To be perfectly candid I wasn't even a particularly good tennis player," she said. Enterprise broke into the business world in 1991 after cobbling together the people, the dollars, and the plan for what would become The Reebok Club. That's her talent: getting things together and making sure everyone and everything is on the same page. CORE: club was the perfect outlet for her skills, and it would take every one of them. Enterprise started the project before September 11, 2001, but after that tragedy, funds were scarce. It was a delicate time to approach anyone, especially New York-based investors.  So Enterprise found a different way to fund the club. "Founding members" committed $100,000 each. She set up a war room where she broke down the world's most successful people into 13 industries, from retail to finance to technology. Regardless of the type of business, the internet was creating a new class of entrepreneur that Enterprise knew would prefer the inertia of a club like CORE: over more traditional establishments. Then she invited them to her space — a space in which every corner was constructed to serve an architectural purpose. The invitation was hand-delivered in the form of a white box, care of one of the founding members who had connections with those who were invited. "I knew that if something represented innovation to them, they would pay attention," Enterprise said over a simple plate of scrambled eggs. She had already had a few meetings over meals that day. From her perch in the corner of the dining room, she was as much a part of the scene as she was observing it.   "I have my finger on the pulse of interesting, accomplished people that are changing the world," said Enterprise. And in hosting them, she gets to learn from them too. That's what really feeds her. FREE AppDownload
CNBCBud KonheimBud Konheim, CEO of fashion company Nicole Miller, went on CNBC Wednesday to talk shop about the retail industry. But he ended up grabbing headlines for a different reason — an impolitic comment about income inequality, canonizing himself among the recent string of one-percenters weighing in on how poor people truly have it these days. "We've got a country that the poverty level is wealth in 99% of the rest of the world," Konheim said on CNBC's Squawk Box. "So we're talking about woe is me, woe is us, woe is this." Those living on $35,000 in America would do well in developing countries like India or China (comparatively speaking), Konheim explained. However, Konheim is saying that his sound bite was misunderstood once social media's wrath removed it from the interview's full context. "It was triggered by the young anchor using the word 'luxury,'" Konheim told Business Insider. "And I started to get off on the imprecise language we use on the word luxury." But Konheim didn't walk back his overall message. Some people who earn $35,000 a year may consider themselves poor, and Konheim says they really aren't, relatively speaking. At $35,000 you can have a "house, car, TV set, three meals a day, and go to a public school," said Konheim. "If you have those things and you're in Rwanda, you're a rich man." "We're talking about the $35,000 a year. You eat three meals a day. What do you want, four meals a day or a better meal? You want a better meal." @Tucket1 Relative here gets cell usage, time to tweet, TV to watch, time to watch it. Try that in Rwanda. "Our idea of luxury is something that's like needless expense." While it is true that $35,000 would put someone firmly in the upper-middle class 60% range in China, as CNBC's Robert Frank notes, Konheim's comment ruffled feathers because people find it grating to hear what rich men wearing bow ties have to say about how average Americans live. "The situation is crowded by a lot of emotional talk," he said. And Konheim got to see that emotional talk first hand as Twitter replies began mounting in the wake of the controversial interview. "Twitter is a vehicle for everyone to throw slander and insults over the wall," he said. "There's no way to have a meaningful conversation on Twitter." For Konheim, this conversation shouldn't be about rich versus poor, but about the issue of income inequality. The two are separate issues, and he thinks raising the minimum wage would be a good start. @stldesktop People should evaluate the word poor. Income disparity is real. Poor is relative world - wide. So is rich. "I'm for any idea that improves the social situation. I'm all for it."  FREE AppDownload
Chipotle is thriving. The fast-casual chain posted a 9.3% sales gain in 2013. Meanwhile, former parent company McDonald's saw sales fall by 1.4%.  The companies employ completely opposite strategies, Brian Sozzi at Belus Capital Advisors wrote in a recent note to clients. Chipotle is still much smaller than McDonald's — revenue last year was $844 million for the burrito chain versus the fast food giant's $28.1 billion.  But fast-casual restaurants like Chipotle continue to erode McDonald's market share.  Sozzi shares a few reasons why Chipotle is dominating McDonald's. 1. Sticking to a classic menu. While McDonald's tacks on new menu items to entice customers, Chipotle has stuck to the same menu since it opened. The menu at McDonald's has grown 70% since 2007, Bloomberg reported last year. Chipotle does a few things really well, making it easier to execute and reduce customer wait times. 2. Making lines faster. Chipotle has aggressively worked to reduce wait times during peak periods. Meanwhile, McDonald's is struggling with the longest drive-thru wait times in decades. McDonald's is attempting to fix wait times by cutting some menu items and adding employees to assist at check-out. But the overloaded menu makes it difficult for operations to run smoothly, Sozzi says.  3. Emphasizing an ethical menu. Chipotle is in the process of eliminating GMOs from its menu, and has long boasted about its antibiotic-free meats. As a result, "people feel better about eating at Chipotle and share with others, personally or on social media, that positive experience," Sozzi writes. Meanwhile, McDonald's has struggled to shake its reputation as an unhealthy restaurant.     FREE AppDownload
Comcast Cable announced today that it will acquire Time Warner Cable in a $45.2 billion deal. Including Time Warner's debt, the deal is valued at nearly $67 billion which is what the Bloomberg data represents.  While this may seem like a mega-deal, its actually only the sixteenth largest in M&amp;A history. The biggest deal by far was the AOL-Time Warner merger at $186.2 billion, which ultimately turned out to be a flop. The two companies split in 2009. On the back of that announcement, we dug around to find the biggest mergers and acquisitions of all time. Bloomberg/Business Insider We've clarified the deals where the names of some companies have changed.. Note: We culled the data from Bloomberg. The list only goes back to 1998. FREE AppDownload
Renaissance Macro January retail sales data were not good by any measure, and they have economists trying to fit the puzzle pieces together today. The chart above — from Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro — does an excellent job of illustrating the frustration. Recent retail sales data just don't square with recent jobs data. "Something has to give," says Dutta. "There is a widening disconnect. Either retailers stick with it and stay confident on the expectations that sales will improve, or they will be forced to cut employment dramatically." FREE AppDownload
IMF Today, Italian prime minister Enrico Letta announced that he would tender his resignation to pave the way for party ally Matteo Renzi to form a new government. Renzi, the leader of Italy's Democratic Party (PD), has voiced frustration with the slow pace of reforms that need to be enacted to get the Italian economy back on the right track. Perhaps coincidentally, the International Monetary Fund released today a new working paper — examining the need for reforms in Italy's judicial system — from which we pull this chart. "By many metrics, the performance of the Italian justice system is well below European and OECD averages," write IMF researchers Sergi Lanau, Gianluca Esposito, and Sebastiaan Pompe. "For example, it takes an average of 1,185 days to enforce a contract in Italy, more than twice the OECD high-income country average (OECD, 2013, and Council of Europe's European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice (CEPEJ), 2012). Similar statistics from the 2013 EU Justice Scoreboard show that relative to its European peers, Italy scores poorly on the time needed to resolve administrative, civil and commercial cases." Of course, reforms are needed in many other areas, but the woes of Italy's judicial system are a good analogy for the state of its governmental institutions. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
People who found companies may not be cut out to run them. That's the finding of a comprehensive study of management practices in nearly 10,000 firms around the world, primarily in manufacturing, from the National Bureau of Economic Research. Firms that are both owned and run by their founders have, on average, worse management practices than any other management structure. That includes companies led by dispersed shareholders, private individuals, and even the government. For the purposes of their study, the researchers defined "best" management practices as continuously analyzing performance, setting challenging short- and long-term goals, and rewarding high performers while retraining or firing low performers. Firms with these practices are generally more profitable, more productive, and more competitive. "Firms that are owned and led by their CEOs typically tend to underperform in terms of the management practices," said Rafaella Sadun, an assistant professor of business administration at Harvard Business School and one of the authors on the study. "Our interpretation is that the genius that comes up with a new idea or new model might not be the right person to manage the organization." NBER Working Paper Series Sadun cautions that the numbers in the study are just averages, and notes that the bulk of their sample came from manufacturing companies. They've looked less at small businesses and startups, where it's common for the founder also to be the owner and CEO. At small companies like those, Sadun says it might not be bad to have a founder-CEO: what they lack in management ability, they're likely to make up for in commitment. "They have more skin in the game," she said. Although not directly related, the study suggests why Bill Gates may have been bumped from chairman of Microsoft's board to a technology adviser role. In recent months, Gates, who co-founded the tech giant, has drawn criticism for not keeping pace with other major tech firms and missing major trends in mobile and cloud computing — areas where a corporate wizard like new CEO Satya Nadella may be stronger. "The entrepreneurial skills required of a start-up (e.g., creativity and risk taking) are not the same skills required when a firm grows large enough to enter our sample (at least 100 employees)," write Sadun and her coauthors, Nicholas Bloom of Stanford University, Christos Genakos of the Athens University of Economics and Business, and John Van Reenen of the London School of Economics. "A mature firm needs to move beyond informal rules, and these may be implemented more effectively by a professional manager," they add. FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson — Business InsiderTen years ago Williston, North Dakota was a quiet agricultural town with a population of around 12,000. Now, oil prices and drilling advancements have turned Williston into one of America's biggest oil boomtowns, pushing its population to over 30,000. The influx of workers has caused apartment rents to skyrocket. According to Apartment Guide, it's now the most expensive place in America to rent an entry-level apartment, with 700-square-foot, one-bedroom, one-bath apartments topping $2,000 a month. That's more than a similar apartment would go for in New York or San Francisco Simply put, there aren't enough apartments to meet demand from workers arriving in town, many of whom are lured by six-figure salaries.  And these workers aren't paying top dollar for ultra-luxury buildings with fancy amenities. According to Apartment Guide, many new buildings feature mudrooms in the front, where workers can remove their dirty shoes and overcoats. Even trailers are expensive. The ratio of men to women in Williston is about 12 to 1. We visited Williston in March 2012 to see how the oil boom was changing the once-sleepy town. Click through to see what life is like in what is now America's most expensive town. Julie Zeveloff contributed to this article. FREE AppDownload
Whole Foods is down 6.6% to $51.78. The stock took a tumble after hours on Wednesday when the company reported disappointing earnings. The retailer lowered full-year guidance and expects EPS of $1.58-$1.65 per share, down from $1.65-$.169 per share. This was also below expectations for $1.68 per share. It also lowered full-year comp sales expectations. Whole Foods is now looking for full-year comp sales to be up 5.5-6.2%, compared with expectations for 6.2%. This is lower than its prior outlook for 5.5-7%. This five-day chart shows the decline following the earnings announcement: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Josh Brown No matter how many times it’s been debunked*, the 1929 stock market overlay chart just will not die. Probably because you keep clicking on any headline with the number ’1929' in it. Probably because of how provocative the idea is and because of the fact that we are much more likely to be made uncomfortable by fear than we are to be take pleasure in potential opportunity. The studies all confirm that the human animal is, at the end of the day, more risk averse than it is ambitious. This is why content that frightens us can continue to get the traction it does, time after time. Regardless of the why, most of the people who continually post this chart are looking for attention, page views, subscriptions or your money into their fund. And it’s working. It almost always works – fear-based selling is every bit as time-honored a tradition on The Street as playing on people’s greed is. By the way, this is not even clever or new – they were paralleling the ’29 chart in 2009 and 2010 (see:  Scary Similarity: Charts 1929-1930, and 2008-2010; Big Drop or Crash Ahead?).  The reason why this bothers me is twofold – first, it frightens investors into making poor decisions – big decisions that will have a major impact on their mental health and financial condition well into the future. Second, the more we see this kind of pornography, the more likely it is to have an impact on crowd psychology and become a self-fulfilling prophecy. It’s like putting a disturbed, isolated teenager in front of violent first-person shooter video games all day. If we know that most Americans are scared to invest in their own future, what’s the reason to fuel that fear even further? Sadism? Or just plain exploitative greed? And lest you think this idea of suggestion is far-fetched, please keep in mind the following, via Bob Shiller’s 2005 second edition of Irrational Exuberance: Feedback can be modified by many factors, and the news media themselves can certainly have an impact on it. The Wall Street Journal, on the morning of 1987, ran a plot showing the Dow in the 1980s and, just below it, a plot showing the Dow in the 1920s up to and for a month after the crash of 1929. The two plots were aligned so that the current date lined up with the date of the 1929 crash, and so the plot suggested that the crash of 1929 might be about to repeat itself. Investors had the opportunity to see this plot at breakfast a matter of minutes before the crash of 1987 actually started. The Journal was openly suggesting the possibility of a crash starting that day. True, this was not a front-page story, and no one story by itself is decisive in causing a crash. But this little story, and the accompanying plot, appearing as they did on the morning of the crash, probably did help prime investors to be more alert to suggestions of a crash. Shiller goes on to point out the haunting similarity between the percentage drops of the ’29 and ’87 crashes – 23.1% and 22.6% respectively. Don’t tell me investors weren’t being influenced by what they’d read about the ’29 crash before that final bell rang on October 19th, 1987. I told myself last May that I was done paying attention this overlay stuff (see: Lying With Charts) and I have basically stuck to this vow. A lot of the “analysis” we all conduct or the things we think are silly, how could we not admit it after all this time? But nothing is quite as ridiculous as saying “this line looks like that line therefore X is bound to happen again.” It’s not different this time, it’s different every time. I have no problem with fractals, per se, just the extreme conclusions so frequently drawn from them. The simple fact is there are always too many variables for the chart overlay game to be able to call a crash, and the variables themselves are never the same. * Here are the best mythbusters of the 1929 analog: Games People Play (TRB) Is a 1929 Style Crash Right Around The Corner? (RyanDetrick) Analyst Destroys The Stock Market Crash Chart That Wall Streeters Are Passing Around (BusinessInsider) Some Lines Say Maybe the Stock Market Will Go Down (Bloomberg) This article originally appeared at The Reformed Broker.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Randy Tepper / ShowtimeThis experience brought out my "dark passenger."All of this talk about a Comcast - Time Warner Cable deal has many wondering if customer service will get worse. For some folks, it couldn't get any worse. Back in 2010, I was in the market to upgrade my cable package to include premium channels like Showtime and HBO. One day, I logged into my Time Warner Cable account with credit card in hand ready to pull the trigger. I thought this would be a pretty simple exercise. But I was wrong. I found myself webchatting with what seemed to be an unending series of analysts who could not tell me how much it would be to add a channel. I distinctly remember my heart-rate going up and my breathing becoming uneven. It's doing it as I re-read this. By the end, I changed my mind about the whole thing, and I didn't sign up for the extra channels. Here's a transcript of the exchange, which I had saved in a Word doc: Sam Ro I should note that I've had better experiences with Time Warner since then. But I still don't have those premium channels. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo CasilliItaly's centre-left Democratic Party (PD) leader Matteo Renzi gestures as he appears as a guest on the RAI television show Porta a Porta (Door to Door) in Rome January 21, 2014.Leaders of Italy's Democratic Party (PD) just concluded a meeting to decide the fate of the Italian government. PD secretary and mayor of Florence Matteo Renzi is looking to unseat current prime minister and fellow party member Enrico Letta, and he now has the backing of the party in doing so. Following PD's decision, Letta announced in a statement that he will tender his resignation to Italian president Giorgio Napolitano on Friday. "Mr. Renzi reckons his electoral appeal and his strong support within the PD make him better equipped to push through the political, institutional and economic reforms Italy has sorely needed for a long time," says Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy. "This is a high-stakes gamble by Mr. Renzi to force Mr. Letta to bow out so that he can assume the premiership, push through the much-needed electoral law and then decide whether it's better to go to the polls or govern for a few more years." For markets, however, this likely doesn't mean much. "It is important to remember that any switch in leadership is very unlikely to involve the holding of national elections — indeed given that electoral reforms have still not been passed it is certainly not in Renzi’s best interests for elections to occur prior to these happening (as he could also become associated with the difficulties in passing any reforms)," wrote interest rate strategists at Rabobank in a note to clients earlier this morning. "However, it should be remembered that even if Renzi does take over as party leader today he is likely to face many of the same issues as Letta with regards to making any progress with passing reforms through the Italian parliament (to do this he needs to win elections and for this to be certain he needs to first pass electoral reforms). Thus, although initial thinking would be that [Italian government bonds] would suffer as a result of the political uncertainty (and there will likely be a knee jerk reaction in the short term) we would argue that relatively little will have actually changed in the bigger picture — again assuming that the Democratic Party's coalition parties are prepared to support Renzi as they did Letta." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidHedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, spoke about his massive wager against Herbalife at the annual Harbor Investment Conference. "The last time I gave a presentation in this room it was 340-slides," he joked referring to the 2012 special Sohn Conference where he publicly declared he's short Herbalife.  "Today, I have no slides." Instead of presenting a new idea, Ackman decided to take questions and talk about anything people in the audience wanted to discuss. Naturally, the elephant in the room came up after more than 18 minutes of Q&amp;A on different stocks besides Herbalife.  Ackman was asked by New York Times' reporter Will Alden if he had broken even on his Herbalife short. "Not yet. We're on our way, though." The reporter then asked him what's the break even price.  Ackman didn't give a clear answer on that one.  "Actually, interestingly on Herbalife, we've certainly lost a lot of money. It was interesting, as it went up, every dollar it went up, CNBC would report Pershing Square's lost another $20 million or another $100 million or whatever. But as we make money on the way down, they stop doing that reporting." In December 2012, Ackman publicly declared that he was shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife, a multi-level marking company that sells nutritional supplements and weight loss shakes. Ackman said he thinks the company operates as a pyramid scheme that targets lower income individuals, particularly from the Hispanic population.  Ackman also believes that regulators, specifically the FTC, will be induced to investigate and shut down the company.  The company then became the center of an epic clash of hedge fund titans. Shortly after Ackman's presentation, Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn piled on by snapping up a massive long position.  Icahn, who has made hundreds of millions on his position, has said that Ackman will be the victim of "the mother of all short squeezes." A number of other fund managers have gone long the stock, too.  Right after Ackman revealed his short, Herbalife shares collapsed. Once other fund managers started going long, the stock surged throughout the next year resulting in hundreds of millions in paper losses for Ackman's Pershing Square Capital.  Last October, Ackman said in a letter to investors that he repositioned his $1 billion short by swapping more than 40 percent of the equity short position for put options in an effort to reduce risk. He also continued to reiterate that he would take this short "to the end of the earth." Ackman said Wednesday that the way he's positioned now with Herbalife he will be able to make more money. "We didn't simply transform our position from being short. We actually now have a much larger position notionally than we had initially. So if it were to disappear tomorrow, we'd make a lot more than had it just blown up the day after I gave my last presentation. Although, life would be a little easier. But we're probably better off. In the investment business, the best way to make money sometimes if you have an investment against you...if you can...stay the course and structure yourself in a way you can benefit from a move in the stock price you can do better than you would have done." By repositioning what Ackman did was pare back his short exposure. He also structured options in a way that gives him higher "notional" exposure. To put that in trader terms, say you're trading the Non-Farm Payrolls number—one of the most important economic data points that comes out on the first Friday of every month. For the NFP, you might take $20-30 million in "notional" exposure.  However, as a trader, you might really only have between $50-100K in risk. Gotta love those derivatives. Ackman co-chairs the annual Harbor Investment Conference with UBS private wealth management managing director Mark Axelowtiz, who is also an actor in shows like "Law &amp; Order" and "Boardwalk Empire". The money raised from the event goes to the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor, a 77-year-old non-profit that provides educational and performing arts programs to children and their families in East Harlem.  When Ackman took the stage, his "theme song" that played was Bruce Springsteen's "Born To Run."  FREE AppDownload
Comcast Cable is gobbling up Time Warner Cable in a $45 billion deal. But it can't go through without government approval. Among other things, regulators need to make sure that the merger doesn't violate anti-trust laws and create a monopoly. Since Comcast is the number one cable provider, and Time Warner is number two, the companies need to get a blessing from the Department of Justice and the Federal Communications Commission. For the most part Wall Street analysts think the deal will go through. There is one snag, according to Nomura analysts Adam Ilkowitz and Donald Chen. It's not about the fact that the companies will, together, control 29% of cable market share. It's that once they do, they'll be in the bulk of the markets. They'll also own a huge content provider, NBC Universal. Comcast bought NBCU back in 2010. "We don’t think the regulators (FCC, DOJ) will quibble with 29% video market share,but we think the pro forma company covering an estimated 66% of homes passed could present a problem," the analysts write. "Coupled with the vertical integration with NBCU, there may become a need for concessions around carriage of competing channels. We note the NBCU/CMCSA consent decree is being challenged by Bloomberg, and this may need to be solved as well." In other words, regulators may not want this massive TV distributor to favor the content it owns. It's unfair to other content providers. That could be what gets everyone fighting in Washington. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Nabil al-JuraniPoliticians and activists may love to talk about renewable energy sources, but in today’s world fossil fuels are still king. Indeed, as technology has developed in recent years, previously unreachable oil and gas reserves, like shale gas, have become huge sources of industry.  Using data from British Petroleum’s 2013 statistical review of world energy, we calculated the countries with the largest reserves in three key fossil fuel categories—oil, coal, and natural gas. We then calculated the total value of the reserves by using current global prices. For oil, we used the current Brent Crude Oil price on Bloomberg Markets. For natural gas, we averaged BP’s 2013 prices for Japan, United States and Germany to accommodate for the diverse world market. For coal, we used the World Bank’s 2013 trading price for Australian coal, which is commonly used as a benchmark for global markets. While the data is imprecise, our ranking reveals which countries control the most energy. As developing economies like China and India expand and fossil fuel supplies dwindle, those reserves will be more important than ever. FREE AppDownload
Following the release of worse-than-expected retail sales data this morning and subsequent weakness in stocks, the market is rallying headed into the afternoon. The S&amp;P 500 is 0.2% higher, trading at 1823, while the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is lower as well at 2.75%, and the dollar is down against the euro and the yen. Equity indices across Europe are mixed. The German DAX, the French CAC 40, and the Spanish IBEX 35 are higher, while the London FTSE 100 and the Italian FTSE MIB are holding on to earlier losses. Overnight, the Japanese Nikkei dropped 1.8%, and the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 0.5%. The charts below show the moves in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and December 2016 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Joanne Wilson is an angel investor, and her investment thesis is simple — she invests in people and real businesses, not ideas. Within that, though, there's a wide range of possibilities. She addressed those in a recent interview with finance career site, OneWire for its video series Open Door. As for the people part of her investing, Wilson, —who has invested in or advised 35 startups including Catchafire, Dailyworth, and Gotham Gym — tends to gravitate toward female entrepreneurs.  "I think women in particular build businesses that fulfill voids in their lives," she told OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade. "And I also think women are more team oriented than men, and they are also more realistic in regards to what their business can do, sometimes to the point that they don't see how big they can be. Whereas men... have a very sort of bravado look at their businesses." This has been a hot topic on Wall Street lately. On the top, two powerful women —JP Morgan's Blythe Masters and Brevan Howard's Geraldine Sundstrom — could leave the Street in the coming weeks.  And in Wall Street's startup world (that is, after all, what a lot of new hedge funds are), hedge fund manager Whitney Tilson wrote a great piece for Dealbook parsing together why there aren't more female hedge fund managers in finance.  He posed the question to a woman working as a hedge fund analyst, and she was kind enough to allow him to share her thoughts. She gave him a wide range of reasons, from the fact that women were disproportionately laid off during the crisis, to the fact that female analysts aren't paid enough early in their careers to put down the $1 to $2 million of their own cash backers like BlackRock want to see before they shell out. Sounds like Wall Street needs more Joanne Wilson's, really. Watch the full interview here:  FREE AppDownload
The government of Italy is on the verge of collapse, and that raises the possibility of the country having its third straight Prime Minister that wasn't elected. First it was Mario Monti, who came in to replace Silvio Berlusconi. Monti performed disastrously in the 2013 elections, but no party was able to gather an outright majority. So together they agreed to place liberal Enrico Letta into power. Letta was not on the ballot or the party's leader going into that election. And now Letta's coalition is crumbling, and the powers that be may place Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi in power. It's worth noting that this all began when Italy was having a borrowing crisis, and the ECB essentially engineered it so that Italy has to push Silvio Berlusconi aside in order to regain access to the market. Italy is an extreme case, and the country famously goes through a lot of government. But strains of the same story are repeated elsewhere. There's a line that's going around about how Europe never had a big debt default, but rather a democratic default. Alienation remains massive throughout the continent, and could manifest itself in a big way in May when elections for the European parliament take place, and populists are expected to have a strong showing everywhere. In Greece the government is wobbly, and polls continue to show the far left and the Neo-Nazis with a lot of support. One European crisis is over; nobody thinks a government is in danger of default anymore, and the Eurozone probably won't break up. But the economy remains horrible in many places, and as long as that goes on, the credibility of governments there will continue to erode.   FREE AppDownload
Steve Rhodes on FlickrSomeone smashed TVs at this Comcast protest.Comcast's plan to buy Time Warner Cable for $45.2 billion will face heavy government scrutiny to make sure it does not negatively affect consumers. One reason to be concerned is that both companies were already rated terribly for customer satisfaction, and mergers typically reduce customer satisfaction in the near term. Time Warner's television service received the worst score for a national company on the American Consumer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), which evaluates companies each year based on some 70,000 customer surveys. The company's telephone and Internet service also received abysmal scores. Comcast's Internet service tied for the second-worst score among national companies, with similarly bad scores for television and phone service. ACSI has noted that telecom companies, like airlines and large banks, many have low customer satisfaction scores because they are in industries with low competition. Unlike retail stores that have to compete for every dollar, telecom companies know that customers are slow to switch providers and sometimes have no alternative. When competition is available, as with satellite and fiber optic providers like DirectTV and Verizon in the television market, traditional cable providers are increasingly losing out. People hate cable companies mostly due to "reliability issues," David VanAmburg, managing director of ACSI, said. "The cable guy has become a negative trope in American culture." Other common complaints about Internet Service Providers, for instance, include poor call center service, poor variety of plans, poor quality services, and high prices. As for the prospect of a merger, this process has historically led to lower customer satisfaction scores due to complications in integrating two companies, according to ACSI.  For instance, Delta's acquisition of Northwest in 2009 led to a "two-year customer satisfaction free-fall." "Based on a couple of decades of data on lots of mergers, we've found that typically after two very large companies merge, customer satisfaction takes a hit for about a year or two," VanAmburg said. Customers can expect possible confusion regarding servicing and billing, if previous similar mergers between two huge companies with portfolios of clients are any indication. VanAmburg noted that the decline in customer satisfaction of two merging companies "is likely to be even more pronounced when those two companies already rank at the bottom." Generally, the concern with such a large merger — combining the two biggest cable companies in the U.S. — is that it would enable the combined company to take advantage of the lack of competition to screw over consumers, possibly raising prices, adding data caps, and diminishing quality of service. Comcast and Time Warner are selling the merger in positive terms, promising "a leading technology and innovation company, differentiated by its ability to deliver ground-breaking products on a superior network while leveraging a national platform to create operating efficiencies and economies of scale." In other words, they say they will be both better and cheaper. Customers have reason to be dubious. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserThe global economy is approaching a "T-stop" in the road, PIMCO's  Mohamed El-Erian said at a conference in New York City Thursday morning. After years of relying on central banks to stabilize financial markets, "The current road is going to end," El-Erian said in an interview with CBS' Jill Schlesinger at a LinkedIn FinanceConnect event. "You can go left, you can go right, but you can't stay on the current road." El-Erian, who recently decided to step down from PIMCO in mid March, said that he "really likes Janet Yellen," but that the Federal Reserve has reached the extent of its impact. Quantitative easing, the Fed's chief tool to jumpstart the economy, has bought time but with a "big qualifier." And with its decision to taper asset purchases, the Fed is starting to realize that, El-Erian said. "The reason why you're seeing this pivot of the Fed, the costs and risks are starting to outweigh the benefit," he said. "It has certainly bought the system time, but it hasn't done so in a costless manner." "It can buy the system time to heal, but it alone cannot carry the burden... We should realize the Fed cannot deliver great outcomes for the economy without help. Either they're going to get help from other agencies in DC that are currently paralyzed or our future is going to be less bright." What kind of help? For one, Washington needs to stop offering "pot holes" to growth — and the Senate's recent passage of a debt ceiling extension is a start, El-Erian said. El-Erian said that one of the most concerning issues for society is the "trio of inequality" — income inequality, wealth inequality, and inequality of opportunity. And years after the crisis, the finance sector can't go back to pre-crisis strategies and mentalities. "There's a reason they call it the financial services industry," he said. "Because it serves something else, it can't live on its own." On the emerging markets crisis, El-Erian said the Fed helped spur a "massive outflow of money from the advance world to the emerging markets" as investors sought yield after the financial crisis. "People cannot adjust very quickly with new paradigms...The systems weren't mature enough, the currency was made more expensive." Now, "These countries have to deal with the problem of too many outflows too quickly." On China, El-Erian said it would be better off for both China and the world if the country can switch to a consumption-based economy. "The Chinese consumer has the wallet but not the will, that's why China is trying to change it's economic model," he said. El-Erian also discussed his own decision to leave PIMCO. "It's wonderful to be able to leave the company in the hands of really talented individuals," he said. "On my side, after 15 years in international public policy and then straight 16 years in finance, I decided time had come to step back and decompress and look at the larger landscape of life... Having said that, I am really interested in the intersection of Main Street, Wall Street, and policies." He said he plans to spend time with his 10-year old daughter — an aspiring Broadway star — and that he "really wants to enjoy that journey." So will El-Erian change his LinkedIn profile to reflect his next career move, Schlesinger asked. "If I knew, I would have updated it already."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe WojazerFrançois Hollande needs all the help he can get.Maybe it worked. He needs all the help he can get: when French President François Hollande was paraded around Washington D.C. by President Obama, the French government-owned TV channel France 2 described the two as exhibiting, or at least trying to exhibit, "harmony." Then Hollande showed up here in San Francisco and Silicon Valley to hobnob with French and American entrepreneurs, some of them billionaires, presumably to find out from them what exactly it would take to put some oomph into the French economy and particularly in its anemic private sector. Perhaps it will give Hollande the boost he sorely needs at home, because at home things are getting ever more mired down. The economy has shriveled in four of the last six quarters. And it would have shriveled a lot more had it not been for the dominant government sector, including a slew of state-owned or state-controlled coddled and protected monopolistic mega-enterprises. And despite incessant talk of austerity, that government sector continues to grow. When Markit, a global business survey company, tried to figure out why its private-sector Purchasing Managers’ Index for France was so much worse than France’s GDP figures, though they track pretty closely for most countries, it found that output of the government sector has grown 2.1% since the second quarter 2012. But once the government sector is removed from the equation, private-sector GDP actually declined during that period by 0.2%. And it remains 3.2% below the pre-crisis peak. The private sector has never recovered! Evidence is piling up that the private sector is now getting into deeper trouble. It shows up in the number of business failures that in 2013 exceeded those of crisis year 2009! In 2013, there were 63,452 business failures, up 5.3% from 2012, and for the first time, they’d crept above the level in 2009 (63,204), a level that at the time had been considered catastrophic. Particularly nasty were the second and third quarters when business failures jumped respectively 9.8% and 8.2%. Business failures began rising in 2008 as the Financial Crisis gnawed into France and soared in 2009. Then they began to decline ever so gradually until mid-2012. Outgoing President Nicolas Sarkozy was patting himself on the back. Alas – and certainly by coincidence – they began to rise again just as Hollande was still busy hanging up his suits at his new residence, the Elysée, and before he’d even had a chance to inflict any tax increases on these hapless businesses and their owners. Many of the smallest outfits, the “individual enterprises” with one employee, never made it past the crisis. So in 2013, business failures among them, at 16,261, were 13.3% below those of 2009. They weren’t recovering. There just weren’t that many left. But failures among "commercial enterprises” rose to 47,191 – 6.2% higher than they’d been during the crisis year of 2009! While these failing companies had on average four employees, there were some big ones in that group, including Mory Ducros with 5,000 employees. It is these companies that are now getting whacked. The costs of these failures set a new record in 2013 of €4.82 billion, or 0.23% of GDP, a smidgen higher than the 2009 crisis total of €4.7 billion. And these failures put 211,716 jobs at risk. It was broad-based. Only one sector – chemicals – saw a reduction in failures. All other sectors experienced increases. The biggest loser was “distribution” (includes retail) where failures jumped 9.7% from a year earlier! As everywhere, the sector was undergoing structural changes forced upon it by the internet. But it was also dragged down by strung-out households struggling with rampant unemployment, and these folks were watching every euro they spent. Failures of bookstores soared 17.5%, including some chains with several hundred employees each. Flower shop failures jumped 12.8%, toy store failures 45.8%! Even in the sector of the future, “electronics, IT, and telecom,” business failures jumped 9.2%. It’s tough out there. Hollande has been presiding over a steady deterioration of the private sector. Making up for it haphazardly by boosting the government sector with the stroke of his ingenious pen or a vote in Parliament is predictably not producing any results in the private sector – other than possibly creating more mayhem. But it nudges up GDP a tiny bit and makes his government look like it’s doing something. Yet the lifeblood of the economy is the hundreds of thousands of smaller and larger companies struggling on a daily basis to stay afloat. The fact that they fail at record numbers, still, five years after the crisis, should tell Hollande and his government that something is seriously wrong with the business environment in the country – something that can’t be solved by hammering these hapless businesses with even more taxes. But the despised “political class” is different. Someone in the French government deleted 3,300 French names from a purloined list of accounts at HSBC Switzerland; their revelation, apparently, would have left that political elite red-faced and vulnerable to prosecution. Read.... Black Money In France “At The Center Of Life For Politicians” FREE AppDownload
Chinese GDP growth slowed to 7.7% in 2013, which was the lowest level since 1999. And as policymakers move to tighten credit and lending standards, almost everyone agrees that the economy will decelerate further. Indeed, weakness in the Chinese economy is part of the reason we've seen a rout in emerging markets. The consensus of economists polled by Bloomberg  is for 7.4%. But Deutsche Bank's Jun Ma expects the Chinese economy to accelerate 8.6% this year, making him by far the most bullish forecaster. Some have argued that Ma's bullish predictions were setting him up for a spot at the People's Bank of China. And now Simon Rabinovitch of the Financial Times is tweeting that the economist is reportedly moving to the central bank.* Much of Ma's rosy outlook is tied to his optimism regarding credit. The latest government debt audit showed showed Chinese local government debt totaled 17.9 trillion renminbi ($2.8 trillion), and that total government debt reached 30.3 trillion renminbi (approx $5 trillion). Most experts agree that Beijing's efforts to engineer deleveraging, if anything, could actually lead to a hard landing in China. In this scenario, growth decelerates sharply below that 7% or even 6% level. Jun thinks both the local and central government debt are "manageable".  He also doesn't think that debt management reform wil lead to a "decline in local government capex in our view." "Many investors fear that the publication of the [National Audit Office] audit report as well as the government’s rhetoric of strengthening local government debt management will lead to a sharp decline in local government spending on infrastructure and thus downward pressure on the economy," writes Jun. "We believe this concern is excessive." He points out that the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) is letting local government finance vehicles (LGFVs) issued bonds to finance existing debt to ensure that projects that are already underway have their funding requirements met. "We believe that steady economic growth and meeting the infrastructure demand for urbanization are the priorities of the government," he writes. "Local government capex will likely rise, and probably accelerate, in 2014 as government revenue growth has improved significantly in the past few months and bond financing (but not bank loans) will continue to support local infrastructure spending." And there you have it folks. Time will tell if he's right. *We update the post to reflect that Ma is reportedly moving to the People's Bank of China. FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - Comcast Corp's proposed $45.2 billion merger with Time Warner Cable Inc would generate as much as $143 million in investment banking fees, providing a rare boon to Wall Street banks grappling with a dearth of large corporate takeovers. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, former top Morgan Stanley banker Paul Taubman and Barclays, which together advised Comcast, would split an estimated $51 million to $68 million in advisory fees if the proposed deal goes through, according to estimates by Freeman &amp; Co LLC. Financial advisers to Time Warner Cable - Morgan Stanley, Allen &amp; Company, Citigroup Inc and Centerview Partners - are set to share $57 million to $75 million in fees, the estimates show. However, a number of other banks backing a rival bidder, Charter Communications Inc, would likely miss out on the several hundred millions of dollars in potential fees. Because Charter's cash and stock offer for Time Warner Cable, unlike Comcast's all-stock bid, involved a large borrowing, banks advising Charter could have earned more than $500 million in advisory and financing fees, according to Freeman &amp; Co estimates in January. Charter, which made a hostile $37.3 billion bid for Time Warner Cable, was working with Goldman Sachs Group, LionTree, Guggenheim Securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse Group and Deutsche Bank. The proposed combination between Comcast and Time Warner Cable is this year's biggest transaction globally, and the largest since Verizon Communications Inc's $130 billion deal last year to buy out Vodafone Group Plc's stake in Verizon Wireless. The deal is also yet another coup for Paul Taubman, who is advising key corporate clients on his own after leaving Morgan Stanley in early 2013. The former co-head of Morgan Stanley's institutional securities unit left the Wall Street firm after it became clear that Chief Executive James Gorman planned to choose his long-time rival Colm Kelleher as the sole head of the unit. Taubman was the No. 13 mergers adviser in 2013 globally thanks to his role advising Verizon on the buyout of the Verizon Wireless stake, putting him ahead of entire banks such as Evercore Partners, Moelis &amp; Co and Jefferies in the coveted league table of financial advisers. (Reporting by Soyoung Kim in New York; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Youtube/Whammy RulesThere are few things more satisfying than checking your credit card statement and seeing that monthly cash back reward.  To help consumers get the most from their cards, consumer information site NextAdvisor.com conducted an independent analysis of 10 popular cash back credit cards to determine which cards gave users the best bang for their buck. The analysis comes with an interactive feature that allows users to get a personalized card recommendation based on how much they spend each month in 25 different categories, ranging from the typical gas and groceries to far more specific categories like Amazon and Starbucks. See the top five cards, according to NextAdvisor, below: 1. Blue Cash Preferred Card, American Express: Earn 6% back on U.S. supermarket purchases up to $6,000 per year, 3% at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department stores, and 1% on other purchases. 2. BankAmericard Cash Rewards Credit Card: Earn 1% cash back on all purchases, 2% at grocery stores, and 3% on gas for the first $1,500 in combined grocery store and gas purchases each quarter. Get a 10% customer bonus when you redeem cash back into a Bank of America checking or savings account. 3. Blue Cash Everyday Card, American Express: Earn 3% at U.S. supermarkets, up to $6,000 per year in purchases, 2% at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department stores, and 1% on other purchases. 4. Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card: Earn 1.5% cash back on all purchases with no expiration date. 5. Chase Freedom - $100 Bonus Cash Back: Earn 5% cash back on up to $1,500 in combined purchases at three designated categories that rotate every three months. FREE AppDownload
AP In a pre-emptive strike last night, New York City Schools Chancellor Carmen Farina said that city schools will be open today despite the brutal storm that could bring 8-12 inches to New York. "Due to anticipated inclement weather conditions, all school field trips will be cancelled tomorrow. Schools will be open," Farina said. This has led to some predictable grumbling and even outrage, but New York City has a history of actively trying to avoid closing schools. ABC 7 asked Farina today for more clarification on the decision to keep schools open. A big part of the decision, she said, comes down to the fact that if schools are closed, many children don't eat. "If people can go to work, then kids can go to school," she said. "Many of our kids don't get a hot lunch and, in many cases breakfast, unless they go to school. So it's still a parent's decision whether they send their kids to school or not. My decision is where the kids are safest and the most taken care of, and the answer to that is in schools." She emphasized that parents should make their own decisions on whether they wanted to send their children to school. "Parents, as always, should exercise their own judgment with regard to their children. Safety is a top priority for the Department," Farina said. There has been one snow day during the short administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio. That came on Jan. 3, when snow combined with frigid temperatures in the first "polar vortex" of the year. The de Blasio administration was criticized for not canceling school on other days, including the Jan. 22 storm that brought about one foot of snow to New York. According to Gothamist, there have been just six city school closings due to snow over the past 13 years — a March blizzard in 2001, a January 2004 snowstorm, a March 2009 snow storm, two February 2010 storms, and a January 2011 storm.  New York City schools closed for five days in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. But that storm crippled the city's subway system. That's not the case in snowstorms, when the city's subway and bus systems typically run rather smoothly or with slight delays. NOW WATCH: Detroit Is Losing Money On Its Bizarre 'People Mover' Train That No One Ever Rides   FREE AppDownload
BEA, Barclays ResearchTable 1: Barclays Q4 U.S. GDP tracking estimate.Following the release of worse-than-expected retail sales data this morning, market economists are slashing tracking estimates for GDP growth in both the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014. "Alongside the weaker-than-expected print in January, downward revisions to core retail sales growth in December (to 0.1% month-over-month from 0.7%) and November (to 0.1% from 0.4%) suggest notably softer growth in Q4 consumption than initially estimated," says Peter Newland, an economist at Barclays. "This subtracted 0.4 percentage points from our tracking estimate, which now stands at 2.2%, a full percentage point below the first official release." Table 1 shows how the Barclays economics team's Q4 2013 GDP tracking estimate has fallen in recent days. December U.S. trade data revealed a wider deficit than expected, taking the estimate down to 2.8% from 3.2%. December wholesale inventories growth was below expectations as well, whittling down the estimate by another 0.2 percentage points, and today's retail sales release saw it cut another 0.4 percentage points to 2.2%. BEA, Credit SuisseCredit Suisse economists, meanwhile, are reducing Q1 2014 GDP forecasts. "Our Q1 GDP estimate is currently 1.6%, down from our previous estimate of 2.6%," says Credit Suisse chief economist Neal Soss. "The revision reflects recent soft employment and PMI data, bad weather, and lower assumptions for inventory building. This morning’s retail sales figures were also much weaker than expected, and lowered our baseline estimates further." Paul Dales, a senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics, says today's retail sales release "gets the first quarter off to a slow start." "Some of the weakness is probably due to the unusually severe weather," says Dales. "But even after pencilling in strong spending on heating and a rebound in retail sales in February and March, first-quarter annualised consumption growth may be between 2.0% and 2.5%. That would be down from just over 3% in the fourth quarter." Now, as Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro points out, the numbers aren't all adding up. "We economists are falling over ourselves revising down our Q4 and Q1 GDP 'bean-count' estimates," says Dutta. "However, let's not forget that these downward revisions to Q4 actually widen the gap between GDP and aggregate hours. Let us explain. At present, Q4 GDP is tracking 2.4% down from the initial estimate of 3.2%, a sharp cut. However, aggregate hours in Q4 were revised up because of stronger job growth. Indeed, aggregate hours expanded 1.9% in Q4. Meanwhile, business productivity rose 2.6%. Combining the two — total hours plus output per hour — implies that growth rose 4.5% in Q4. Something has to give. Either GDP goes up, aggregate hours fall, or productivity contracts." FREE AppDownload
IMF, Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank Research Emerging markets face substantial headwinds as the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative easing program, and flows into EM on the back of years of easy Fed policy begin to reverse. Many comparisons have been made between the present situation and past EM crises, like the 1994-95 Mexican peso crisis, the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, and the 1980s Latin America debt crisis. However, there are a few key reasons why emerging markets are better equipped to handle such turmoil now than they were 20 years ago, as Deutsche Bank analysts highlight in their latest "House View" presentation, illustrated in the charts below. "Local-currency, rather than hard-currency, debt is more common, so FX depreciation is less of an issue from an external financing point of view," write the analysts. "Current account positions are less vulnerable. Corporate and sovereign leverage is lower. Balance sheets do not face the same currency mismatches they did in the past." They also point out that a "substantial reduction in the use of managed FX regimes means currency adjustment is not compressed in single, destabilising moves, but done gradually," and that, as the chart below shows, "foreign reserves are higher, as EMs accumulated them to hedge against global liquidity crises." Furthermore, in recent weeks, EM central banks — most notably the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey — have announced aggressive interest rate hikes in order to shore up their currencies. On the other hand, emerging markets also comprise a much bigger portion of the global economy than they did 20 years ago. Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank, believes China is the key swing factor. "Currently China is the bulwark that stands between S/SE Asia instability and dramatic broadening of contagion encompassing the global economy," says Ruskin. "China's share of global GDP is now four times what is was in 1997. If contagion stretches to China's credit cycle (not DB's expectation for 2014), watch out — this would represent a huge escalation in contagion risk." FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Office SpaceEarlier today, Comcast Cable announced that it agreed to acquire Time Warner Cable in a $45 billion mega-deal. What's in it for Comcast Cable shareholders? "This combination creates a company that delivers maximum value for our shareholders," said Comcast CEO Brian Roberts. How are they going to do that? The company explains in one sentence that probably has every Comcast and Time Warner Cable employee nervous. "The transaction will generate approximately $1.5 billion in operating efficiencies and will be accretive to Comcast’s free cash flow per share while preserving balance sheet strength." "Operating efficiencies" usually means the closing and combining offices, which also often comes with job cuts. For now, management is doing and saying what they can to keep everyone calm. “The combination of Time Warner Cable and Comcast creates an exciting opportunity for our company, for our customers, and for our shareholders,” said Comcast CEO Brian Roberts. “This combination creates a company that delivers maximum value for our shareholders, enormous opportunities for our employees and a superior experience for our customers,” said Time Warner Cable CEO Robert Marcus. Comcast employs around 136,000 workers while Time Warner Cable employs around 34,000. Assuming half of those operating efficiencies ($750 million) come from reduced headcount and each worker saves $150,000, this back-of-the-envelope calculation would see 5,000 employees being let go. The companies haven't actually announced or quantified and reductions in headcount just yet. But you can bet that announcement is coming.   FREE AppDownload
When it comes to compensation, British bank Barclays gets mixed reviews. Its CEO, Antony Jenkins, has given up his bonus because of the bank's weak performance and legal issues. At the same time, the Barclays is laying off some employees while boosting compensation for others, and some critics of Wall Street pay hate that. It's a mixed bag, and now here's something else to consider. Barclays will now start docking financial advisers in its Wealth &amp; Investment Management division for bad behavior, says the Wall Street Journal. Here's how it will work (from WSJ): Barclays advisers will receive about half of their pay in the form of a monthly payment; the other half will be paid out every three months, according to people familiar with the new arrangement. While both payments will be based on a production formula similar to that at other firms, the quarterly payment also takes into account values-based criteria that include professional conduct and customer complaints. Poor performance in these areas could lead to a reduced payout. The word is that Barclays bankers have asked around to see if they can leave the bank and head elsewhere, but if you know anything about Wall Street right now, you know that moving is really tough. Wealth management is one of the better performing sectors in the industry right now too, so those jobs are hard to come by. Better behave.   FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyEver since the financial crisis, corporate America has been beefing up its balance sheets with huge cash hoards. "S&amp;P 500 firms had $1.4 trillion in cash at the end of 2014 (ex-Financials), and cash flows remain strong," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in a research note published on Monday. That number goes up to $1.7 trillion if you consider the top 1,500 publicly traded companies. For the most part, public companies have been deploying excess cash to shareholders in the form of buybacks and dividends. Today's $45 billion Time Warner Cable takeover by Comcast is similar in that it's largely just money moving from one balance sheet to another. "It’s basically just taking one ticker symbol and replacing it with a different one," quipped Reuters' Felix Salmon. While buybacks, dividends, and M&amp;A deals can line the coffers of investors in the near-term, it doesn't do quite as much directly for the economy. Companies can better stimulate the economy by investing in growth — which would include hiring more people — or even by just replacing old equipment, which means growth for manufacturers. "The transaction will generate approximately $1.5 billion in operating efficiencies," the companies said in a press release. Unfortunately, "operating efficiencies" usually means closed offices and layoffs. Today's deal is encouraging for financial markets in that it may reflect animal spirits are in the air. However, the U.S. economy would rather here about multi-billion dollar expansion plans that come with job creation. FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesPresident Barack Obama said in a statement late Wednesday night that he was "pleased" that both chambers of Congress had passed a "clean" debt-ceiling increase. Obama's statement came after a tenuous vote in the Senate, during which Republicans struggled to find enough votes to advance the legislation to a final vote. In his statement, Obama made clear that he expects the debt ceiling to be de-weaponized as a potential tool for political leverage in the future. Here's Obama's full statement (emphasis added): "I’m pleased that Republicans and Democrats in Congress have come together to pay for what they’ve already spent, and remove the threat of default from our economy once and for all. The full faith and credit of the United States is too important to use as leverage or a tool for extortion. Hopefully, this puts an end to politics by brinksmanship and allows us to move forward to do more to create good jobs and strengthen the economy. Instead of wasting time creating new crises, Congress should be focused on creating new jobs and opportunities. That’s what the American people deserve from their representatives in Washington, and that's what they should get." Since the bruising summer 2011 debt-ceiling fight, Obama and Democrats have said they would not normalize a negotiation over the debt ceiling. They have been remarkably unified in their stance, and it has largely worked in diffusing the threat. Last January, House Republicans attached a "No Budget, No Pay" provision to a debt-limit suspension. In October, when Republicans agreed to reopen the government and suspend the debt ceiling again, there were no strings attached. Democrats knew that this time, even though Republicans didn't want a fight over the debt ceiling, they had backed themselves into a corner. Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, time after time called Republicans' bluff on the issue. Eventually, House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) let a clean increase come to the floor and pass with a vast majority of Democratic votes. FREE AppDownload
Conditional formatting in excel allows you to format cells based on a set of rules. This will draw attention to the data you want to highlight and make your spreadsheets more user friendly. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
TBIInitial unemployment claims jumped to 339,000 from 331,000 a week ago. Economists were expecting a reading of 330,000. This brought the 4-week moving average up to 336,750 from 333,250 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims probably edged up following a sizable decline," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio before the release. He expected a reading of 335,000. "If correct, the four-week moving average also crept higher, but nonetheless remained in the low range that prevailed over January." FREE AppDownload
Joshua Lott/Getty ImagesThe latest monthly U.S. retail sales data are out. Total sales unexpectedly fell 0.4% in January from the previous month, and December's 0.2% advance was revised down to a 0.1% drop. Economists were looking for no change from December. Excluding autos, sales were flat, slightly below estimates for a 0.1% advance. December's 0.7% gain was revised down to 0.3%. Excluding both autos and gas, sales were down 0.2%, below estimates for a 0.1% rise, and December's 0.6% gain was revised down to 0.1%. The retail sales control group, which feeds into the calculation of GDP, fell 0.3%, below expectations for a 0.2% rise. The December retail sales control group gain was revised down to 0.3% from 0.7%. "This report was quite weak, and the disappointing performance among components that depend on foot traffic such as sales at auto dealers, department stores, and at restaurants suggests that the weakness may be due in part to the unusually cold conditions," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. "However, with online sales also dipping, after steady growth during the previous four months, there may be some indication that other factors beyond the usual weather effect suspect may be at play. That said, the big downward revision to core consumer spending in December does provide some downside risks to our expectation for a downgrade to Q4 GDP estimate to 2.8%, from 3.2%." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotWhy would you want to become an investment banker? A few years ago, you didn’t necessarily need a qualitative reason. The money was enough. Now, as salaries have downshifted from tremendous to very good, other factors need to be considered. We talked to former investment banker Chris Thomas, who spent 18 months as a post-MBA associate at a major bank in the U.S. before leaving the industry, to get his take on what one needs to know before making the plunge. He was honest and critical but, unlike some other former investment bankers, he didn’t condemn the industry or his former employer, which he asked to remain nameless. There are just a few fallacies associated with the business that you need to know. Here are his main takeaways. (note: Chris Thomas is a pseudonym used to protect the identity of the source). Exit opportunities are fleeting: A fair percentage of investment bankers use the job as a launching point for a different career path. But transitioning to buy-side isn’t nearly as easy as one might think, or at least it isn’t as easy as it once was, Thomas said. “Go look at job postings on the buy-side. Most are looking for a pre-MBA or they want you to already have buy-side experience,” he said. “You end up in no man’s land. Most guys think there are great exits but it’s not true anymore.” Once you have more than two years of experience and your price tag becomes more expensive, you tend to get pigeonholed and stuck in the industry, he added. MD isn’t a finishing line: Another fallacy that he noticed surrounds the life of senior bankers, particularly those of managing directors, which are often glorified. Sure you make more money, but the carrot at the end of the tunnel isn’t what it used to be, Thomas said. “They say when you become more senior your lifestyle gets better,” he said. “I challenge that. They are still making weekend calls, just like everyone else.” For the rest of this piece head to eFinancialCareers&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSBillionaire investor Warren Buffett of Omaha makes a rare public appearance during an autograph session outside Borsheim's Jewelry Store in Omaha, May 4, 1997.US business tycoon Warren Buffett is in talks to exit his investment in Graham Holdings, former owner of The Washington Post, after an association of 40 years. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Graham Holdings are negotiating a stock swap, according to documents submitted late on Wednesday to the US markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission. It would involve Berkshire handing 1.7 million shares of Graham Holdings, a stake of about 28 percent and worth about $1.1 billion, back to the company. Graham Holdings changed its name from Washington Post Co. after selling its flagship newspaper to Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos last year. The billionaire Buffett had forged a strong friendship with the Post's boss Katharine Graham, who died in 2001. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris KeaneDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are off 50bp, and trading on overnight lows as the E-minis gravitate towards a 50dma test despite a $44B merger on the tape.   We can blame angst over retail sales, poor weather slowing US growth, weak global jobs numbers – but it’s all about the Yen, which is jumping to 1week+ highs against major FX (Japan’s manufactured goods price index outperformed, showing Abenomics working) – and some profit taking after the rally we have seen.   Expect light volumes today, as the Eastern Seaboard is getting slammed with weather ahead of a 3 day weekend.    Over in Europe, the DAX is off 40bp in average volume – but the EU fins are seeing profit taking, with the group off 2% as Greek yields are spiking on a terrible jobs report.   In Asia, the Nikkei was hit for almost 2% as the Yen jumped, but in light trading.   China was off 50bp, but India was whacked for 1.3% ahead of a budget announcement next week.   Aussie was flat, but the A$ was crushed on terrible jobs data.  EM ius showing weakness, with some stress evident in Ukraine, South Africa, and Turkey – Keep an eye on the EEM today, it is offered down almost 2% early.   Retail will be a key group today, with Advance Retail Sales for January due – which everyone knows will be a ugly print, and the Gold Miners are in focus, as the 2 largest members of the GDX report this AM. The 10YY is flat, but the 30Y has a bid into the 1pm auction today – despite headlines saying there will be lackluster demand for the worst performing part of US Government debt this month – The key treasury catalyst, Yellen’s Testimony in front of the Senate, was cancelled due to Snow.    Both € and Yen are well bid against the Dollar – so we have a natural headwind for commodities.   Industrial metals are retreating after China’s export projections were released, while the Oil complex is weaker as the IEA encourages OPEC to continue pumping to replenish depleted global stocks.   Nat Gas is jumping again, adding 3% (18% jump in 5 days) as the US is clobbered with weather, a leading think-tank in China shows the need for increased Natty consumption, and expectations mount for a massive drawdown in DOE data today.   We get weekly Claims data and Advance Retail sales at 8:30, Business Inventories at 10 – DOE data for Natty at 10:30 – there is NO POMO at 11 – and we have the $16B, 30Y auction at 1 FREE AppDownload
Emerging markets have been in the news a lot so far in 2014. The slide below, taken from Deutsche Bank's latest "House View" presentation, sums up nine of the biggest stories playing out in EM right now. Deutsche Bank Research
The global financial markets have made big moves in 2014, and we're only a month and a half in. It's interesting to see how the 2013 themes have reversed. For instance, Japanese stocks were huge last year, but now they're in correction. Meanwhile, gold had gotten slammed, but the yellow metal has recovered some of its luster. Here's a snapshot of the year-to-date returns via Deutsche Bank's House View presentation. Deutsche Bank
 REUTERS/Damir Sagolj Groom Roongroj Walailuk and bride Vina Wichan jump into the pond as they are chased by men dressed as pirates during a wedding ceremony ahead of Valentine's Day in Prachin Buri province, east of Bangkok February 13, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingComcast CEO Brian Roberts. Comcast and Time Warner Cable have confirmed that they are planning to merge. Comcast has agreed to buy 100% of Time Warner Cable's 284.9 million shares  for $45.2 billion. This comes out to $158.82 per share. The story was first broken on Wednesday evening by CNBC's David Faber. "In addition to creating a world-class company, this is a compelling financial and strategic transaction for our shareholders," said Comcast CEO Brian Roberts. "Also, it is our intention to expand our buyback program by an additional $10 billion at the close of the transaction. We believe there are meaningful operational efficiencies and the adjusted purchase multiple is approximately 6.7x Operating Cash Flow." By bringing on Time Warner Cable's 11 million subscribers, the merger would boost Comcast's subscriber total to a whopping 30 million. "However, this is far from a done deal," noted Business Insider's Jay Yarow. "It will come under heavy government scrutiny." Here's the press release: PHILADELPHIA &amp; NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Comcast Corporation (CMCSA)(CMCSK) and Time Warner Cable (TWC) today announced that their Boards of Directors have approved a definitive agreement for Time Warner Cable to merge with Comcast. The agreement is a friendly, stock-for-stock transaction in which Comcast will acquire 100 percent of Time Warner Cable’s 284.9 million shares outstanding for shares of CMCSA amounting to approximately $45.2 billion in equity value. Each Time Warner Cable share will be exchanged for 2.875 shares of CMCSA, equal to Time Warner Cable shareholders owning approximately 23 percent of Comcast’s common stock, with a value to Time Warner Cable shareholders of approximately $158.82 per share based on the last closing price of Comcast shares. The transaction will generate approximately $1.5 billion in operating efficiencies and will be accretive to Comcast’s free cash flow per share while preserving balance sheet strength. The merger will also be tax free to Time Warner Cable shareholders. This transaction will create a leading technology and innovation company, differentiated by its ability to deliver ground-breaking products on a superior network while leveraging a national platform to create operating efficiencies and economies of scale. “The combination of Time Warner Cable and Comcast creates an exciting opportunity for our company, for our customers, and for our shareholders,” said Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Comcast Corporation. “In addition to creating a world-class company, this is a compelling financial and strategic transaction for our shareholders. Also, it is our intention to expand our buyback program by an additional $10 billion at the close of the transaction. We believe there are meaningful operational efficiencies and the adjusted purchase multiple is approximately 6.7x Operating Cash Flow. This transaction will be accretive and will yield many synergies and benefits in the years ahead. Rob Marcus and his team have created a pure-play cable company that, combined with Comcast, has the foundation for future growth. We are looking forward to working with his team as we bring our companies together to deliver the most innovative products and services and a superior customer experience within the highly competitive and dynamic marketplace in which we operate.” “This combination creates a company that delivers maximum value for our shareholders, enormous opportunities for our employees and a superior experience for our customers,” said Robert D. Marcus, Chairman and CEO of Time Warner Cable. “Comcast and Time Warner Cable have been the leaders in all of the industry’s most important innovations of the last 25 years and this merger will accelerate the pace of that innovation. Brian Roberts, Neil Smit, Michael Angelakis and the Comcast management team have built an industry-leading platform and innovative products and services, and we’re excited to be part of delivering all of the possibilities of cable’s superior broadband networks to more American consumers.” The new cable company, which will be led by President and CEO Neil Smit, will generate multiple pro-consumer and pro-competitive benefits, including an accelerated deployment of existing and new innovative products and services for millions of customers. Comcast’s subscribers today have access to the most comprehensive video experience, including the cloud-based X1 Entertainment Operating System, plus 50,000 video on demand choices on television, 300,000 plus streaming choices on XfinityTV.com, Xfinity TV mobile apps that offer 35 live streaming channels plus the ability to download to watch offline later, and the newly launched X1 cloud DVR. Comcast is also a technology leader in broadband and has increased Internet speeds 12 times in the past 12 years across its entire footprint. Time Warner Cable owns cable systems located in key geographic areas, including New York City, Southern California, Texas, the Carolinas, Ohio, and Wisconsin. Time Warner Cable will combine its unique products and services with Comcast’s, including StartOver, which allows customers to restart a live program in progress to the beginning, and LookBack, which allows customers to watch programs up to three days after they air live, all without a DVR. Time Warner Cable also has been a leader in the deployment of community Wi-Fi, and will combine its more than 30,000 hotspots, primarily in Los Angeles and New York City, and its in-home management system, IntelligentHome, with Comcast’s offerings. Through this merger, more American consumers will benefit from technological innovations, including a superior video experience, higher broadband speeds, and the fastest in-home Wi-Fi. The transaction also will generate significant cost savings and other efficiencies. American businesses will benefit from a broader platform, and the Company will be better able to offer advanced services like high-performance point-to-point and multi-point Ethernet services and cloud-based managed services to enterprises. Additionally, the transaction will combine complementary advertising platforms and channels and allow Comcast to offer broader and more valuable packages to national advertisers. Through the merger, Comcast will acquire Time Warner Cable’s approximately 11 million managed subscribers. In order to reduce competitive concerns, Comcast is prepared to divest systems serving approximately 3 million managed subscribers. As such, Comcast will, through the acquisition and management of Time Warner Cable systems, net approximately 8 million managed subscribers in this transaction. This will bring Comcast’s managed subscriber total to approximately 30 million. Following the transaction, Comcast’s share of managed subscribers will remain below 30 percent of the total number of MVPD subscribers in the U.S. and will be essentially equivalent to Comcast Cable’s subscriber share after its completion of both the 2002 AT&amp;T Broadband transaction and the 2006 Adelphia transaction. The companies said the merger agreement between Comcast and Time Warner Cable is subject to shareholder approval at both companies and regulatory review and other customary conditions and is expected to close by the end of 2014. J.P. Morgan, Paul J. Taubman, and Barclays Plc acted as financial advisors to Comcast and Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell LLP and Willkie Farr &amp; Gallagher LLP are its legal advisors. Morgan Stanley, Allen &amp; Company, Citigroup and Centerview Partners are financial advisors to Time Warner Cable and its Board of Directors, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison LLP and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP are legal advisors. Teleconference and Webcast for Financial Community Comcast and Time Warner Cable will host a conference call with the financial community on Thursday, February 13, 2014, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET) to discuss this announcement. The conference call will be broadcast live via the companies’ Investor Relations websites at www.cmcsa.com and www.twc.com/investors. Those interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 22627319. A replay of the call will be available starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on February 13, 2014, on the companies’ Investor Relations websites or by telephone. To access the telephone replay, dial (855) 859-2056 with the conference ID number 22627319. Teleconference for Journalists Comcast and Time Warner Cable will also host a conference call with journalists on Thursday, February 13, 2014, at 9:45 a.m. Eastern Time (ET) to discuss this announcement. Journalists interested in participating in the call should dial (888) 290-8622 with the conference ID number 29882449. A replay of the call will be available starting at 1:30 PM (ET) on February 13, 2014. To access the telephone replay, dial (800) 585-8367 with the conference ID number 29882449. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghSwans swim over a soccer pitch after the Thames River flooded Windsor, southern England February 12, 2014.  REUTERSSouthern and western Britain have been drenched by the wettest winter in 250 years, and nature isn't letting up quite yet. The River Thames burst its banks after reaching its highest level in years, flooding riverside towns west of London. Winds of more than 1o0 mph have been hitting the the U.K.'s west coast. This snippet from Euro News gives an idea of the country's flood crisis:  The biggest Atlantic storm of the year is due on Friday, with the already half-submerged county of Somerset fearing more misery. The west is now cut off by rail from the rest of the country at Bridgwater. Battered coastal towns from Cornwall up to Wales are bracing themselves for more damage. Reuters notes that residents and British troops had piled up sandbags in a bid to protect properties, but the floods "overwhelmed their defences Monday." Around 5,000 houses have been damaged since December. At least 130,000 people were been left without power late on Wednesday.  A groundwater scientist at the British Geological Survey told Sky News that levels are likely to keep rising for another two months as water soaks through the soil. The Network Rail said that consequent issues with train lines and infrastructure could take "some months" to resolve.  With a liquid floor in much of lower Britain, residents are quickly adapting to the suddenly surreal landscape.   REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA resident pulls an inflatable boat with possessions through a flooded estate at Egham after the River Thames burst its banks in southeast England February 13, 2014. REUTERS/Kieran Doherty A couple paddles in a gondola while posing for media, through the flooded central square in the village of Datchet in Berkshire, southern England February 12, 2014. REUTERS/Kieran DohertyA man ferries a local resident by boat through the flooded central square in the village of Datchet in Berkshire, southern England February 12, 2014.  #UKstorms: Living with contaminated flood water http://t.co/I6j2q1Z3r8 pic.twitter.com/RBNscXOQmg 
REUTERS/John KolesidisIt's hard to think about how bad things are in Greece. According to the Hellenic Statistical Authory (ELSTAT), Greece unemployment rate climbed to 28.0% in November 2013 from 27.7% the month prior. This is a record high for the country, and its far higher than the eur0 zone's average of 12.1%. From ELSTAT: The number of employed decreased by 112,752 persons compared with November 2012 (a 3.1% rate of decrease) and by 35,726 persons compared with October 2013 (a 1.0% rate of decrease). Unemployed increased by 78,041 persons (a 6.0% rate of increase) compared with November 2012 and by 5,698 persons compared with October 2013 (a 0,4% rate of increase). Inactive persons –that is, persons that neither worked neither looked for a job– increased by 36,448 persons (a 1.1 rate of increase) compared with November 2012 and by 6,331 persons compared with October 2013 (a 0.2% rate of increase). ELSTAT FREE AppDownload
By coincidence, this view is reflected in a research paper, “Young, Restless and Creative: Openness to Disruption and Creative Innovations” by Daron Acemoglu, Ufuk Akcigit, and Murat Alp Celik. This paper argues that openness to new, unconventional and disruptive ideas has a first-order impac ton creative innovations — innovations that break new ground in terms of knowledge creation.  … Our measures of creative innovations proxy for innovation quality (average number of citations per patent) and creativity (fraction of superstar innovators, the likelihood of a very high number of citations, and generality of patents). Our main proxy for openness to disruption is manager age. This variable is based on the idea that only companies or societies open to such disruption will allow the young to rise up within the hierarchy. Using this proxy at the country, firm or patent level, we present robust evidence that openness to disruption is associated with more creative innovations. To take things a step further, this study makes a strong argument that, in effect, not only that younger societies are more likely to have dynamic, open economies, but so are societies that make it easy to start new companies and make it hard for government to bail out failing incumbents. And it is not just a few heroic entrepreneurs or superscientists who are important in this effort. All of us has a role to play, according to the film. And that’s right. As Amar Bhide has written, innovation comes at all levels of a company: ” … the development and effective deployment of new products entails the development and use of many different levels (high, middle, and ground) and kinds (scientific, engineering, managerial, sales, and marketing) of know-how.”  And as “venturesome” consumers use new products and services, their feedback is incorporated into new and better versions. And when lots of us are focused on new ideas and new ways of doing things — and when big government and big business don’t get in the way — everything really is kind of awesome. Follow James Pethokoukis on Twitter at @JimPethokoukis, and AEIdeas at @AEIdeas. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningAn American Eagle Embraer ERJ-140LR jet takes off as U.S. Airways jets are lined up at Reagan National Airport in Washington.SINGAPORE (Reuters) - After flying under the radar for many years, manufacturers of smaller jet and propeller-driven passenger aircraft are finding a bigger market in the Asia-Pacific with a slew of orders at the Singapore Airshow. Canada's Bombardier, Brazil's Embraer, European joint venture ATR, Russia's Sukhoi and Japan's Mitsubishi Aircraft do not roll off the tongue as easily as Airbus or Boeing, but in the lucrative Asia market there is room for everyone. Embraer, the world's largest maker of regional aircraft, forecast in Singapore this week that the region will take delivery of 1,500 new jets of 70-130 seats over the next 20 years. That translates, it says, to a staggering $70 billion worth of business. Importantly, for the likes of Embraer, the world's two largest aircraft manufacturers do not make aircraft that compete in the below-130 seat segment. Low-cost airlines like AirAsia, Lion Air, and Cebu Pacific, with orders for hundreds of Airbus A320s and Boeing 737s, have driven much of the growth in the Asia Pacific airline market. Increasingly, however, the major hub airports are getting crowded and there is growing demand for services to and between smaller second and third tier cities. "The great opportunity in Southeast Asia is to get more people to fly, and that is about tier two and tier three cities," said Torbjorn Karlsson, who leads aircraft sales for Bombardier in Southeast Asia. He identified countries such as India, where only about 1 percent of country's one-billion-plus population flies, and Indonesia and Thailand as inviting markets. COSTA SEES ENORMOUS POTENTIAL While there may still not be enough passengers to use the A320 or a 737, there is enough for smaller aircraft. And that is where the likes of Embraer and Bombardier come in. Thousands of this type of aircraft have been sold across Europe and the Americas, but relatively few have found their way to Asia. That's now changing. Embraer announced its first major Indian deal in Singapore, with start-up Air Costa ordering 50 jets valued at $2.94 billion on Thursday. In a country like India, where Airbus and Boeing aircraft have saturated the market with airlines like IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir, Costa is trying to find a niche for itself by connecting the smaller cities with Embraer jets. ""You don't need larger aircraft. This is enough for us," said Ramesh Lingamaneni, chairman of Air Costa, which began operations in October and now has four Embraer jets. "Regional air services have enormous potential in India." Bombardier did not get any orders for its CSeries or CRJ jet aircraft, but Thai low-cost carrier Nok Air said that it would order up to eight of the Canadian company's Q400 turboprop aircraft. ATR, which dominates the turboprop market, inked a deal to sell up to eight of its 72-600 aircraft to Thai carrier Bangkok Airways. It also agreed to sell 20 aircraft to leasing firm Dubai Aerospace Enterprise, with options for 20 more, in a deal valued at $1 billion. Sukhoi displayed a Superjet in the livery of its customer, Indonesia's Sky Aviation, on the static display at the show. Japan's Mitsubishi Aircraft and China's AVIC are also developing aircraft that are expected to compete in the segment, and their executives were busy trying to impress potential customers in Singapore. "There is lots of room to penetrate more into this market," Paulo Cesar Silva, president and CEO of Embraer Commercial Aviation, told Reuters. "You have to have the right aircraft. In the U.S., until two years ago, Delta was flying four times a day on the Boston-La Guardia route using A320s. Now, they place the E-175 11 times a day. You keep the frequency, the load factor is high, and the passenger is happy as every time you head to the airport, there is an aircraft leaving." There is intense rivalry within the segment too, with turboprop operators like ATR pointing out that their aircraft are more efficient over these short-haul routes. "I think it's partly the economics. On this short distance route the turboprop is the most efficient aircraft. Jets burn twice as much fuel, so costs are much higher. And a lot of these airports are not accessible for jets," ATR's head of Global Sales, John Moore, told Reuters. (Additional reporting by Al-Zaquan Amer Hamzah and Andrew Toh; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiIBM's ThinkPad notebook computer combined with Sanyo Electric Co's prototype fuel cell battery is displayed during a news conference in Tokyo April 11, 2005. IBM's personal computer division and Sanyo said on Monday that they have teamed up to create prototype notebook computer batteries using long-lasting fuel cell technology.BEIJING (Reuters) - Lenovo Group Ltd leader Yang Yuanqing says the Chinese technology giant will draw on cost-cutting lessons learned when it bought IBM Corp's ThinkPad laptop unit to turn losses into profit at businesses acquired for $5.2 billion last month. Reporting third-quarter profit jumped 29 percent, Lenovo's chief executive warned the drive to turn around the Motorola handset business it bought from Google Inc and the computer server unit it bought from IBM will squeeze earnings in the short term. For Yang, the pain may only last "a couple of quarters" after the deals close, he said, and is worth it: though October-December personal computer sales were strong, the aggressive acquisitions are a key plank in Lenovo's search for future sources of growth as the broader desktop PC market shrinks and computer users go mobile. "In the short term (the deals) will have a negative impact on performance," Yang said in a telephone interview after the earnings were announced. Lenovo, the world's biggest maker of PCs, later specified it will likely take three to five quarters to turn around the Motorola phone business. Analysts say it may take the company at least that long to turn around its acquisitions. Heavyweights like Samsung Electronics Co and Apple Inc, dominant in global smartphones, will also provide stiff competition as Lenovo seeks to build up the Motorola business. "I'm expecting a slowdown in the underlying, organic business," said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, a Hong Kong-based technology analyst at JI Asia, an affiliate of Societe Generale. "It will be at least a year before Lenovo can turn around growth," he said, speaking before Yang's comments. Investors might be experiencing déjà vu. Motorola Mobility and the IBM x86 server unit currently lose money - Motorola alone lost more than $1 billion in 2013 - just as ThinkPad did when it became the Chinese company's way into businesses across the United States in 2005. After the ThinkPad deal, Lenovo's net income dropped sharply and only recovered after almost two years. To bring the new acquisitions into the fold, Lenovo plans to revive its tactic of integrating ThinkPad through cost-cutting, lower material costs and merging the business with its own supply chain. Lenovo will sell Motorola handsets and IBM servers through the same channels it uses for its own low-marginsmartphones and its PC business, Yang said in a post-earnings call, without elaborating on financial targets. Lenovo said it plans to re-introduce the Motorola brand to its home country - a smartphone market now beginning to become saturated - as well as expanding to emerging markets. A key part of its strategy for IBM's low-end servers is to surf on Lenovo's presence in China, where it said server demand remains strong. But the sheer size of these deals - the price tag is close to half of Lenovo's market value - will weigh on the company for some time. Analysts don't expect the deals to be finalized until the third quarter of 2014 at the very earliest. "They did not have a choice, they had to acquire a business to take their smartphones to the developed markets," said Lafayeedney. "They cannot waste the kind of time needed to grow organically into developed markets," the analyst said, speaking before the October-December earnings were announced. AHEAD OF ESTIMATES Lenovo on Thursday reported net income of $265.3 million for the October-December quarter, ended before the acquisitions splurge. That was well above the $204.9 million it posted a year earlier, as well as a $247.2 million consensus forecast on Thomson Reuters Starmine SmartEstimate. Although Lenovo is the world's fourth-biggest manufacturer of smartphones by shipments as of the quarter ended December, according to data firm IDC, the company is still dependent on China for the vast majority of its sales. Of the 13.9 million handsets Lenovo shipped in that quarter according to IDC, Lenovo said on Thursday only 2 million, or 14 percent, of those were sold outside China. Yang told analysts in a conference call the smartphone unit does not yet contribute a lot to the overall profit of Lenovo, particularly in China, where margins are slimmer than in other markets. Overall China smartphoneshipments fell for the first time in more than two years in the quarter ended December, declining 4.3 percent quarter-on-quarter to 90.8 million handsets, according to IDC. The speed and scale of the buying spree - partly paid for by issuing new shares - spooked some investors. Earlier this month Lenovo shares tumbled 16 percent in one day after a report said the company was interested in buyingSony Corp's Vaio PC division. Lenovo shares have dropped 8.7 percent since the start of the year, compared with the Hong Kong index's loss of 4.82 percent. By close of trading on Thursday, the stock was down 0.58 percent, while the index was off 0.54 percent. (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuBEIJING/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Growth in China's auto market slowed to 6 percent in January, a third of the rate seen in December, partly weighed down by sluggish sales of commercial vehicles likes trucks and buses. The relatively slow growth in the world's biggest auto market was also due to the week-long Chinese New Year holiday, or Spring Festival, starting at the end of January that resulted in fewer working days compared with 2013, analysts said. Most dealers close during the holiday, which fell in February last year. The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers (CAAM) said on Thursday passenger vehicle sales rose 7 percent from a year earlier while commercial vehicle sales, which make up around 15 percent of the entire auto market, were virtually flat. "Companies typically don't invest much on commercial vehicles at the start of a year, and that was much more evident in January this year due to the timing of the Spring Festival," said Wan Dong, analyst at Capital Securities.  The overall market grew 17.9 percent in December last year and ended the 2013 year with a growth rate of 13.9 percent. CAAM last month said the auto market would likely grow 8-10 percent in 2014, echoing views from industry experts and analysts that 2014 would be another strong year for China's auto market. Foreign carmakers like General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt;, Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; and Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; reported double-digit growth in January, but some local players like Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd &lt;0157.HK&gt;, posted sharp declines. CAAM, whose members include China's biggest automakers like SAIC Motor Corp Ltd &lt;600104.SS&gt; and FAW Group, reiterated its opposition against any relaxation of foreign investment rules in the auto industry as indicated by several policymakers. The Ministry of Commerce told a media briefing in November that the government would likely relax foreign investment restrictions soon in areas including auto manufacturing. Currently, foreign ownership in a Chinese joint venture is capped at 50 percent. "If China relaxes foreign ownership rules, it would be devastating to China's indigenous brands," CAAM, one of China's biggest industry associations, said in a statement. "Chinese local brands would be killed in the cradle." China has required global automakers to form joint ventures in order to produce cars in the country, hoping that Chinese carmakers can absorb foreign technology and management expertise to become more competitive. (Reporting by Sally Huang and Jonathan Standing in BEIJING and Samuel Shen in SHANGHAI; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
EDINBURGH (Reuters) - Britain warned Scotland on Thursday it would lose the pound if Scots vote for independence, the most aggressive attempt yet to scuttle a nationalist bid to break the 307-year-old union with England. In the latest salvo of a choreographed British campaign to keep Scotland in the UK, George Osborne sought to play on Scottish fears of losing the pound to argue that secession would cost Scots dearly and cast them into a tempest of volatility. "The pound isn't an asset to be divided up between two countries after a break up as if it were a CD collection," Osborne, Britain's finance minister and Prime Minister David Cameron's closest ally, said in a speech in Edinburgh. "If Scotland walks away from the UK, it walks away from the UK pound," he said. Scotland votes in a yes/no referendum on independence on September 18. The vote will be open to about 4 million residents of over the age of 16. The speech, entitled "Scotland to keep the pound and the economic security that it brings", echoed Cameron's attempt last week to make the patriotic case for unity. But the 42-year-old architect of Britain's drive to reduce spending delivered a much harsher message to Scots: If you leave the UK, you will lose the pound and pay higher rates of interest. "There is no legal reason why the rest of the UK would need to share its currency with Scotland," Osborne said. Osborne's warning will be repeated in future days by the finance chiefs of Britain's two other main parties, Labour's Ed Balls and the Liberal Democrat Danny Alexander. By honing in on Scottish hopes of keeping the pound, London politicians hope to undermine the economic case for independence though the leaders of Scotland's bid to breakaway said it amounted to panicked bullying and would cost London dearly. "We've gone in under a week from David Cameron's 'love-bombing' to attempted bullying and intimidation - from a charm offensive to just plain offensive," Scotland's Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said. "This is a panic move which will backfire spectacularly. People won't take kindly to the Westminster establishment ganging up to try and bully Scotland in the decision that we are being asked to take on the referendum," she said. Sturgeon indicated that if London prevented a currency union, an independent Scotland could refuse to take on a share of the UK's 1.2 trillion pounds ($1.99 trillion) of government debt which Britain has promised to honor. "Osborne's position is also a bluff," she said. "It would leave them having to pick up the entirety of UK debt." Osborne said the nationalist threat to walk away from its share of UK debt would mean punitively high interest rates for an independent Scotland. "In that scenario, international lenders would look at Scotland and see a fledgling country whose only credit history was one gigantic default," Osborne said. Nationalists in Scotland, whose waters contain the European Union's biggest reserves of oil and gas, say they want the Bank of England to remain the lender of last resort for financial institutions after possible independence. Bank of England chief Mark Carney cautioned last month that any currency union would entail a surrender of some sovereignty and nationalists have refused to say what they would do if they failed to get a currency union. One possible option would be for an independent Scotland to continue to use the pound in a similar way that Ecuador uses the U.S. dollar ahead of a possible entry into the European single currency, the euro, at some later date. Carney has refused to speculate on the risks of Scotland using the pound without a formal currency union.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond has said that despite the rhetoric before the vote, London might be willing to do a deal on the currency if Scots voted for independence. ($1 = 0.6030 British pounds) (Additional reporting by William Schomberg, Ana Nicolaci da Costa and Michael Holden in London; Writing by Guy Faulconbridge and Andrew Osborn; Editing by David Evans)
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen (C) arrives to testify before a House Financial Services Committee hearing on "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." at the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, February 11, 2014.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate Banking Committee said on Wednesday that it postponed Thursday's hearing with Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen. The Washington area is expecting a significant snowstorm that could conflict with Yellen's testimony. The committee said the hearing, in which Yellen is due to deliver the semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress, would be rescheduled for a yet-to-be-determined date.  (Reporting by Karey Van Hall; Editing by Peter Cooney) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo CasilliItalian Prime Minister Enrico Letta gestures during a news conference at Chigi Palace in Rome February 12, 2014. Letta resisted growing pressure on Wednesday to resign and let centre-left leader Matteo Renzi form a new government, as discontent grows with the slow pace of economic reforms.  ROME (Reuters) - Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta faces a showdown with his own center-left party on Thursday that could lead to his resignation and the appointment of Democratic Party leader Matteo Renzi as head of a new government within days. Letta, head of the unwieldy coalition patched together after last year's deadlocked elections, is fighting for his political future after growing criticism from Renzi over the slow pace of economic reforms. A meeting of the 140-strong leadership committee of the Democratic Party at 3 p.m. (1400 GMT) will decide whether he has the backing of his party to continue, or be forced to stand aside less than a year after taking office. On Thursday, Angelino Alfano, head of the New Centre Right party that supports his coalition, said Letta could count on a "loyal, correct and fruitful alliance" as long as he retained the backing of the PD. But he left it open whether he would continue to support the government if Letta was forced to step down. "We're not taking anything for granted and we will consider this possibility once it is confirmed," he told Canale 5 television. Tensions in the government have been brewing ever since Renzi won an overwhelming victory in a party leadership primary in December, but the pressure on Letta to resign has suddenly intensified this week.  The latest bout of turmoil in Italy, the euro zone's third-largest economy, has so far had little impact on financial markets, in contrast with the volatility seen during previous crises, such as the deadlock after last year's election. The risk premium on Italian 10-year bonds over German Bunds stands at just over 200 basis points, comparable with levels seen before its bonds were sucked into the euro zone debt crisis in 2011. However, the continual uncertainty has held back any radical effort to revive an economy struggling to emerge from its worst slump since World War Two, or to cut levels of unemployment not seen since the 1970s. (Reporting By James Mackenzie; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
pedro_qtc / FlickrMarkets are in the red early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is down France's CAC 40 is down Germany's DAX is down Spain's IBEX is down Italy's FTSE MIB is down This follows a sell-off in Asia where Japan's Nikkei fell 1.79%. In mega-merger news, Comcast is expected to announce its intention to acquire Time Warner Cable, reports CNBC's David Faber. Later today, we'll get the latest weekly tally of U.S. initial unemployment insurance claims and monthly tally of retail sales. Economists estimate retail sales were flat in January.  Excluding autos and gas, sales are estimated to have climbed 0.2%. "Consumer spending appears to have been significantly disrupted by harsh weather late in January," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Mid-month industry survey pointed to a good gain in auto sales in January, but instead they fell slightly, with most of the major companies blaming weather late in the month and remaining optimistic about underlying trends. Early month indications for ex auto sales were also better, but then our AlphaWise team picked up late month weakness that was probably also weather related. So we look for soft overall and ex auto sales in January, but if weather really was to blame, there should be a good rebound once recent weather extremes in much of the country are past." FREE AppDownload
