When Zak Pelaccio opened Fatty Crab in Manhattan's West Village in 2005, it wasn't clear that it was the beginning of a small food empire that continues to grow and mature. Fatty Crab now boasts locations in St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands and in Hong Kong, as well as an upscale BBQ joint called Fatty 'Cue in Manhattan. The Fatty Crew also has plans to open eight more restaurants in the U.S. and one in London. How do you take Malaysian Street-food inspired fusion BBQ into the highly critical Manhattan food scene? We spoke with Fatty 'Cue West Village's chef de cuisine Anthony Masters to find out. Produced by Daniel Goodman. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
According to Bloomberg, Google (NASDAQ: GOOG)   (NASDAQ: GOOGL) has now licensed Room 77's hotel booking software. Room 77 is a start-up backed by Expedia (NASDAQ: EXPE) , one of the leading online travel agencies, or OTAs. This is not the first time Google has tried to compete directly with OTAs such as Priceline (NASDAQ: PCLN), Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide, and TripAdvisor (NASDAQ: TRIP) for a piece of the highly lucrative online travel business. The online search giant has several high-profile online travel deals and acquisitions to its name. These include the introduction of Hotel Price Ads in 2010, the acquisition of ITA Software in 2011, and the launch of Hotel Finder, also in 2011.  Now, that list includes the Room 77 Software licensing deal. But, does Google really pose a big threat to highly dominant OTAs such as Priceline and Expedia? Just how potentially disruptive is the company's latest move in the online travel industry? Let's try to get some perspective into what Google's online travel efforts mean for OTAs. How the three platforms workHotel Price Ads, or HPA, is perhaps Google's most prominent hotel booking platform. HPA are sponsored price listings that usually appear on Google Maps, Google+, and Google Hotel Finder. HPA is the hotel equivalent of ITA, a proprietary airline booking software. The platform is aimed at hotel marketers who use it to leverage the opaque hotel pricing and reservation model. Opaque pricing refers to selling unsold hotel or airline inventory at discounted prices, but without revealing the identity of the supplier (hotel or airline) to avoid cannibalizing full-price retail sales. This is the pricing system for which Priceline is famous. For example, whenever a prospective customer enters a search query about hotels, Google sifts through a list of hotel rates that have been submitted by hotel marketers using a real-time pricing feed. Google then produces hotel results with standard site ad copy, plus a drop-down menu listing available rooms within the hotel. Prices are submitted by OTAs as well as the hotels. From a client perspective, HPA helps hotels cut out the middlemen (OTAs), and also provides a better return on investment than typical core paid search campaigns, although adoption rates are still low. From Google's viewpoint, the platform has achieved less-than-ringing success, with lower-than-expected traffic volumes. Room 77's hotel booking software also uses the opaque pricing model. It is, therefore, aimed at competing with Priceline more than any other OTA. ITA is an airfare search and pricing software that uses the proprietary QPX system. Many online travel companies such as TripAdvisor and Orbitz use the software in their airline bookings. The Department of Justice allowed Google to acquire ITA Software on several conditions, namely: the company must allow licensed competitors to continue using the software, a firewall must exist to prevent snooping, and the company must continue investing adequate amounts of money in R&amp;D to ensure the software remains up to date. But, Google also got a major leeway from the DoD. The company can display results immediately whenever customers enter their search queries. This way, Google got a head start over leading travel sites such as Bing Travel, Kayak, and many others. ITA Software is rated the leading airline booking software. We can, therefore, presume that Google makes a fair amount of money from the platform. But, from the OTAs' viewpoint, ITA Software does little damage to their businesses. Commissions earned by OTAs from airline booking tend to be much lower than those generated from hotel reservations, implying that the airline segment is far less important. For instance, Priceline, the world's largest OTA, derives 15% of its gross bookings, and a mere 1.7% of its revenue, from air travel commissions. Expedia, the second-largest OTA, gets only 8% of its revenue from airline bookings. OTAs boost online ad spendingTo counter the threat of increased competition, online travel companies have been spending massively on online ads. Priceline's online spending has more than tripled during the last three years. Last year, the company spent $1.8 billion on ads. Ironically, about 90% of that money went directly to Google's coffers. Expedia spent $1.2 billion, or 46% of its overall revenue, on sales and marketing in fiscal 2013, up from 42.8% in the previous year. Online ads took the lion's share of that budget. Similarly, TripAdvisor spent 39% of its fiscal 2013 revenue on sales and marketing, compared to 32.8% a year earlier. It's not surprising that Google's top line has been expanding exponentially.YCharts There is little evidence that Google's presence in the online travel business and vertical searches is in any way impinging on the top lines of Priceline, Expedia, and TripAdvisor. The three have seen revenues continue to grow admirably, even in the face of increasing competition.YCharts Foolish bottom lineIt appears as if Google is still experimenting with its online travel ventures, and the Room 77 software might be just another of its experiments. The company does not give a clear insight into how these platforms are performing. But, judging from the rapid growth being witnessed by the leading online travel companies, it would be fair to say that Google does not pose much threat to their core businesses. Your credit card may soon be completely worthlessThe plastic in your wallet is about to go the way of the typewriter, the VCR, and the 8-track tape player. When it does, a handful of investors could stand to get very rich. You can join them -- but you must act now. An eye-opening new presentation reveals the full story on why your credit card is about to be worthless -- and highlights one little-known company sitting at the epicenter of an earth-shaking movement that could hand early investors the kind of profits we haven't seen since the dot-com days. Click here to watch this stunning video. Joseph Gacinga has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Google (C shares), Priceline Group, and TripAdvisor. The Motley Fool owns shares of Google (C shares) and Priceline Group. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeSince the economic recovery began, corporate America went to great lengths to improve the efficiency of its operations. The American worker knows that "improved efficiency" is largely innuendo for layoffs, longer hours, and only modest pay increases (assuming you can convince your boss to give you a raise). So far, these efficiencies have been lucrative. Widening profit margins have enabled corporations to book fat profits on modest revenue growth. But how long can this trend last? Business Insider recently asked veteran strategist Gerard Minack of Minack Advisors what he considered to be the most important chart in the world. He offered some very clear perspective on the matter. "Consumer spending is around all-time highs as a share of U.S. GDP, while labour income is at multidecade lows," he explained. "This has been wonderful for corporates: consumer spending boosts revenue, while labour costs are the corporate sector's largest single cost. Rising consumer spending and falling wage share of GDP is great for profit margins." But this peculiar trend is obviously not sustainable. "Now, however, further wage weakness threatens to suffocate the U.S. consumer," he said. You see, by keeping pay and employment low, corporations are effectively squeezing their own customers. It might take regulatory changes. It might take tax hikes. It might take a massive destabilizing protest. But eventually, something will have to get corporations to channel some of that money back to consumers or else they risk feeling pain on their top lines. "It now seems that what would be good for the recovery — higher labour income — will be detrimental for profit margins," said Minack. "This may be a good year for the economy, but profits may fall short of forecasts." Business Insider, Minack Advisors FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA floor trader checks printouts during afternoon trading at the Hong Kong Stocks Exchange January 31, 2000.Good morning! Here’s what you need to know: The bleeding for tech stocks stopped on the US markets overnight: Google, Amazon, and Netflix were all up around 3%, while LinkedIn was up 6%. The major US indices all closed slightly up. Asia could be a mixed bag today, however.The lack of stimulus from the BoJ and a big Yen move dragged the Nikkei sharply lower yesterday and in overnight trade. Japanese stocks are likely to open sharply lower. Yesterday in Shanghai stocks rose 1.90% and are likely to remain strong, even if the Nikkei sells off, but the Straits Times index in Singapore could come under pressure from the move in USDSGD to just above 1.25 – the strongest the Singapore dollar has been since December 2013. The Australian market is pointing to a higher open. The Aussie dollar reached another 2014 high overnight of US93.6c with the USD weakening, and as commodity prices lifted in parallel the resource-heavy ASX could see a strong day ahead and follow the US markets higher. Consumer confidence is out at 10.30am and home loan approvals at 11.30am – both important indicators right now given the continuing focus on whether the non-mining components of the Australian economy are picking up. More here. Two huge elections are underway. Indonesia holds its parliamentary elections today, which will have a strong bearing on the candidates for the next presidency. Support for the PDI-P, which is still chaired by Megawati Sukarnoputri, has been rising in the run-up to polling, especially since the nomination of popular Jakarta governor Joko Widodo as the party’s presidential candidate. Widodo is seen as a business-friendly candidate. India is also holding what will be the biggest election in history, with more than 800 million people eligible to vote in a process that will only be completed on May 12. The BJP’s Narendra Modi is expected to emerge as prime minister and will have the task of improving the business environment and reducing the deficit, currently around 8% of GDP. The IMF World Economic Outlook was released overnight, and while it sees the global recovery strengthening, it is also patchy – and Australia will be caught in the gaps. Australia’s projected growth has been revised down to 2.6% from 2.8% for 2014, while in 2015 the IMF expects 2.7% down from 3% at last read. Momentum is building for a major reform of the Australian Labor Party. Following an embarrassing campaign and result in the WA Senate elections, where the party secured just over one-fifth of the primary vote, the party president Jenny McAllister has an op-ed in The Australian today saying the party’s selection process, controlled by unions and factional deals, has to change. A major study by Australia’s National Health and Medical Research Council has found homeopathy is total rubbish, doesn’t work and shouldn’t be used as treatment for any medical condition. One expert says must now be seen as unethical for homeopaths to be prescribing treatment that is known to have only a placebo effect at best. Homeopathy shouldn’t be confused with other alternative treatments: it makes up only about $8 million of the $3.5 billion complementary medicine market in Australia. Champion Olympian Ian Thorpe has picked a serious infection following an operation on his shoulder and is in intensive care in Sydney. There were some reports that his life was in danger or that he could lose the use of his left arm, but these have been denied by management. It appears the infection could be one of the superbugs increasingly being seen in hospitals and resistant to traditional antibiotics. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa has now killed 100 people in Guinea, and has arrived in the capital Conakry, a city of two million people. At least 10 people have died in Liberia, there are suspected cases in Mali, and the WHO expects to be engaged in fighting the outbreak for up to another four months. Twitter is getting a redesign and will look exactly like Facebook. Goldman Sachs has a list of seven technology trends that are changing the world. They include the monetisation of mobile, the unprecedented growth rates of tech companies, and the pervasiveness of the technology in the global population. Bonus item: Some guy in Texas crashed his $US60,000 Chevy into a swimming pool. There’s a lesson for us all: when you’re driving one of the most powerful sports cars ever made by Chevrolet, don’t switch off the traction control.    This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Minimizing Costs Is Crucial To Investment Success (Vanguard) Advisers frequently remind investors that curbing costs is an important part of investing success. "Every dollar paid for management fees or trading commissions is simply a dollar less earning potential return," according to a new report from Vanguard. "The key point is that — unlike the markets — costs are largely controllable." "Figure 8 illustrates how strongly costs can affect long-term portfolio growth. It depicts the impact of expenses over a 30-year horizon in which a hypothetical portfolio with a starting value of $100,000 grows an average of 6% annually. In the low-cost scenario, the investor pays 0.25% of assets every year, whereas in the high-cost scenario, the investor pays 0.90%, or the approximate asset-weighted average expense ratio for U.S. stock funds as of December 31, 2013. The potential impact on the portfolio balances over three decades is striking—a difference of almost $100,000 (coincidentally, the portfolio’s starting value) between the low-cost and high-cost scenarios." Vanguard Advisers Should Disclose Conflicts Of Interest To Clients Instead Of Placing The Burden Of Discovery On Them (The Wall Street Journal)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) recently approved a rule requiring advisers to disclose recruitment compensation. The SEC is now mulling this rule. Greater transparency and conflict of interest continue to be key issues in the advisory business. Neal Merbaum, president of Rocktree Financial Advisors, thinks advisers should provide clients with a one-page document of how they get paid.  "Fee-only advisers stand to gain from such a disclosure process. They can now say to a client, 'I'm required to disclose if I receive compensation from other sources, and you'll be happy to know that I don't.' However, this even helps advisers who do disclose other sources of income. They don't have to worry about clients coming back later and saying, 'You put me in this product because you make money off the insurance documents and you didn't tell me.'" Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Gets Restructured (Investment News) Back in February, Shelley O'Connor announced that she would be restructuring Morgan Stanley Wealth Management's divisions and regions. Mason Braswell at Investment News reports that Shelley is restructuring the firm to have two divisions in eight regions, down from three divisions in 12 regions. Doug Kentfield, a divisional director and legacy Smith Barney manager, is leaving “to pursue other opportunities,” according to a memo sent out to advisers and obtained by Braswell. And four of the regional directors will take on other roles. The Gold Bear Market Is Set To Resume (Morgan Stanley)  After a stunning 28% fall in 2013, gold prices have been up about 10% year to date. But Joel Crane at Morgan Stanley thinks the gold bear market is about to resume. "Gold faces too many structural headwinds to realize significant price appreciation this year," Crane said in Morgan Stanley's new Global Metals Playbook.  "Morgan Stanley’s global strategic six-month view favors risk assets (equities and credit) over safe havens such as government bonds, and we are also constructive on the USD. This outlook, together with market expectations of rising real US interest rates and bond yields as well as low expectations of inflationary pressure, generates considerable headwinds for the precious metals complex." This Jim Chanos Chart Will Convince You We're At The Peak Of A Spectacular, Fed-Fueled Bubble (Business Insider) Hedge-fund manager Jim Chanos has been talking about the Sotheby's indicator. He points out that the auction house peaks about the same time that bubbles burst. "As much as Sotheby's and its fans might try to deny the obvious, this is a cyclical business." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler FREE AppDownload
AP A new, highly anticipated study on the effects of the Affordable Care Act suggests the number of Americans without insurance has plummeted since September, lending more evidence to the notion Obamacare is having its primary desired effect. And according to the study, the uninsured rate dropped due to a development no one saw coming, that had nothing to do with the controversial health care exchanges established by the law. According to the RAND Corp. survey, which was released Tuesday, a net 9.3 million people have gained coverage since September — something that helped plunge the uninsured rate in the U.S. from 20.5 percent to 15.8 percent.  The RAND study comes with a big caveat, however. The topline number of 9.3 million contains a margin of error of 3.5 million people. That means as few as 5.8 million people could have gained coverage, or as many as 12.8 million.  Either way, it's still a big deal, said Christine Eibner, a senior economist at RAND and one of the study's two authors. "All surveys are going to have this margin of error," Eibner told Business Insider in a phone interview Tuesday. "That's to be expected, because we're extrapolating results from a very small sample of the full population of the U.S., but nevertheless, the margin of error is telling us that we can have a high degree of confidence in the direction of our results, in that we've seen an increase in insurance. Because 9.3 minus 3.5 is still a significant increase." In spite of these eye-popping topline numbers, the most interesting finding from the study might be the reason for the decrease in the uninsured rate. RAND projects it was due to growing enrollment in employer-sponsored insurance — programs that exist outside of the exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act. Enrollment in these ESIs grew by more than 8 million from September through mid-March. This includes a large swath of individuals — 7.2 million — who were previously uninsured.  These numbers seem surprising on their face, but, Eibner said, they make sense. "One thing that got lost in the discussion — the Affordable Care Act really wasn't just about covering people on the marketplaces," she said. "The law was intended to expand insurance coverage using a whole bunch of different programs, including the existing system, which is heavily based on employer-based coverage." Eibner also added "any change" in the regulations governing ESI would be the primary factor behind movement in the overall insurance rate since, even with the new "Obamacare" exchanges, ESI remains "the major source of coverage" for most people in the country. The apparent increase in the number of people insured with ESI identified in this study could be statistical noise that doesn't completely reflect reality. Indeed, few experts predicted the Affordable Care Act would lead to a surge in employer-based coverage. In May 2013, for example, the Congressional Budget Office projected the ranks of the insured through employers would rise by only 1 million. Furthermore, RAND doesn't have any data on possible reasons for the huge surge in employer-sponsored insurance. However, Eibner offered several ways the Affordable Care Act could actually have led to a surge in the number of people insured with ESI: Additionally, another survey released by Gallup Monday came up with a similar number to RAND's 15.8 percent uninsured rate. In fact, Gallup put the uninsured rate even lower at 15.6 percent, its lowest level since 2008. However, while the Gallup survey would seem to support the RAND study's conclusion that the overall uninsured rate had dropped, it did not distinguish between types of coverage and doesn't make clear whether the decrease is due to more people being insured with ESI.  The RAND study was completed through rather unusual methods. The results in the survey are based on a representative sample of 2,425 adults between the ages of 18 and 64 who responded to the survey in both March 2014 and September 2013. The Obama administration said last week enrollment through the healthcare exchanges had surpassed an original goal of 7 million. RAND's study only takes into account data from September through mid-March, which means subsequent studies should reflect the late surge in exchange enrollment in addition to any growth in the number of people insured with ESI. FREE AppDownload
Shares of aluminum giant Alcoa are rallying in after-hours trading thanks to a better-than-expected earnings announcement. Aluminum is one of the most important industrial metals in the world, which makes Alcoa a decent bellwether of economic activity. The good news for us is that global demand still looks good. Management expects demand to be up 7% in 2014. Despite some deceleration in its local economy, China continues to be the biggest consumer of aluminum with demand growing 10%. The global aerospace, automotive, and commercial building industries are all expected to see growth. Alcoa breaks it all down in these two slides from its earnings presentation. Alcoa Alcoa FREE AppDownload
The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday cut its 2014 growth forecast for Japan and warned that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe must follow through on promised reforms to cement a turnaround in the world's number-three economy. In its World Economic Outlook, the IMF said it expected Japan's economy to grow 1.4 percent this year, down from an earlier 1.7 percent forecast, before slowing to 1.0 percent in 2015. The Washington-based Fund has previously been upbeat on Abe's growth policy blitz -- a mixture of big government spending and central bank monetary easing dubbed Abenomics, which is designed to drag the economy out of years of deflation and laggard growth. The plan's so-called "third arrow" -- reforms that include more flexible labour markets and free-trade deals -- have been more talk than action so far, although Tokyo on Monday agreed on a long-awaited trade deal with Australia. The agreement was the first time Japan had negotiated a comprehensive economic partnership agreement or free trade deal with a major economy. But separate negotiations involving the United States, Japan and 10 other nations, known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, have stalled. Japan has long been accused of protecting its domestic industries -- including the politically powerful agricultural sector -- with high trade and other non-tariff barriers, while many of its own exports, including vehicles and electronics, enjoy big sales overseas. Abe has pledged to make changes and grow the long-laggard economy, while battling to contain one of the rich world's heaviest debt burdens. But "Abenomics still needs to translate into stronger domestic private demand", the IMF said. "Implementation of the remaining two arrows of Abenomics -- structural reform and plans for fiscal consolidation beyond 2015 -- is essential to achieve the inflation target and higher sustained growth." - 'Longer-term stagnation risks' - Earlier Tuesday, the Bank of Japan painted an upbeat picture of the economy and stood pat on its monetary easing programme as it assesses the impact of a controversial sales tax rise. Markets had broadly expected the decision after the April 1 sales tax increase to 8.0 percent from 5.0 percent. There are also tentative plans to bump the rate again to 10 percent next year. But while it is seen as crucial to shrinking Japan's mountainous debt burden, the recent rise has increased speculation that the BoJ will be forced at some stage to add to its stimulus to counter an expected slowdown in consumer spending. Japan's economic growth in the latter part of last year slowed after a sizzling start to 2013 when it led G7 nations. Full-year growth was 1.5 percent. The IMF noted that Tokyo's special budget to counter an expected tax-linked slowdown may not be enough. "The positive effect of the recently approved stimulus measures is expected to be more than offset by the negative impact of the consumption tax hike and the waning of reconstruction spending and past stimulus measures," the report said. It noted that "underlying growth drivers" including private investment and exports would likely strengthen after the yen weakened sharply since Abe took office in late 2012. The weaker currency boosts profitability among Japanese exporters such as Toyota and Sony. "Nevertheless, activity overall is projected to slow moderately in response to a tightening fiscal policy stance," the IMF added, referring to the tax hike. "Longer-term stagnation risks are present primarily because of the sizable fiscal consolidation that will be needed during the next decade or so to ensure the transition to a sustainable long-term fiscal position in a rapidly ageing society." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. FREE AppDownload
President Obama has recently been pushing hard on the ongoing gap between how much men and women are paid.  It turns out that this earnings gap varies across the country. This map, based on data from the U.S. Census Bureau's 2012 American Community Survey, shows the gap between the 2012 median earnings for a year-round full-time male worker and a similar female worker, as a percentage of the median female's earnings. Wyoming has the biggest pay gap — the median male full-time worker made $51,932, and the median female full-time worker made $33,152. The male worker thus made 56.6% more than the female worker. Washington, D.C. had the smallest gap — there, men make 11.0% more than women. Among the states, Maryland and Nevada had the smallest gaps, both at 17.2%. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census This is a very quick analysis of the pay gap — a more nuanced approach would consider the professions or industries of our workers. Still, we are comparing full-time workers of both sexes, and it is startling that, even in places with the relatively small earnings gaps, men who work full time are still making quite a lot more than women who work full time. This table shows the gaps between median male and female earnings, from the American Community Survey, both in absolute dollar terms and as a percentage of female median income: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census
Goldman Sachs has a cool feature on its website titled "25 Ways We Saw The World Change," which comes from the bank's 2013 annual report. The list includes seven "concurrent revolutions within the technology space." Disruptive technology is having a huge impact on global businesses and the economy that we can't ignore. We've highlighted the seven key tech trends they think are about to impact the global economy: E-Commerce platforms: The growth of e-commerce will see "the first real digital generation come into its own." Online shopping platforms will start competing for a larger share of the retail market. Digital commerce is expected to gain traction with annual growth hitting about 17% in the next three years. REUTERS/China DailyHealthcare technology: Doctors have been able to use technology to detect diseases as varied as cancer to other infectious diseases early. Goldman points to Massachusetts-Based Hologic which has a "3-D mammographic technology" that allows doctors to detect minuscule cancers that they previously wouldn't have been able to detect. Goldman Sachs Cloud computing: The shift to cloud computing has been a gamechanger in both the storage and sharing of vast quantities of data and has even led to new business models. "The most successful cloud computing application companies are the ones that are enabling us to engage with our day job the same way we engage as consumers on the internet," said George Lee co-head of the technology, media and telecommunications group at Goldman. Goldman SachsAn unprecedented growth rate: Tech companies are some of the world's biggest companies with businesses that have the most impact. "They’re growing faster than many of the companies that came before them, and arrive at critical decision points more quickly." Goldman Sachs Monetization of mobile: Smartphone and tablet sales now outpace PCs and laptops. And companies cognizant of this are trying to capitalize on mobile "whether in mobile payments, mobile content, location-based services or the explosion of valuable data generated by the use of mobile devices." There's a lot of scope for companies to monetize this. REUTERS/Bobby Yip Pervasiveness of technology: It isn't just the growth of technology, it's also the "pervasiveness." Over 4 billion people have cellphones and in the next five to ten years nearly all of them will have access to some form of computing technology.  This is changing how people consume and how much they consume. And technology has the habit of building on itself so the growth and pervasiveness will continue. Goldman Sachs The next wave of disruption: 3-D printing, big data solutions (in which data is collected from different devices and information is consolidated), and software-defined networking (SDN) are the next wave of disruptive technologies to watch for. "3-D printing will drive greater customization, reduce costs for complex designs and lower overhead on short-run parts," according to Goldman. Meanwhile, "SDN liberates networking from expensive hardware, making it easier and cheaper for technology administrators to respond to changing business needs." PRNewsFoto/UBM Canon FREE AppDownload
Nobel laureate and Yale University economist Robert Shiller is in the camp of experts who believe the odds of a recession are very low. He just tweeted the following about a post from White House Council of Economic Advisers Chair Jason Furman about various economic indicators: Furman's blog chart 4 of hours worked in manuf suggests, with new record high of 42, no recession for years to come. http://t.co/KYGH2dwwnj Below is the chart in question. Furman says the average workweek in manufacturing hit 42 hours in November and March, a level not seen since July 1945. It came down in December, January, and February, likely because of weather, but came back up last month. As you can see, we've never been anywhere close to a recession when the workweek is this long. White House FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsEver since the financial crisis, economic growth has been relatively sluggish and inflation has been lower than normal. And this has been the case despite extraordinary amounts of monetary stimulus courtesy of the Federal Reserve. Many have argued that the missing ingredient to the recovery has been "animal spirits," or the human emotion that drives us to take risk, invest, and spend. But in recent weeks, we've seen some evidence that suggests all of that is changing. Business Insider recently asked Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders for what she considered to be the most important chart in the world. Sonders replied with a chart of total U.S. bank loans and leases. "Over the past 15 weeks there has been a sharp acceleration in bank lending, which is now growing at an 8.6% annual rate, and could suggest animal spirits are reviving," she said. This is an encouraging sign because American consumers and businesses spent much of the recovery cutting back on debt. "But it does mean we need to keep an eye on the velocity of money to gauge the risk of an inflation scare," warned Sonders. Indeed, if financial transactions pick up, the disinflation trend we've been experiencing could quickly turn around. Business Insider, Liz Ann Sonders FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiAlcoa Inc.'s aluminium plant in Sardinian is pictured in Portovesme, next to Cagliari September 1, 2012.Alcoa reported adjusted Q1 earnings of $0.09 cents per share, which was stronger than the $0.05 expected. “We hit record downstream profitability, nearly tripled results in the midstream, and strengthened our upstream business for the 10th quarter in a row,” said CEO Klaus Kleinfeld. “Our transformation is accelerating – we’re powering growth in our value-add businesses and aggressively reshaping our commodity business.” Because of lower aluminum prices, revenue fell to $5.45 billion from $5.58 billion a year ago. As a global supplier of aluminum, Alcoa is a pretty good bellwether of economic activity. Here's a summary of management's global outlook: Alcoa is increasing its 2014 global aerospace growth expectation by one percentage point (8 percent to 9 percent, previously 7 percent to 8 percent), on strong demand for both large commercial aircraft and regional jets and continued growth in the business jet market. The Company also continues to project 2014 growth in automotive (1 percent to 4 percent), packaging (2 percent to 3 percent), and building and construction (4 percent to 6 percent). Alcoa expects a steady commercial transportation market (-1 percent to 3 percent) and a decline in the industrial gas turbine market (-8 percent to -12 percent) on lower orders for new gas turbines and spare parts. Alcoa continues to project 7 percent global aluminum demand growth in 2014. Here's a look at global demand by region from Alcoa's earnings presentation. Alcoa FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsSquacco HeronThe battered momentum stocks finally had an up day. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderYou can't talk about deals just anywhere. Think anyone can take you seriously over a chopped salad with chickpeas and tuna? Well, they can't. Serious conversation requires a serious meal, and on Wall Street there is no meal more serious than steak. Last month Business Insider polled readers to find out which NYC steakhouses ruled them all. Naturally, on that survey we had to ask which restaurant was the best for a power lunch. Del Frisco's won with 37% of the vote. Other contenders included Bobby Van's Steakhouse (21%), Delmonicos (19%), and Sparks Steak House (13%).  Del Frisco's is a massive Midtown space run by former bond trader Scott Gould — who has an eye for ambience — so its victory is no surprise. Gould knows who to seat at what power table (there are power tables), how you like your drink, and what everyone likes to order off the menu. And perhaps more important than any of that (in many cases) Del Frisco's is a place to be seen.  "It's loud, it's boisterous, and you're going to bump into people you've worked with in the past," Gould once told Business Insider. Think Cheers — but  if it were one of the highest grossing restaurant in America with $500+ bottles of wine on the list. So better than Cheers. FREE AppDownload
Barbara Corcoran built her fortune in real estate – she tells us what makes a great salesperson. The "Shark Tank" investor also reveals what her pitch would have been if she were seeking financing on the hit show. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Originally published in November 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
OneWire"Tiger Cub" hedge-fund manager Philippe Laffont, who runs Coatue Management, has decided to return $2 billion from its flagship fund to investors, CNBC's John Jannarone reports citing an investor letter. Last month was ugly for the long/short technology-focused fund. Coatue's flagship was down 9% because of losses in tech stocks, the report said.  Laffont characterized last month's market volatility as "sudden and deep as some of the gut-wrenching dislocations of 2000-2002 and 2008-2009." The fund's flagship fund has about $7 billion in assets under management. Laffont wrote that $5 billion in assets would be the right amount for the flagship, the report said. The $2 billion is expected to be returned to investors on June 30. Coatue invests in tech stocks such as Apple, Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, Netflix, Pandora and Yelp, the fund's most recent 13-F securities filing shows.  Laffont's hedge fund was seeded by legendary fund manager Julian Robertson of Tiger Management nearly 15 years ago. Coatue has recently been raising funds for a "hybrid fund" that will start investing hedge funds and private equity.  So if you look at the net, the total assets under management will be about the same.  FREE AppDownload
A bunch of  futures and options have been halted at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange due to technical issues. CME "Technical issues" can mean a lot of things. Usually with exchanges, though, it's a software issue. In the meantime, the CME has said that all trades will be resolved today through "open outcry methodology." So bust out your hand signals (and time machines). We'll keep you posted. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rupak De Chowdhuri India's general elections are underway. Voting will occur on nine dates over five weeks and will move from the North to the South. The final tallies are due May 16. Morgan Stanley's Ridham Desai declared this would be the "biggest election in world history." While the statistics are staggering, it's quite fascinating how much care goes into making sure every last eligible voter submit their ballots. Here are eight interesting facts about the elections that make them so impressive. The elections are already underway and are expected to wrap up on May 12. FREE AppDownload
MGM/UA Entertainment CompanyIn an otherwise uneventful day in the stock markets, it's worth noting that the battered momentum stocks are bouncing today. Amazon.com is up 3.1%, Google's up 3.0 %, Netflix is up 2.8%, and Facebook is up 2.4%. These high-beta names are leading the Nasdaq higher by 0.9%. This compares to the Dow and S&amp;P 500, which are up 0.3% and 0.4%, respectively. Still, the Nasdaq is down 5.9% from its high just a month ago. Amazon, Netflix, and Facebook also continue to be well off of their highs. FREE AppDownload
The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the 10 major world economies tracks how data are faring compared with expectations. It rises when economic data come in better than economists’ estimates and falls when it is worse. This index has been falling in recent months, due in part to extreme weather conditions in the United States contributing to disappointing economic data. Historically, when economic data are weaker than expected, investors tend to favor defensive stocks, since they are more insulated from the slower pace of economic activity, and when data exceed expectations they favor cyclicals. The very tight relationship between economic surprises and the performance of cyclicals suggests cyclicals may soon make a comeback relative to more defensive sectors [Figure 1]. If the disappointing economic data reported in the first quarter turn out to have been largely the result of extreme weather, as we believe them to be, then the economic readings may begin to surprise to the upside, taking the relative performance of cyclical stocks higher along with it. As indicated in Figure 1, such snapbacks in performance by cyclicals have been quick and powerful. LPL Financial A key risk to a cyclicals comeback is that economists’ expectations may have already rebounded ahead of the upturn in the data. For example, the March employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics released on Friday, April 4, was encouraging, with the creation of 192,000 jobs during March—the most since November 2013, before the extreme winter weather kicked in—yet it fell just short of the consensus economists’ expectation of 200,000. Similarly, the widely watched report on manufacturing from the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) rose to 53.7 in March after dropping to a low of 51.3 in January 2014—near the 50 level that marks the line between growth and contraction—but fell just short of the consensus expectation of 54.0.We will be watching for surprises in the economic data in the coming weeks that may signal a turn in cyclicals’ relative performance. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Tesla is introducing a lease program for businesses that want to use its cars and take advantage of tax breaks, the automaker announced today. Tesla promises a "straightforward and transparent" and "user friendly" lease program, with agreements less than three pages long and "written in plain language." Customers will be able to sign electronically, and can sign for the car its 17-inch touchscreen display upon delivery. Last year, the automaker introduced a lease-buy financing scheme that CEO Elon Musk called "revolutionary." After 36 months, customers can keep their Model S or return it for the same residual value percentage as a Mercedes S Class.  The goal, according to Musk, "is to give customers complete peace of mind." Musk promised to personally back every purchase made under the financing program — even if Tesla is unable to do so in the future. The lease program announced today will make it easier for small and medium sized businesses to take tax deductions, Tesla said in a blog post. To handle the leases, it has set up a subsidiary, Tesla Finance. Here's the full blog post: A year ago, Tesla introduced a Resale Value Guarantee that gives customers the option to return their Model S after three years for a known value. When combined with a car loan provided by Tesla’s banking partners, this program gives customers the functional equivalent of a lease – and, because they own the car, they also get the benefit of the $7,500 federal electric vehicle tax credit. Many of our customers have chosen to take advantage of the Resale Value Guarantee. In the meantime, however, our customers in small and medium sized businesses have been asking for a leasing program for the ease and simplicity of being able to deduct the payments from their business taxes. We’ve been listening to those requests, and today we’re happy to announce the launch of leasing for business owners. Our leasing program is straightforward and transparent, and we’ve designed it to be user friendly. To begin with, business customers can easily see upfront their monthly cost of leasing while configuring their car on our website. While customers have become accustomed to lease agreements that run as long as 10 pages, we found that we could say all that needed to be said in less than three pages – and it’s written in plain language. In keeping with the Tesla way of doing things, our customers can handle and sign their lease agreements completely electronically. Customers are able to view an electronic version of the lease agreement upfront before delivery. Even the signature process at delivery is simple: a one-button tap on the 17-inch touchscreen in their new Model S is all it takes. The Tesla business lease is available through Tesla Finance, a subsidiary we’ve set up especially to offer this new product to business customers. The lease program completes a suite of products, including the Resale Value Guarantee and loans from our banking partners, that covers a comprehensive range of financing needs for Model S customers. These financing options, when combined with the fuel savings of Model S, provide an attractive value proposition compared to what’s available for a gasoline-powered car. The Tesla Motors Team FREE AppDownload
After tumbling by 28% in 2013, gold has rallied by around 10% since the beginning of the year, making it one of the best-performing assets in the world. However, the analysts at Morgan Stanley believe that this young rally is basically over. "Gold faces too many structural headwinds to realize significant price appreciation this year," said Joel Crane in Morgan Stanley's new Global Metals Playbook. Crane joins many analysts who see higher interest rates and a stronger dollar on the horizon. "Morgan Stanley’s global strategic six-month view favours risk assets (equities and credit) over safe havens such as government bonds, and we are also constructive on the USD. This outlook, together with market expectations of rising real US interest rates and bond yields as well as low expectations of inflationary pressure, generates considerable headwinds for the precious metals complex." Below are two slides from the Global Metals Playbook summing up Morgan Stanley's thesis. Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley
There are many things you have to remember to do and say in an all-important job interview, but don't miss the elephant in the room: the things that you should never do. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
JPM There's an awesome new job available at Business Insider! Our markets &amp; finance team is hiring a markets reporter, someone who wants to cover the back-and-forth stories of stocks like Tesla, Netflix, Facebook, Twitter, and the biotechs. We've been covering all of these companies for awhile now, but funny enough, throughout the lifetime of the company we've never had a person for whom this was their specific charge.  So why do we want someone to take the lead on this area? Basically the above chart. Specifically the top part of the chart. Let me explain. I joined Business Insider in late 2008, in the throes of the economic crisis. After the economic crisis there was a recession. Then there was the European crisis. Also we had the debt ceiling crisis in that time. And a government shutdown. And a bunch of other crazy stuff. As such, the primary interest among markets has been big macro stuff, like the dollar, Treasuries, the S&amp;P, European sovereign debt yields, the price of gold and so forth. When all of this stuff is going on, there's not a ton of interest in individual stocks, even when the market is rising. (this is not a bullish or bearish thing). And you can see the lack of interest in individual stocks in the above chart. Internal market correlations among big caps have been very high in recent years. That means they've all moved exactly the same way at the same time, with little market differentiation. And it's not fun to talk about individual stocks when they all move in the exact same direction. Lately correlations have returned to more normal levels, though they're still a bit high.  And this move towards less correlation has coincided with a lot more interest in individual stocks (like the ones noted above) plus IPOs and so forth. So it makes sense to have someone who wants to lead the way in telling these stories for a new medium. If you're interested, check out this job description&gt; FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   REUTERS/Carlos Barria Business Insider is looking for the next great markets reporter to join our highly-respected Markets and Finance team. The ideal candidate should be deeply interested in what makes markets move. The markets reporter will be able to identify the news reports, earnings releases, analysts calls, and economic data that may be affecting stocks, industries and the markets as a whole. Apple, Google, Netflix, Sodastream, Green Mountain, and Tesla will all become familiar names. Importantly, the reporter should know what questions to ask and who to ask. The ideal candidate will be obsessed with speed and accuracy. Competition in business news is intense, and readers reward the publications that can consistently own the top stories. The candidate should also have strong communications skills and an ability to communicate in a conversational tone. Experience in markets or economic analysis at a financial services firm is a plus. Familiarity with new media (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) is also prized. The candidate should be interested in working at a rapidly growing company, competing in a rapidly evolving medium. Our work is referenced frequently by Wall Street professionals including economists, strategists, traders, and financial advisers. Our business news competitors also frequently cite our work because we are often the first to the story.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIf you're going to go out, go out with a bang. James Kidney joined the SEC in 1986, and when he held his retirement party last month, he had a lot to say about what the agency didn't do while he was there, according to Bloomberg.  He said that after the financial crisis, SEC lawyers were too "fearful" of Wall Street to bring charges against bankers, and that they were more concerned about lucrative gigs after their time at the agency. From Bloomberg: The SEC has become “an agency that polices the broken windows on the street level and rarely goes to the penthouse floors...On the rare occasions when enforcement does go to the penthouse, good manners are paramount. Tough enforcement, risky enforcement, is subject to extensive negotiation and weakening.” “I have had bosses, and bosses of my bosses, whose names we all know, who made little secret that they were here to punch their ticket,” Kidney said. “They mouthed serious regard for the mission of the commission, but their actions were tentative and fearful in many instances.” Kidney was working on the SEC's case against Goldman Sachs after the mortgage crisis, and pushed for charges against Goldman Sachs execs. That only got him demoted on the case. Click here for more of Kidney's comments at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adnan AbidiIndia's general elections are underway and expected to wrap up on May 12. The elections will play out on nine days over the next five weeks and start in the north of the country, slowly working their way south. With some 814 million Indians eligible to vote, Morgan Stanley's Ridham Desai and his research team have said "the world is about to witness the biggest election in history." The elections are also slated to be the most expensive in Indian history at Rs. 300 billion (about $5 billion), according to Bloomberg. The elections will have major implications not just on policy but also on the nation's growth, which has languished in recent years. "This could herald a sea change for India’s economy, which has struggled with stagflationary-type conditions over the past few years," writes Desai. "We think the incoming government will have to de-anchor inflation, raise capital productivity, improve the investment climate and de-lever private balance sheets to engineer a new growth cycle." Desai highlights five key reforms he expects the new government to push through: So far, surveys suggest that the incumbent party — the Congress Party — will fall, and see a BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) and NDA (National Democratic Alliance) coalition winning 230-240 seats and be headed by Narendra Modi. Modi is lauded for having driven growth in the Indian state of Gujarat. But his record is tainted with many pointing fingers at the BJP leader who failed to do anything about the bloody Hindu-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002 where 1,000 people were killed, though some put the figure much higher. Modi was chief minister of Gujarat at the time. The election results are expected on May 16. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr/IdhrenThe Job Openings and Labor Turnovers Survey (JOLTS) showed 4.173 million openings in February. This was above expectations for 4.020 million and up from 3.984 million in January. "The number of openings rose for total private and was little changed for government," according to the press release. "The number of job openings increased in retail trade and in professional and business services, while the number of job openings decreased in arts, entertainment, and recreation. The South region experienced a rise in job openings in February." Here's the trajectory of job openings since March 2011: Bureau of Labor Statistics The hires rate, 3.3%; and the separations rate 3.2%; were unchanged in February. Here's the trajectory of both since March 2011: BLS FREE AppDownload
Bank FrickJürgen FrickOn Monday morning a Liechtenstein-based bank CEO was shot dead as he was heading into the office, according to statements from the firm and police via Bloomberg News. Jürgen Frick, the CEO of Bank Frick &amp; Co., was allegedly shot dead in the firm's underground parking garage in the village of Balzers by former fund manager Jürgen Hermann, the statements said. Frick was 48. "The employees of the bank are stunned by the senseless act," COO Edi Wögerer said in a statement. "Words cannot express our grief at the loss of Jürgen Frick. We extend the mourning family Frick our sincere condolences."  The incident happened at about 7 a.m. Landes PolizeiJürgen HermannHermann fled the scene, authorities said. His car was later discovered in the nearby town of Ruggell along the Rhine River.  Police believe Hermann has committed suicide. They said in a statement they found Hermann's passport, driver's license, and handwritten notes with a confession and parting words. A body has not yet been found, though. Police said they're using helicopters, thermal imaging cameras, and dogs to search the area.  According to the bank, Hermann had tried unsuccessfully for many years to blackmail the firm. The bank said that Hermann claimed it was responsible for the collapse of his fund Hermann Finance in 2005. In 2010, the Liechtenstein Supreme Court had dismissed Hermann's action. The bank said that Hermann continued to make threats to Bank Frick. "Hermann put his threats into action yesterday," the bank's statement read.  FREE AppDownload
If you blinked or walked out of the room, you might have missed it when Reimy Chavez quit his job as an anchor on Venezuela's Globovision news channel over government censorship. It took about 19 seconds for him to get all of this out: "Respected viewers it's 7:02 pm at night. We are again on air with another round of informative Globovision news that will be particularly emotional for me, Rudy Chavez Perche. This will be the last day I will be working on this television for reasons against my will and of differing values. We begin with more notes..." And that was that. The violent situation in Venezuela has only worsened since protests broke out in February. Even with dozens dead, anti-government demonstrators still fill the streets protesting everything from food shortages to corruption. This weekend, opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez, who has been imprisoned for 45 days since giving himself off to President Nicolas Maduro's administration, was just charged with crimes that carry a 14-year prison sentence. "[T]he truth is this government's worst enemy, so it is attempting to gag every voice that speaks out," Lopez said in an interview with The Telegraph this weekend. "This is the strategy of a government that is fearful of its own legitimacy and has concluded that the only way to maintain power is to remove its opponents entirely." Chavez told Fusion News that under new, pro-government ownership, Globovision lost all sense of breaking news. Every night it would simply broadcast the state TV channel to see what the government leadership was saying. When the protests broke out February 12, too, Globovision was silent. Now Chavez has no job — he said he had no "Plan B" when he quit because he did it out of conviction. And when Fusion asked him what people outside the country should know about what's going on in Venezuela, he said this: “They should know that there is a big lack of respect for the law here, that occurs daily. They should know that in this country there is no separation of powers. For example, with Chavez and also now, you see the president saying on TV that x person should be imprisoned, and not many days pass before that person is imprisoned. There is almost no respect for human rights here."  Watch Chavez Perche quit in the video below:  FREE AppDownload
Without a doubt, one of the most powerful forces in economics is demographics. "Demographics is destiny" is a frequently asserted line, and for good reason. In our presentation on the MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD, Matt Busigin of Macrofugue offered up a bullish demographic data point that suggests a booming U.S. economy for years. The concept is simple but powerful. The black line represents the number of 20- to 24-year-olds in the population. The purple line represents the number of employed 25- to 34-year-olds. The purple line is lagged to demonstrate that the number of employed 25- to 34-year-olds trails the number of 20- 24-year-olds by about 10 years. As you can see, there's been a big upward rise in the number of 20- to 24-year-olds, which means that in the years ahead there will be a big boom in the number of 25- 34-year-old workers, at least according to a pattern that's nearly 70 years old. This is a big deal: Working 25- to 34-year-olds will be a major force in household creation and they'll see major jumps in income and spending. While there are legitimate concerns about the aging population of the U.S., that's only one part of the story. The other story is a major boom coming from young workers.  Matt Busigin/Business Insider   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Mr. T in DCIn an updated report released today, the International Monetary Fund reduced its forecast for global GDP growth to 3.6% in 2014 and 3.7% in 2015. This is down from 3.7% and 3.8%, respectively, which were the estimates published in January. "The latest incoming data suggest a slight moderation in global growth in the first half of 2014," the IMF wrote. "The stronger-than-expected acceleration in global activity in the latter part of 2013 was partly driven by increases in inventory accumulation that will be reversed." The revisions were driven by sharp downgrades for Russia and Brazil. The IMF's forecast for Russia was slashed to 1.6% in 2014 and 2.5% in 2015, down 0.6 percentage points and 0.2 points, respectively. The IMF's Brazilian forecast was cut to 2% in 2014 and 2.9% in 2015, down 0.5 points and 0.2 points, respectively. Overall, however, the economy appears to be going in the right direction. "Global activity strengthened during the second half of 2013 and is expected to improve further in 2014–15," the IMF said. "The impulse has come mainly from advanced economies, although their recoveries remain uneven. With supportive monetary conditions and a smaller drag from fiscal consolidation, annual growth is projected to rise above trend in the United States and to be close to trend in the core euro area economies." Here's a summary of the IMF's projections: IMF FREE AppDownload
    Tie bars, tie pins, and lapel pins are tricky for most men to pull off. We visited Bergdorf Goodman's men's store to chat with Town &amp; Country Magazine's style director, Stellene Volandes. When it comes to men's jewelry, her advice is "to proceed with caution." She also gives us some tips on shirt studs and cuff links that pair well with formal wear. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Chinese billionaire Liu Yiqian paid a record-breaking $36 million for a rare Ming-era wine cup that's 500 years old. People were amazed at the high price of the relic, but Yiqian didn't bat an eye, telling The Wall Street Journal, "Why do you all care so much about the price? I bought it only because I like it." He said the price was reasonable. The cup — known as the chicken cup because of its design — is one of only 16 like it. It is considered one of the most sought-after items in Chinese art, Reuters reported. Yiqian made millions in finance and has been called China's biggest art collector. (Via Shangaiist)    FREE AppDownload
REUTERSFilipino brokers at the Manila Stock Exchange in the financial district of Makati on December 29, 1993 shout loud hurrahs as the Stock market closed at new all-time highs on the last trading day of the year.Dave Lutz of Stifle, Nicolaus has the top topics about which traders are chatting today: Good Morning!   US Futures are under pressure, sliding consistently lower as more US traders man their terminals – Unlike yesterday, which saw Nasdaq sharply underperforming pre-market, the S&amp;P is off 20bp – while NDX futures are only slightly lower, but well below the 100dma.   Watching the Internet bloodbath – overseas Tencent rebounded 2% (Buyback Impact), Naver popped 50bp after being down over 2.5%.  We are seeing sharp weakness in the EU Fins, with that index off 2.5% to start the day – driving DAX futures off 1% - Unlike the previous sessions, volumes are quite heavy in Europe, with the EuroStoxx trading 50% above 20day averages, FTSE and DAX trading 20% above.    Rhetoric is worsening in Ukraine, which could be a driver – and Russian Equities are solidly in the red again.   Emerging Markets continue to find favor – with the EEM bearing down on a 4M high this AM as the yield plunge in developed markets drives flows towards EM.  Over in Asia, The Nikkei lost 1% as the Yen surged due to the BOJ holding pat, disspointing those who wanted additional easing to offset the recent tax hike.  The Shanghai jumps 2% after being closed yesterday, and Aussie closed relatively flat as the Miners found favor yet again.The 10YY in the USA is unchanged, and remains under the 200dma and the 2.7% level as flows from equities find a home in Credit.  The Yield Curve in the US continues to flatten, showing lowering economic expectations, and a big headwind for the Fins.  The € remains well bid over the $, as does the Yen, pressing the DXY toward 3 week lows – a tailwind for commodities.   Precious metals are having a good day as angst builds with Russia, popping Gold up 1% thru $1300/oz again.   The Energy complex is well bid, as we await Libyan resolution and US Inventory data from API tonight.   We have a active catalyst calendar today, starting with NFIB Small Business Optimism at 7:30, JOLTs Job Openings at 10, a Brazil Bond Auction and the week’s smallest POMO at 11, a $30B 3Y note sale at 1, Brazil Bond Auction speaks at 1:30, Fed's Plosser Speaks on Bank Regulation at 2:45, and at 4 we have a Fed Board Open Meeting on Rulemakings on Leverage Ratios. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail MaslovskyPro-Russian protesters scuffle with the police near the regional government building in Donetsk April 6, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Booming UK. Overall output increased 0.9% as British manufacturing climbed 1%, the largest jump in three years. That also beat expectations for just 0.3% growth. Year-on-year, manufacturing output was up 3.8%, according to the FT. Strong Turkish lira. Bids on Turkey's currency continue to defy Prime Minister' Erdogan's calls for a rate cut. The sovereign climbed 0.5% and is now at its strongest level this year. Strong South Africa rand, and more. South Africa's sovereign climbed 0.7% to hit its highest level of the year as wel. WSJ's Tommy Stubbington explains what's driving the emerging market currency rally. "The more benign backdrop for emerging-market currencies—which also boosted the Indonesian rupiah, Mexican peso, and Hungarian forint on Tuesday—has been helped by a reduction of sharp swings in financial markets that have grown comfortable with the gradual withdrawal of U.S. monetary stimulus. That has encouraged investors to enter so-called carry trades, whereby they borrow money in currencies where rates are low and seek higher-yielding investments elsewhere."  Eastern Ukraine. Russia has warned of civil war breaking out in eastern Ukraine should Kiev intervene to forcefully to stop pro-Russian protests that have broken out in several cities in the country's industrial heartland. Alcoa. Q1 earnings results unofficially start rolling out today as Alcoa reports after the bell. EPS are expected to be down as much as 50% year-over-year.  Markets. Stocks weren't having a great morning. The Nikkei closed down 1.3%. European stocks were all lower. U.S. futures were mostly flat. Gold and silver were higher. JOLTS. Job openings and labor turnover data hits at 10 a.m. Expectations are for openings to climb slightly to 4 million from 3.9 million.  Eli Lilly fined over cancer issue. A court in Louisiana fined Eli Lilly $3 billion over failure to disclose bladder cancer risk on a diabetes drug. Lilly stopped marketing the drug in 2006. The drug's Japanese creator, Takeda, was fined $6 billion. Both were records. BOJ does nothing. The bank of Japan kept rates at current levels despite concerns about missing inflation targets. "The central bank maintained its upbeat view on the economic outlook and affirmed its conviction that Japan is on track to meet its 2 percent inflation target by around April next year, signaling that no further easing was on its near-term horizon," Reuters said. Tesla launches leasing for business owners. "our customers in small and medium sized businesses have been asking for a leasing program for the ease and simplicity of being able to deduct the payments from their business taxes," the company said in a blog post. "The lease program completes a suite of products, including the Resale Value Guarantee and loans from our banking partners, that covers a comprehensive range of financing needs for Model S customers." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! Earlier today it had looked like the bleeding had stopped. No more. Markets are in the red. US futures are a hair down. But Europe is down significantly. Germany is off 0.9%. France is off 1%. The big economic event of the day was a very strong report out of UK manufacturing, which caused the British Pound to surge. But that hasn't helped equities, it would seem. On the economic front, today will be a quiet day, with the only release being the US JOLTS (Job Openings Labor Turnover) report. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei Kato Yasuchika Hasegawa, next chairman and current CEO and president of Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., speaks during a news conference in Tokyo April 2, 2014. SAN FRANCISCO/TOKYO (Reuters) - Takeda Pharmaceutical Co Ltd said it would contest $6 billion in punitive damages imposed by a U.S. federal jury in a case alleging that Japan's largest drugmaker had concealed cancer risks associated with its Actos diabetes drug. Eli Lilly and Co, Takeda's co-defendant in the case, was ordered to pay $3 billion in punitive damages. "We intend to vigorously challenge this outcome through all available legal means, including possible post-trial motions and an appeal," Kenneth Greisman, general counsel of Takeda Pharmaceutical USA Inc, said in a statement. Takeda's shares fell as much as 8.8 percent to an eight-month low in Tokyo trading on Tuesday after the verdict. The stock ended 5.2 percent lower at 4,572 yen. The massive award was met with "stunned silence" in the packed Lafayette, Louisiana, courtroom, plaintiffs' lawyer Mark Lanier said. Lanier acknowledged it was not certain whether the damages award would be sustained as the legal process continued. "Nobody has gone out and bought a new home," he told Reuters. "This is a conservative judge and a conservative court and she's very 'balls and strikes'. We're not under any grand illusion." He added that the judge wanted post-verdict motions filed quickly but had set no precise schedule. The $9 billion in punitive damages awarded by the jury against Takeda and Eli Lilly exceed the $5 billion penalty that a jury in Alaska imposed on Exxon Mobil Corp for the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that the previous Exxon Valdez award had been "excessive". The company was ultimately ordered to pay $500 million. That and other rulings have been read as limiting punitive damages in federal cases. Punitive damages are meant to discourage other companies from bad conduct. Compensatory damages are meant to pay victims for their actual losses. In the latest Actos case, the jury also ordered the payment of $1.475 million in compensatory damages in the suit. Lanier said the jury deliberated for only an hour and 10 minutes to deliver its verdict finding liability on all 14 questions, and another 45 minutes to come out with the multibillion dollar punitive damages. Takeda said judgments were entered in Takeda's favor in all three previous Actos trials, while this was the first federal case to be tried as well as the first of a consolidated multidistrict litigation. Last May, a U.S. judge had nullified a separate jury verdict for $6.5 million against Takeda after ruling that the plaintiffs failed to offer any reliable evidence that Actos had caused cancer. Germany and France suspended use of the drug, a multibillion dollar seller, in 2011 due to worries about a possible link to cancer. The case before the U.S. District Court, Western District Louisiana, is In Re: Actos Products Liability Litigation Case No. 6:11-md-2299. (Additional reporting by Ritsuko Shimizu in Tokyo; Editing by Kevin Krolicki, Stephen Coates and Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerPro-Russian protesters (L) clash with activists (R) supporting the territorial integrity of Ukraine as Interior Ministry members (C) attempt to break them apart during rallies in the eastern city of Kharkiv April 7, 2014.KIEV/DONETSK, Ukraine (Reuters) - Police detained 70 people occupying a regional administration building in eastern Ukraine overnight, but pro-Moscow protesters held out in a standoff in two other cities in what Kiev called a Russian-led plan to dismember the country. Kiev says the seizure of public buildings in eastern Ukraine's mainly Russian-speaking industrial heartland on Sunday night is a replay of events in Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula Moscow annexed last month. Ukrainian authorities gave few details of the "anti-terrorist" operation that cleared the building in the town of Kharkiv but said two police had been wounded by a grenade that was thrown. Russia has denied Ukrainian charges of involvement but warned Kiev against any use of force against Russian-speakers. Ukrainian special forces in combat gear, helmets and balaclavas and carrying kalashnikovs and machine guns stood guard early on Tuesday outside the building whose outside windows were broken. A partly destroyed sign near the main door read: "Avakov - to jail", a reference to Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov. The pro-Russian protesters who also took over official buildings in Luhansk and Donetsk demanded that referendums be held on whether to join Russia like the one that preceded Moscow's annexation of Crimea. "An anti-Ukrainian plan is being put into operation ... under which foreign troops will cross the border and seize the territory of the country," Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk said in public remarks to his cabinet. "We will not allow this." Interior Minister Avakov said on Tuesday about 70 "separatists" had been detained in Kharkiv. "An anti-terrorist operation has been launched. The city center is blocked along with metro stations. Do not worry. Once we finish, we will open them again," he wrote on his Facebook page. Ukraine's Interior Ministry was quoted by Interfax-Ukraine news agency as saying those detained were suspected of "illegal activity related to separatism, the organization of mass disorder, damage to human health" and breaking other laws. Russia's Itar-Tass news agency quoted Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Yarema as saying there would be no storming of Donetsk's regional authority building on Tuesday. He said the decision was made after talks in Donetsk with the protesters involving influential and wealthy businessman Rinat Akhmetov, who is from the city. On Tuesday about 200 people were gathered in front of the building and a group of National Guard were stood to one side. But the situation was calm and there was no sign of any attempt to enter by force. Acting President Oleksander Turchinov, in a televised address to the nation, said Moscow was attempting to repeat "the Crimea scenario". He added that "anti-terrorist measures" would be deployed against those who had taken up arms. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in a phone call that Washington was watching events in eastern Ukraine with great concern and any further moves by Moscow to destabilize Ukraine would "incur further costs for Russia". Kerry "called on Russia to publicly disavow the activities of separatists, saboteurs and provocateurs" in Ukraine, the State Department said. The two discussed convening direct talks in the next 10 days between Ukraine, Russia, the United States and the European Union to defuse tensions. WHITE HOUSE WARNING The White House warned Russian President Vladimir Putin against moving "overtly or covertly" into eastern Ukraine and said there was strong evidence that pro-Russian demonstrators in the region were being paid. Lavrov told Kerry that constitutional reform was required to resolve the crisis. Russia says this would give Ukraine's regions more powers, as it believes the rights of ethnic Russians in Ukraine are being violated. In an article on the website of Britain's Guardian newspaper, Lavrov denied Russia was destabilizing Ukraine and accused the West of the "groundless whipping-up of tension". Separately, he warned authorities in Kiev against any use of force against pro-Russian demonstrators. The Russian Foreign Ministry later called on Ukraine to stop massing military forces it said were tasked with suppressing anti-government protests. "We call for an immediate halt to military preparations which could lead to an outbreak of civil war," the ministry said in a statement. Police said they cleared the protesters from the building in Kharkiv, but in Luhansk the demonstrators had seized weapons. In Donetsk, home base of deposed Moscow-backed President Viktor Yanukovich, about 120 pro-Russia activists calling themselves the "Republican People's Soviet of Donetsk" seized the chamber of the regional assembly. An unidentified bearded man read out "the act of the proclamation of an independent state, Donetsk People's Republic" in front of a white, blue and red Russian flag. "In the event of aggressive action from the illegitimate Kiev authorities, we will appeal to the Russian Federation to bring in a peacekeeping contingent," ran the proclamation. The activists later read out the text by loud hailer to a cheering crowd of about 1,000 outside the building. RUSSIAN SPEAKERS Putin announced on March 1, a week after Yanukovich was overthrown, that Moscow had the right to take military action in Ukraine to protect Russian speakers, creating the biggest confrontation between Moscow and the West since the Cold War. The United States and EU imposed mild financial sanctions on some Russian officials over the seizure of Crimea and have threatened much tougher measures if Russian troops, now massed on the frontier, enter other parts of Ukraine. Western European governments have hesitated to alienate Russia further, fearing for supplies of Russian natural gas, much of which reaches EU buyers via pipelines across Ukraine. Ukraine's own dependence on Russian gas gives Moscow strong leverage, especially over Ukraine's eastern industrial areas. Russia's gas monopoly Gazprom said it had received no payments from Ukraine for money owed for gas and Kiev's arrears have now reached $2.2 billion. In previous years, gas disputes between Moscow and Kiev have hurt supplies to Europe. NATO has halted cooperation with Russia. The Western military alliance announced on Monday it would now restrict access to its headquarters by Russian diplomats apart from Moscow's ambassador, his deputy and two support staff. Mainly Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine, densely populated and producing much of the country's industrial output, has seen a sharp rise in tension since Yanukovich fled the country, and Kiev has long said it believes Moscow is behind the unrest. Pro-Russian protesters briefly held public buildings in the east early last month and three people were killed in clashes in mid-March. But trouble had subsided until Sunday. Unlike in Crimea, where ethnic Russians form a majority, most people in the east and south are ethnically Ukrainian, although they speak Russian as a first language. Eastern oligarchs who once backed Yanukovich have thrown their weight behind the government in Kiev, and the unrest there is a test of their ability to assert control. (Additional reporting by Elizabeth Piper, Natalia Zinets and Pavel Polityuk, Writing by Richard Balmforth, Peter Graff and Timothy Heritage, editing by Elizabeth Piper and Andrew Heavens) FREE AppDownload
In U.S. economics right now, there is one debate that's bigger than all others. That is: How tight is the job market and what kind of pressure will rising wages put on the Fed to tighten? The market has been steadily bringing forward its expectations for the first rate hike. Market participants believe the first hike will be in 2015. Goldman's top economist, Jan Hatzius, has a contrarian call on this matter, predicting that the first rate hike won't come until 2016. Part of this call is a belief that the job market is not as tight as others are saying it is. This is Jan Hatzius' contribution to our chartbook of the most important charts in the world. He argues that contra some recent studies, short-term unemployment (which has gotten low) is not a good measure for wage growth, and that if you go back a while, short-term unemployment has predicted higher wage growth than what has materialized. Instead, long-term unemployment is what matters. And since long-term unemployment is still high, wage growth will remain muted, and pressure on the Fed will remain minimal. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley The above chart from Morgan Stanley looks at the contributors to the quarterly change in household debt.  So in other words, you can see that prior to the economic collapse of 2008, US households were taking on more and more debt each quarter, and by far mortgage debt was the big contributor to it. By far. Then when the credit crunch happen, households were delevering in every area with the exception of student loan debt which has always stayed positive. Now households are actually relevering a bit. Student loan debt is significant. Car debt (in green) is picking up, and now even mortgage debt has recently grown for the first time in years. Home equity debt continues to get paid down, though it too may turn green before too long.  So not only is debt growth very low still after years of being negative, it's composition is totally different, with mortgage debt not moving the needled much at all. The upshot is that household balance sheets are far more stable than they were back in 2007, or as Morgan Stanley puts it, much better positioned for a rate rise. An thanks to the declining debt and declining interest rates, Americans have basically never had an easier time making their debt payments, as this chart shows. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past the Bank of Japan building in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan stuck to its existing monetary stimulus on Tuesday, confident that it did not need further support measures to beat chronic deflation even as a sales tax hike clouds the outlook for the world's third-largest economy. The central bank maintained its upbeat view on the economic outlook and affirmed its conviction that Japan is on track to meet its 2 percent inflation target by around April next year, signaling that no further easing was on its near-term horizon. But it did take note of its own "tankan" survey last week that showed companies see a worse impact on consumers from the April 1 sales tax hike than from the previous increase in 1997. "Japan's economy continues to recover moderately as a trend, albeit with some fluctuations caused by the tax hike," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the policy decision. "Business sentiment has continued to improve, although some cautiousness about the outlook has been observed," it said. As widely expected, the BOJ maintained its commitment to increasing base money, its key policy gauge, at an annual pace of 60-70 trillion yen ($580-$675 billion). "I think the BOJ are hedging their view a little bit. There is an element of increased caution," said Hiroshi Shiraishi, senior economist at BNP Paribas Securities in Tokyo. "We don't rule out the possibility of an increase in risk asset purchases like ETFs, but we are quite skeptical about a big increase in the monetary base target." A run of recent data has cast doubt on Premier Shinzo Abe's reflationary policies, including the tankan and soft exports. BOJ officials have been largely unfazed, pointing to positive signs such as shrinking slack in the economy that should help them meet their pledge of accelerating inflation to 2 percent by around April next year. Financial markets are waiting on BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda's post-meeting news conference for any clues on whether the central bank will blink in the wake of the recent soft data. "The BOJ's message will remain the same, which is that things are on track and there's no need now for more stimulus," said Izuru Kato, chief economist at Totan Research in Tokyo. "I think Kuroda is no mood to act any time soon. But if doubts emerge over its rosy projections, the BOJ may ease again in June or July," he said. NO HEAT YET The BOJ launched its intense burst of stimulus last April, when it pledged to lift inflation to 2 percent in roughly two years to beat nearly two decades of deflation. Kuroda has repeatedly said the disruption from the tax hike could be weathered without additional monetary stimulus, although he has stressed the BOJ is ready to act if needed. Indeed, supermarkets raised prices on top of the sales tax hike, according to a daily price index maintained by Tokyo University Professor Tsutomu Watanabe, supporting the BOJ's view the economy is now strong enough for retailers to pass the levy to households. But such assurances from the BOJ may do little to alter expectations for more action. A Reuters poll showed analysts expect the central bank to ease again by July on doubts that core consumer inflation, which rose an annual 1.3 percent in February, will accelerate further. Analysts betting on further BOJ action also point to an expected heightening of political pressure toward year-end, when Abe must decide whether to proceed with another increase in the sales tax in October 2015. Most policymakers and private-sector economists expect the economy to rebound in July-September after a mild contraction in the second quarter due to the sales tax hike, which rose to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1. Economics Minister Akira Amari on Friday praised the BOJ for doing "extremely well" with its policy proving effective. The BOJ's upbeat tone on Tuesday lays the groundwork for the its semi-annual outlook on the economy and prices due April 30. Many analysts expect the BOJ to cut its economic growth estimate of 2.7 percent for the fiscal year that ended in March, taking into account a downward revision in gross domestic product growth in the Oct-Dec quarter. But the central bank is likely to maintain its bullish price forecasts and predict consumer inflation accelerating towards 2 percent in coming years, on a view that brisker economic conditions will push up wages and prices. ($1 = 103.5750 Japanese Yen) (Additional reporting by Stanley White and Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Eric Meijer and John Mair) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
