Thomson ReutersA customer waits as an employee of state-owned Pertamina refuels his car at its petrol station in JakartaBy Keith Wallis SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Brent futures fell toward $61 per barrel on Wednesday, giving up some of the previous session's gains, as the U.S. dollar held near its highest level in nearly nine years on strong data. The dollar index stayed close to its highest since April 2006 after a revised third-quarter U.S. gross domestic product report blew past expectations to register the fastest pace of growth in 11 years. A strong dollar makes commodities priced in the greenback expensive for holders of other currencies. Brent for February delivery dropped 28 cents to $61.41 by 0235 GMT after settling up $1.58 on Tuesday. U.S. crude fell 29 cents to $56.83 after settling $1.86 higher in the previous session. "It's ironic. The U.S. economy is starting to boom and crude oil prices are contracting in the opposite direction," said   Ben Le Brun, market analyst at Sydney's OptionsXpress. "Every time oil prices come up for air an OPEC member or short sellers manage to push it lower," he said. Current oil price levels are shortlived and they would trend higher in 2015 as demand increased and geopolitical factors came into play, Le Brun told Reuters. Oil prices have plunged almost 50 percent since June. "The very sharp drop in crude prices that we are currently observing is not sustainable. Over time, the loss in global liquids at Brent prices below $70 a barrel would cause non-OPEC growth to grind to a halt while global demand growth would be rejuvenated," U.S. based Pira Energy said in a research note. "We believe that industry will finds ways to maintain profitability during the next several years of low prices via cost efficiency steps, productivity improvements and pressure on suppliers for both shale and other high cost supplies," it said. Investors were looking ahead to official U.S. oil inventory data to be released by the U.S. Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration (EIA) later on Wednesday. American Petroleum Institute data released Tuesday showed U.S. crude stocks rose by 5.4 million barrels last week. U.S. commercial crude oil inventories were forecast to have fallen by 2.3 million barrels in the week ended Dec. 19, according to analysts polled by Reuters.  (Editing by Himani Sarkar) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA United Parcel Service (UPS) delivery person prepares to deliver packages in the Manhattan borough of New York(Reuters) - United Parcel Service Inc  and FedEx Corp  started limiting air express deliveries after a last-minute increase in shipped packages caused some retailers to exceed agreed-upon limits, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people briefed on the situation. This year, both UPS and FedEx held some retailers to their volume commitments during the final shopping days before Christmas, aiming to avoid a repeat of a fiasco last year, the Journal reported. (http://on.wsj.com/1xJrn4h) Both UPS and FedEx had previously told Reuters that if unplanned package volumes threatened to overload their systems, they could refuse to take them. UPS told Reuters in November that customers could end up being charged more for unplanned late surges. A late spike in demand last year caused by last-minute online promotions plagued express delivery companies. Some 2 million express packages were left stranded by delivery companies on Christmas Eve, according to shipment-tracking software developer ShipMatrix Inc. A UPS spokeswoman said that company's operations were going as planned. FedEx was not immediately available for comment.  (Reporting By Manya Venkatesh and Narottam Medhora in Bengaluru) FREE AppDownload
*Stock markets tend to deliver above-average gains in the last two weeks of the year, a phenomenon known as the Santa Claus Rally. *However, there a few risks to watch this year prompted by the Greek election, the West Coast port strike, and the fading energy sector boom. *Overall, we believe these issues aren’t enough to derail the momentum in global stock markets as we head into 2015. Stock markets have historically delivered above-average gains in the last two weeks of the year, a phenomenon known as the Santa Claus Rally. However, not all may be merry for global markets this year. There are some risks to watch out for that may result in volatility in the coming weeks. The Santa Claus Rally has been pretty consistent in boosting markets across the globe. All of the world’s major stock markets have posted better than average returns in the last two weeks of the year over the last 20 years. Depending on the market, this holiday-season bonus could be as much as one and a half percentage points. For 2014 to date, stock markets around the world produced an average weekly gain of 0.23%. Santa Claus Rally: Spreading cheer around the worldAmount by which the last and second to last week of the year outperformed the average week of the year over the past 20 years. Charles Schwab “Father Christmas give us some money” This 1977 song by The Kinks might well refer to the outsize gains delivered by the United Kingdom’s FTSE 100 Index, home to the strongest and most consistent holiday gains among developed country stock markets. The Santa Claus Rally in the United States’ S&amp;P 500 Index hasn't been quite so generous. So how is this year shaping up? That may depend on some potential areas of risk. Risks to watch Here are some events to watch out for that could put coal in investors’ stockings this holiday. Just the beginning? Oil Price (West Texas Intermediate) and Baker Hughes total rig count with 18-week lag. Charles Schwab An uptick in volatility The combination of these issues may introduce some volatility into the thinly traded holiday sessions for stocks. However, we believe these issues aren’t enough to derail the momentum in global stock markets as we head into 2015. I hope this enhanced your understanding of the Santa Claus Rally. This article originally appeared at Charles Schwab.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Big stock market sell-offs happen all of the time. We've seen two violent sell-offs in the second half of 2014. The first came when the S&amp;P 500 quickly tumbled 9.8% from its then all-time high of 2,019 on Sept. 19 to as low as 1,820 on Oct. 15. The second came when the S&amp;P plunged 5.1% from 2,079 ion Dec. 5 to 1,972 on Dec. 16. And yet, the S&amp;P recovered those losses and then some. Importantly, these big sell-offs occur during years when the markets head higher. Even the Black Monday crash of 1987 was part of a bull market. "Despite average intra-year drops of 14.2%, annual returns [have been] positive in 26 of 34 years," JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly said. Kelly offers this chart of intra-year declines that we think every investor should pin to their walls. Bottom line: Sell-offs happen. And sometimes they're big. But they're normal, and they're no reason to panic. JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/GettyBelieve it or not, it's actually more affordable to buy a home than to rent one in the US. The average 2015 fair market rent in the 25 least affordable markets is $1,686, according to RealtyTrac. That's 38% above the national average for all the counties they analyzed. RealtyTrac measures affordability by considering median income relative to median rent. "Fair market rents in these more than 500 counties on average increased 2% in 2015 compared to 2014," said Daren Blomquist, vice president of RealtyTrac in a statement. "In the majority of these counties nationwide, it's still cheaper to buy than it is to rent, albeit by a slight margin. On average, it takes 27% of median income to pay fair market rent on a three-bedroom property. That compares to 25% of median income to buy a medium price property."  Millennials are opting to rent in coastal markets that are affordable, but buy property in markets that are cheaper and further inland, Chris Pollinger of First Team Real Estate noted. “We are still five to seven years from seeing the millennials enter into the housing market in the more affluent coastal areas,” he said. In the chart below, RealtyTrac ranked the least affordable markets by the percentage of median income that's required to rent.RealtyTrac FREE AppDownload
Coca-Cola is cutting up to 2,000 jobs in the coming weeks as part of a plan to shave $3 billion from its annual budget, the Wall Street Journal reports. The impact of the cuts is expected to be most significant at Coke's Atlanta headquarters and global regional offices, "where more than 10% of corporate staff could lose their jobs," according to the report. Employees will receive notice of the cuts by Jan. 15. Coca-Cola laid out a plan in October to find $3 billion in annual budget savings by 2019. The plan was announced after the company posted a 14% decline in third-quarter proft. In addition to job cuts, the company is planning to axe executives perks, including limousine service, as well as a lavish Christmas party for Wall Street analysts, according to the Journal.  The company is also disconnecting the voicemail feature on phones in its headquarters, which will save about $100,000, and implementing stricter budget control over managers. The company's new budget policy will require managers to "reset spending plans each year to justify all expenditures," according to the Journal. Under the old policy, managers could roll excess annual spending into a new budget year. Coca-Cola is suffering from an industry-wide decline in soda sales as consumers become more health conscious. Soda accounts for more than 70% of the company's sales and soda volumes were up just 1% in the first nine months of the year. FREE AppDownload
Michael Nagle/GettyFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. A Gossip Website Tried To Sell Its Readers' Data To Big Firms (Reuters)  AdvisorHUB, a brokerage industry gossip and news website, collected data about the brokers who read the site and tried to sell that information to big wirehouse brokerage firms, reports Elizabeth Dilts. "In presentations to Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, and UBS Wealth Advisors in July, [the website's founder, Andrew Parish] offered to sell the information for as much as $120,000 a month, according to sources who attended those meetings and a review of his presentation," reports Dilts. Parish confirmed in an interview with Reuters that he offered to sell the information, but also added that no firms agreed to buy. Brokerage Firms Are Afraid Of Making Big Changes And Losing Their Advisors (The Wall Street Journal)  "No one wants to disrupt that much or have the biggest change to cause advisers to flee," Scott Smith, an analyst with Cerulli Associates, told the WSJ. "You want to offed as few people as possible and make as little ruckus as possible, but manage from a top-down basis to get them to focus on what's important." While in the past brokerage firms made major changes in the compensation pay structure, they're planning on focusing primarily on the details for 2015. Additionally, some firms like Merrill Lynch are making changes that will encourage brokers to move the clients with less assets to its online-based brokerage, Merrill Edge. Washington Insiders Are Predicting Tougher Enforcement Actions By The SEC (Financial Advisor Magazine)  "Washington insiders involved with advisor issues are predicting tougher Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement actions and a rollout of President Obama's myRA savings plan that will be so successful it will become a model for the states," reports Ted Knutson. "The SEC will continue to ramp up its enforcement cases against investment advisors, including cases involving allocation (cherry picking) and aberrational performance, as well as its broken windows initiative targeting rule violations that do not necessarily result in investors harm," the IAA President and CEO Karen Barr stated.  Investors Should Use An ETFs' Transparency In Their Favor (InvestmentNews)  "In short, given that holdings are revealed each day, ETF prices are able to be arbitraged relative to the fund's underlying net asset values (NAVs)," writes Rusty Vanneman. "Because of this arbitrage mechanism, the prices will then track the NAVs closely," Vanneman adds. The difference between the two numbers is the tracking error — and the smaller the number, the better it is for ETFs. "In turn, since tracking errors are low, and since an adviser can know the fund's underlying objective and holdings, he or she can feel confident that an ETF is a reliable, consistent building block for a portfolio," writes Vanneman. A Financial Advisor Was Accused Of Taking Money From A Disabled Woman (The Columbus Dispatch)  Robert C. Yeamans set up an investment account for his disabled 50-something daughter two years before he died — and his financial advisor Jason W. Cox promised to manage that account. Instead, Cox "put more than $160,000 of that money — and possibly more — into his own pocket by preying on the daughter's vulnerability," reports Kathy Lynn Gray. He was arrested on December 11, and Chase Bank has since closed the daughter's and Cox's accounts. FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Carlo AllegriTourists pose for photos with the Wall Street bull in Manhattan, New York, on Dec. 23, 2014. A stunning revision to Q3 GDP helped propel the US stock markets to record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. GDP! Q3 GDP growth was just revised up to 5.0%, from last month's estimate of 3.9%. This is the fastest pace of growth since Q3 2003. This was also much stronger than the 4.3% expected by economists. Personal consumption growth was revised up significantly to 3.2% from 2.2%. 2. Adjusted GDP! GDP skeptics often point to fluctuations in inventories and trade as factors distorting the truth. BMO Capital's Jennifer Lee notes that all of the popular adjusted GDP metrics still hit multiyear highs. "Real gross domestic purchases (or GDP ex net exports) grew 4.1% annualized (was estimated at 3.0%), the second quarter in a row of 4%-plus gains. Final domestic demand (or GDP ex inventories and net exports) grew 4.1% annualized (was estimated at 3.2%), a four-year high. Final sales (or GDP ex inventories) grew 5.0% annualized (was estimated at 4.1%), an eight-year high." 3. Stocks! The Dow and S&amp;P 500 set new intraday highs today. The Dow got as high as 18,069.22 and the S&amp;P 500 got as high as 2,086.73. Here are some fun stats from Intercontinental Exchange managing director Charlie Brown: "I am told that it has been 172 days since the Dow closed above 17,000.  This would make it the 5th fastest trip between thousands on the Dow, with the record being 35 days in 1999 when it rocketed from 10,000 to 11,000. To put this in context it was 5,200 days for the Dow to rise from 1,000 to 2,000 in 1972." 4. Durable Goods Miss. There was a lot of economic data today, and not all of it was good. Durable goods orders fell 0.7% in November, which was worse than the 3.0% increase expected by economists. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, or core capex, grew 0.0%; economists were looking for 1.0%. "Durable goods orders from the Census Bureau are subject to frequent revision; however, at currently reported levels, we view the data as consistent with a slower pace of investment spending and manufacturing activity," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. 5. New Home Sales Miss. The pace of new home sales unexpectedly fell 1.6% to an annualized rate of 438,000 units, which was lower than the 460,000 unit rate expected by economists. "We have seen both existing and pending home sales lose a bit of steam recently, as well," BNP Paribas' Derek Lindsey reminded. 6. But Consumer Confidence Is Up! The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index surged to 93.6 in December, the highest level since January 2007. "Consumers held the most favorable long-term prospects for the national economy in the past decade," said Richard Curtin, the survey's director via Reuters. "Importantly, the 2014 gains in jobs and wages were widespread across all population subgroups and regions." 7. And Personal Spending Is Up! Personal income climbed by 0.4% in November as personal spending growth accelerated to 0.6%. "We suspect that stronger real consumer spending data will help support Q4 growth momentum despite potentially weaker investment activity hinted at by the weaker durable goods orders report earlier this morning," TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg said. Don't Miss: If You Missed The Rally, Then You Just Made The Most Classic Mistake In Investing »    FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban spoke with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014. He told us about his new app Cyber Dust.Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
In June 2013, Nicaragua gave initial approval for what seemed like a ridiculous plan to let a Chinese group build a 173-mile canal across the Latin American country. On Monday, workers broke ground on one of the largest infrastructure projects ever. Reuters There's just one problem. No one really knows what's going on. Ask Manuel Coronel, who runs the canal authority, "where construction will begin and who will pay for it, and he has no answers," The Economist reports. "Neither does HKND, the Hong Kong-based company run by Wang Jing, which is to build the $50 billion waterway." In fact, the government of Daniel Ortega has not yet released a feasibility study, environmental-impact report, business case, or a financing plan. “It’s a gigantic white elephant,” said Jean-Paul Rodrigue, an infrastructure expert at Hofstra University, told The Wall Street Journal. “You sell the country a big dream, you get an open door and you score big with real-estate development,” Rodrigue continued. “The great majority of the project that has been shown by Chinese developers are real-estate projects. They seem to be using the canal as an excuse to sell real-estate projects, golf courses, and hotels.” REUTERS/Jairo Cajina/Presidential Palace Nicaragua/Handout via ReutersNicaragua's President Daniel Ortega (L) and Wang Jing, chairman of the Hong Kong international company Nicaragua Canal Development Investment Co. (HKND Group) celebrate signing a concession agreement for the construction of an inter-oceanic canal in Nicaragua at the Casa de los Pueblos in Managua June 14, 2013. "The law lets HKND develop ancillary projects — ports, an airport, roads, a railway — even if the canal doesn't get built," Luis Galeano of the Associated Press notes. Even if the building goes ahead as planned, there are serious environmental concerns given that the canal would pass through the middle of Lake Nicaragua, the largest source of fresh water in the Latin America. "We're at a crossroads because either you use Lake [Nicaragua] for floating boats or you use it for drinking water, but you can't use it for both things at once," Victor Campos, assistant director of the Humboldt Center environmental organization, told the Associated Press last year.  Rodrigue, the transportation expert, told The Wall Street Journal that he "didn’t believe the canal would be able to compete with an expanded Panama Canal, ... Neither does he expect Mr. Jing will be able to raise the financing."    FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyIt’s not news that the price of iron ore has crashed and coal prices remain pressured in 2014. But this chart from Morgan Stanley’s excellent Metals Playbook shows just how starkly iron ore prices have fallen compared to other metals. Morgan Stanley’s analysts have cut their long term price target to $70 a tonne, noting that it’s Australian production and the “relatively low-cost supply surge” which “continues to dramatically alter the character of the industry’s supply side”. But they have some really bad news for smaller and more marginal producers in the sector: Many of the mining operations that emerged over the past decade are unviable at current prices. The most exposed of these include low-grade iron ore operations in Hebei province, northeast China; and small operations in Australia and Brazil. They highlight that the next 6-12 months should see the industry acknowledge that if the price falls persist, there will be more production cuts and mine closures. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyBad news for tobacco companies: America's teens prefer marijuana. The latest research from a Morgan Stanley's tobacco analysts reveals two major trends in teen smoking habits. First, high schoolers are smoking less and less cigarettes. Only 10.3% have reportedly smoked a cigarette in the past 30 days, down from 27.4% in 2000. And second, the gap between marijuana and cigarette usage is widening. Until 2008, cigarettes were the preferred option, but now weed is clearly the go-to for those in high-school. So what does this mean for big tobacco? "In our view, any industry participation in the legalized marijuana industry is highly unlikely barring the passage of federal legislation legalizing its sale and usage, although we would expect the industry to closely monitor the market's development at the state level," writes Morgan Stanley's Matthew Grainger. But these companies may soon be asked to do more than just monitor the situation. Other analysts argue that big tobacco companies will have to start addressing questions about marijuana sooner than they think. "With this quickly changing view of marijuana across the US," wrote RBC Capital Markets' Nik Modi earlier in December, "we believe it is only a matter of time until investors start asking questions about how it will fit into the bigger picture." "And while every tobacco company management we have spoken to on this topic has been unwilling to discuss it, we believe full federal legalization of marijuana in the US would likely lead tobacco companies to reconsider this space," Modi added. So as Americans (especially young high schoolers) increasingly turn towards marijuana, big tobacco companies are really going to have to start thinking about the numbers soon. FREE AppDownload
US markets hit successive new highs in 2014. The economic recovery seems to stay on track while gradually improving and increasing its rate of growth. Labor-force-related problems seem to be healing at an improving pace. Inflation appears under control. Interest rates remain extraordinarily low. The federal budget deficit continues to shrink and is approaching 2.5% of GDP (gross domestic product). The deficit may reach $400 billion in 2015. Note that it was $1.4 trillion at its annual run rate in the worst quarter of the Great Recession in 2009. This combination of gradual improvement, low interest rates, low inflation, and rising profitability has led the stock market to an incredible and unexpected run of success. Most of Cumberland Advisors’ US ETF (exchange-traded fund) related separate accounts have been fully invested most of the time. The results speak for themselves. Cumberland Advisors’ clients are familiar with the actual outcome. In 2015, we expect the stock market to confront less easy conditions. US economic growth rates are picking up.  That’s good for stocks.  There is only a minor threat of upward movement in inflation and the upward threat is still only a threat.  That’s good for stocks.  Interest rates cannot go any lower, and they may begin to work their way higher as the year progresses. But they are likely to remain very low.  That’s good for stocks.  We do not expect any recession in the US. That’s good for stocks.  We (the United States) are benefiting generally from the very low oil prices that are now spreading throughout the world. That’s good for most stocks (not energy).  Low energy prices should encourage more economic activity in the US as American households begin to raise their consumption levels. That’s good for stocks except for the energy sector. Our outlook for 2015 and 2016 is positive but tempered. We do not expect the stock markets to continue to rally with the momentum that has been in place for the last two years. Double-digit returns year after year are unlikely to repeat in year three and are very rare for four successive years. A more tempered US stock market outlook for the rest of the decade suggests something along the lines of a mid- to high-single-digit compounding rate. Whether that is 4% or 8% remains to be seen. A low compounding rate in single digits is an attractive investment return in a low-interest-rate bond climate. We expect bond interest rates to work their way slightly higher over time as the US economy continues to improve. Absent a shock or an inflation flare-up, rising interest rates will reflect better economic conditions. We do not expect interest rates to spike wildly higher. We are bullish for the rest of the decade and anticipate a compounded single-digit rate of return for the US stock market.  A longer term target for US stocks at the end of the decade is 2600 to 3000 with end of decade estimated annualized earnings for the S&amp;P 500 index between $160-$180.  We end this year nearly fully invested in our separately managed US market ETF accounts.  Our largest over weight positions are in two domestic industries, utilities and transportation.  Best wishes for all who celebrate this week.   Safe travels. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Philippe WojazerThe average fair market rent in the 25 US counties where rents are falling the most is 16% below the national average, according to RealtyTrac. The real estate information company analyzed data from the Department for Housing and Urban Development for three-bedroom properties in 543 counties with at least 100,000 residents.  The average 2015 fair market rent in the markets with the biggest drops in rent between 2014 and 2015 is $1,023, RealtyTrac found. Median home prices in these markets fell 0.5% year over year, versus a 6% increase across all the counties included in the data. These are the counties that saw the most decreases:RealtyTrac FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images, Bing MapsMichael Dell has a waterfront Hawaiian mansion worth $58 million.Everyone needs to take a vacation every once in a while, especially during the holidays. But vacation means something a little different when you're a millionaire or billionaire. From massive island retreats to private superyachts, these tech executives' second homes take luxury vacations to the next level.  FREE AppDownload
The average price of a gallon of gas in the US has dropped to its lowest level in almost five and half years, according to a recent Lundberg survey. The survey found that the highest price of gas was recorded at $2.82 in Long Island and the lowest was at $2.06 per gallon in Tusla. The price drops have not gone unnoticed. On Instagram, users are passing around photos of the incredibly low prices at gas stations across America, using the hashtag #gasprices. Based on the postings, gas prices may not be done dropping. There are numerous photos of gas stations with gas prices below $2.00. Here are just a few of the posts: Good GAS oopps GOD almighty! <U+26FD><U+FE0F><f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+00B2><U+2935><U+FE0F>#gasprices #fillup #fuel A photo posted by Eric's Digital Imaging (@ericsimages) on Dec 12, 2014 at 7:15am PST That my kinda of gas prices! #gasprices A photo posted by @brittneyann8803 on Dec 12, 2014 at 8:15am PST I never thought I'd see fuel prices under $2 again. Yay. #itsthelittlethings #makesmehappy #gasprices #holidaytravel A photo posted by Stacy M (@kiddiesandme) on Dec 12, 2014 at 8:19am PST Shades of yesteryear... Limbo lower now... #gasprices A photo posted by @snaperature on Dec 12, 2014 at 8:30am PST West Lafayette $1.85 , cheapest gas price I've seen yet. #holyshit #hellyeah #armageddon #boom #WW3 #globalmeltdown #financialcrisis #indiana #gasprices #indianagasprices A photo posted by OneClick Assassin (@emotosell) on Dec 12, 2014 at 8:30am PST Wtf!!!!<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B3><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B3><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B3><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B3> ohhh emmmm geeee! I feel like I should be hoarding gas!!!! #wtf #oil #gasprices #instagood #instadaily #dfw<p  tyle="color: #c9c8cd; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; padding: 8px 0 7px; text-align: center; text-overflow: ellipsis; white-space: nowrap;">A photo posted by Kamilah<f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+008B> (@puertoricanfitchick) on Dec 12, 2014 at 8:51am PST</di yle="margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px;">Siiiiiiiiick #gasprices #thanksobama<p s yle="color: #c9c8cd; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; padding: 8px 0 7px; text-align: center; text-overflow: ellipsis; white-space: nowrap;">A photo posted by August (@golden_august) on Dec 12, 2014 at 7:58am PST</di yle="margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px;">Gas price challenge :) i wanna see what city has the lowest gas price. This gas price is in Alburquerque, NM. If your gas price is lower...tag me and post your city gas price #gas #gasprices #unleaded #alburquerque #newmexico #nm #gaspricechallenge #challenge #justbecause<p s yle="color: #c9c8cd; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; padding: 8px 0 7px; text-align: center; text-overflow: ellipsis; white-space: nowrap;">A photo posted by Felicia Jones (@mrs_feliciajones) on Dec 12, 2014 at 7:45am PST</di yle="font-family: Helvetica Neue, Arial, sans-serif; color: white; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 100; line-height: 20px; margin-top: 23px;">FREE AppDownload</di
 There's a lot to think about when you smoke a cigar. But lighting it should be a no-brainer. The biggest mistake a novice can make when smoking a cigar is to use a Zippo lighter, said Michael Herklots, world-class tobacconist and VP of retail and brand development at Nat Sherman, a cigar emporium in midtown Manhattan.  Mangling the head, screwing up the cut — those are manageable mistakes. Sparking up the prized cigar with a Zippo on the other hand — that's a catastrophic mistake, Michael told us.  When a smoker lights his cigar with a Zippo, he's not 100% sure of the fuel that's being used. Butane is okay. It's odorless and free of oil. It won't jeopardize the integrity or taste of the cigar.  But some Zippos don't use butane. They're a bit more of a wild-card in terms of fuel usage. Some use low-grade, odorous fuels — like fuels made by Ronson — that will greatly taint your cigar.  Try not to use candles to light your cigar, either. Herklots warned that any foreign substance entering your cigar is undesirable. A vanilla candle can compromise the taste of your tobacco blend.  The best way to burn? A basic box of phosphorous matches should get the job done, as will non-aromatic and clean butane lighters. Herklots suggests asking for a match box, taking two matches, and then lighting them against the striker. Once this is done, place the cigar in your mouth and delicately puff on it while lighting the uncut end. With your free hand, rotate the cigar so it doesn't light unevenly.  When the outer rim of tobacco begins to glow, you're good. Blow out the match and enjoy. The original version of this post was written by Eli Epstein.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCement is the most energy-intensive of all U.S. manufacturing industries, according to the Energy Information Administration. It would follow, then, that lower fuel costs should be a boon for the industry. But even with the benefit of falling oil prices, cement makers will still struggle to stay profitable in 2015, according to Credit Suisse. The reason: widespread weakness in global economic growth means less appetite for new construction, which will put pressure on cement prices. “As such, we are doubtful of how much of the benefit of lower energy prices will actually be witnessed in incremental gross profit,” says Credit Suisse analyst Harry Goad. Some companies will do better than others, and what’s marking that difference is simple: it’s geography. In Europe, where the economic recovery is virtually stalled, demand for cement should remain sluggish. Yet in the U.S., where the recovery is growing stronger by the month, cement consumption is up 7 percent year-to-date and housing starts are forecast to rise. Cement companies in developing countries have mixed outlooks: margins and capacity utilization are likely to fall in Brazil and Russia because of slower economic growth. China doesn’t look so great either: after dramatic growth in cement consumption from 2010 to 2013, it slowed in the first three quarters of this year and volumes should be more or less flat in 2015, according to Credit Suisse. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce One of the best features about Apple's new iPhones are their improved battery life. However, that doesn't mean you won't eventually run out of juice. Portable chargers can fill in the gap, but are annoying to carry around. Afterburner combines the convenience of an extra battery pack with a case. It provides 150% phone charge in your pocket. Many cases with batteries are bulky, but this one only adds less than half an inch to your phone's height, and less than one quarter of an inch to the depth, so you'll only add a little heft for a lot of power. The built in kickstand is great for watching movies or FaceTiming, and the Afterburner even charges using the same cord as your iPhone (Lightning) , so you won't need a micro-USB like other cases. Thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce, you can grab the Afterburner iPhone 6 battery cases for 26% off plus Free Shipping. Get 26% off the Afterburner iPhone 6+ Case ($44 + Free Shipping) Get 33% off the Afterburner iPhone 6 Case ($40 + Free Shipping) Full Specs and more photos below: Stack CommerceAfterburner Kickstand Specs: Stack Commerce Get 26% off the Afterburner iPhone 6+ Case ($44 + Free Shipping) Get 33% off the Afterburner iPhone 6 Case ($40 + Free Shipping) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrance's President Francois Hollande is seen during a news conference at an EU leaders summit in BrusselsPARIS (Reuters) - When President Francois Hollande unveiled a "super-tax" on the rich in 2012, some feared an exodus of business, sporting and artistic talent. One adviser warned it was a Socialist step too far that would turn France into "Cuba without sun". Two years on, with the tax due to expire at the end of this month, the mass emigration has not happened. But the damage to France's appeal as a home for top earners has been great, and the pickings from the levy paltry. "The reform clearly damaged France's reputation and competitiveness," said Jorg Stegemann, head of Kennedy Executive, an executive search firm based in France and Germany. "It clearly has become harder to attract international senior managers to come to France than it was," he added. Hollande first floated the 75-percent super-tax on earnings over 1 million euros ($1.2 million) a year in his 2012 campaign to oust his conservative rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It fired up left-wing voters and helped him unseat the incumbent. Yet ever since, it has been a thorn in his side, helping little in France's effort to bring its public deficit within European Union limits and mixing the message just as Hollande sought to promote a more pro-business image. The adviser who made the "Cuba" gag was Emmanuel Macron, the ex-banker who is now his economy minister. The Finance Ministry estimates the proceeds from the tax amounted to 260 million euros in its first year and 160 million in the second. That's broadly in line with expectations, but tiny compared with a budget deficit which had reached 84.7 billion euros by the end of October. REUTERS/Denis Charlet A first version of the tax payable by the earners themselves was thrown out by the Constitutional Court as punitive. A final version obliged companies to pay the levy instead. French soccer clubs briefly threatened to go on strike, and actor Gerard Depardieu took up Russian residency in a one-man protest against the French tax burden, among the highest in the world. Others were making more discreet arrangements. "A few went abroad -- to Luxembourg, the UK," said tax lawyer Jean-Philippe Delsol, author on a book on tax exiles called "Why I Am Going To Leave France". "But in most cases, it was discussed with their company and agreed to limit salaries during the two years and come to an arrangement afterwards," he told Reuters by telephone. Hollande and his government have since sought to relieve business of around 40 billion euros of taxes and other charges, as unemployment at over 10 percent drives home the urgent need to attract investment to the sickly French economy. It was no accident that Prime Minister Manuel Valls -- alongside Macron the main reformer in Hollande's cabinet -- chose a visit to London in October to confirm that the super tax would not be renewed: his British counterpart David Cameron famously offered to "roll out the red carpet" to French tax exiles. But Delsol said the saga had made his clients more nervous about investing their time and money in France and had only added to mistrust of a complex tax system which successive governments have failed to reform. "People have lost confidence," he said. "That is not something you can restore overnight." ($1 = 0.8216 euros) (Additional reporting by Jean-Baptiste Vey; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Stocks are showing the kind of volatility that preceded major falls in the past, suggesting to some that one of the most blistering U.S. rallies on record may be nearing its end. The market is undergoing big swings under the influence of plunging oil prices and resulting turmoil in Russia, as well as the Federal Reserve's only gradual shift away from ultra-low interest rates and - on Tuesday - data showing a sharp acceleration of the U.S. economy. The series of short-term rallies and selloffs has revived memories of events before the "Black Monday" crash of October, 1987, and more recently the global crisis of the past decade. The S&amp;P 500 has more than trebled from its post-crisis low of 666 points in March 2009. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed above 18,000 for the first time after Tuesday's data showed GDP grew at an annualized 5 percent in the third quarter, the fastest rate in 11 years. That means the Dow has gained 1,000 points in just one week. Larry McDonald, senior director and head of U.S. strategy at Newedge in New York, noted wide price swings before deeper and longer-term declines as previous bull markets ran their course. "You had a lot of this in the summer of 2007 and the summer of 1987," he said. "Our systemic risk indicators are showing a very high scoring in terms of risk. I think we are anywhere from two to eight weeks away from the big one – a fall of 10 percent or more." A 10 percent reversal in markets is often termed a "correction". Already on Monday the S&amp;P and Dow had both notched up yet another record closing high. For the S&amp;P it was the 50th this year, the most in any year since 1995. Other examples of the high volatility abound. The Dow jumped 421 points last Thursday, marking its biggest daily rise this year. That took gains over the Wednesday and Thursday to more than 700 points, its sixth biggest two-day rally in history. This surge was fueled by the Fed, which said last Wednesday it would remain "patient" in keeping interest rates ultra-low, and followed a stomach-churning fall the week before. Russia's currency hit a new all-time low, due partly to the drop in the price of oil, its major export. The ruble's 12 percent fall on Dec. 15 alone was its biggest daily loss since the 1998 crisis. And oil's slide accelerated, taking Brent crude down almost 50 percent since June to a fresh five-year low. In the week ending Dec. 12, the S&amp;P fell 3.5 percent, breaking a run of seven weekly gains and recording its biggest weekly loss since May 2012.  "It's very unsettling. The market shouldn't be doing this. It's almost got an air of 2007-2008 about it," said Mark Ward, head of execution at Sanlam Securities in London. "The Dow shouldn't be rallying 400 points, the biggest rally in years. The news isn't good enough to see the rallies we're having and the news isn't bad enough to see the sell-offs we're getting." AP ImagesNew York Stock Exchange. Pedestrians stop and view the electronic display of the New york Stock Exchange activitiy in the window of Fidelity Investments at Park Avenue and 51st Street after the opening of the NYSE early Tuesday, October 20, 1987. The roller-coaster ride of the last few weeks may be an indication of what's to come if similar periods of volatility in recent history are any guide, said Ashraf Laidi, head of global strategy at City Index in London. Before the bull runs in the S&amp;P from 1995 to 1999 and from 2003 to 2007 ended, investors also faced wrenching price moves, as the following graphic shows: http://link.reuters.com/sac73w Laidi noted that the S&amp;P has risen for seven consecutive weeks on nine previous occasions, but never in those cases did the index fall more than 2 percent in the week that ended the winning streak. The S&amp;P's 3.5 percent fall in the week ending Dec. 12 "shows an unprecedented departure in sentiment from greed to fear", he said. That fear, however, should not prevent the rally continuing as long as economic growth and easy monetary policy around the world underpins corporate earnings and profitability. Investors have been through this before. In the past strategists, worried about the longevity of the rally and global economic signals, have said it's time stocks took a break, only to see them rocket higher in the months that followed. Investors wary of missing out on what could be a late-stage bull market have been jumping in, quickly seeking bargains after two near-corrections in the last three months. However, with valuations stretched and wages starting to rise, particularly in the United States, corporate results will have to be stronger to maintain stock-price gains. Otherwise, the squeeze in margins is likely to yield meager price appreciation in 2015. The most recent Reuters quarterly poll of equity strategists suggests a 6 percent rise in the S&amp;P in 2015 and a 9 percent and 10 percent gain in Germany and France, respectively. While further gains may be harder to come by, it may be too early to call the end of the bull market. "Volatility is a fact of life in financial markets and next year looks set to be more unsettled than this one," said David Stubbs, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in London. "But investors should consider looking through short-term market swings and stay invested to benefit from the uptrend in corporate earnings we are expecting to see on both sides of the Atlantic." (Reporting by Jamie McGeever; Additional reporting by Lionel Laurent and Mike Dolan in London, David Gaffen in New York, graphic by Nigel Stephenson; editing by David Stamp) This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Sallie Krawcheck became a big deal while still in her 30s. She was a star analyst who became CEO of independent research firm Sanford Bernstein. Before long, she was CFO of Citigroup. And later, she became a top executive at Bank of America. It wasn't always so. After a series of starts and stops personally and professionally in her twenties, one day she finally realized what she wanted to do with her life. "It was almost a bolt," she says. Now Chair of Ellevate Network, she describes what happened.Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
 Russia is in the midst of an intense military buildup, and the country's deteriorating economy is magnifying the cost. During 2015 alone, Russia's national defense budget is expected to be 3.3 trillion rubles. At the time of the announcement in October, this was worth $81 billion, but with respect to today's conversion that's worth slightly over $60 billion. Meanwhile, Russia is expected to enter a deep recession in 2015 as its economy contracts. Nevertheless, the Kremlin plans on spending over 20 trillion rubles ($364 billion right now) over the next five years, with almost 80% of the funds being used for the purchase of "high tech weapons" involved with nuclear, space, reconnaissance, and communications.  The plan includes major upgrades for its land, navy, and air forces: New missiles by 2020, new submarines by 2016 (and nuclear submarines by 2020), and 150 new airplanes and helicopters by 2015 — and much, much more, according to the St. Petersburg Times. Originally, the upgraded military plans were designed when the government was expecting 6% GDP growth through the decade. Back in October (before the ruble crash), new Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov expressed concerns about financing the new defense expenditure plans, according to Reuters. "A new defense program will be prepared now, and in its framework we want to reconsider the amount of resources that will be spent from the budget in order to make it more realistic," Siluanov stated. "When we were adopting the defense program, the forecasts for the economy and budget revenues were completely different. Right now, we just cannot afford it," he added. Despite Russia's recent economic troubles, Russian President Vladimir Putin has been publicly supportive of the continued military expansion and modernization.  Elena Holodny/Business InsiderA look at how much the Kremlin spent on defense from 1993 to 2013, adjusted to the 2013 US dollar. For 2013, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute estimates that Russia's military spending was around $87.8 billion. Although this sum is significantly less than both the US and China (at $640 billion and an estimated $188 billion, respectively), Russia's military spending makes up a greater percentage of its GDP than either of the other two nations. As a share of GDP, Russia's military expenditures are an estimated 4.1% for 2013, an increase from 2004 when they made up 3.5%.  Contrastingly, the US is at 3.8% (a slight decrease from 2004's 3.9%), and China is an estimated 2% (a slight decrease from 2004's 2.1%).  "Russia's spending has risen as it continues to implement the State Armaments Plan for 2011-2020, under which it plans to spend 20.7 trillion rubles on new and upgraded armaments. The goal is to replace 70% of equipment with 'modern' weapons by 2020," according to SIPRI's report. REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoThe "Little Green Men," aka Russian special forces who annexed Crimea in March, were an example of Russia's modernized military. Not everyone in Moscow is gung ho about the whole military expenditure plan. Back in 2011, former Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin was reportedly asked to step down from his position by then-President Medvedev after a dispute over budget priorities. Among things discussed that day? Defense spending. Evidently, those in favor of increasing the military expenditures have gotten their way since then. In nominal terms, the Kremlin has upped its military spending by a whopping 92.3% since 2010, according to IHS Jane's Information Group. On Monday, Kudrin stated that Russia's economy is entering crisis mode. "Today, I can say that we have entered or are entering a real, full-fledged economic crisis. Next year we will feel it clearly," he said in a news conference.  "The government has not been quick enough to address the situation ... I am yet to hear ... its clear assessment of the current situation." It remains to be seen how exactly the ruble's collapse will affect the Kremlin's military overhaul. Going by the comments of Russia's last two finance ministers, Putin's grand plan is unaffordable. RIA Novosti/ReutersPutin walks to watch military exercises upon his arrival at the Kirillovsky firing ground.    FREE AppDownload
 TAMPA, Fla. (Reuters) - Florida has leapfrogged New York to rank as the third most populous U.S. state, the Census Bureau reported on Tuesday, reflecting demographic trends that are reshaping American politics and culture, along with state bragging rights. With 19.9 million residents, Florida surpassed New York by a slim margin to rank behind two other warm-weather states: California, population 38.8 million, and Texas, 27 million. New York, while still growing, dropped to fourth with 19.7 million residents, the July 2014 tally found, continuing the state's longtime slide from the top of the national rankings. "What it reflects is a very important milestone and shows really a long-term trend, both in Florida and in other Southern and Western states," said Stanley Smith, a demographer with the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida. The 10 fastest-growing states last year were in the South or the West, the Census found, with the exception of North Dakota, which led the nation with 2.2 percent population growth, the result of an oil production boom. States losing headcount in the annual survey were Illinois, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Mexico, Alaska and Vermont. The population realignment has become highly visible in U.S. politics, with Florida playing an outsized role as the largest swing state, particularly critical to the Republicans path to the White House. As the Sunshine State adds on average 803 residents daily, according to the Census, its identity remains in flux. Built on swampland, tamed by the advent of mosquito control and air conditioning, Florida becomes more culturally southern heading north of Miami, widely considered the capital of Latin America. While the state's lack of personal income tax - and snow - appeal to retirees, its recent growth is led by young adults moving for jobs, Smith said. Among U.S. states, he said, no place is responsible for more Floridian transplants than New York. New York City remains a thriving hub for finance and arts but its upstate regions have struggled to generate job opportunities, said Richard Alba, a sociology professor at the Graduate Center at the City University of New York. "New York is getting used to being overtaken by other states," he said, but added with a laugh: "It’s still an important state." (Reporting by Letitia Stein; Editing by Bill Trott)  This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe US economy is growing. And that growth is being fueled by one key source: the American consumer. Tuesday dump of economic data featured a stronger-than-expected Q3 GDP revision, but also weaker-than-expected new home sales and durable goods reports. However, economists agree that consternation about those disappointing reports should be more than offset by the strength in consumer sentiment and personal spending. Americans are spending. And that consumption represents almost 70% of the economy. "This is literally shoot the lights out sort of stuff, and no smoke and mirrors and it is powered by the U.S. consumer with their spending," wrote Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey after the GDP report. Here are three stats from today's data dump reflecting this theme: "The suite of consumer sentiment, income, spending and prices suggest that Q4 spending will be solid," BNP Paribas' Bricklin Dwyer said. "The economy is heating up," Rupkey said. "Right now, even if consumers buy not a dime more in December, real consumer spending will be 4.2% even better than the 3.2% growth rate in the third quarter, the surprise upward revision of 1 percentage point we got at 8:30 this morning." And there's little doubt that consumers really are benefiting from lower gas prices. "Gasoline prices have been dropping so is this boosting consumption? Heck yes, it is going straight up," Rupkey said. Barclays, University of Michigan/Haver Analytics FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA zoomed image shows the logo of Austria's part-nationalised lender Volksbanken AG on a building in ViennaVIENNA (Reuters) - The European Central Bank has told Austria's Volksbanken group to strengthen its balance sheet by next July as it rushes to wind down its flagship unit and plug a capital hole exposed by this year's health checks on euro zone banks. Owners of part-nationalized Volksbanken AG (VBAG)  on Tuesday approved in principle plans to turn the group's lead institute into a "bad bank", relieving pressure on other regional lenders in the Association of Volksbanks that own 52 percent of VBAG. By relinquishing its banking license next year VBAG would be freed from minimum capital requirements for banks, and simply run off its remaining assets over the years to come. It said that the ECB had now given the Association a draft target to maintain a common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital  adequacy ratio of 14.63 percent of risk-weighted assets from July 26, 2015. The Association had a CET1 ratio of 11.5 percent at the end of September. Volksbanken officials said the preliminary target was based on end-2013 data which did not reflect the drastic overhaul plan unveiled in October and the scheduled sale of its problematic Romanian unit in the first half of next year. They gave no figures on how the group's CET1 ratio would look taking those factors into account. VBAG has said its conversion into a "bad bank" will trigger around 500 million euros in writedowns this year and wipe out more than half its capital. On Tuesday it put its expected 2014 loss at around 750 million euros ($913 million). Volksbanken, in which the state has a 43 percent stake after a 2012 rescue, still needs regulatory approval from the European Commission, ECB and national authorities for its wind-down. With the state opposed to injecting more aid on top of the 1.35 billion euros Volksbanken has already got, and the regional banks unable to chip in, it remains unclear who would foot the bill should the ECB insist on a capital top-up. The bank said its management board had told a shareholder meeting "that currently neither VBAG's core shareholders nor third parties are prepared to provide capital to VBAG". VBAG shareholders include DZ Bank [DETGNY.UL] with 3.8 percent and Raiffeisen Zentralbank [RZB.UL] with 0.9 percent.  ($1 = 0.8214 euros)  (Reporting by Michael Shields; Editing by William Hardy, Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA truck transports bottles from the Coca-Cola company on the outskirts of Moscow(Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co  plans to cut 1,000-2,000 jobs globally in the coming weeks, the Wall Street Journal reported citing sources. The company is also introducing stricter budgeting such as asking executives to swap limousines for taxis and canceled its Christmas party for Wall Street analysts, the report said. (http://on.wsj.com/1CCr0re) Coke said in October that it was targeting $3 billion in cost savings by 2019, up from the $1 billion it announced in February.  (Reporting By Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveFor some, 2014 was a good year; for others, it was a great year. It was the year of the big-screen iPhone, the fight against Ebola, powerful political protests, and revolutionary breakthroughs in health and technology. We named the 24 most impressive people of the year starting with the overall winner, India's new prime minister, Narendra Modi. From finance and tech to politics and entertainment, these are the people who amazed us the most this year. FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia has published its latest coincident indexes for the 50 US states. It's report included the map below, which shows the three month change in the index. The index combines data on payroll employment, hours worked in manufacturing, the unemployment rate, and wage and salary disbursements to paint a picture of the economy's strength. In November, it increased in 44 states. Federal Reserve Bank of PhiladelphiaIt's mostly green now, but was mostly red in the depth of the recession, notes Bill McBride at the Calculated Risk Blog. He notes that what would be most interesting to watch is whether oil producing states turn red in 2015 to reflect the effect of lower oil prices. Wyoming, one of only two red states, is already feeling the sting of lower oil prices, as Wyoming Public Media's Stephanie Joyce reports: "This year, for the first time in decades, severance taxes from oil surpassed coal and came close to knocking natural gas out of its number one spot, but now, with oil prices falling, Governor Matt Mead says the state is losing out on a lot of money. “For every $5 decrease in a barrel of oil, it’s $35 million for the State of Wyoming,” he said. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. securities investor watchdog office on Tuesday unveiled its list of the top products and practices that bedeviled mom and pop investors in 2014. In an annual report on market activities, the Securities and Exchange Commission's Office of the Investor Advocate said private placements, variable annuities, non-traded real estate investment trusts (REITS) and binary options all presented problems for investors. The report also highlighted concerns about "reverse churning," in which a broker transfers the account of a client who does not frequently trade into another account with fees based on asset size so the brokerage can boost its compensation. "The Investor Advocate does not believe that changes in rules or regulations are required to address the problem of reverse churning," the report says. "Rather, aggressive enforcement action ... should be sufficient to deter this type of unethical practice." The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law required the SEC to create the Office of the Investor Advocate, tasked with analyzing how new rules will affect investors, helping retail investors resolve problems with the SEC, spotting problematic trends and advocating for rule changes as needed. The office first got up and running in February, and is led by Rick Fleming, former deputy general counsel for the North American Securities Administrators Association. The law requires the office to file two reports a year. One, due in June, concerns the office's objectives and one, in December, is about activities that may pose risks for investors. Among the top risks highlighted include private placements, a popular fundraising method in which companies issue shares or bonds to a select group of higher net worth investors through private sales executed by brokerages. The deals do not need to be registered with the SEC, so they do not need to disclose as much information to investors. Many of the risks, such as conflicts of interest involving how companies often pay third-party firms to conduct due diligence checks prior to selling the deals, were highlighted by Reuters in a recent series of articles. Tuesday's report did not make any policy recommendations on private placements, but noted they are "highly illiquid" and "lack transparency." It also said it was concerned about confusing fees associated with variable annuities and high up-front costs that investors face in non-traded REITS.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Yelp/alex i.Premium Barber Shop in Murray Hill topped the list this year.Every busy guy needs a good, reliable barber: one he can trust to be quick, pleasant, and most importantly, great at trimming hair. That's not always easy to find, but our friends at Yelp have given us a hand. They ranked the best 10 barber shops in New York City, based on their vast database of user reviews. Each one is professional, clean, and highly affordable (men's cuts are usually under $20) – and they're located in neighborhoods throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and even in Flushing, Queens. 622 3rd Ave.Murray Hill, Manhattan Premium Barber Shop is top notch. You could step into any other barber shop in the city and maybe you'll get lucky, but at Premium, you can rely on consistently good service and quality. Everyone there is personable, quick, and totally skilled at what they do. Sometimes there's a line, but don't be afraid, it moves quickly. "In short, [barber] Arthur is like the godfather of barbers, so do yourself a favor and swing by," wrote reviewer Sean L. "You absolutely will not regret it, and more than likely will be become yet another one of his lifetime customers." 400 E 13th St.East Village, Manhattan True to its name, this place is on the mark. In fact, it's so popular you might be hard pressed to get in in the evenings. So if you've got some time during the day and find yourself in the East Village, this is the place to go.  "Been coming here for 4 years now and can't imagine going anywhere else," wrote Yelp reviewer Evan R. "Everyone who works here is a pro, and I've gotten great cuts from just about all of them." 306 Graham Ave.East Williamsburg, Brooklyn What more could you want in a barber shop than complimentary beer (or coffee or soda) while chitchatting with the owner about how you want your coif to look? That's what you can expect at Barber Room 306, where your barber is sure to listen closely to what you'd like, and maybe even make a few suggestions of his own. Trust the guys here – they won't disappoint. 322 E 59th St.Midtown East, Manhattan Bedford Barbers is great for those who remember the days when there were barber shops, rather than salons, on every corner in New York City. Yelp reviewer G R. calls the place "a throwback to another decade where you can get a great cut at a great price." Plus, they take professionalism to a whole new level. For serious clients who know exactly what cut they want, at what length, with which tools, this is the place to go. 310 4th St.Park Slope, Brooklyn Step outside Manhattan to visit Elegant Barbershop, where you'll get a quick, affordable cut from a highly skilled barber. (Or, since we're in Brooklyn, a shave for that hipster beard.) "I always thought what you pay that['s] what you get and I have to admit I was wrong," wrote reviewer Zarrukh S. "My barber was Kyle he made me look like GQ." 79 Sullivan St.South Village, Manhattan Not only will you get a great, meticulously clean cut at this shop, but you'll also get a shoulder massage and a warm, refreshing towel afterward. Sometime it's the little things that makes all the difference. "Bottom line, they will make you feel right at home, and they will take exceptional care of you," wrote Yelp reviewer Youssef S. "They will NOT let you leave until you feel like a million bucks, seriously." 664 9th Ave.Hell's Kitchen, Manhattan 3 Aces, located in busy Midtown West, is known for their barbers' great attention to detail and ability to do trendy fades or clean cuts for dudes with shorter hair. Some of the Yelp reviewers like it so much they come here once a week. And according to reviewer Kyler C., they also do a great beard trim.  70-23 Austin St.Forest Hills, Queens Whether you live in Queens or you're willing to travel a bit to get the perfect cut, The Barber Shop is worth your while. The cuts are quick and super affordable. Or, if you're in the mood for a hot shave, reviewer Patrick H. says:  "anyone who works here is more than capable of making it a great experience." 11 BroadwayFinancial District, Manhattan  11 Broadway is a great shop to pop into after work if you're in the Financial District. It has some very loyal customers – some who've been coming here for up to 7 years – and they all love the high-quality cuts they receive. The barbers are good about squeezing in last-minute appointments, but try to call a few hours in advance. "This really is the best barbershop in the city," wrote Yelp reviewer Franky M. "The shop is always clean, friendly, and professional. I get my haircut every week here and I am always happy with the results." 396 Broome St.Little Italy, Manhattan Established in 2005, this Nolita barber shop welcomes you with coffee and a flatscreen TV to watch while you wait. Reviewers love it because its professionalism, cleanliness, and good customer service. "I walked in, met Joe and he had me in and out in 15 min with the best haircut I've probably ever had. They even did the hot towel and straight razor trim," wrote Shane E. "I think he might be a ninja." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers look at their phones while walking at the Canary Wharf business district in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Investment bankers working on corporate takeovers and share issues can expect good news on bonuses after a buoyant year when they return from the holidays, but bond and currency traders face lower payouts. Investment banks will finalize bonuses over the next two months and early signs are that average payouts will be relatively flat or slightly higher across most banks, although totals could drop at banks that have cut staff. "We're seeing bonus pools on average up by between 5 and 10 percent on 2013 numbers, but that's massively differentiated across different businesses," said Giles Orringe, a London-based partner at executive search firm Heidrick &amp; Struggles. At the upper end of the range, merger and acquisitions dealmakers and those advising on debt and equity issues should see bonuses up 5-10 percent on average, industry sources said. Taking a more bullish line, Greg Bezant, director at recruitment firm Phaidon International in Zurich, predicted bonuses could be up 20-25 percent in some areas and merger and acquisitions and private equity units should fare well. Traders in fixed income, commodities and currencies are likely to see bonuses drop by up to 10 percent, however, after another bruising year. Several banks are also expected to cut payouts in areas where they have been fined heavily for misconduct. Six banks were fined a record $4.3 billion for attempted foreign exchange market rigging and there have also been fines for manipulating interest rates and commodities prices and other misdemeanors. Several banks are under more pressure than others to cut costs hard, which could see European banks being more restrained than U.S. rivals, industry sources said. Barclays &lt;barc.l&gt; angered investors last year by increasing bonuses despite a drop in profits, and its Chief Executive Antony Jenkins has already signaled a likely cut in payouts. "I don't think it will be as controversial," he said this week. Banks contacted by Reuters over their bonus plans have declined to comment before they are finalised in full-year results. Bankers' bonuses remain a lightning rod for industry critics and politicians who say not enough has been done to bring down high pay that encouraged the risk-taking that contributed to the financial crisis. Many shareholders, too, say pay needs to come down to help get returns back above the cost of capital. U.S. bank JPMorgan &lt;jpm.n&gt; paid managing directors on trading desks in London 461,000 pounds ($715,000) on average in 2013, according to Emolument, a website that benchmarks salaries. Emolument said bonuses averaged more than 200,000 pounds at Deutsche Bank &lt;dbkgn.de&gt;, UBS, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse investment banks last year. Bonuses for 2014 are expected to broadly reflect performance across business lines and the mixed fortunes for dealmakers and traders in London are expected to be repeated on Wall Street. Revenues derived from takeover advice and share and debt offers are up 7 percent this year to their highest level since 2007, thanks to a deal-making frenzy in the healthcare, telecoms and consumer sectors and a revival in share offerings, according to Thomson Reuters data. JPMorgan and other U.S. banks made the most from fees. Those advisory revenues only make up about one-third of investment bank revenues, however. Overall revenues are likely to be down 4 percent on the year at $257 billion, led by a 12 percent drop in fixed income, commodities and currencies, and a 3 percent dip in equities, consultancy firm Coalition estimated. That could mean some bankers' expectations are too high. A survey by recruitment firm Astbury Marsden said senior London finance sector staff expect bonuses to jump 21 percent this year. [ID:nL6N0U326F] The next bonus season, typically between mid-January and mid-March, will mark the start of another round of intense scrutiny of how banks structure pay in Europe. Many banks introduced role-based "allowances" this year to meet EU rules that cap bonuses at twice a banker's fixed salary, but firms will have to change their pay structure again after regulators said those allowances must count as variable pay in the future.   ($1 = 0.6447 pounds)   (Additional reporting by Clare Hutchison; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
David Rosenberg, Chief Economist &amp; Strategist at Gluskin Sheff, has identified a big risk looming out there in the global economy: The Chinese housing market. In the past, China's housing market was a key source of economic growth and jobs. But now that things are slowing down in the world's second largest economy, it could get ugly. Here's what Rosenberg wrote: A BLACK SWAN One looming "black swan" is the Chinese housing markets, which is providing to be a key source of pressure on the economy (notwithstanding last year's upward GDP revision which merely reflected a different accounting procedure) and creating financial strains along the way — all 70 mainland cities are now experiencing YoY home price declines of between 1 and 9%. Friday's NYT cited reports of major apartment complexes now are only between one-third and one-half unoccupied, and that many projects are halfway through construction and the cranes are now idled. This is a crucial overhang for a sector that directly accounts for 13% of the economy and indirectly (via the impact on ancillary sectors) that number is closer to 33%. Even with the builders cutting their housing start production by 34% in November from year-earlier levels, demand has weakened to such an extent (because affordability has become extremely stretched to the point that in the big cities an apartment costs 20 years' worth of wages for college grads), unsold inventory in the large cities ranges between 12 and 18 months of supply — that is huge and explain why average prices have fallen 7.4% since April alone. We all now how real estate deflations end ... not well. Anyone who remembers the boom and bust of the US housing market understands how bad things can get. Prices tumble, bad debts surge, and credit markets seize up. And if things really come to a head, you have yourself a global financial crisis. It's a bit of a faux pas to call it a "black swan" as "black swan" risks are by definition almost impossible to see coming. But when they come, it's bad, and that's the point Rosenberg seems to be emphasizing. FREE AppDownload

The US was the first to try quantitative easing (QE), which success depended on special features of the US financial setting. The Fed initially provided liquidity support for the banking system and bought government bonds to drive down yields and put cash into the financial system. It also rapidly brought down the policy interest rate to close to zero. There were spill-over effects on corporate bond yields, equity prices, and mortgage rates, closely linked to treasury yields. In later rounds of QE, the Fed bought large volumes of mortgage-linked agency debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This directly lowered mortgage rates and added to credit flows available for financing mortgages. Very likely, the QE also lowered the dollar exchange rate, pressuring central banks around the world to ease policy to prevent excessive appreciation of their currencies against the dollar. A crucial part of the US transmission mechanism operates via mortgages, the housing market, and the household sector – where the subprime crisis had triggered massive contractionary forces (Duca et al. 2011). The collapse of residential investment alone reduced GDP by around 4%. The fall in house prices had a direct negative effect on consumer spending by reducing the collateral backing for borrowing. The ratcheting up of foreclosures and payment defaults radically reduced the asset base of the banking system. Therefore, together with far higher risk spreads on non-bank loans, credit availability for households fell sharply, particularly in the mortgage market. This was a double whammy for consumer spending.  Reversing these trends and repairing this part of monetary transmission was a central and successful aim of Fed policy. The housing market began to recover in 2012, household deleveraging came to an end, and building activity gradually began to pick up. In our research, we can track the impact of lower house prices on consumer spending, on the contraction of availability of mortgages and consumer credit, and on the subsequent recovery (Duca and Muellbauer 2013). We can also measure the effect of higher equity prices on consumer spending and the effect of lower interest rates on spending. The direct effect of the latter was substantial in the US, in addition to the indirect effects via housing and equities. The reason is that total US household debt is large relative to total liquid assets. Indeed, between 2001 and 2008, debt actually exceeded liquid assets, as was also the case in the UK. Lower interest rates benefit borrowers and hurt savers. Another important element in monetary transmission in the US, despite mainly fixed rate mortgages, is the ability to refinance at a typical cost of only about 1% when mortgage rates fall. The combination of low interest rate and QE worked in the US, even though at first the headwinds from the subprime crisis were so massive that some concluded that the policy wasn’t effective. Moreover, households in the Eurozone hold far less in equities relative to income than do US households, so the undisputed uplift on consumer spending from higher stock market valuations is small compared to that in the US. As our research confirms, higher house prices in France and Germany reduce total consumer spending.1 In Germany, France, and Italy, higher house prices spur non-owners to save more for the mortgage down payment and inspire caution among tenants, who expect future rent hikes. And the housing wealth of existing owners does not translate into significantly higher spending, given the lack of access to home-equity loans and cheap mortgage refinancing.2 The ECB, therefore, deserves praise for excluding mortgage lending from its targeted long-run refinancing operation (TLTRO), its version of the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme, which aim was to offset some of the credit crunch due to the contraction of bank credit. As a result, bringing down yields on government, corporate, and asset-backed bonds has less impact. That is an important reason why ECB intervention to provide liquidity support for the banking system, for which it was the global leader as early as August 2007, accounted for a much larger share of its balance sheet expansion compared to the US. In the US, more generous assumptions regarding discount rates are used to calculate pension-fund liabilities (see Bank of England 2014). At the same time, one should question whether the euro exchange rate – the one mechanism whereby current policies could still make an important difference – can be pushed down much further. It could meet strong international resistance, given the EZ’s giant trade surplus. They have a lower propensity to spend, with little trickle-down to the poorer people who would use it to consume more.3 In the Eurozone, the distribution issue is also one between countries since institutional differences between countries can give the impression of discrimination among them. For example, purchases of corporate debt would favour countries with large corporate debts such as France. Clearly, the ECB must develop a strategy that works in the Eurozone’s unique system, instead of attempting to follow the Fed’s lead. Such a strategy should be based on Friedman’s assertion that ‘helicopter drops’ – printing large sums of money and distributing it to the public – can always stimulate the economy and combat deflation. But, in order to maximise the impact of such an operation, the ECB would also have to find a way to ensure fair distribution. One simple solution would be to distribute the funds to governments, which could then decide how best to spend them in their countries. But the EZ’s rule against using the ECB to finance government spending bars this approach. A more reasonable option would be to provide all workers and pensioners with social-security numbers (or the local equivalent) with a payment from the ECB, which governments would merely aid in distributing. Another alternative would be to use the electoral register, a public database that the ECB could use independently of governments. Of the roughly 275 million adults in the Eurozone, some 90% are on the electoral register. Nothing in EZ law forbids the ECB from undertaking such an independent action.4 There is an important difference between the ECB implementing a €500 per-adult-citizen hand-out as part of monetary policy and governments doing this as traditional fiscal policy. Economists have long worried about myopic politicians over-spending, for example, just before an election in order to influence the voters and thus creating a ‘political’ business cycle, or simply perpetually spending too much, and as a result running too high government deficits. That is an important reason why the ECB is not allowed to directly finance government spending. But it is quite a different matter for an independent central bank, subject to its governing council and the representation of different countries on that council, to directly hand out cash to households as part of its method of meeting its inflation mandate. That is why I would classify this as monetary policy and not just a devious way of by-passing Eurozone rules. In 2001 and 2008 there were tax rebates in the US, carefully studied by economists. A study of the 2001 rebate by Johnson et al. (2006) suggests between 20 and 40 % was spent in the quarter in which the cash was received – and about another third in the quarter afterwards – and the authors looked only at non-durable spending. The study of the 2008 rebate concluded that “Households spent 12-30% (depending on specification) of their payments on nondurable goods during the three-month period of payment receipt, and a significant amount more on durable goods, primarily vehicles, bringing the total response to 50-90% of the payments”, see Parker et al. (2013). In an Australian study of the 2009 tax rebate, called a ‘bonus’, Leigh (2012) suggests around 40% was spent in the quarter of receipt. Such evidence contradicts simple textbook versions of the permanent income hypothesis of consumption. In our Kendrick Prize winning paper (Aron et al. 2012), we find time series evidence for Japan, the US, and the UK that the marginal propensity to spend out of permanent income is between about 40 and 60%, and not 100%. This is confirmed for Germany by Geiger et al. (2014) and for France by Chauvin and Muellbauer (2013). The implication is that between 40 and 60% of a surprise transfer of €500 would be spent fairly quickly.5 The US studies find evidence of heterogeneity between households, with poorer households and those with mortgage debt having higher spending propensities. This would suggest that in Germany, where many households already have a lot in their saving accounts, the spending impact could be less than in the US but that, in Spain, Portugal, and Greece, where many households are cash-poor, the effects would be as large or larger as those in the US. I would, therefore, expect between 1.1% to 2% of GDP effects in Spain, Portugal, and Greece but probably as low as 0.5% in Germany.6 Beyond lifting the Eurozone economy out of deflation, such an initiative would have massive political benefits, as it would reduce resentment toward European institutions, especially in struggling countries like Spain, Portugal, and Greece, where an extra €500 would have a particularly strong impact on spending. In this way, the ECB could prove to disgruntled citizens as well as investors that it is serious about meeting its inflation target, and help to stem the rise of nationalist parties. The first point to make is that the overwhelming evidence cited above against the simple form of the permanent income hypothesis implies that, even if the basic accounting proposition were true, we can reject the hypothesis that households ‘can see this clearly’.7 Secondly, as Buiter (2014) shows, the objection is highly implausible even with full visibility. As long as money yields services such as transactions utility or liquidity services, and as long as households regard the addition as irreversible, household expenditure will increase. Such a helicopter drop relaxes the government budget constraint – unless an irrationally hair-shirted government insists on tightening fiscal policy to offset the helicopter drop.8 Indeed, the additional tax revenue from the initial round of spending increases and from the multiplier effects of the additional employment, income, and spending it generates will actually improve the government budget constraint.9 The best way to de-leverage is to improve growth and the immediate effect of the policy is to improve both private and public sector balance sheets. Within the context of a highly disciplined inflation targeting policy it is unlikely that private sector expectations would be shifted in this direction any further than monetary policies pursued to date might already have done so. Structural reforms of labour and product markets should have priority over fiscal austerity since they address problems of competitiveness and growth. In principle, the ECB could make the €500 per adult conditional on credible reform commitments. This can only mean that the proposal will somehow lead to high future inflation. On the cusp of deflation and with the EZ in deep stagnation, this makes little sense.  Maintaining the credibility of its inflation target is a sure-fire way for the ECB to prevent such risks. High unemployment in the Eurozone is not the result of people simply being work shy or not wanting to work, much more a result of the jobs not being there. This argument neglects that conventional monetary policy and QE involves raising the prices of assets, which benefits the people who own the wealth. Some members of elites see this as a ‘natural’ benefit, but resist offering the same benefit to the poor. The rise of populist anti-euro parties is part of the popular response to this distorted point of view. After years of austerity, infighting, and unemployment, it is time to implement a QE programme that delivers what Europe needs. FREE AppDownload
Neil Hall/ReutersInvestigators claim to have found the source of the hack that led to information affecting 76 million households leaking from US bank JP Morgan.  The New York Times is reporting that the hack took place due to a simple blunder by the bank's IT staff. The hackers shouldn't have been able to access the servers at all, and they wouldn't have been able to if the bank's security system had been properly rolled out.  But hackers were able to steal login information for a JP Morgan employee and used that information to log into the company's network. There should have been a second layer of security present that would have stopped the hackers, but the bank's security team had forgotten to introduce it on one network server.  Two-factor authentication involves a second password which only works once. These one-time passwords are often generated at random, and sent by text message to cellphones, since that's an easy way to verify someone's identity. JP Morgan uses a two-factor authentication system for its internet computer network, but the second password wasn't needed by the hackers to break into the network. The New York Times says the bank is now investigating whether there are other security holes that could give hackers access to its network.  FREE AppDownload
 Billionaire hedge-fund manager David Tepper is concerned about the market in 2015. At a time when most of Wall Street is bullish on stocks next year, the founder of the $20 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management said the market may be overvalued, in a brief email to CNBC.  "Worldwide money [was] made too easy for where USA fundamentals were in both late 1998 and 2014," Tepper said.  He continued, noting what happened in 1999 is "not exactly the same" but said it was "similar," according to CNBC. Tech stock valuations soared in 1999 to form the tech bubble that burst in early 2000. What's also similar to the events of 1998 is the Russian currency crisis. Russia defaulted on its debt that year. "This year rhymes with 1998. Russia goes bad. Easing [is] coming from Europe. Sets up 1999 ... [oops] I mean 2015," he wrote. Markets continued to rally in trading Tuesday as the S&amp;P and Dow Jones soared to record highs, with the Dow climbing to a record 18,000. A revised report showed that US GDP grew by the most since 2003 in Q3, at 5.0% compared to last month's estimate of 3.9%. Head to CNBC.com for more.    FREE AppDownload
Some people consume sugar substitutes because they think doing so is a good way to cut back on calories and stay healthy. But science suggests otherwise.  Produced by Ryan Larkin Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Andrew NellesThanksgiving Day shoppers line up to start shopping at a Target store in Chicago.The American consumer is spending more than it is bringing in. Personal income climbed by 0.4% in November, which was right in line with economists' expectations. Personal spending grew by 0.6%, which was a bit stronger than the 0.5% expected. "We suspect that stronger real consumer spending data will help support Q4 growth momentum despite potentially weaker investment activity hinted at by the weaker durable goods orders report earlier this morning," TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg said. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comNew home sales fell 1.6% in November to an annualized pace of 438,000 units. Economists were expecting a level of 460,000 units. Sales dropped 12% in the Northeast, 6.3% in the Midwest, and 6.4% in the South. However, they rose 14.8% in the West. "We have seen both existing and pending home sales lose a bit of steam recently, as well," BNP Paribas' Derek Lindsey reminded. The median new home sales price during the month was $280,900. According to the Census, there were 213,000 new houses for sale, which represents a supply of 5.8 months at the current sales rate. "On balance, soft November new home sales are consistent with what has been a slow and choppy recovery in the housing sector, and we look for further stabilization in coming quarters," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneAmerican consumers are feeling pretty good. The University of Michgan's consumer sentiment index climbed to 93.6 in December from 88.8 in November. While this was down from the preliminary December estimate of 93.8, it was nevertheless stronger than the 93.5 forecast by economists. "Consumers held the most favorable long-term prospects for the national economy in the past decade," said Richard Curtin, the survey's director via Reuters. "Importantly, the 2014 gains in jobs and wages were widespread across all population subgroups and regions." The report reflects a period of elevated stock market volatility. But gasoline prices had also been tumbling, which consumers feel immediately. "Consumer sentiment now stands at the highest level since January 2007," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz noted. "Improved income expectations should bolster big-ticket consumer purchases in the fourth quarter, and we continue to look for stronger consumer spending growth to support GDP growth in Q4." JP Morgan Asset ManagementHere's a historical look from JP Morgan Asset Management.   FREE AppDownload
It used to be that government in America got things done. Now, as the chart below from Pew shows, people in America's government — and most Americans — just root for their "team" and scream at each other. Too bad. We were a stronger country when we got things done. Pew Research FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders laugh as they work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange as the market closes in New York October 17, 2014. US markets are surging. The S&amp;P 500 just blasted through its all-time high, and the Dow crossed 18,000 for the first time ever. The S&amp;P is currently at 2,084 (+0.3%). The Dow is at 18,009 (+0.3%).  The S&amp;P 500's prior all-time high was set at 2,079 on Dec. 5. The Dow set an all-time high of 17,991 that same day. The rally follows a strong upward revision to US GDP. In Q3, the pace of GDP accelerated to 5.0%, which is the fastest pace since Q3 2003. This was up from an earlier estimate of 3.9%, and it was much stronger than the 4.3% forecast by economists. Growth was driven by personal consumption, which was revised up to 3.2% from an earlier estimated of 2.2%. "Growth won’t be quite as strong in the fourth quarter. Indeed, November’s durable goods orders figures suggest that business investment has slowed significantly, from 11.0% in the third quarter," Capital Economics Paul Dales warned. Dales cited today's November durable goods order report, which disappointed. Orders unexpectedly fell 0.7% in during the month, which was much worse than the +4.0% expected by economists. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, or core capex, went nowhere; economists were looking for 1.0% growth. For now, traders and investors are enjoying the Santa Claus rally. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderFrom left: Bill Cosby, Amy Pascal, and Alex Rodriguez.The New Year represents a fresh start. And some of us may need it more than others. Here are 28 high-profile people (and teams) whose careers or reputations took a big hit in 2014. Many are likely to bounce back — while others may never recover.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frank PolichThe second half of 2014 has been rough for stock market investors. We've seen two violent sell-offs. The first came when the S&amp;P 500 quickly tumbled 9.8% from its then all-time high of 2,019 on Sept. 19 to as low as 1,820 on Oct. 15. The second came when the S&amp;P plunged 5.1% from 2,079 ion Dec. 5 to 1,972 on Dec. 16. Because of the way our brains work, most of us worried about the possibility that this correction was turning into an outright market crash. Our instinct was to dump stocks. Surely, many investors sold and told themselves they would "wait out the volatility" on the sidelines. A confident few likely even shorted the market. However, history shows this is the most classic mistake investors make. So, kudos to those who held on to their long positions. "Corrections are part and parcel of the investment process, they come and go, and it is imperative to take a deep breath and realize that what is most important for building wealth is not 'timing' the market but rather 'time in' the market," David Rosenberg said on Oct. 14. The S&amp;P has surged back to record highs since Rosenberg made that prescient statement. "Time in" the market is crucial, especially when things get scary for investors. There's tons of data on this. We talk about it all of the time. Even the folks who sold the sell-off probably know about it. But let's revisit some of the data anyway. When volatility picks up, it's tempting to trade in and out of the market with the hope you'll protect your wealth. Unfortunately, this increases the risk you'll miss some of the best days in the market. And that can be very costly. JPMorgan Asset Management illustrated how much an investor's returns collapsed when they missed a few of the best days in the market. They found that if an investor stayed fully invested in the S&amp;P 500 from 1993 to 2013, they would've had a 9.2% annualized return. However, if trading resulted in missing just the ten best days during that same period, then those annualized returns would collapse to 5.4%. JP Morgan Asset ManagementMissing these days do so much damage because those missed gains aren't able to compound during the rest of the investment holding period. "Plan to stay invested," they recommend. "Trying to time the market is extremely difficult to do consistently. Market lows often result in emotional decision making. Investing for the long-term while managing volatility can result in a better outcome." Some of the worst days in the market follow down days in the market. That seems to make sense intuitively. However, some of the best single days in the market also follow some of the worst days. Here's a table from Wikipedia putting the S&amp;P 500's 20 worst days next to 20 best days. WikipediaThis is just the nature of how the stock market moves. Bear markets don't go straight down and bull markets don't go straight up. When you look closely, they are marked by good and bad days, good and bad weeks, and so on. During periods of volatility, the magnitude of up-moves are just as big as the magnitude of down-moves. So far, we've been largely talking about hypotheticals. Now, let's take a look at how bad we really are at investing. Last year, investment strategist Gerard Minack studied the timing and volumes mutual fund flows to see how investors' actual returns compared to movements in the market. As expected, he found that inflows became most aggressive as markets peaked and outflows ramped up when markets were near their lows. As a result, the dollar-weighted return of the investors' portfolios lagged the benchmark indexes by extremely wide margins. "As more money went in at high price levels, and money was withdrawn at low price levels, the dollar-weighted return was significantly less than the index return," Minack found. "A $100 lump sum investment made at the start of 1997 – a ‘buy-and-hold’ investment – would [in May 2013] be worth $150 (ignoring dividends). The dollar-weighted returns –which I have calculated assuming that the funds achieved the same return as the NASDAQ – would have lost 75%." Morgan StanleyIn other words, investors were just fantastic at being exposed to the market only when it was sliding. There are countless studies that deliver the same message as Minack. Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors recently shared the results of study comparing the annualized returns of around 20 asset classes over a 20-year period. It included the performance of the typical investor. "The performance of the typical investor over this time period is shockingly poor," Bernstein wrote. "The average investor has underperformed every category except Asian emerging market and Japanese equities. The average investor even underperformed cash (listed here as 3-month t-bills)! The average investor underperformed nearly every asset class." Ironically, this typical investor is actually underperforming the very assets they invest in. Richard Bernstein Advisors"They could have improved performance by simply buying and holding any asset class other than Asian emerging market or Japanese equities," Bernstein added. "Thus, their underperformance suggests investors’ timing of asset allocation decisions must have been particularly poor, i.e., investors consistently bought assets that were overvalued and sold assets that were undervalued." We're not proposing that we won't see the stock market fall again tomorrow or the next day. We certainly can't rule out the ever-present risk that the market could soon crash. But, that's just part of investing in the stock market. If you aren't prepared to lose tremendous amounts of value, you shouldn't be in stocks. And once you're in, you better be prepared for the volatility. Time and time again, investors aren't willing to put their "time in" the market when the market has the most wealth to offer. FREE AppDownload
AP Images/ Mary AltafferArt Cashin and the NYSE traders.Legendary New York Stock Exchange floor trader and director of floor operations for UBS Art Cashin has sent out his annual Wall Street Christmas poem. This year he wove in some of the financial and political highlight of 2014: Wall Street waiting for the Fed rate hikes, Putin's annexation of Crimea, and the oil plunge... But he also threw in a few pop culture references, too — the Ellen selfie at the Oscars and (of course) Kim Kardashian. In any case, it's certainly worth the read this Christmas Eve Eve. So check it out below. 'Tis two days before Christmas and at each brokerage house The only thing stirring was the click of a mouse Down on the Exchange the tape inches along Brokers bargained and traded as they hummed an old song   The Fed says they're "patient" but some folks still fear That rates they'll start hiking too early next year   Frisco took the series and Seattle the Bowl But Tiger still struggles to get the ball in the hole   Ellen D. took a group selfie at the Oscar awards The darn thing got retweeted till it pulled down some boards   Putin scooped up Crimea and some parts of Ukraine But an oil plunge and sanctions are causing him pain   In Europe a song contest was won by a nun And the song that she sang was - Girls just want to have fun   In Portland a kid offered a hug to anyone near A cop took advantage for the pic of the year   But with Cosby and Kim K. there was little to cheer Yet it's Christmastime, Alice And Santa is near   So stop looking backwards have a cup of good cheer And kiss you a loved one raise your hopes for next year   And amidst all the trading Christmas themes we will heed And share our good fortune with families in need   And tomorrow they’ll pause as we wait on the bell To sing a tradition a song for old “Nell”   Don’t let this year’s problems impede Christmas Cheer Resolve to be happy throughout the New Year   And resist ye Grinch feelings let joy never stop Put the bad at the bottom keep the good on the top   So count up your blessings along with your worth You’re still living here in the best place on earth   And think ye of wonders that light children's eyes And hope Santa will bring you that Christmas surprise   So play ye a carol by Mario Lanza Unless you are waiting to celebrate Kwanzaa   Hanukkah’s ending And Ramadan’s long gone Different folks, different holidays yet each spirit lives on   Whatever your feast is we hope you all still Find yourself just surrounded by folks of goodwill   Wednesday, as the bell rings hark to your heart’s call And as Santa would shout Merry Christmas to All! FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe entrance to a Walgreens store is pictured in Pasadena(Reuters) - U.S. drugstore chain operator Walgreen Co  reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit, helped by a record number of prescriptions filled, sending its shares up 3.6 percent. Cost savings resulting from its acquisition of the remaining stake in Alliance Boots Holdings Ltd [ABN.UL], Europe's biggest pharmacy chain, also boosted first-quarter results. The largest U.S. drug retailer also said it was on track to reach its target of $650 million in savings from the Alliance Boots deal in the fiscal year ending August 2015. The company's margins, however, continue to remain under pressure due to lower insurer payments for prescriptions amid increased competition and a rise in generic drug prices. Gross margins decreased 1 percentage point to 27.1 percent in the first quarter ended Nov. 30, marking the fifth straight quarter of decline. The combined cost savings for Walgreen and Alliance Boots in the quarter were about $140 million. The company said in August it would acquire the 55 percent it did not already own in Alliance Boots in a deal valued at $15 billion. The company said it filled a record 222 million prescriptions in the quarter ended Nov. 30, up 4.3 percent from a year ago. Smaller rival Rite Aid Corp  also reported higher quarterly sales and profit and lifted its full-year earnings forecast last week, helped by strong prescription sales. Net income attributable to Walgreen rose 16 percent to $809 million, or 85 cents per share. Excluding items, earnings were 81 cents per share in the first quarter. Net sales rose 6.7 percent to $19.55 billion, with same-store sales rising 5.7 percent. Analysts on average had expected a profit of 75 cents per share on sales of $19.5 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Walgreen's shares were trading at $76.90 before the bell on Tuesday.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bengaluru and Nandita Bose in Chicago; Editing by Ted Kerr and Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
 America is just killing it. Q3 GDP growth was just revised up to 5.0%, from last month's estimate of 3.9%. This is the fastest pace of growth since Q3 2003. This was also much stronger than the 4.3% expected by economists. "The increase in real GDP in the third quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from PCE, nonresidential fixed investment, federal government spending, exports, state and local government spending, and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, decreased," the BEA said. Services spending growth accelerated to a 2.5% rate, adding a whopping 1.2 percentage points to GDP growth. Personal consumption growth was revised up significantly to 3.2% from 2.2%. "The consumer was spending an enormous amount through September before they got their gasoline price tax cuts," Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey said. "No wonder consumer sentiment is so high, the consumer is flush with cash, there are 2.7 million more consumers this year courtesy of new nonfarm payroll jobs, and they are out spending with abandon." GDP skeptics often point to fluctuations in inventories and trade as factors distorting the truth. BMO Capital's Jennifer Lee notes that all of the popular adjusted GDP metrics still hit multiyear highs. From Lee's note: "The solid labor market performance should translate into further income gains going forward, which should continue to support household spending in Q4, along with extra income generated from lower gasoline price," BNP Paribas' Bricklin Dwyer said. Here's a look at growth by line item: BEA Here's how much each line item contributed to top-line growth: BEA    FREE AppDownload
APDurable goods orders unexpectedly fell in November by 0.7%. Nondefense capital goods (or core capex orders) showed 0.0% growth. Both numbers are below expectations. Expectations were for orders to increase by 3.0%, and for core capex orders to increase by 1.0%. "Durable goods orders from the Census Bureau are subject to frequent revision; however, at currently reported levels, we view the data as consistent with a slower pace of investment spending and manufacturing activity," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. In October, durable goods orders unexpectedly increased by 0.4%, which was better than the 0.6% decline expected by economists. However, core capex orders — which are an indicator of business spending — unexpectedly fell 1.3%. Economists had forecast a 1.0% increase. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk into the the Mall of Berlin shopping centre in BerlinBy Michelle Martin BERLIN (Reuters) - Michael Pirl is about to raise prices at his hotel in rural east Germany to cover a spike in labor costs as a national minimum wage takes effect, and he hopes new events like dinner shows will keep the customers coming. Like most German employers, he'll have to pay all his 74 staff at the four-star Ringhotel "Zum Stein" at least 8.50 euros an hour from Jan. 1 and he's worried about how this will impact business at the retreat 130 km (80 miles) southwest of Berlin. "To what extent can you persuade guests to continue buying or consuming the same amount of products? If the beer or wine gets more expensive, would you drink the same amount as before?" he said. Maintaining the hotel's existing salary structure will increase his wage costs by 8 percent. Chancellor Angela Merkel's government agreed in April to introduce Germany's first country-wide wage floor in a victory for the Social Democrats (SPD), who made it a condition for joining a coalition with Merkel's conservatives last year. Some economists believe the reform will boost consumption - which Berlin is relying on to drive economic growth - while others say it could reduce purchasing power if it causes firms to cut jobs or hike prices. More than one in four German firms expect to be directly affected. Of those, more than half said they would need to take counter-measures such as cutting staff or increasing prices, a survey by the Munich-based Ifo institute found. The law comes at a time when Europe's largest economy has cooled and the government faces pressure from European partners to boost weak investment. While 21 out of 28 European Union states have a minimum wage, Germany has long resisted, using sector- or region-wide collective wage deals. But these have become far less frequent since 1998. Trade unions have broadly welcomed the change of tack, mindful of the sharp expansion of the low-wage sector since 2003, when Gerhard Schroeder, Merkel's SPD predecessor, liberalized labor laws. Reports have since surfaced of workers earning as little as 2 euros an hour. REUTERS/Tobias Schwarz  The minimum wage is expected to weigh hardest on firms in the east, where workers earn less than the national average and fewer are covered by collective deals. Hotel and catering industry body DEHOGA said staff costs could surge by around 20 percent in some regions. But how the reform will affect the labor market seems harder to call, with some economists seeing little impact, while others estimate up to 570,000 positions could be lost. Mario Ohoven, head of a lobby group for the Mittelstand - the small and medium-sized firms that form the backbone of the economy - said the new law would be a "job killer". "Job cuts, declining investment and higher costs are the price that companies and citizens will pay for what is supposedly a great social achievement," he said. Ohoven said around a third of bakeries in the east faced the threat of closure and that the new legislation put hotels and restaurants, where the share of staff costs is particularly high at up to 40 percent, in a tough position. Enzo Weber of Germany's Institute for Employment Research (IAB) said there was a risk that the minimum wage would slam the brakes on rising employment, though he saw no major impact on jobless numbers. "The minimum wage increases costs for employers but can also have positive effects like filling vacancies and providing job stability," he said. But back at the Ringhotel, Pirl is taking no chances. He plans to cut costs by holding off on investments and, at least for now, not replacing any staff who leave. (Additional reporting by Holger Hansen; Editing by Madeline Chambers and John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
There’s been so much coverage of plummeting oil prices lately that it has crowded out another major financial markets story of 2014—the rise of the U.S. dollar. The currency has gained more than 11 percent on the euro since May, and the trade-weighted U.S. dollar index has gained 20 percent since its low point in 2011. While that sounds significant, it’s actually a small move as dollar bull cycles go. The index, which measures the greenback against a basket of world currencies, gained 70 percent between 1978 and 1985 and 40 percent from 1995 to 2002. It remains to be seen whether the current rally has that kind of legs, but Credit Suisse believes the dollar’s rise will continue, to the tune of another 5 percent next year. A key reason is monetary policy, as the Federal Reserve is widely expected to begin increasing interest rates next year. True, the market has already begun to price in a Fed hiking cycle. But Credit Suisse expects the central bank to be more hawkish in 2015 than the market does, forecasting the first hike in June and a total increase of 100 basis points during the year. All things being equal, higher U.S. yields will attract foreign capital and strengthen the currency. What’s more, the European Central Bank is expected to continue loosening its policy, potentially announcing more significant quantitative easing early next year, which bodes for further weakening of the euro against the dollar. Credit Suisse also expects the U.S. economic recovery to continue next year, which should likewise attract more capital flows and strengthen the dollar. Recent economic data have been strong: the unemployment rate has fallen to 5.8 percent, while wage growth finally accelerated to 0.4 percent in November, signaling that employers are starting to give more raises and hire more from competitors. Consumer confidence in December rose for the fifth consecutive month to the highest level since 2007. All-in, Credit Suisse forecasts GDP growth to accelerate to 3.1 percent in 2015 from an estimated 2.3 percent in 2014. History provides some guidance as to the implications for the market: global equities tend to perform well in times of a strong dollar. Since 1980,equities have risen 72 percent of the time during years the dollar has strengthened, compared with 62 percent when it weakened, according to Credit Suisse. In particular, stocks of European companies that sell a large percentage of their products to the United States will benefit. Health care, pharmaceutical, and consumer staples stocks should see the most upside, according to Credit Suisse. By the same token, U.S. exporters in industrials and materials should perform poorly, as their products are becoming more expensive for foreign buyers. The implications for emerging markets aren’t as encouraging. As we’ve already discussed, rising yields in the U.S. are causing heavy capital outflows from EM countries and weakening those currencies in the process. The declines are even more pronounced in oil-exporting countries such as Russia and Mexico because of the sharp drop in crude prices. A rising U.S. dollar will also crimp the ability of emerging market borrowers to pay off debts denominated in U.S. currency. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev speaks during a televised interview with Russian media in MoscowRussia's economy is at risk of entering a period of deep recession, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev was quoted by RIA Novosti news agency as saying. "...if we put before ourselves more modest tasks then we risk going into a deeper recession, which could happen" the state-owned TASS media reports. He compared the current economic situation to that of 2008 during the financial crisis, according to BBC. The Ministry of Economic Defense predicts that the Russia GDP will fall by 0.8%, according to BBC. But others are even more pessimistic. "The PMI survey found the Russian economy risking not only prolonged, but deep recession. We expect 1.5% GDP decline in 2015, but are prepared to see even deeper decline if current negative trends by the PMI survey continue," Alexander Morozov, the Chief Economist of Russia, CIS and the Baltics at HSBC wrote earlier in December. "The outgoing year — how unpleasant it is to say this — was not easy. However, let someone show me at least one example of an easy year that we have lived, starting with 1991, and even before that," Medvedev added. (Reuters reporting by Polina Devitt; Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian rouble banknotes are seen in this illustration picture taken in MoscowBy Darya Korsunskaya, Elena Fabrichnaya and Lidia Kelly MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian rouble hit its highest levels in two weeks on Tuesday, shored up by informal capital control measures designed to head off a repeat of the galloping inflation and mass protests that marked Russia's 1998 financial crisis. The government put pressure on state-owned exporters on Tuesday to sell dollars while officials and banking sources said the central bank had installed supervisors at the currency trading desks of top state banks. Shortly after the market opening, the rouble hit 52.88 to the dollar, its strongest level since Dec. 8. By 0725 ET, it had fallen back but was still was up 2.3 percent at 54.52 . Analysts said the measures were effectively a softer version of capital controls, adding that they did not believe President Vladimir Putin, who has drawn much of his popularity from financial stability and rising prosperity, would break his pledge not to resort to full-fledged controls. Russians have followed hard currency movements closely ever since hyperinflation destroyed their savings after the collapse of the Soviet Union, just before Putin came to power. The rouble plunged to an all-time low in mid-December on the back of lower oil prices and Western sanctions, which make it almost impossible for Russian firms to borrow from the West. Former finance minister Alexei Kudrin warned on Monday that Russia was heading towards a full-fledged economic crisis. The rouble fell to as low as 80 per dollar this month, from the average of 30-35 seen in the first half of the year, but has since recovered to trade as high as 52.88 to the dollar on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the government asked top state exporters to sell part of their hard currency revenues on the market, a government source told Reuters.  UNOFFICIAL CONTROLS "Of course, the companies are free to hold on to the hard currency, they are also free to get involved in speculative operations. But then we reserve the right not to help them if and when they hit tough times," said a government source who asked not to be named. He said companies that needed to repay large foreign debts could continue to accumulate hard currency. "If exporters are told not to increase their hard currency positions, it can be viewed as an unofficial reintroduction of capital controls," said Vladimir Osakovsky from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Liza Ermolenko, an emerging market economist at Capital Economics in London, said: "I don't think we can call them capital controls as such ... Capital controls is a very strong policy and if they decided to do it, it would be known." Limiting money flows, once considered a damaging constraint on open markets, has been more accepted in the aftermath of the 2008-2009 financial crisis as a tool sometimes needed to manage financial stability. But in Russia, the issue is a political one. Capital movements were liberalized only 10 years ago and any restrictions bring back memories of the chaotic post-Soviet financial turbulence which Putin, now in his 15th year as Russia's paramount leader, made it his mission to banish. "(Full capital controls) would be a huge immediate blow to the economy," Mikhail Zadornov, chairman of the board of VTB-24 bank, told the newspaper Vedomosti in an interview on Tuesday. "It would intensify capital outflows and cause a complete loss of confidence in the country among both domestic and foreign investors."  PRAGMATIC APPROACH Instead, Russian authorities are taking a more pragmatic approach. Four banking sources and sources close to the government said that the central bank had last week begun sending supervisors to monitor currency trading at major Russian banks. "There was panic," said a source close to the government. "Something had to be done and we took some measures." The central bank expects net capital outflows to hit $130 billion this year and Russia can ill afford to lose any more, with economists forecasting that an already slowing economy will shrink 3.6 percent next year. "Yes, we have to report all of our activities to them, they are very meticulous," said a source at a bank among Russia's top five. Another source at a large bank said: "As of Monday (Dec. 16), currency comptrollers have been sitting in and monitoring our currency positions, checking who bought foreign currency." The central bank declined to comment on this, telling Reuters only that it would hold talks with exporters about maintaining stability on the foreign exchange market. Traders said Tuesday's rouble rise was due partly to the government orders and partly to regular tax payments, which require exporters to sell dollars or euros for rubles. The tax payments are likely to peak around Dec. 25. The newspaper Kommersant said, citing unnamed sources, that the companies asked by the government to sell hard currency included the gas firm Gazprom , the oil firms Rosneft  and Zarubezhneft, and the diamond producers Alrosa and Kristall. Kristall confirmed to Reuters that it had received the instruction. One other company from the list also confirmed the instructions, but asked not to be named.  (Additional reporting by Oksana Kobzeva, Vladimir Abramov and Polina Devitt; Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
bitzcelt / FlickrHeads up. We've got lots of US economic data coming up. From BI's Monday Scouting Report: FREE AppDownload
How bad has the bear market in commodities been?  After a 16% decline year to date and a 35%+ decline since the 2011 high, the CRB Commodity Index is now at a multi-decade low. It’s actually a surprisingly poor return given that commodities tend to generate a return in-line with the rate of inflation. Of course, the CRB index is petroleum heavy so the recent downturn in oil has been particularly harmful, but it adds some fodder to the argument that commodities don’t tend to be a very good long-term holding in a portfolio.  As I’ve stated in the past, commodities are unproductive assets that are little more than cost inputs in the capital structure. Therefore, there’s no reason to expect them to generate substantial returns over the cost of production. Pragmatic Capitalism FREE AppDownload
The rouble has rebounded to its strongest level in more than two-weeks, propelled by soft government controls of the currency. Large state-controlled exporters have been forced to intervene in foreign exchange markets to the tune of $1bn (£640m) a day, according to anonymous sources cited by Russian daily Kommersant. The newspaper reported that Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian Prime Minister, signed an order to this effect on December 17. The five companies involved - spanning oil and gas and diamond exporters - received the order at the end of last week, it reported. A form of soft capital controls, these measures are thought to explain the rouble’s strength in recent days. Having rallied for three straight sessions, a dollar now buys just 52 roubles, down from the 79 it would have purchased on December 16. The rouble has been hampered by a series of sanctions over the Ukraine crisis, and the falling value of oil, on which the Russian economy has become reliant. Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics, has warned that if the government turned to stringent capital controls, these “would eliminate any remaining credibility that Russia has in international markets”. The news came as a Bloomberg survey of economists judged the risk of recession next year at a record high. More than nine in every ten respondents said that they expect the Russian economy to fall into a technical recession within the next 12 months, up from three-quarters of economists polled a month ago. The gloomy prognosis mirrors comments made by Alexei Kudrin, a former finance minister, who warned on Monday that Russia is now facing a “full-blown economic crisis”. Whereas oil was trading at around $110 per barrel in June, a barrel of Brent crude now costs around $60. As the price of oil has fallen, the room for further sanctions against Russia has risen, as the consequences of Mr Putin turning off oil exports in response would be more muted. The proportion of economists polled by Bloomberg that expect the US to implement direct economic sanctions against Russia, as opposed to those targeted at companies and individuals, rose from 29pc to 35pc.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark MakelaUsing his walking staff as a makeshift hockey stick, Michael Grant, 28, "Philly Jesus," skates at Rothman Ice Rink in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania December 14, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Wall Street Closed Monday At Record Levels. The major US indexes closed at historic highs on Monday. The Dow gained 0.9% to hit a record of 17,959.4 and the S&amp;P 500 advanced 0.4% to an all-time high of 2,078.5.  Markets Are Up Again. US futures are once again in the green with Dow futures up 27 points and S&amp;P futures up 2 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.6%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. It's A Busy Day For US Economic Data. Stay tuned for fresh data on durable good orders (8:30 a.m. ET), GDP (8:30 a.m.), income (10:00 a.m.), spending (10:00 a.m.), new home sales (10:00 a.m.), and consumer confidence (9:55 a.m.). Greece Fails To Elect A President. "Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras failed to capture the support needed to elect a new president in a second round of voting on Tuesday and now needs another 12 votes in the final round next week to avert a snap general election," Reuters' Renee Maltezou and Lefteris Papadimas reported. "Samaras' nominee, Stavros Dimas, the only candidate in the race, had not been expected to win the second round and the score of 168 votes was broadly in line with expectations." Russia Greenlights The Bank Bailout. "Russian lawmakers pushed through a bill to aid banks, one day after the central bank announced its biggest bailout of a retail lender since the ruble’s collapse began," Bloomberg's Ksenia Galouchko and Olga Tanas reported. "The lower house of parliament today passed a bill in all three readings allowing the Deposit Insurance Agency to acquire stakes in banks before they face bankruptcy proceedings to support financial stability, according to a copy of the legislation." UK GDP. UK GDP grew at a 0.7% rate in Q3. The year-over-year rate was unexpectedly revised down to 2.6% from 3.0%. Arab OPEC Leaders Expect $70 Oil. "Arab OPEC producers expect global oil prices to rebound to between $70 and $80 a barrel by the end of next year as a global economic recovery revives demand, OPEC delegates said this week in the first indication of where the group expects oil markets to <U+200E>stabilize in the medium term," Reuters Rania El Gamal reported. Alibaba Spends Millions Fighting Fake Goods. "China's Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, the world's largest e-commerce company, spent over 1 billion yuan ($160.7 million) combating fake goods and for improving customer protection from the beginning of 2013 to the end of November, the firm said Tuesday," Reuters' Paul Carsten reported. Madoff Victims Are Getting More Money Back. "Victims of Bernard Madoff's massive Ponzi scheme will get afresh $322 million payout if a U.S. judge approves the request by the trustee liquidating the convicted fraudster's firm, bringing the recovery total to more than $7 billion," Reuters' Joseph Ax reported. Germany's Anti-Immigration Group Stages A Record Rally. An anti-immigration group called PEGID, or Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamization of the West, took to the streets of Dresden on Monday in its largest demonstration to date with 17,000 people. The participants sang Christmas carols and listened to protests against immigrants and asylum-seekers.  FREE AppDownload
From coffee bean origin to brewing, there are numerous factors that determine the amount of caffeine in your coffee. We break it all down. Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersThe logo of the Alibaba Group is seen inside the company's headquarters in HangzhouBEIJING (Reuters) - China's Alibaba Group Holding Ltd &lt;baba.n&gt;, the world's largest e-commerce company, spent over 1 billion yuan ($160.7 million) combating fake goods and for improving customer protection from the beginning of 2013 to the end of November, the firm said Tuesday. "From Alibaba Group's perspective, we bear a serious responsibility in this fight against counterfeits," said Alibaba Chief Executive Jonathan Lu in a statement. Alibaba has been tackling counterfeit products with greater aggression in recent years, particularly in the run up to its record-setting $25 billion listing in New York in September. A prevalence of counterfeits could hurt its ability to win over customers, investors and U.S. retail partners, the company said in its IPO prospectus. Just a few years ago Alibaba's businesses were listed on the U.S. Trade Representative's list of "notorious markets" for intellectual property (IP) infringement. But online fakes are still a big problem in China. In November, Chinese e-commerce companies held the annual Singles' Day online shopping festival, created by Alibaba and featuring many discounted products. That day, Alibaba reported more than $9 billion in sales. The official State Administration of Industry and Commerce (SAIC) conducted an investigation on counterfeits on Singles' Day. It found 10.6 percent of the goods that it bought online from various vendors and platforms were fake or highly suspicious.   (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Editing by Anand Basu) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGreece's PM and leader of ruling conservative New Democracy party Samaras addresses parliamentary group in AthensATHENS (Reuters) - Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras failed to capture the support needed to elect a new president in a second round of voting on Tuesday and now needs another 12 votes in the final round next week to avert a snap general election. Samaras' nominee, Stavros Dimas, the only candidate in the race, had not been expected to win the second round and the score of 168 votes was broadly in line with expectations. But it leaves the result of the decisive third round on Dec. 29, when Samaras needs 180 votes, finely balanced. There were 131 blank votes on Tuesday, which count against the candidate, and one absentee. Parliament must elect a president or a general election would have to be held by early February, potentially bringing in the leftwing Syriza party which wants to renegotiate Greece's international bailout and roll back the austerity policies of recent years. The second round vote followed an offer by Samaras at the weekend to bring pro-European independents into his government and hold early elections late next year if Dimas is elected. Greek stocks trimmed losses in the minutes following the result, with the main Athens index trading 2.1 percent lower by 1052 GMT. Samaras must now concentrate on winning over independents and rebels from the smaller parties. Both the Democratic Left, which left the ruling coalition last year and Independent Greeks, a right-wing anti-bailout party, have said they would not vote for Dimas. But it is unclear how much discipline they can impose on their members and a furious round of lobbying and telephone calls is likely over Christmas. Two Democratic Left lawmakers announced they were leaving the party to sit as independents just minutes before the vote. Financial markets and Greece's European partners have been watching the presidential election closely, although after the crisis measures of the past two years, most analysts believe there is now less risk of wider contagion, with most Greek debt held by official creditors. REUTERS/Alkis Konstantinidis  Syriza still leads in the opinion polls but its advantage has narrowed over recent weeks and a survey at the weekend gave it a lead of 3.4 points. The party has sounded a more moderate note lately, seeking to reassure Europe that it would be a responsible negotiating partner and would keep Greece in the euro. But a victory would signal a major shift in the politics of the euro zone, for the first time bringing in a government openly opposed to the Brussels consensus which has governed the bloc's response to the wider crisis. (Additional reporting by Angeliki Koutantou and George Georgiopoulos; Writing by James Mackenzie Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschA performer playing the role of Britain's Queen Elizabeth parachutes from a helicopter during the opening ceremony of the London 2012 Olympic Games at the Olympic Stadium July 27, 2012. European markets are up early Tuesday, after final UK GDP figures showed that country's economy is growing at a slightly slower rate than expected.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is up 0.48% Germany's DAX is flat.  Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.26% Spain's IBEX is down 0.12% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.48% Asian markets closed down slightly. Japanese markets are shut for the the Emperor's birthday holiday. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.32%.  US futures are up slightly. The Dow is up 19 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 1.3 points, and NASDAQ is up 2 points. Figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) released on Tuesday show that UK gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 0.7% in the three months to September compared with the previous quarter from April to June. GDP in the third quarter of 2014 grew by 2.6% year-on-year, revised down from the original estimate of 3%. The ONS also reported that the UK's current account deficit, which is a measure of trade between the UK and the rest of the world in goods, services, and investments, soared to £27 billion in the third quarter. Meanwhile, it's going to be a busy day for US economic data. Stay tuned for fresh data on durable good orders, GDP, income, spending, and consumer confidence.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe entrance of Monte dei Paschi bank headquaters is pictured in downtown SienaMILAN (Reuters) - The Bank of Italy would not oppose a foreign takeover of troubled domestic bank Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena , a senior central bank official said in a newspaper interview. Bank of Italy Deputy Director General Fabio Panetta said  past experience showed that foreign takeovers of Italian banks had been successful. "Any reservations on the nationality of groups that could be interested in a merger with Monte Paschi would be anachronistic and counterproductive," he told the Italian daily Il Messaggero. Monte Paschi is set to tap investors for up to 2.5 billion euros next year in its fourth cash call since 2008 as it tries to fill a capital hole unveiled by a health check of European lenders. The cash call is seen as a stepping stone towards finding a buyer for the world's oldest bank still in business. "The only relevant condition in assessing a possible merger is the ability to ensure a sound management of the bank so that it can lend to families and companies," Panetta added. French bank BNP Paribas  bought Italy's Banca Nazionale del Lavoro in 2006, a year after Bank of Italy Governor Antonio Fazio lost his job over phone tap transcripts that raised allegations he had favored domestic bidders against foreign players. Panetta also told the newspaper that he believed it was "inevitable" for the European Central Bank to modify the scope and size of its asset purchases to counter deflation risks. He said it would be hard to significantly boost the purchases without also targeting government bonds. With euro zone inflation at 0.3 percent, far below the ECB's target of just under 2 percent, the central bank is ready to review its policy stance early next year and consider printing money to buy sovereign bonds -- a policy known as "quantitative easing" (QE). However, hawks on the ECB's policymaking Governing Council led by German Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann oppose QE.  (Reporting by Valentina Za; editing by Keith Weir) FREE AppDownload
SINGAPORE - Oil prices slid back close to opening levels around $60.20 per barrel on Tuesday, after gaining earlier in the day on expectation of firm U.S. economic data due later on Tuesday. Front-month U.S. WTI crude futures rose over a dollar to a session high of $56.85 a barrel before dipping back to $55.67 at 0745 GMT. Brent crude was up 9 cents at $60.20 a barrel. Analysts said expectations of firm U.S. economic data later in the day had pushed prices higher in thin Asian trading due to a public holiday in Japan. "The focus of today would likely come from U.S. durable orders and U.S. GDP figures. Durable goods orders depict a strong manufacturing sector which implies a higher industrial use of crude oil," said Singapore-based Phillip Futures in a report on Tuesday. "With the U.S. economy picking up, we expect the figures to be favorable." Tuesday's price rises followed a volatile session on Monday, when Brent prices first jumped to almost $63 a barrel on the back of strong international market performances before sliding back to not much over $60 after Saudi Arabia's powerful oil minister said OPEC would not cut production at any price. "Brent could drop below $60 per barrel over the next six months, and WTI could fall to $50, as global oil inventories build sharply from here," Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a research note. "The faster the oil price drops, the larger the damage to the global oil industry. Oil could rebound sharply by the end of 2015," it added. While the reluctance of producer club OPEC to cut output has pulled down prices, oil could receive some support from falling activity in the United States, where many drillers are struggling to make money at current price levels. "U.S. oil drilling has begun to fall sharply. We expect this fall to continue apace throughout Q1, unless there is an unexpectedly early move up in oil prices," Standard Chartered said in a report. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA building under construction is seen amidst smog on a polluted day in ShenyangBEIJING - China plans tougher pollution limits and heavier penalties in a revision of its air pollution law, state-run news agency Xinhua said, as the government battles to reduce smog that takes hundreds of thousands of lives each year. The Standing Committee of the National People's Congress is this week considering a draft that would impose fines of up to 1 million yuan ($160,000) or even shut down factories that exceed emission limits, Xinhua reported late Monday. China's current law came into force in 1987, and despite a 2000 revision has not been updated to address the nation's recent rapid economic growth, which has left major urban centers choked by smog. Last month, a study by green group Natural Resources Defense Council said that pollution from the coal industry alone killed 670,000 people in China in 2012. "Air pollution problems in certain regions have become prominent and smoggy days are often seen, all of which demonstrate that the existing law cannot fit in the current situation," Environment Minister Zhou Shengxian said, according to Xinhua. A first draft of the new law was released by the State Council, China's cabinet, in September. The revised law will set stricter standards for China's 264 million vehicles as well as for the coal industry and heavy-polluting manufacturing. It will also include an early-warning system and contingency procedures for when pollution spikes in particularly affected areas, such as in the Beijing-Hebei-Tianjin region, which in the third quarter of 2014 suffered from pollution 45 percent of the time, Xinhua said. Some of the measures outlined in the draft have already been put into place, although environmental policies are difficult to implement in China, partly because local agencies often lack the authority to penalize powerful state-owned companies. A new environmental protection law will enter into force on Jan. 1, giving more power to environmental authorities to enforce pollution laws.   (Reporting by Stian Reklev; Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS//Russell Boyce The final figure is unrevised from the previous estimate published in November and down from 0.9% growth in the second quarter. However, the original year-on-year growth figure of 3% was revised down by 0.4 percentage points to 2.6%. That's not great because it means Britain's recovery has not been as strong as expected. The downward revision "is particularly disappointing as Britain has already been experiencing the slowest recovery in decades," The Guardian writes. It means that Britain's economy "is only 2.9% larger than before the financial crisis, not 3.4% as previously thought." Here's economist Shaun Richards' reaction on Twitter: Ouch! UK ONS: Between Q3 2013 and Q3 2014, #GDP in volume terms increased by 2.6%, revised downwards by 0.4% #NoXmasPresent The ONS said in statement: "The widening of the current account deficit was mainly due to a widening in the deficit on the primary income account from £8.2 billion in Quarter 2 2014 to £12.6 billion in Quarter 3 2014. This reflects receipts from foreign direct investment falling and payments to foreign direct investors rising. This was slightly offset by a narrowing in the deficit on the secondary income account." The pound has dropped to 0.16% against the dollar on the news: BBC FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFormer Hong Kong Stock Exchange official Francis Kwan, Former Hong Kong's chief secretary Rafael Hui and others sit in a prison van as they arrive at the High Court in Hong KongHONG KONG (Reuters) - Former co-chairman of Hong Kong-listed developer Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd, Thomas Kwok, was sentenced to five years in jail and a HK$500,000 ($64,440) fine on Tuesday for corruption in the city's highest profile graft case. Billionaire Thomas Kwok, 63, was found guilty of one count of conspiracy to commit misconduct in public office. His younger brother, Raymond Kwok, also co-chairman of the city's largest developer, was cleared of all charges. Thomas Kwok, who resigned as chairman and managing director after the verdicts were delivered, will appeal against his conviction, Sun Hung Kai said in a statement last Friday. ($1 = 7.7592 Hong Kong dollars) (Reporting by Lizzie Ko and Donny Kwok; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA gas station attendant fills a customer's vehicle in Turnersville, New Jersey ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Arab OPEC producers expect global oil prices to rebound to between $70 and $80 a barrel by the end of next year as a global economic recovery revives demand, OPEC delegates said this week in the first indication of where the group expects oil markets to <U+200E>stabilize in the medium term. The delegates, some of which are from core Gulf OPEC producing countries, said they may not see - and some may not even welcome now - a return to $100 any time soon. Once deemed a “fair” price by many major producers, $100 a barrel crude is encouraging too much new production from high cost producers outside the exporting group, some sources say. But they believe that once the breakneck growth of high cost producers such as U.S. shale patch slows and lower prices begin to stimulate demand, oil prices could begin finding a new equilibrium by the end of 2015 – even in the absence of any production cuts by OPEC, something that has been repeatedly ruled out. "<U+200E>The general thinking is that prices can’t collapse, prices can touch $60 or a bit lower for some months then come back to an acceptable level which is $80 a barrel, but probably after eight months to a year," one Gulf oil source told Reuters. A separate Gulf OPEC source said: "We have to wait and see. We don't see 100 dollars for next year, unless there is a sudden supply disruption. But average of 70-80 dollars for next year – yes.” The comments are among the first to indicate how big producers see oil markets playing out next year, after the current slump that has almost halved prices since June. Global benchmark Brent closed at around $60 a barrel on Monday. Their internal view on the market outlook will provide welcome insight to oil company executives, analysts and traders, who were caught out by what was seen by some as a shift in Saudi policy two months ago and have struggled since then to understand how and when the market will find its feet. REUTERSAli Ibrahim Naimi For the past several months, Saudi officials have been making clear that the Kingdom’s oft-repeated mantra that $100 a barrel crude is a “fair” price for crude had been set aside, at least for the foreseeable future. At the weekend, Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi was blunt when asked if the world would ever again see triple-digit oil prices: “We may not.” Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest exporter – and its close Gulf allies within the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) – say it’s time for others, whether that is countries like major exporter Russia or U.S. shale drillers, to slow down; OPEC can no longer slash output, ceding market share, to spare them a downturn. As Naimi told the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) in an interview this weekend: “It is not in the interest of OPEC producers to cut their production, whatever the price is.” Without OPEC to defend prices, oil entered a free-fall, but most of OPEC’s members are holding fast. At this point, intervening in the market would simply invite new rivals to carry on pumping crude, eroding OPEC’s market share without any guarantee of a sustained price recovery, another Arab oil source told Reuters on the sidelines of a meeting in Abu Dhabi of the Organization of the Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC). "Every time prices fall, we would be asked to cut," the source said. The second Gulf OPEC source reiterated that OPEC would not cut alone. Non-OPEC producers such as Russia, Mexico, Kazakhstan and "anyone producing more than one million barrels per day" should also cut or at least freeze their output if they wanted a stable market and better prices, the Gulf OPEC source said. Essam Al-Sudani/ReutersA worker walks at the Nahr Bin Umar field, north of Basra, southeast of Baghdad, November 16, 2014. To be sure, there is no suggestion that OPEC is targeting a specific price, or would want to do so. The group hasn’t had a formal price goal in about a decade, and Saudi Arabia has long maintained that it is only seeking price stability, not a set level. But it offers a convenient metric at a time when traders are struggling to figure out where and when markets will settle down. Asked about market signals OPEC is looking for to decide on whether the market is stabilizing or not, irrespective of the price, Naimi said: "<U+200E>The signals need time, one year, two years, three years. There is not one signal that we look to and say that's it... but for sure those who are the most efficient producers are the one who would rule the market in the future." Iraqi oil minister Adel Abdel Mehdi told Reuters in an interview on Monday he thought prices would stabilize now at about $60 a barrel but could rise to over $70 by mid-next year. "I believe that m<U+200E>arket has started to stabilize itself now," Falah al-Amiri, head of Iraq state oil marketing SOMO told Reuters in Abu Dhabi. "<U+200E>The future for next year, I don't think there would be much optimism in the market that the price would go to $80 or above. But I don't even think prices would reach $80," said Amiri, citing a resilient shale oil production to current prices. (Editing by William Maclean, Will Hardy and Jonathan Leff) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA section of an Airbus A350 is pictured at Airbus headquarters in ToulousePARIS (Reuters) - European planemaker Airbus expects its A350 mid-sized jetliner program to be profitable from 2019 before becoming a prime source of profits, Chief Executive Fabrice Bregier said on Tuesday. Airbus has firm orders for 780 A350s from about 40 airlines around the world, Bregier said a day after its first delivery of the aircraft to Qatar Airways. "We think (it) will become profitable towards the end of the decade, so towards 2019," Bregier said on RTL radio. "From then, it will be one of the biggest contributors to Airbus' profitability." Airbus' newest jet, the A350 was developed at a cost of 11 billion euros ($13.45 billion) and is designed to compete with the twin-engined Boeing 787 and 777 models.   (Reporting by Leigh Thomas; editing by Mark John) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSinger Joe Cocker at concert in Zurich in 1997.Hello! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. North Korea's Internet was restored on Tuesday after a New Hampshire-based company reported that the network completely collapsed on Monday in a suspected cyberattack. 2. North Korea's National Defence Commission has addressed the Sony hack in a 1,722-word statement that includes dramatic threats and praise for the hackers. 3. British singer Joe Cocker died Monday at the age of 70. 4. Pope Francis sharply criticized the Vatican's bureaucracy in a Christmas address to the Roman Curia on Monday, blasting the body for “the sickness of mental and spiritual hardening." 5. The founder and former CEO of American Apparel Dov Charney said he his down to his last $100,000 and sleeping on a friend's couch after being fired from the company in June.  6. Satellite imagery suggests that nearly 300 cultural heritage sites in Syria have been damaged or destroyed in its ongoing civil war, the United Nations said on Tuesday. 7. Japanese markets are shut for the birthday of reigning Emperor Akihito, who celebrated his 81st birthday on Tuesday. 8. The naturalist whom was widely reported to have been eaten alive by an anaconda for a "Discovery Channel" show has in an op-ed spoken out about the stunt that triggered a media circus . 9. After shutting down in 1991, Miami-based Eastern Air Lines welcomed home its first new aircraft on Dec. 19. 10. Google has revealed its first complete prototype of a driverless car. And finally ...  A new study claims that the trendy meat- and vegetable-heavy Paleolithic diets don't actually mimic how people of the Paleolithic Period ate. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCustomers wait their turn to be served at at the Delta airlines office in Caracas NEW YORK (Reuters) - Some major U.S. airlines including Delta and Southwest are rushing to finance losing bets on oil and revamp fuel hedges as tumbling crude prices leave them with billions of dollars in losses, according to people familiar with the hedging schemes. In theory, airlines are among the top beneficiaries of a six-month slump that halved crude prices to five-year lows. Oil is the biggest variable cost for airlines, often representing a third or more of their total operating expenses. But now, carriers such as Delta Air Lines and even Southwest Airlines, known for a successful hedging program that locked in cheap fuel prices before they rose a decade ago, see some of the benefits of cheap fuel eaten away by hedging costs. That is largely because they have used common but risky hedging strategies, among them a "costless collar": selling financial options that pay off when oil prices fall and using the proceeds to buy protection against soaring costs when prices climb, according to three people familiar with the programs. The two carriers have been moving quickly to strategise how to meet demands from brokers and banks for additional collateral to cover potential losses from a strategy that made perfect sense just six months ago, those people said. The airlines have also held a series of meetings that included airline executives, brokers and consultants, according to the people, who declined to be named because of the sensitive nature of the discussions. With oil prices tumbling faster and further than anyone had anticipated, the collar hedges left the airlines with insurance against high costs they no longer need and on the hook for protection they sold against a further slide, with potential liabilities on the rise. Southwest spokesman Chris Mainz said the meetings were part of a routine, although a rapidly changing market called for close attention. "We continue to benefit from declining fuel prices," Mainz said in an email. "Obviously we're going to move faster when the price drops in the 40 percent range. (Our fuel team) have been very busy actively managing our portfolio to respond to the changes we are seeing in the market." Delta spokesman Trebor Banstetter said the Atlanta-based carrier was not surprised by the slide, having been prepared to meet its financial obligations if needed. Flickr/Ikarasawa Southwest, Delta and other carriers that sources declined to name, will benefit from the drop in oil prices because they hedge only a portion of the fuel they buy. Southwest, for example, expects to cover only 20 percent of its fuel consumption with hedge contracts this quarter. Delta expects a $1.7 billion gain from lower fuel prices in 2015, despite $1.2 billion in estimated hedge losses. Yet rival American Airlines, which has not entered any hedge contracts since late 2013, are set to see a greater boost to their bottom lines. Industry consultants say hedged airlines have a few choices to deal with the price slide, including selling forward positions on crude oil or jet fuel, changing the prices at which they hedge or selling assets, such as planes. What airlines exactly plan to do remains unclear, people familiar with the discussions said. A lack of disclosure requirements makes it almost impossible to tell how or when airlines have hedged, and none would discuss details of their strategies. Collar transactions looked well suited to the market when prices hovered around $100 per barrel for most of the past four years, allowing airlines to cap their fuel costs at little or no cost, analysts said. "(Costless) collars are an effective strategy that works best when prices stay within a range," said John Saucer, vice president of research and analysis, at Mobius Risk Group. "But it becomes a very different animal when the market goes against that." In their October quarterly filings, Southwest and Delta said they used a mix of options and fixed-price swaps. Southwest also explained that collar trades "carry more risk than purchased call options" because of possibly greater liability when the contracts expire. The world's biggest low-cost carrier said that a 25 percent decline of crude prices from Sept. 30 would probably force it to pay $615 million in cash collateral, aircraft collateral and letters of credit. Delta said it would pay $800 million to counterparties if oil fell 20 percent between Oct. 1, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2015. Brent already has tumbled 36 percent since then to trade at about $60 a barrel on Monday. These hedges weigh on the costs of their future fuel consumption, too. At current prices, Southwest says it expects to keep only about 80 cents of savings for every $1 in oil price decline, while Delta puts this figure at about 65 cents. American instead will reap the full benefit of cheap fuel. And every cent counts. Delta has said that one cent change in the price per barrel of oil is worth $40 million to the carrier. (Reporting by Catherine Ngai and Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
