CARSON CITY Nevada (Reuters) - Nevada lawmakers on Thursday moved forward a package of bills to provide $1.3 billion in tax breaks and other incentives to Tesla Motors, taking crucial steps toward clinching a deal for the electric car company to build a massive factory in the state. The biggest chunk of the deal, approved by the state senate and set to go to the assembly later in the evening, won support in day two of a special session called by Republican Governor Brian Sandoval to implement an agreement for Tesla to locate its planned $5 billion lithium-ion battery factory in an industrial park 20 miles east of Reno along Interstate 80. "This is arguably the biggest thing that has happened in Nevada since at least the Hoover Dam," the mammoth Depression-era project on the Colorado River that employed thousands and provided hydro-electric power to the state in the 1930s, said Assemblyman Ira Hansen, a Republican from Sparks. Tesla, founded by entrepreneur Elon Musk, decided to locate its factory in Nevada after negotiating with several states, including Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and the company's home state of California. To clinch the deal, Sandoval promised that tax credits and other incentives would be available for up to 20 years, an offer that must be approved by the legislature. The factory is key to Nevada's efforts to revitalize its economy, which was hard-hit by the mortgage meltdown and the Great Recession, and has yet to fully recover. “It diversifies us into cutting edge technology," Steve Hill, Sandoval's chief of economic development, testified in a senate hearing Thursday. Among the bills approved Thursday in both houses was a provision phasing out and eliminating 1970s-era tax credits for insurance companies, which backers said would free up about $125 million over five years beginning in 2016 for transferable tax credits to Tesla. The package passed in the senate also would gut a pilot program approved just last year giving tax credits to the film industry, freeing up about $70 million for Tesla. Another provision would require at least half of all workers hired by Tesla be Nevada residents, though it allows for waivers. The governor’s office estimates the 5 million-square-foot factory will create an immediate 3,000 construction jobs, 6,500 factory jobs and 16,000 indirect jobs once completed.   (Editing by Sharon Bernstein and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesJoe Takagi enjoyed a successful career leading Nakatomi Trading, which had built its U.S. headquarters in Los Angeles, in the film "Die Hard." A year and a half into Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's tenure, results about his bold attempt to revive Japan's moribund economy remain inconclusive. Last week, the FT literally asked whether Abenomics was failing. While Japan's labor market has strengthened, firms have mostly been creating lower-wage jobs, and economic growth has begun to tail off.  It's thus almost inconceivable that a wave of Japanese conglomerates would be able to snap up American corporate assets as investments.   But in the 1980s, it was a fact of life. Starting with a relative trickle at the beginning of that decade, Japanese corporations went on an epic buying spree in America during the latter half of the decade after both countries agreed to revalue their currencies. The trend became so widespread that the "Japanese takeover" theme began seeping into American culture.   Via Google News, we now take you on a tour of this singular moment in the life of both countries. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg waits for Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda in front of a monitor displaying a Facebook page of the Prime Minister's Office of Japan, before a meeting at the latter's official residence in Tokyo on March 29, 2012.Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) had some harsh words for Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in a speech he delivered on the Senate floor Wednesday evening that was published in the National Review on Thursday. The speech attributed President Barack Obama's plans for potential executive action that would offer amnesty to some undocumented immigrants to meetings between White House officials and "the world’s most powerful corporate and immigration lobbyists and activists who think border controls are for the little people." Sessions identified Zuckerberg as a leader among pro-immigration business people. "Mr. Zuckerberg — who has become the top spokesman for expanding the admission of foreign workers — championed the Senate immigration bill for which all of our Democratic colleagues voted," Sessions said. "One of the things the bill did was double the supply of low-wage foreign workers brought into the United States for companies such as Facebook." Sessions pointed to Zuckerberg's non-profit pro-immigration advocacy group FWD.us as evidence of the Facebook founder's influence on policy. He also noted a Business Insider report from last year describing how Zuckerberg bought four properties surrounding his home for privacy. "Well, the 'masters of the universe' are very fond of open borders as long as these open borders don’t extend to their gated compounds and fenced-off estates," Sessions quipped.  Sessions argued tech industry executives had falsely claimed there was a shortage of the educated workers they needed to operate in the U.S. He specifically challenged Zuckerberg, who he noted "just turned 30" and "is worth about $30 billion," to hire more American workers. "I would pose a question to Mr. Zuckerberg. I read in the news that Facebook is now worth more than $200 billion. Is that not enough money to hire American workers for a change?" Sessions said. "Your company now employs roughly 7,000 people. Let’s say you want to expand your workforce 10 percent, or hire another 700 workers. Are you claiming you can’t find 700 Americans who would take these jobs if you paid a good wage and decent benefits?" Sessions also suggested Zuckerberg wasn't doing enough to hire American workers laid off by other companies. "Let me just say one more thing: Facebook has 7,000 workers. Microsoft just laid off 18,000. Why doesn’t Mr. Zuckerberg call his friend Mr. (Bill) Gates and say: Look, I have to hire a few hundred people; do you have any résumés you can send over here?" Sessions said. "Maybe I will not have to take somebody from a foreign country for a job an unemployed U.S. citizen might take." Read Sessions' entire speech here. FREE AppDownload
Over the last several years, anti-Fed "policy bears" have been warning about how the extraordinary steps taken to juice the economy would end in disaster. Some predicted surging interest rates. Some people predicted runaway inflation. And a lot of folks said that the Fed was murdering the dollar. Well, none of that has happened. And not only that, the dollar is one of the strongest currencies in the world. In the chart below, the dollar is the red line (more on the blue line in a moment). As you can see, the dollar (as measured against other major currencies) is on a gigantic tear, and it's at multi-year highs. FRED The reason for the rally can be found to some extent in the blue line, which is a measure of short-term interest rates. Short-term interest rates have been trending higher this year, as it looks more and more like we'll have another rate hike in the future. Some people are predicting the first rate hike could come early next year. When U.S. interest rates rise (especially when they're rising to rates in other countries) holding the dollar becomes more compelling, because basically you're getting paid to carry them.  U.S. policy hasn't been perfect, but we're seeing how smart the U.S. was to ease aggressively early and hard (it could have been harder). Some of our biggest economic counterparts (the Eurozone and Japan) have way further to go. No wonder the U.S. dollar is on the rise. NOW WATCH – KRUGMAN: Wall Street Is Wrong, Janet Yellen Is Making Exactly The Right Move On Inflation        FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO)Bill Gross, co-founder and CIO of PIMCO, told Bloomberg on Thursday that, "It's probably time to lever in a mild sort of way." Gross told Bloomberg that investors should expect to have, "the ability to borrow short and and to lend long, much like banks do." Gross expects this trade to available to investors for the next three to five years. By saying that investors should be able to "borrow short" and "lend long," Gross is basically saying that yields for shorter-dated Treasury bills should rise faster than yields on longer-date debt. In other words, the prices for shorter-dated Treasuries should fall faster than prices on longer-dated bonds. So you should sell short-dated bonds and use those proceeds to buy long-dated bonds.  This chart from Wells Fargo shows the firm's expectations for bonds of varying maturities, which reflects the core idea Gross is talking about. Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettThe British pound is surging after the latest poll from YouGov showed that voters are now favoring voting "No" on Scottish Independence. "No" votes are now leading "Yes" by a margin of 52-48, reversing results from polls this weekend that showed votes in favor of Scottish independence were leading 51 to 49.  This poll comes after Royal Bank of Scotland said on Wednesday that it would move its headquarters to London from Edinburgh, Scotland if Scotland voted for independence.  Following the results, the pound rallied against the dollar, while the euro fell against the pound. Here are charts showing the currency moves.  FinViz FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettDavid Whitney of Aberdeen, Scotland, plays the bagpipes near Big Ben and the Houses of ParliamentYouGov released the latest poll on the Scottish independence referendum Thursday, and the "no" campaign has surged back. There has been a 6-point swing from YouGov's last poll over the weekend, with 52% of respondents saying they'll vote "no" for independence and 48% saying they'll vote "yes." The poll provides a key barometer of Scots' feelings toward independence one week ahead of the Sept. 18 referendum.  YouGov's last poll showed a "yes" vote taking the lead in Scotland, causing the British pound to collapse late last weekend and early this week. The poll released last weekend found 51% of respondents choosing to vote "yes" for independence, while 49% said they would vote "no."  This is the first time the "no" campaign has gained ground in the poll since early August. After the poll's release, the pound surged. Still, YouGov president Peter Kellner wrote that the "yes" vote has held onto most of its gains over the past five weeks. Just five weeks ago, voters in Scotland were decidedly split toward voting "no." A massive tightening followed, and the "yes" campaign briefly enjoyed a lead. Here's a chart from YouGov showing the swings, including the latest toward the "no" vote: YouGov A vote for independence could cause massive ramifications throughout Europe, and it would lead to a host of immediate questions for Scotland: Would it be able to still use the British pound, which fell to its lowest level in 10 months on news of the polls? Would it be able to stay a member of NATO? And would it be able to gain re-entry into the E.U.? A "yes" vote would also likely embolden other secessionist movements throughout Europe — what geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, called the "contagion" effect.  Despite tightening polls over the last month, most analysts still expect Scots to vote "no" on the referendum. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesLarry FinkHave you ever driven up I-95 on a weekend?  Tried living in Los Angeles without a car?  Taken a train directly to JFK airport?  Oh, wait—you couldn’t even do that last one, because it doesn’t exist.  Infrastructure in the U.S. is dismal—whether it’s crumbling roads, underfunded public transportation networks, or less visible things like power grids and sewer systems. A lot of time when we’re stuck in traffic or our internet is running slowly, it feels like a nuisance.  But it’s actually something much more serious: an obstacle to economic growth.  Last year, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated that by 2020, “aging and unreliable” infrastructure will cost American businesses $1.2 trillion. Needless waste is not an efficient way to run a business—or a household balance sheet.  We shouldn’t have workers diverting their retirement savings into gas tanks and businesses bleeding cash for their shipments and workers to sit in traffic. With such obvious drawbacks, why can’t we get our act together? Part of the problem is an increasingly prevalent short-term mentality, combined with a historic level of political paralysis.  As we saw earlier this year, Congress couldn’t even pass a transportation bill that gets us past next May, and had to resort to budget gimmicks to do it.  There’s no question that we have much to do to reduce our deficits, and that there are a lot of difficult choices to make, but infrastructure investment—designed in such a way to attract private sector participation—is absolutely crucial to long-term economic health. Infrastructure helps to solve both long-term and short-term economic problems.  In the short-term, infrastructure investment helps provide jobs for low skilled workers, who are struggling with the long-term impacts of the financial crisis as well as the increasing impact of technology on the job market. In the long-term, infrastructure has a wide range of benefits.  A pipe manufacturer will be able to produce and distribute its goods more effectively and cheaply.  A technology company will pay a better price to power its servers.  A school district will be able to use water more efficiently.  A commuter won’t see a day’s pay disappear at the pump. Business will be able to use the money they save to invest in new equipment and technologies, create jobs, and help control prices.  Governments will be able to make better use of tax dollars (and potentially even cut taxes).  And individuals will be able to put money towards a college fund or simply spend their extra cash. This may sound a bit blue-sky.  But these are achievable outcomes.  The question is, with stretched budgets and an unproductive atmosphere in Washington, how do we get there? Private sector participation is going to be crucial to the future of infrastructure investment, both in the United States and around the world.  There is a natural partnership here: most governments simply don’t have enough cash for the projects they need, and investors are looking for new sources of return in increasingly difficult and correlated financial markets. Local governments will also need to work together to attract investment.  One of the most effective strategies is to aggregate projects.  Whereas investors might not want to invest in—or even know about—a single wastewater treatment facility, they might be quite attracted to a large-scale, multi-site project across region.  Aggregation also helps lower costs by consolidating materials and labor, and by fostering a more competitive bidding process, which will help save governments and increase returns to investors. I participated yesterday in the Treasury Department’s Infrastructure Investment Summit, where we discussed a range of ideas for how to help jumpstart infrastructure investment.  The summit is part of the President’s recently announced Build America Investment Initiative, which is taking some important steps to connect investors with infrastructure projects, and working to improve access to federal credit programs.  Credit programs—where government funding is leveraged to fund many multiples of private investment—are key to increasing private investments. These are important initiatives—but investors should push Washington to do more.  An infrastructure bank, which would use a core federal investment of perhaps $50 billion, would be able to leverage several hundred billion more in private investment.  It’s a bipartisan idea that has sadly withered in today’s Washington atmosphere.  But we can’t let it die.  It’s this sort of big and bold initiative—and act of confidence by the government—that investors want and need, and which can help unleash the power of private dollars to help propel our economy for the next hundred years.   The opinions expressed are current as of September 2014, and are subject to change.  Reliance upon information in this article is at the sole discretion of the reader. FREE AppDownload
The number of black baseball players on Major League Baseball teams stands around 8% – that's a huge decline compared to the 1970s. So what happened?  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
WealthTrack via YouTubeDavid RosenbergNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. stock market has entered into a corrective phase, but the underlying bull market remains in place, David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist of Canadian asset manager Gluskin Sheff, said on Thursday. "We are in some kind of corrective phase in the stock market but it's not the end of the world," Rosenberg told Reuters, saying that valuations are expensive but not necessarily in bubble territory. "I think we're still in a fundamental bull market," said Rosenberg, a long-time leading bear on Wall Street who had turned bullish about two years ago. Rosenberg, whose Toronto-based firm had $7.5 billion in assets under management at the end of the second quarter, had changed his bearish outlook shortly after writing in mid-2012: "I do see a light at the end of the dark tunnel. Don't be surprised if I end up turning bullish ahead of the pack." Since the financial crisis, U.S. stocks have shot up. Last year the benchmark S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; rose about 30 percent; so far this year the index is up about 8 percent. The S&amp;P has now gone about three years without a correction of at least 10 percent, an unusually long period that's caused unease among investors who are convinced that a decline must be coming. But Rosenberg said that such a correction could bring more buyers into the market, because there are few attractive alternatives to stocks these days. He noted that money has been quick to come back into the market on previous smaller dips. Nothing is cheap at the moment, but some sectors could gain more, he said, noting the impact of an upswing in capital spending. "Capital spending is finally emerging as a big positive story in this country," he said, as companies move to replace aging infrastructure, lower utilization rates hovering around 80 percent, and boost productivity. Industrials, technology and financials will all benefit from that kind of spending, he said. In contrast, Rosenberg said, the bull market in U.S. Treasuries has been over for more than two years. A broader uptrend of higher interest rates has begun, he said, with the U.S. Federal Reserve taking a more permissive stance toward inflation as it seeks to boost wage growth among a broader swath of the United States. The U.S. 10-year Treasury note &lt;us10yt=rr&gt;, which is a major benchmark for global credit and derivatives markets, is now yielding about 2.53 percent. While that is off the high of around 3 percent toward the end of last year, the yield has yet to repeat its lows near 1.4 percent in July 2012. "Bonds are just a speculative trade as far as I'm concerned," Rosenberg said. "I see the bond market more overvalued than the stock market."   (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan and Luciana Lopez; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Sjors van Berkel/FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisers Need To Adjust Their Strategies In Order To Connect With Millennial Investors (Vanguard) Conversations about financial planning with millennials are going to differ from the ones had with older generations. Millenials are less and less likely to follow "school-work-family-retirement" path. Millennials generally wait longer to start families, are more likely to switch up their careers several times, and are more likely to hold more than one job. And perhaps most importantly, millennials are "more willing to dip into savings for things such as additional schooling, a start-up business, or an artistic pursuit." "Advisors can also expect client conversations to shift slightly on other investing topics. For instance, younger clients tend to see themselves as hands-on investors. Yet studies show that although they display confidence, they also seem to lack thorough investment knowledge." "Brevity and relevance are vital" for millennial investors. As a result, advisors should "try looking at conversations with prospects as opportunities for discovery. Advisors who make the strongest impressions ask probing questions that leave younger prospects feeling understood and valued. Many younger investors who seek financial advice are looking for education, collaboration, and validation of their choices." Investing In Infrastructure Could Have Incredible Short-Term And Long-Term Financial Benefits (The Blackrock Blog) Infrastructure could be the next big investment opportunity, according to Blackrock's Larry Fink. He suggests that investors and the government should work together  to improve the United States' infrastructure because "governments simply don't have enough cash for the projects they need, and investors are looking for new sources of return in increasingly difficult and correlated financial markets." Infrastructure "helps to solve both long-term and short-term economic problems." In the short term, infrastructure construction can create jobs for "low skilled" workers — especially for those that are "struggling with the long-term impacts of the financial crisis" and the "impact of technology on the job market." And long-term benefits are widespread. Fink notes that infrastructure will lead to efficiency and lower costs across industries. And all that saved money can be used by firms on new investments, such as "equipment and technologies" and job creation. Plus, the governments "will be able to make better use of tax dollars (and potentially even cut taxes)." Inactivity Doesn't Mean Not Paying Attention To Your Account (Barron's) New research suggests that inactivity is the way to go. A study that "analyzed 80,000 yearly observations of institutional investment assets, accounts and returns from 1984 through 2007" found that portfolios that "of products to which money was allocated underperformed compared to the products from which assets were withdrawn", according to a recent article cited by John Kimelman from Barron's.  However, "there's a big difference being leaving an account alone — that is trading less — and ignoring that account outright. Best to never do the latter while taking a mindful approach to the former," Kimelman noted. He also added that unless an investor periodically rebalances his portfolio by selling asset classes that have increased in value and buying those that have decreased, he will "either be taking too much or too like risk" — which will have "serious consequences" over time. If You Rush Into An Acquisition You're Probably Not Going Pick A Good One (Wealth Management.com) Advisors who buy a book of business quickly and because it's available "are less likely to have a successful acquisition," according to a recent NFP Advisor Services survey. The president of the NFP Adviser Services, James Poer, added that "those who take their time looking for an acquisition target (three years or more) are typically more intentional about what they're trying to achieve," and therefore more satisfied. Advisors who had successful acquisitions were those who focused on assets under management, the client service model, revenue mix, business longevity, and cash flow from operations in order to determine a firm's value. On the other hand, advisors who had unsuccessful acquisitions "looked at age of clients and areas of specialization." The survey also found a strong correlation between price and quality of acquisition: in other words, advisors needed to pay more in order to acquire a firm that is worth it. Successful acquisitions on average cost 1.55 times the firm's revenue, while unsuccessful acquisitions cost 1.27 times the revenue. Here's What Financial Advisors Need To Know About The New SEC Money Market Fund Rules (Nerd's Eye View) Over the summer, the SEC issued the new Money Market Fund (MMF) rules in an attempt to avoid a "future run on money markets similar to what happened during the 2008 financial crisis." Naturally, these rules have implications for financial advisors. "With regard to private trusts and charitable foundations, investment managers should keep in mind that the state laws governing the management of trusts generally list specific suitability factors that must be considered in portfolio construction. These include reviewing the tax consequences of certain investments, which likely would include consideration of a MMF's ability to make timely disbursements." Plus, managers will now have additional disclosure information available to "assess the suitability of specific MMF holdings." And once the new rules go into effect, "funds will be required to disclose the prospectus or statement of information a 10-year look-back period on various types of information, beginning after the effective date in July 2016. This information must include any use of gates, fees, or sponsorship support to maintain stable share values, as well as when daily liquid assets dropped below 10 percent." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tami ChappellRobert ShillerDon't dismiss the psychological impact of poor economic growth and increasingly weighty economic sanctions.  Yale professor Robert Shiller is out with a new essay at Project Syndicate called "Parallels to 1937" that tackles the issue of how an economic malaise can impact the psychology of citizens.  The Nobel prize winning economist examines the international dynamics currently at play in Europe. Shiller writes that it took 8 years after the stock-market crash of 1929 for any real economic recovery to take place, and while the situation isn't quite as bad today, there are several psychological impacts from Europe's recent economic malaise that could plague the continent's population.  "Now, as then, people have been disappointed for a long time, and many are despairing. They are becoming more fearful for their long-term economic future. And such fears can have severe consequences," Shiller writes.  Shiller notes that economic growth — as measured by per capita real GDP — in current European flash points Ukraine and Russia was 52% and 46%, respectively, from 2002 through 2007. Last year, those numbers were 0.2% and 1.3%, respectively, and Shiller writes that, "The discontent generated by such disappointment may help to explain Ukrainian separatists’ anger, Russians’ discontent, and Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decision to annex Crimea and to support the separatists." And as it tends to be for Shiller, author of the best-selling book "Irrational Exuberance," many of the problems facing citizens in Ukraine, Russia, and the whole European continent can be rooted in psychology. Shiller writes: "Some will doubt the importance of economic growth. Maybe, many say, we are too ambitious and ought to enjoy a higher quality of life with more leisure. Maybe they are right. But the real issue is self-esteem and the social-comparison processes that psychologist Leon Festinger observed as a universal human trait. Though many will deny it, we are always comparing ourselves with others, and hoping to climb the social ladder. People will never be happy with newfound opportunities for leisure if it seems to signal their failure relative to others." On Thursday, the White House announced a fresh round of sanctions against Europe, and a new map of Russian movements in Ukraine was called "alarming" by BI's Michael Kelley.  And away from the eastern part of the continent, economic data this summer has shown that the Eurozone economy is still mired in mediocrity at best, and teetering on the brink of depression at worst.  In a report to clients on Thursday, economists at BNP Paribas looked at Europe's "Great Deterioration," noting that labor productivity has declined on the continent for the last five decades.  For Shiller, this indicates a clear need for Europe, and the world, to end sanctions and integrate Russia and Ukraine into the world economy, writing that, "A satisfactory resolution of the current conflict requires nothing less."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz The Tribute in Light is illuminated on the skyline of lower Manhattan during events marking the 13th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center in New York, September 10, 2014.Stocks went nowhere in a bit of a see-saw session that saw the markets fall at the open before recovering most of these losses through the day as stocks closed near their highs.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The weekly report on initial jobless claims was a bit disappointing, as claims jumped to 315,000, up from last week's revised total of 304,000 and more than the 300,000 that was expected by economists. Ian Shepherdson said the miss is "nothing to worry about," as the Labor Day holiday makes the seasonal adjustment tricky.  2. The U.S. Treasury Department reported a budget deficit of $128.7 billion in August, down from $147.9 billion a year ago, and narrower than the $130 billion expected by economists. Following the report, Jesse Hurwitz at Barclays said, "Increases in receipts this fiscal year have been driven by greater tax receipts as well as a 32% increase in receipts from the Federal Reserve. We look for the budget deficit to continue to narrow through the end of 2014 and into 2015." 3. The Census Bureau released its latest Quarterly Services Survey, which showed that spending in the healthcare sector rose 3% annualized from the first quarter. Through the first half of this year, healthcare and social assistance spending has increased 3.3% over last year. Following this report, economists at Goldman Sachs raised their Q2 GDP estimates to 4.7%, up from the BEA's latest estimate that showed GDP grew 4.2% during Q2. Goldman's report said the QSS survey, "showed a strong bounce-back in healthcare spending in Q2, following weakness in Q1." Joe LaVorgna at Deutsche Bank raised his Q2 GDP estimate to 4.5% following the report.  4. RadioShack reported quarterly earnings on Thursday, and the story wasn't so much the company's $137 million loss, but the company's need for more cash. In its filing with the SEC, RadioShack said that, "Given our negative cash flows from operations and in order to meet our expected cash needs for the next twelve months and over the longer term, we will be required to obtain additional liquidity sources, consolidate our store base and possibly restructure our debt and other obligations." 5. Lululemon shares were up more than 13% on Thursday after reporting earnings and revenue that beat expectations on Thursday. The yoga apparel maker also gave a full-year earnings and revenue outlook that was in-line with expectations after the company in June cut its full-year sales outlook.  6. Apple is planning to ship 80 million iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus phones by the end of this year, according to reports. Last year, the company shipped 60 million iPhones over the same period.  7. Social media company CYNK Technology, which earlier this summer made headlines after its market cap rose to $6 billion despite having no revenue, no assets, and just one employee, was back in the news Thursday after a report from Bloomberg's Zeke Faux. Faux's report said the company could be tied to a $500 million money-laundering scheme recently tied to the same office building in Belize where the company listed its headquarters.  Don't Miss: Deutsche Bank Just Released A 104-Page Report On What May Be The World's Last Mega-Bubble » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
BNP Paribas is out with a note about Eurozone titled "The Great Deterioration," which is a name we think that might really stick. We've been talking a lot about how bad things are in Europe lately. The economy is in the toilet, and political forces are pulling the various countries apart. But Europe's problems aren't exactly new. In the note, BNP Paribas charts the long decline of Eurozone productivity growth, and the results are really eye-popping. BNP Paribas  Italy is the real dog of the bunch, and that's not surprising, given that they've experienced a triple digit recession. But the numbers are on the decline pretty much everywhere, and there's no obvious reason why the trends would improve. FREE AppDownload
foursquare, septemberemix This is when anonymity on the internet is truly out of hand. Legendary Manhattan steakhouse Sparks is suing Yelp to compel the online reviewer to reveal the identity of one its users, The Smoking Gun reports. The user, going by the name of Besfort S, claimed to be a waiter at Sparks. He wrote that the restaurant paid off health inspectors and that employees regularly spit in customers' food. "I had personally spit my own saliva into dishes," the Yelper wrote. The review has since been removed from Yelp's website, but here's a screen grab of the review from Sparks' complaint, filed in the New York State Supreme Court: Screenshot via The Smoking Gun Now, the thing is, Besfort S — the S is for Shala — does exist in real life, but while he did interview at Sparks, he did not get the job. However, Shala insists that he didn't write the review. He even filed a police report saying there was an imposter on the loose. Sparks is known for expensive, delicious steak, some truly epic private birthday parties, and for being the site of the murder of Gambino mobster Paul Castellano. He was shot there in 1985. Sparks claims that the Yelper's comments were "malicious and defamatory." To say the least. FREE AppDownload
TreasuryMonthlyThe U.S. Treasury Department reported a budget deficit of $128.7 billion in August, down from $147.9 billion a year ago. This was a bit narrower than the $130.0 billion expected by economists. Fiscal year-to-date, the deficit stands at $589.2 billion, down from $755.3 billion a year ago. "Increases in receipts this fiscal year have been driven by greater tax receipts as well as a 32% increase in receipts from the Federal Reserve," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. "We look for the budget deficit to continue to narrow through the end of 2014 and into 2015. " TreasuryCumulative   FREE AppDownload
APThe complete iPhone line. In the past, buying an iPhone was as easy as walking into the store, grabbing the newest model, and going on your way. Not this year. For the first time in Apple's history, it has a genuinely diverse iPhone line. It is selling an iPhone 5C, 5S, 6, and 6 Plus. And all four phones are very good. This means consumers in the market for an iPhone have a tough decision to make when it comes to which phone to purchase. Since preorders start Friday, I decided to put together this guide to help anyone in the market for a new phone.  Before digging into the current phones, let's talk about you. How rich are you? If money is no object, then you can skip the following section and just read about the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. If money is an object, then read on. Flickr/MSVGIf your phone looks like this, then upgrade. Do you have an iPhone 4S or earlier? If the answer is yes, then you should definitely get a new iPhone. If you have an iPhone 5 or iPhone 5S, and the phone is in good condition, you may not need to upgrade. The iPhone 5S is an excellent phone. The only drawback is that it has a smaller screen. If a bigger screen is really important to you, then you should upgrade. But if you're happy with the 5S, then you should hold out for another year. Next year's iPhone 6S will be better than the iPhone 6. If you have an iPhone 5 and you're on a contract and you're eligible for an upgrade, then you should probably get a new phone. You can sell your iPhone 5 on Craigslist, or eBay, for ~$200, which effectively makes the cost of upgrading $0. If you're not on a contract, then it's a bit more complicated. The iPhone 5 is a good phone that should still be working fine. If you don't yearn for a bigger screen, then you can probably squeeze another year out of the phone. (And, again, next year's iPhone is going to be better.)  What if you — gasp — have an Android phone? Apple CEO Tim Cook says you'll have "a better life" if you get an iPhone. That's a bit strong, but you will get a better selection of apps. A friend of mine who owns an Android phone was pestering me over Labor Day to write a story about how Android owners don't get new features for apps until long after iPhone owners.  I like the iPhone and iOS better than Android. But, it's a matter of taste. If you're happy with Android, then stick with it. If you hate Android, then now is a good time to bail since Apple has bigger phones with better features. With that out of the way, let's explore the iPhone options. One thing to note: I have not used these phones. I have used every iPhone design since it was released and they've all been pretty good. I have tested all sorts of Android phones at various screen sizes, so I have a good idea about what you'll be getting from Apple. Steve Kovach/Business Insider The iPhone 6 Plus is the most expensive phone in the lineup. The entry level model is $299 on a two-year contract. It's also the biggest with a 5.5-inch screen. It has the highest-resolution screen too. Apple is using the large screen to offer unique software options, like a keyboard that has dedicated keys for copy and paste and new display options for content. It also has a bigger battery and slightly longer battery life than other iPhones. The iPhone 6 Plus is the phone I plan to buy. A few years ago I got a Samsung Note II at a Samsung event. It has a 5.5-inch screen. At first, I was inclined to dismiss the phone as too big and goofy. But the more I used it, the more I fell in love with the big screen. If you're the sort of person who lives on your phone, then you should get the iPhone 6 Plus. I use my phone from the time I get up to the time I go to bed. I check email and Twitter on it constantly. I do a lot of reading on my phone. My iPhone is a minicomputer and so I want a big screen. I have an iPad Mini, and I think I'm going to sell the iPad Mini and go all in on the big iPhone. When you hold the phone to your head to make a call you might look funny, but so what? How many calls do you really make? I use headphones half the time I make calls, so this isn't that big of a deal. Two other concerns people have about the big phone: Is it too big for my hands, and is too big for my pockets? Let's tackle those in reverse order. The phone fits in your pocket, no problem. Because this is Apple, the phone is thinner than thin, so it won't be too bulky. However, it is going to be a bit large. Personally, my phone is often out of my pockets. If I'm at work, I have it on my desk. If I am on the train, I am holding it and using it. If I am in a car, I use it for maps and directions. If I am at home on the couch, I usually have it out to surf the web while watching TV. If this sounds like you, then it's no biggie. But if you keep your phone in your pocket all the time, it might be a problem. My colleague Steve Kovach tested the iPhone 6 Plus at the Apple event on Tuesday and said it fit in his jeans pocket perfectly. As for hand size ... that could be a problem! There is no question that a bigger phone is going to be harder to maneuver. If you're really worried about this, go to the Apple Store when the phones are out and try picking up the 6 Plus. If it's too much it's too much. I'm over 6 feet tall, and, I guess, have hands that correspond with that size. I don't think the bigger phone is much of a problem. Sometimes it will be clunky, but life is a series of trade-offs, I think it's the bigger screen is worth it.  Both new iPhones also have a special one-handed mode that pops the top portion of the screen down so you can reach it with your thumb. You just lightly tap the home button twice to do it:  Bottom line: Buy the iPhone 6 Plus if you live on your phone. It's a great size, and it's better than owning a tablet. Don't buy it if you have small hands, and you don't live and die with your iPhone. Steve Kovach/Business Insider The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch screen, which is probably the best screen size for most people. It's not too big and it's not too small. The entry-level iPhone 6 costs $199 with a two-year contract. If you're due for an upgrade and you want the next model iPhone, this is probably the phone you should buy.  The iPhone 6 has a new A8 chip, which Apple says is faster than last year's A7 chip. It has an M8 chip, which tracks your motion to keep track of steps. It also has a barometer, so it can tell how high you've gone, counting the stairs you've climbed. The camera is also upgraded, likely making it the best smartphone camera on the market. (Of course, all of this is on the iPhone 6 Plus, too.) There are two reasons to go with the iPhone 6 over the 6 Plus — price and screen size. If you want to save a little money and you don't want the bigger screen, then this is the phone for you.  The only other difference between the 6 or 6 Plus besides screen size is the camera. The iPhone 6 Plus camera has better video stabilization than the iPhone 6. It's a minor feature that most people won't really notice or care about, but probably something you should know if you plan to shoot a lot of video. Bottom line: The iPhone 6 is the replacement for the iPhone 5S. If you just want the latest greatest iPhone with no compromises, this is the phone for you. Don't buy it if you want a giant screen or if you like the current size of the iPhone. Soldier Knows Best What if you don't want a really big screen? What if you like the current 4-inch screen? You're in luck. Apple will be selling the iPhone 5S for $99 with a two-year contract. The iPhone 5S is a great phone. Unlike in year's past, it doesn't feel like the 5S is significantly worse than the phone that's replacing it. The 5S has a fingerprint scanner and a motion tracker, just like the iPhone 6. The iPhone 6 is slightly faster, and its motion tracker is slightly better, but it doesn't seem like it's that big of a deal. The camera on the iPhone 6 is slightly better, but not significantly so. If you don't want a big screen and you'd like to save some money, the iPhone 5S is the phone for you. It's a really good phone, and if you use a 5S for the next two to three years, you won't be let down. Bottom line: Buy the iPhone 5S if you don't want a big screen. Don't buy it if you do want the big screen. Steve Kovach/Business Insider The iPhone 5C is a very good entry-level phone. It has a 4-inch screen. It doesn't have any of the bells and whistles of the other models. If you are on a limited budget, you want a small screen, and you like colors, this is the phone for you. It's $0 with a two-year contract, and it works pretty well. The risk is that it's going to be obsolete in a few years. If you plan to have the phone for the next two to three years, then it's worth paying $100 to $200 for a better phone. If you don't use your phone much, or your just want a hold over for a year or two, then get the 5C. In yellow. Be bold! Bottom line: If you don't have much money, or don't care about screen sizes, or you don't care about the latest features, get this one. Apple/Screenshot What color should you get? It's up to you really. But if you want me to make a decision for you, here's my advice: As for storage, I recommend getting the midtier, which is 64 GB for the 6 and 6 Plus. If you're getting a 5S, then that's 32 GB. These things are great for taking photos and video. Unfortunately, that stuff takes up a lot of storage space, so it's worth paying the extra $100 to get the space. If you have questions, ask in the comments and I'll do my best to answer them.    FREE AppDownload
Flickr / John ColeyRecreational fishing contributes just over half as much to the economy as Commercial fishing does.Today, The Hamilton Project released new papers and is hosting a forum to explore opportunities for improving the economic prosperity and long-term sustainability of the U.S. fishing industry. Taken together, commercial and recreational fishing contributed nearly $90 billion to the U.S. economy in 2012, according to Hamilton Project data, including over 1.5 million jobs for American workers. The Hamilton Project / The Brookings InstitutionDespite this economic activity, The Hamilton Project notes that "current policies do not capitalize on the full economic potential of U.S. fisheries, nor do they guarantee their ecological sustainability." Download and read "What's the Catch? Challenges and Opportunities in the U.S. Fishing Industry," a paper by The Hamilton Project that frames the landscape of the industry. Also download and read Christopher Costello's "Tomorrow's Catch: A Proposal to Strengthen the Economic Sustainability of U.S. Fisheries." Costello is a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Get more information about the event, featuring remarks by former U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin. Audio and video will be posted as soon as possible. Follow the discussion on Twitter using #CastTheNet.  FREE AppDownload
We've recently been looking at towns and places that are demographic extremes: places with very high median incomes, and places with very high levels of education. Now, we look at places with very young populations. The American Community Survey is run annually by the Census Bureau, as an effort to better understand the American population. One of the many demographic measures in the survey is the median age of the population. Using estimates from the 2008-2012 ACS for all places with more than 10,000 people, we found the place with the lowest median age in every state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey Unsurprisingly, many of the youngest places are either large colleges and universities, or towns and cities associated with one or more institutions of higher learning. Having a lot of college students around naturally brings down the median age. Similarly, a few military bases, like the sprawling Fort Hood, TX, appear on the list. Many soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen are in their late teens or twenties, and as with college students, their presence will lower the median age of a place. By far the youngest place on our list is the village of Kiryas Joel, NY. This is a community of strict Hasidic Jews, and they tend to marry very young and have large families. The sheer number of children in the village leads to a very low median age. Here's a table of the youngest place in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey
It's time to switch your flip-flops out for something a little more fresh, gentlemen. Fall is here. And while it's totally fine to recycle the classics you've kept over the years (as long as you've taken them to the cobblers — we implore you) you may want to kick your wardrobe up a notch with some of the new gorgeous footwear you'll be seeing around this season. "It's all about the boots," said Evan Fript, cofounder of shoe retailer Paul Evans. "Lots of Chelsea and Chukka boots. Wear them to work with a suit and out at night with some slacks. Gotta have a pair in black and brown." Consider them the "next level up in shoe game," as Fript put it. Check out this pair of Chukka's from Paul Evan's for $449. Paul Evan'sPaul Evan's Chukka in cognac, $449 Also remember that you can get a little funky with color, this season you'll see a lot of green. Check out this green Oxford boot from Esquivel. They'll cost you $975. EsquivelEsquivel Oxford Boot in green Now, if you're a true creative, or simply too fresh to wear what everyone else is wearing, we suggest you see Awl &amp; Sundry. It's a new direct-to-consumer luxury-shoe brand that lets you design your own shoe. The company was founded by a former banker named Nikunj Marvania. He was frustrated that he couldn't find the right shoe, well made, and at the right price point, so he decided to start his own brand. "Customization was pretty much nonexistent in the online world prior to Awl &amp; Sundry," Marvania told Business Insider. "We are the first brand in the world to offer this level of customization to our customers." Start off by choosing a style — Oxford, Derby, Monk, Loafer — then choose the "last" (that's shoe-guy talk for shape). After that things get really interesting. Choose colors, materials, even monogram your shoes. Prices start at $350. Your shoes will be at your house in about 30 days, and they'll be exceptional. "The quality of our product is outstanding," said Marvania. "We use the same construction process as Saint Crispins, John Lobb, Gaziano and Girling, and many other prestigious brands. Also, our leathers are sourced from tanneries in Europe." For fall, Marvania suggests designing a pair in suede. Like these: Awl & Sundry FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedPresident Barack Obama with Russian President Vladimir PutinPresident Barack Obama on Thursday announced the U.S. would join the European Union in intensifying sanctions on Russia's finance, energy, and defense sectors. "We will deepen and broaden sanctions in Russia’s financial, energy, and defense sectors," Obama said in a statement. "These measures will increase Russia’s political isolation as well as the economic costs to Russia, especially in areas of importance to President Putin and those close to him." Obama declined to offer specifics on the new measures, saying the White House would outline them in more detail on Friday.  Obama said the new sanctions were being imposed in response to Russia's "actions to further destabilize Ukraine over the last month," including an incursion of at least 1,000 Russian forces into eastern Ukraine to fight with pro-Russian separatists in eastern regions of the country. The president also said a ceasefire reached last week has not produced "conclusive evidence" Russia has worked to de-escalate the crisis. REUTERS/Larry DowningThe new E.U. sanctions impose travel bans on 24 Russian officials, and further cut off European exports to Russia of certain high-technology products. According to The New York Times and other reports, the new sanctions are expected to take aim at Russia's energy industry — in particular its oil exploration. The sanctions will take effect Friday when they are published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is the fourth round of escalatory Western sanctions against Russia for its involvement in the Ukrainian crisis. Russia wasted no time in previewing its retailiatory response, saying it would ban certain imports of used cars and other consumer goods from the West, according to Reuters. "I encourage President Putin to work with Ukraine and other international partners, within the context of the Minsk agreement and without setting unreasonable conditions, to reach a lasting resolution to the conflict," Obama said in his statement. "As I said last week, if Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise." FREE AppDownload
site.introbiz.comIntroBiz, the social media site tied to CYNK.CYNK Technology — the (sort of) social media company that earlier this summer saw its market cap rocket up to more than $6 billion in just a few days despite having no revenue, no assets, and one employee — may be a tied to a $500 million money-laundering and stock-manipulation scheme, according to a report on Thursday by Bloomberg's Zeke Faux.  Faux reports that this week, U.S. prosecutors brought charges against a group of men that worked on the same floor, of the same office building in Belize that Cynk listed as its address in regulatory filings.  Faux reports:  "U.S. prosecutors chasing an alleged $500 million money-laundering and penny-stock manipulation scheme brought charges this week in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, against a group of men who worked on the same floor of a Belize office building that Cynk listed as its address. While the U.S. case, stemming from a two-year undercover operation, doesn’t mention Cynk, documents obtained by Bloomberg News show that some of the defendants held millions of Cynk shares for clients in shell companies they helped create." Reporting by Business Insider back in July tied CYNK to a number of individuals over a number of years, including Javier Romero, who was most recently listed as CYNK's CEO and lone employee.  However, Romero told Business Insider at the time: "According to records, one Javier Romero on June 18, 2014 resigned as President and Secretary and Director of CYNK Technologies, whereupon on Mr. Howard Berkowitz filled these vacancies. At this time, the stock was around $2 per share." Trading in shares of CYNK was halted by the SEC after the bizarre rise in CYNK shares was widely reported, and through the summer the company lost nearly all of its value.  As of Thursday, shares appeared to be trading hands just a few times per day and were valued at around $0.25.  Here's a chart of the 2014 rise and fall of CYNK shares. Google Finance Read Faux's whole report over at Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJPMorgan Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon speaks at the Aspen Institute's "Closing the Workforce Skills Gap" seminar(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co CEO Jamie Dimon, who was diagnosed with throat cancer this year, finished his scheduled rounds of radiation and chemotherapy treatment this week, the Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter. Doctors will monitor Dimon, who started treatment about eight weeks ago, to determine if he is cancer-free, the Journal reported. (http://on.wsj.com/1uoGc8S) Dimon is expected to host the company's third quarter earnings call next month, when he also plans to resume international travel and client meetings, the Journal said. "I took naps when I had to, went home early, and there were days when I was in treatment all day long," Dimon told the Journal in his first interview since his diagnosis became public. He said he followed the advice he gives family, friends and employees to "take care of your health first." At an investor conference this week, the Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said Dimon was "feeling fine" with his treatment for throat cancer and was continuing to be involved with the business. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets said in July that Dimon, 58, was diagnosed with throat cancer but that the ailment was curable.  (Reporting by Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Deutsche BankDeutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid and his team just released a huge 104-page study that focuses on answering one question: Are bonds in a bubble? The answer: well, probably.  Reid writes: It has long been our view that over the last couple of decades the global economy has rolled from bubble to bubble with excesses never fully being allowed to unravel. Instead aggressive policy responses have encouraged them to roll into new bubbles.  This has arguably kept the modern financial system as we know it a going concern. Clearly there have always been bubbles formed through history but has there been a period like the last 20 years where the bursting of one bubble has consistently led directly to the formation of the next? It's an amazing statement — that the modern financial system doesn't just experience bubbles, but in fact needs them. You could say this makes bubbles a feature, not a bug, of the financial system (which is something many people say already). And the latest bubble appears to have rolled into bonds, with yields tumbling around the world and government debt in Europe currently at half-millennia lows. What we found was that bonds are where the bubble has migrated to. This is not to say that the bond market bubble is about the burst — far from it — but that it is a necessary condition for maintaining the debt ladened financial system that has been the by-product of major crisis management over the last two decades. The worry is that there is nowhere left for this bubble to go given that it is now in the hands of the lenders of last resort (governments and central banks with regulators ensuring other large captive buyers). Although we think this bubble needs to be maintained to ensure the solvency of the current financial system, the best case scenario is that it slowly pops over time via negative real returns for bondholders. The worst case scenario being future restructuring. This figure from Deutsche Bank gives a snapshot of government bond yields around the world. Everything is low. Deutsche Bank But looking simply at low yields doesn't provide enough evidence to say whether the current environment is a bubble. Reid says we also need to look at inflation, because if we're in an environment in which inflation remains, "structurally lower for an extended period it might help justify lower bond yields." Looking deep into history, Reid examines inflation dynamics dated from both 1210 and then from 1800, and he finds that the modern world has generally seen positive inflation as monetary systems became less tied to precious metals. Reid writes that "the longer-term investor has evidence that we live in a world with a positive inflation bias and as such must approach the current low levels of bond yields with extreme caution." Here are the two long-dated charts of inflation. Deutsche Bank But whether you think bonds are in a bubble also depends on what you believe the future holds for the world economy. Reid writes that secular stagnation, the idea popularized last year by Larry Summers that the global economy is facing a new low-growth reality, may support a future of low-inflation, low-growth and consequently, low bond yields. In his speech at the IMF last year, Summers argued that the economy was showing signs that the natural interest rate, or the rate at which investment and savings result in full employment, may now be negative. Given its recent actions, the ECB appears to be testing this theory. And while Reid writes that he's a believer in the idea that the economy is experiencing something like secular stagnation, he says bonds have priced in this possibility to a large degree. Additionally, Reid writes that it isn't clear that the long-term consequences of a secular stagnation environment don't include inflation and debt restructuring. Reid writes: "The longer we live in a weak growth world, the more debt is likely to be built up as fiscal targets are missed and the more difficult it will be to see a way of Governments returning investors’ money back in real adjusted." So even if we are experiencing secular stagnation, even over the long-term, the risk-reward proposition of buying bonds at current prices might not be worth it.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Michel EulerBritain's international partners are aghast, mostly in silence, at the possibility one of the leading Western powers could break up and turn in on itself if Scotland votes for independence from London. Many fear such a split would foreshadow a British exit from the European Union, on which Prime Minister David Cameron has promised a referendum in 2017, weakening the world's sixth largest economy and its continental partners. Some also fear it would set a precedent, boosting separatism in Catalonia and elsewhere in Europe. Independence campaigners from around the continent have underlined this by flocking to Edinburgh to support the "Yes" campaign in the Sept. 18 vote and to draw lessons for their own struggle. Some posed for a group photograph with Scottish nationalist leader Alex Salmond, now racing to turn narrowing opinion polls into a win in the Sept. 18 vote. REUTERS/Russell CheyneScotland's First Minister Alex Salmond (front C) poses with supporters of the 'Yes Campaign', in Edinburgh, September 9, 2014.The idea is not sitting well in leading capitals. U.S. President Barack Obama has been forthright in urging Britons to stay together and in the EU. "We obviously have a deep interest in making sure that one of the closest allies that we will ever have remains a strong, robust, united and effective partner," Obama said on a visit to Europe in June. U.S. Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, while stressing it was up to the Scottish people to decide, underlined this week the importance of Scotland in building and basingBritain's nuclear submarine force. "It would be unwise for an American to take sides in this, but there would be some issues that would require some serious work," he told a Reuters Summit on Wednesday. Privately, U.S. and European officials say they are concerned that a Britain amputated of a third of its territory and 8 percent of its population would be more introverted and less willing to engage in military coalitions abroad. While France has said it is willing to join Obama in air strikes against Islamic State militants in Iraq, Cameron has played for time and avoided a clear commitment so far. Last year Cameron failed to win parliamentary support for joining proposed U.S. air strikes in Syria, reinforcing opposition in the U.S. Congress that eventually prompted Obama to abandon the plan. European partners have tried to be quietly supportive of Cameron on Scotland, underlining how keen they are to keep Britain in the EU, while privately puzzling over his decision to risk everything on two uncertain referendums. "A Scottish exit from the union (with England, Wales and Northern Ireland) would be bound to heat up the debate about an early referendum (on leaving the EU)," saidPhillip Missfelder, foreign policy spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives in the German parliament. Merkel has made clear Berlin wants to keep Britain in the EU and is willing to accommodate some of London's demands for changes to help Cameron win the in/out plebiscite he has promised if he is re-elected next year. Publicly, she has avoided taking sides, saying: "There's a fair campaign taking place. So I have nothing to criticize. I also think the British are not waiting for advice from the German chancellor on what to do, let alone the Scots." But German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier was less diplomatic on Thursday. "I would openly admit that I would rather see Great Britain remain together," he told a news conference in Berlin with his British counterpart Philip Hammond. In highly centralized France, it is the precedent of separatism that is causing most political anguish. "The idea that this can happen in Europe in regions like Scotland -- even though it isn't at all the same context -- demonstrates that frontiers are exploding and this is worrying," said Socialist lawmaker Patricia Adam, who chairs the parliament's defense committee. AP Photo/Jill LawlessA demonstrator carries a sign during a pro-independence march in Edinburgh, Scotland. Some European diplomats are alarmed by Cameron's high-wire strategy for trying to hold the country together and in Europe. "How could he take such ill-calculated risks?" a French diplomat asked privately. He pointed to France's own history of lost referendums that brought down President Charles de Gaulle in 1969, stopped a proposed EU constitution in 2005 and very nearly killed off Europe's single currency before it was born in 1992, when voters approved the Maastricht Treaty by a whisker. If Scotland does vote for independence, its future status with the EU could be a matter of lengthy dispute. European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso infuriated nationalists in February by saying a breakaway Scotland would have to reapply for EU membership and would find it "extremely difficult, if not impossible" to gain unanimous approval. Some legal scholars question his stance, citing the precedent of Algeria, which kept an associate status with the European Economic Community for six years after gaining independence from France in 1962. Diplomats say the Commission was bound to support Britain, a member state, in its legal interpretation before the vote. But EU governments would be likely to take a more pragmatic approach to Scotland if the vote was won. International law professor Nicolas Levrat of the Institute of Global Studies at Geneva University said Scotland could start a multiplication of new states that would force the EU to reform its governance. "If Scotland becomes an independent state and manages to get into the EU, it will not be the only one. There will be what we call a domino effect," he said, citing Spain's autonomous provinces of Catalonia and the Basque Country. The Catalans are the most immediate issue but support for independence is much more limited in other parts of Europe such as Flanders in Belgium or the swathe of Northern Italy which separatists call Padania. The main Flemish nationalist party, the N-VA, has played down its separatist agenda and is about to join a Belgian federal government for the first time. Support for independence in Flanders is only about 10-15 percent, said Dave Sinardet, a political scientist at the Free University of Brussels. The Catalan government wants to hold a consultative referendum on statehood on Nov. 9 but the Spanish government says that is illegal. "The Scottish vote for us is an injection of enthusiasm and hope," said Alfred Bosch, spokesman for Catalonia's Republican Left party. "The difference is that the UK government has been democratic and allowed it, but the Spanish government hasn't." Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has been silent on Scotland but the head of the Catalan regional government, Artur Mas, has said a Scottish "Yes" would be positive for the independence movement. Conservative Spanish commentators have slammed Cameron for allowing the Scottish vote. Respected columnist Jose Antonio Zarzalejos called it "one of the greatest risks for the EU and for Great Britain in 300 years". "If secession in Scotland prospers because of Cameron's huge and historic clumsiness, the EU will jump into action so that similar situations are not repeated, and it will pressure governments to negotiate with the secessionist movements we already have," he wrote on elconfidencial.com.   (Additional reporting by Andreas Rinke in Berlin, Elisabeth O'Leary in Madrid, Phil Blenkinsop in Brussels, James Mackenzie in Rome, Angus Macswan in Edinburghand Ayla Jean Yackley in Ankara; Writing by Paul Taylor Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJordan Belfort, the real "Wolf of Wall Street." Belfort is the author of a best-selling tell-all memoir that chronicled his boozy, drug-fueled, high-flying Wall Street lifestyle running 1990s-era boiler room Stratton Oakmont. The convicted felon’s book was adapted into a film directed by Martin Scorsese starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Belfort was arrested in 1998. In 2003, he was convicted for securities fraud and money laundering. He served a 22-month prison sentence after being sentenced to four years. He was also ordered to pay $110.4 million in restitution to victims of Stratton Oakmont's. He hasn't finished paying them back yet, either. Wednesday night's "Trial &amp; Error" program at the Y was coproduced by NYU Law's Forum on Law, Culture &amp; Society. In addition to Belfort, the panel featured former federal prosecutor Daniel Alonso and CNBC anchor Kelly Evans. The program was produced by attorney Joel Seidemann. He's a former assistant district attorney in New York. His LinkedIn profile says he works at JPMorgan Chase now.  Seidemann gave a trainwreck of an introduction. It really set the tone for the evening, which was uncomfortable.  First, he joked that there wouldn't be any "scantily clad girls" at the event. "It's just going to be stimulation from the neck up."  He also threw in a Casey Anthony and OJ Simpson joke. "We never had a defendant who was actually convicted. It's not for lack of trying ... I did invite Casey Anthony, but she was looking for Zanny the Nanny. We did invite OJ, but he wouldn't leave his gated community in Nevada."  It gets worse ...  Julia La Roche/Business InsiderEvans and Belfort on stage with Professor Rosenbaum. He said something along the lines of "We need a fox on this panel of wolves."  There was some laughter and some boos from the audience.  "Sexissssst huh-huh-huh," the guy in the suit next to me said.  "It's not easy for anyone to be associated with the word 'fox'," Seidemann went on rambling something about Fox News. Evans, 29, is the star anchor at CNBC. She's incredibly smart and commands the respect of the biggest names on the Street with her coverage of economics and the financial markets. We reached out to Seidemann on Thursday morning for comment about his introduction of Evans. He did not respond at the time of publication.  Professor Thane Rosenbaum, who was the forum's director and panel's moderator, reached out to apologize, even though the comments didn't come from him.  "I'm really sorry about all of it. I surely would not have invited Kelly for the forum to have her offended. It was very hard to sit on stage and watch that. I was truly sorry." Evans had no comment when Business Insider reached out. Despite the cringeworthy intro, Evans handled herself with incredible poise throughout the entire panel.  The panel began with Belfort saying it was "strange" for him to be at the 92nd Street Y, especially because he wasn't being paid. "Listen, you know, it's kind of a strange situation for me to be here. You know, I go around the world and I'm a speaker and I teach people entrepreneurship, sales, and that sort of stuff for a living. And, so, um I know I'm going to subject myself to a lot of I guess border-line abuse here. Start very quickly. It's very negative here ... "  "Well, you weren't called a 'fox,'" Rosenbaum, the panel moderator, said referring to the intro for Evans. Belfort, who slouched in his seat, complained that he wasn't being paid for this appearance. "I have to say that I have to sit here and listen to this when I'm not getting paid is pretty tough," Belfort said as the audience began laughing.  Belfort is currently on a global speaking tour, which has been dubbed the "Redemption Tour." He estimated earlier this year that he thought he could make more than $100 million. "I'm my heart, I've redeemed myself," he said. "I live my life in a way in which I am very proud of. I do the right thing every day. I give massive value to my business. I pay a lot more than you said. Your numbers are wildly inaccurate." "Let's talk ..." Rosenbaum said. Belfort didn't want to get into the numbers.  "Honestly, I can't talk about my finances. I came here to answer questions that were really relevant to the crime, OK? It's a waste of time, I think, OK? So frankly ... but your numbers are grossly inaccurate," Belfort fired back. "Let's talk about those numbers. It's important to talk about those numbers," Rosenbaum said. CNBC anchor Kelly Evans said that she was worried about "the next Jordan Belfort."  "There's somebody somewhere who is thinking this is going to be great material one day," she said.  Belfort said people should realize that the actions portrayed in the film were bad and not something they should follow. CNBC/Scott WapnerAt only 29, Kelly Evans is the anchor of CNBC's "Closing Bell." Belfort said that he idolized Gordon Gekko's character in Oliver Stone's "Wall Street." He said that had perhaps Gekko fallen, then he would have felt differently. "At least in 'The Wolf of Wall Street,' I lose everything. My life is destroyed. I go to jail," Belfort said. Evans didn't buy Belfort's argument of his story being a cautionary tale.  "I don't think your story is a movie — we're living this story right now. I don't think there are many people who look at 'poor Jordan Belfort' and think, 'Wow, this is a cautionary tale.' He sold out the 92nd Street Y! He's going on a 45-city tour and he's got a TV series that he's ... what?" Evans said.  Belfort insisted that people like his redemption story. "I did that because I turned my life around over the last year. I'm not out committing crimes right now. People want to believe in redemption stories," Belfort said, adding that the way he lives his life now gives people hope.  Evans wasn't buying it. "The reason why people press you on your finances is because there's not a real sense that this is a redemption story. There's a sense that this is a story of, 'Wow, look at this thing I did, the time that I served, but I turned it around now and now I'm telling you about it and ..." Evans said. "People don't press me; journalists do," Belfort fired back to laughter and applause.  Evans pointed out that was "selling that story successfully."  "Should I sell it unsuccessfully?" he said, to more laughs and applause.  Later in the discussion, Evans made a reference to Timothy 6:10, where the Bible says "the love of money is the root of all evil." Belfort responded: "This idea of money as the root of evil is ridiculous. Money is like alcohol. If you're an a--hole, it makes you a bigger a--hole." Belfort added that he liked making money. He also said that he didn't think he should live his life like a monk despite his actions in the past.     FREE AppDownload
Alex Davies / Business InsiderInfiniti Q50 Eau Rouge ConceptInfiniti Motors announced this week that Roland Kruger is leaving BMW to be the Japanese luxury brand's new boss. Prior to joining Infiniti, Kruger served as a senior vice president at BMW Group, where he managed the company's sales operation in Germany. He's a designer by training. Before getting on the management track, he specialized in interiors for Mitsubishi and Daimler. The news comes two months after former Infiniti president Johan de Nysschen defected to General Motors take over the struggling Cadillac brand.  As Infiniti's president, Kruger's job will be to continue a complete rebranding set in motion by de Nysschen. In 2013, the Hong Kong-based automaker (yes, Infiniti's HQ is actually in China) scrapped its previous naming scheme completely and redesignated all of its cars with the letter "Q" and its SUVs with "QX." Infiniti MediaI could design a very nice top chair if I wanted to.The company is also in the middle of a products refresh, with a new small SUV and small executive sedan on the way.  His appointment caps a year of management turnover at Nissan Group. In 2013, former Nissan North America president Carlos Tavares was headhunted to become CEO of Peugeot Citroen. And last week, former Nissan chief planning officer Andy Palmer was installed as the Aston Martin's new CEO.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingThe economy is warmer than expected.Goldman Sachs revised its estimate of second-quarter GDP growth to 4.7% on Thursday, based on new data from the Census Bureau's Quarterly Services Survey (QSS).  Stronger-than-expected healthcare spending growth led to the revised Goldman estimate of 4.7%, which was up 0.5% from the Bureau of Economic Analysis' second advance estimate of 4.2%. In the second quarter, the QSS forecast a healthcare spending growth of 3% annually from the first quarter and increase of 3.7% year-over-year. That was a rebound from a 2% drop in the first three months of the year. Through the first two quarters of 2014, spending on healthcare and social assistance has increased 3.3% year-over-year, according to the Census Bureau's data. Goldman made particular note of growth in nominal spending at hospitals, which increased at a 10.6% annual clip. The report "showed a strong bounce-back in healthcare spending in Q2, following weakness in Q1," Goldman said in a research note Thursday. "In particular, nominal spending at hospitals rose at a 10.6% annualized rate, quite a bit faster than the Commerce Department assumed in their first two estimates of Q2 GDP. Other aspects of the QSS were more similar to Commerce's assumptions." Goldman also maintained its estimate of a 3.1% GDP growth in the third quarter.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingAfter blacklisting SkyBridge Capital CEO Anthony Scaramucci from its airwaves and refusing to renew his exclusive contributor deal, sources say CNBC was ready to ask "The Mooch" (as he is often called) to come back home. But it was too late — Scaramucci had already decided to sign a contributor deal with Fox Business News. The trouble started this summer when Scaramucci announced that SkyBridge, a fund of fund and hedge fund advisory firm, had purchased the rights to relaunch the legendary Wall Street show "Wall Street Week." Produced by Maryland Public Television, the popular program aired nationwide from 1972 to 2005. CNBC did not like that Scaramucci did not make them aware of his deal with MPT, or that he hired former CNBC executives Susan Krakower and Raymond Borelli to reimagine and produce the show. All of a sudden, Scaramucci was competition, and when his exclusive contributor contract was up for renewal, CNBC gave him an ultimatum — choose between CNBC and "Wall Street Week." Scaramucci chose to keep his show. As recently as last week, though, CNBC's lawyers contacted SkyBridge, ready to re-sign Scaramucci and consider working with "Wall Street Week." SkyBridge did not return CNBC's call. CNBC would not comment on this story. It remains to be seen what will happen with CNBC's exclusive contract to televise SkyBridge's premier hedge fund conference, SALT. Two years and three conferences are still left in the deal. In the meantime, SkyBridge is continuing to work on "Wall Street Week,,and the show could hit the airwaves as soon as the first quarter of 2015. It's just not clear exactly where yet. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn Eastman Chemical company sign stands outside  the recently renovated chemical plant in Texas City(Reuters) - Eastman Chemical Co &lt;emn.n&gt; said it will acquire specialty chemical company Taminco Corp &lt;tam.n&gt; for $2.8 billion, including $1 billion in debt. Eastman Chemical's offer of $26 per share represents a 8.9 percent premium to Taminco's Wednesday close. The acquisition will be funded with available cash and debt financing, Eastman Chemical said in a statement.   (Reporting By Kanika Sikka in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettThis is a deep fried Mars Bar. Thanks, Scotland! The upcoming vote on Scottish independence has suddenly put the small country of 5 million into the media spotlight. Sensing a need to break from the debate for a moment, Mint Partner strategist Bill Blain, who was born and raised in Edinburgh, decided put together a list of awesome inventions and discoveries from Scotland. The list was being passed around this morning.  Below, we've published a selection of things from the list and highlighted their connection to Scotland. Enjoy! FREE AppDownload
Jim EdwardsThe Bank of England in London.The Bank of England has devoted two papers to the rise of digital currencies. It's another demonstration of Bitcoin's transformation from niche cyber-libertarian intrigue to a subject of mainstream interest. More significantly, the Bank suggests that the key innovation is not the digital currency itself — which is subject to wild fluctuations — but the "distributed ledger," which tracks Bitcoin transactions. That ledger has the potential to revolutionize the financial system, the bank argues. Although there has been a great deal of innovation and new technology in payment systems, the Bank says "the basic structure of centralised payment systems has remained unchanged." At the core of the system is a central ledger (usually a central bank) that records and settles transactions. Bitcoin, and other digital currencies, works on a completely different decentralized model. Instead of a central ledger digital (crypto)currencies operate with a publicly visible ledger, with copies shared between all participants. The advantage of this system is that it avoids the problem of people spending the same money multiple times without having to have centralized monitoring of the process. Or as the Bank puts it: Since anybody can check any proposed transaction against the ledger, this approach removes the need for a central authority and thus for participants to have confidence in the integrity of any single entity.  This removes two key risks of a centralized system — credit risk and liquidity risk. Credit risk arises where one of the banks in a system goes bust, leaving unpaid debts to other institutions in the system. Liquidity risk comes about when a firm is fundamentally sound (it has the necessary assets to pay off its debts) but at a particular time it is unable to convert those assets to cash in order to meet its debt payments. Bank of EnglandWith a distributed system payments pass directly between users. The decentralized system should be resilient to these problems as at any given time there should be as many "redundant backups" (non-active contributors) as there are current contributors to the network. As such there should be far fewer choke points that lead to a system-wide problem. But the exciting part of this is that this technology could have implications far beyond payment systems alone. The Bank provides some fascinating hints for just how wide the applications of this could be (emphasis mine): The majority of financial assets — such as loans, bonds, stocks and derivatives — now exist only in electronic form, meaning that the financial system itself is already simply a set of digital records ... This development could allow any type of financial asset, for example shares in a company, to be recorded on a distributed ledger. Bitcoin may only be temporary phenomenon but the technology that underpins it may soon become ubiquitous. According to the Bank, it could mark "a first attempt at an 'internet of finance.'" FREE AppDownload
Professional stock market strategists and analysts get paid to offer earnings forecasts. Indeed, earnings and expectations for earnings are what drive stock prices. History shows that those forecasts almost always start off a little too optimistic. "Since 1976, the median year-over-year earnings growth forecast in January for the full year ahead is 14%, but expectations on average decline throughout the year to closer to the 5% average EPS growth we have seen over that period," Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker wrote in a note to clients today. "Analysts (and company managements) start the year optimistic and then adjust their optimism as the year progresses." This is not news. However, in any given year you might hear from a handful of stock market bears that earnings expectations are too optimistic. While they're probably right, it's almost certainly no reason to sell stocks. Think about it. On average, earnings growth expectations fall throughout the year. Yet, on average, stocks go up throughout the year. Keep this in mind as we enter a historically unfavorable period for earnings forecast revisions. "On average, September is the month with the most negative revisions, as if people get back from summer vacation, go to some conferences, and recognize that dialing back their estimates is prudent," Parker added. "Generally, though, the base case being downwardly revised doesn't bother the buy- side, which is aware that the consensus estimates in January were too high in 31 out of the last 38 years." Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Christopher MichelThe QSS provides an estimate for hospital revenue.A government report — the Census Bureau's Quarterly Services Survey (QSS) — that is becoming more and more consequential as a reliable indicator of the health of the U.S. economy was released Thursday morning. Here's the full report. The report, which provides hard data on service spending and gives estimates of revenues at service-providing companies, found revenue up 0.8% in the U.S. information sector; 1.4% in professional, scientific, and technical services revenue; and 1.9% in U.S. administrative and support and waste management and remediation services revenue. The QSS is starting to get notice as a must-follow in the world of economic data. In the first quarter of 2014, the report provided a key revision that dramatically shifted estimates of healthcare spending and GDP, while defying predictions the Affordable Care Act would lead to a massive increase in healthcare spending. In the second quarter, the QSS forecasted a healthcare spending growth a 3% annual from the first quarter and increase of 3.7% year over year. That was a rebound from a -2% drop in the first three months of the year. Through the first two quarter of 2014, spending on healthcare and social assistance has increased 3.3% year-over-year, according to the Census Bureau's data. Hospital revenue, which accounts for nearly half of all healthcare spending, grew at a seasonally adjusted 2.8% annual rate, according to the data, compared with a -0.8% drop in the first quarter.  The new data could lead to an even further upward revision in second-quarter GDP, which was revised upward to 4.2% last month. The QSS data in the first quarter provided a better estimate of healthcare spending than the Bureau of Economic Analysis' advance estimate of first-quarter GDP, which had forecast a 9.9% explosion in healthcare spending. But healthcare spending ended up plunging — something the QSS caught and the BEA missed. The BEA told Business Insider back in June that the eventual revision in the bureau's final estimate of first-quarter GDP was based on the new data from the QSS.  It is still likely that second-quarter GDP and healthcare spending won't undergo as big of revisions as last time — the first advance estimate forecast just a 0.5% increase in health spending this quarter. Or the estimate could actually increase — last week, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said it expected about a 5.6% increase in healthcare spending this year. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA selection of Kroger brand products is displayed in Golden(Reuters) - Kroger Co , the biggest U.S. supermarket operator, raised  its full-year profit forecast and reported a better-than-expected 9 percent rise in quarterly profit, helped by the acquisition of grocer Harris Teeter Supermarkets Inc. Shares of Kroger, which owns the Ralphs, Smith's and Food 4 Less grocery chains and supplement seller Vitacost.com, rose as much as 1.3 percent to $52.57 in early trading. Kroger completed the $2.5 billion acquisition of North Carolina-based Harris Teeter on Jan. 29, adding more than 200 supermarkets, mostly in the U.S. southeast. Its roughly $280 million acquisition of online vitamin and supplements seller Vitacost.com closed on Aug. 18. Kroger raised its adjusted earnings forecast for the year ending January to $3.22-$3.28 per share from $3.19-$3.27. Analysts on average were expecting full-year profit of $3.28 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The company also raised its forecast for same-store sales, excluding fuel, to 3.50-4.25 percent from 3-4 percent at supermarkets open without expansion or relocation for five quarters. Kroger, whose rivals include Wal-Mart Stores Inc , Safeway Inc  and Whole Foods Market Inc , is seen as one of the top performers in the hyper-competitive U.S. supermarket industry. Up to Wednesday's close, Kroger's shares had jumped 31.2 percent this year, outperforming the S&amp;P 500 Food Retail Index , which rose 1.4 percent. Net income attributable to Kroger rose to $347 million, or 70 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 16 from $317 million, or 60 cents per share, a year earlier. Total sales rose 12 percent to $25.3 billion. Analysts on average had expected a profit of 69 cents per share and sales of $24.92 billion. Same-store sales, excluding fuel, were up 4.8 percent, higher than the 4.2 percent increase analysts polled by Consensus Metrix had expected.  (Reporting by Siddharth Cavale in Bangalore and Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
Muddy Waters ResearchMuddy Waters Research CEO/founder Carson Block spoke to accounting students at Baruch College on Wednesday afternoon about short-selling. Block is famous for targeting Chinese companies he believes are frauds. He's best known for his takedown of Sino-Forest, which ultimately led hedge fund billionaire John Paulson to lose millions and eventually sell out of the stock. Sino-Forest, which Block said was overstating its timber holdings, eventually ended up filing for bankruptcy. Block told students how he got into short-selling. He also shared some tips on how he conducts his research when looking for companies to short. Block said that short-selling was a difficult career right now.  We've included his deck in the slides that follow.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe ticker for RadioShack Corp. is seen at the post where it's traded just after the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.RadioShack reported quarterly earnings on Thursday and management had one simple message for investors: we need money. In early trade on Thursday, shares of RadioShack were up more than 13% to around $1.06 per share. Earlier on Thursday in pre-market trade, shares of the electronics retailer were down more than 18%. In the company's 10-Q filed with the SEC it said: "We have experienced losses for the past two years that continued to accelerate into the second quarter of fiscal 2015, primarily attributed to a prolonged downturn in our business… Given our negative cash flows from operations and in order to meet our expected cash needs for the next twelve months and over the longer term, we will be required to obtain additional liquidity sources, consolidate our store base and possibly restructure our debt and other obligations." In the company's earnings press release, CEO Joseph Magnacca, said, "For the past 18 months we have been working hard on our turnaround plan... As a result, we are actively exploring options for overhauling our balance sheet and are in advanced discussions with a number of parties... There is no pre-determined outcome to this work and, of course, we cannot be certain as to the outcome from the current discussions. Our highest priority is working on a solution to maximize the value to all of our stakeholders." In the second quarter, RadioShack reported a net loss of $137.4 million.  Revenues totaled $673.8 million, down from $861.4 million in the same quarter last year, as comparable store sales were down 20%.  RadioShack's report comes after at least one Wall Street analyst cut their price target on the shares to $0. In a note to clients, Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said, "Our price target reflects our expectation that creditors will force a reorganization and wipe out RadioShack's equity." FREE AppDownload
APApple CEO Tim Cook announcing the new iPhones. Apple is planning a giant product run for the iPhone 6 this year. DigiTimes reports: "Makers in the iPhone supply chain are preparing parts and components for production of up to 80 million units of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus before year-end 2014, according to sources at Taiwan-based iPhone supply chain." It also says that Apple should be able to ship 10 million iPhone 6s by the end of this month, unless there are component shortages or production problems. Last year, Apple shipped 60 million iPhones over the same period. Opening-weekend sales of the iPhone totaled nine million units, and December quarter totaled 51 million units. If Apple hits the target of 80 million, it would be 33% year-over-year growth, which would be very strong for Apple's iPhone business, which has had growth in the single digits and low double digits lately. BII FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe currencies of countries that are major exporters of commodities tend to be highly correlated with the CRB raw industrials spot price index. This is especially so for the Australian and Canadian dollars. It’s not a perfect correlation, but they both do reflect the major trends in industrial commodity prices. Both currencies were especially weak last year. They regained some ground earlier this year, but seem to be rolling over again. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Decoding Currencies. (1) Interesting times. (2) When dollar goes up, commodities go down, and vice versa. (3) That’s especially true for industrial commodities, crude oil, and gold. (4) Fundamental driver of dollar and commodity prices is relative strength of US economy. (5) Dollar should strengthen as US becomes less dependent on oil imports. (6) Draghinomics and Abenomics boil down to currency depreciation policies. (7) Scots free? (8) Australian and Canadian dollars remain commodity currencies. (9) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Materials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark Blinch Weekly initial jobless claims came in at 315,000. Expectations were for claims to total 300,000, down slightly from last week's 302,000. Last week's number was also revised up slightly, to 304,000.  The four-week moving average of claims rose slightly to 304,000.  Ahead of the report, Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said he was "nervous that today’s claims report will show a clear jump from last week’s 302K, thanks to the difficulty of seasonally adjusting the data accurately in the week of the Labor Day holiday." This chart from Bill McBride at Calculated Risk shows the four-week moving average of claims. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
LululemonLululemon shares were up more than 14% in pre-market trade on Thursday after the company reported second-quarter earnings and revenue that beat expectations. Early Thursday, the yoga apparel maker reported earnings per share of $0.33, topping expectations for $0.29. Revenue in the second quarter totaled $390.7 million, beating estimates for $376.8 million.  Lululemon said total comparable store sales were flat in the second quarter, and on a constant dollar basis comparable store sales were down 5%.  Laurent Potdevin, lululemon's CEO, said in a statement: "We are pleased to be on track with the implementation of our strategic road map and are starting to see the results of our work across product, brand, and international expansion." Lululemon's quarterly report is its first earnings announcement since founder Chip Wilson said on Aug. 7 that he would sell 50% of his stake in the company for about $845. The agreement took Wilson's stake in the company to 13.85% from 27.7%. Back in June, Lululemon shares were crushed after the company cut its full-year revenue outlook. On Thursday, Lululemon gave a full-year earnings and revenue outlook that was in-line with current expectations.  Lululemon expects full-year earnings per share of $1.72 to $1.77 on revenue of $1.78 billion to $1.8 billion; comparable store sales are expected to increase by low-single digits. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a round up of what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning!   Equity Futures are starting on the back foot, led by a 25bp drop in S&amp;P as trading is globally light into the September 11th Anniversary (Moment of Silence at 8:46 and 9:25aET).   The DAX is off very small, despite EU sanctions coming into force tomorrow – but the FTSE remains weak as more Scot independence headlines mount into their referendum next week.   Spain’s market is the weakest again in the EU, as “Catalonia National Day” has their bond market getting hit again.    Russia’s MICEX is seeing some weakness, but the Cease Fire still holds.   Over in Asia, the Weaker Yen propelled Nikkei to 8M highs, While Shanghai was under pressure as Heavy shorting in China Mobile as AAPL won’t immediately roll out iPhone 6 in China.   HK off small as Tencent’s overnight bounce was sold for BABA, while Aussie lost small as the Miners were hit on dropping Ore prices.  The US 10YY is off 2bp, as investors rotate from German 10’s on the differential, while that “Policy Sensitive” US 2YY is retreating from near 3Y highs.   The Dollar marched above the ¥107 mark overnight, while it lost small against Euro and Pound.    Drop in China CPI and PPI seems to be pressuring Commodity prices, with Copper off 1.5 – and both Silver and Gold taking out recent lows.   The Oil complex under pressure again, despite the ramping of war drums in the Mid-East as IEA slashes demand forecasts – both Brent and WTI have lost another 1.2%.    Stay focused in Grains ahead of WASDE data at 12 today – Corn and Wheat continue to get hit, off 50bp+ each.  Catalysts ahead of us today include Weekly Claims Data at 8:30, Freddie Mac Mortgage Rate Survey and the week’s largest POMO at 11, WASDE Data at 12, 30Y Auction at 1, Monthly Budget Statement at 2, and ECB'S Draghi Speaks at Event in Milan at 3 FREE AppDownload
This easy-to-make caffeine iced drink doesn't require any brewing. Just instant coffee like Nescafe.   Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.  Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Flickr / The White HousePresident Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden with members of the National Security Council in the Situation Room of the White House on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Obama Authorizes Strikes On ISIS. "President Barack Obama outlined a new, expanded strategy to 'degrade and ultimately destroy' the extremist group calling itself the Islamic State (also know as ISIS or ISIL) with a primetime speech Wednesday night," reported BI's Brett Logiurato and Hunter Walker. "In his remarks, Obama broke his plan down into four key parts: 'a systematic campaign of airstrikes against these terrorists,' providing 'support to forces fighting these terrorists on the ground,' stepped up counterterrorism efforts to 'prevent ISIL attacks,' and continued 'humanitarian assistance to innocent civilians who have been displaced by this terrorist organization.'" A Problematic Analogy. Obama compared his plan to strategies targeting terrorist groups in Somalia and Yemen. Immediately, NBC correspondent Richard Engel slammed this analogy. "It's not at all the situation we are seeing in Iraq and Syria," Engel said. Engel said ISIS was made up of a large force of tens of thousands of fighters, controlling an area he said was approximately the size of Maryland with at least eight million residents, noted BI's Logiurato. "It's much more akin to regime change than it is to wading back and picking targets with allied forces," Engel said. "They are not comparable at all." The Royal Bank Of Scotland Will Move If... ...Scottish voters vote Yes on Scottish independence. "As part of such contingency planning, RBS believes that it would be necessary to re-domicile the Bank's holding company and its primary rated operating entity (The Royal Bank of Scotland plc) to England," the bank said in a statement. "In the event of a 'Yes' vote, the decision to re-domicile should have no impact on everyday banking services used by our customers throughout the British Isles." George Soros Warns Against Scottish Independence. In a new piece for the FT, the legendary financier warned that Scottish independence would do serious damage to Europe as a U.K. exit from the EU is another possibility further down the road. Here's Soros: "This is the worst possible time for Britain to consider leaving the EU — or for Scotland to break with Britain. The EU is an unfinished project of European states that have sacrificed part of their sovereignty to form an ever-closer union based on shared values and ideals. Those shared values are under attack on multiple fronts. Russia’s undeclared war against Ukraine is perhaps the most immediate example but it is by no means the only one. Resurgent nationalism and illiberal democracy are on the rise within Europe, at its borders and around the globe." Markets Are Lower. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.3%, and Germany's DAX is flat. Asia closed mixed, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.7% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.1%. U.S. futures are in the red, with Dow futures down 50 points and S&amp;P futures down 6 points. IEA Warns Of Remarkable Slowdown. The International Energy Agency cut its outlook for global oil demand, saying it would increase by 1.3%, or 1.2 billion barrels per day, to 93.8 billion barrels per day in 2015. “The recent slowdown in demand growth is nothing short of remarkable,” the IEA said. “While demand growth is still expected to gain momentum, the expected pace of recovery is now looking somewhat more subdued.” Chinese Inflation Cools. China's consumer price index fell to 2.0% in August from 2.3% in July. This was below expectations for 2.2%. Producer prices fell to -1.2% from -0/9%, missing expectations for -2.2%. "Inflation is well-controlled, and the limited public data on labor market dynamics suggest continued low unemployment. August data so far in hand — the CPI and PPI reports, PMIs, and trade data — hint that headline real GDP growth is picking up in the third quarter of 2014, and suggest a new round of government stimulus is unlikely in 2014," PNC Financial economist Bill Adams said. Australian Labor Market Surges. The Australian economy added a whopping 121,000 jobs in August, which was much stronger than the 15,000 expected by economists. However, AMP Capital economist warned the "jobs figures are as unbelievably positive as [the] July surge in unemployment to 6.4% was unbelievably negative. Best taken as statistical noise ..." German Inflation Is Stuck At 4 1/2-Year Low. Germany's consumer price inflation was unchanged and in line with expectations at 0.8% year-over-year in August. "Inflation pressures in the eurozone largest economy are still weak, but a 1.9% year-over-year decline in energy prices is still a notable negative influence," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "Excluding energy, the annual rate of inflation would have been 1.2%, which is still low but also indicative of slightly stronger core prices." Ebola Is Taking An Economic Toll. "Sierra Leone has cut its 2014 economic growth forecast to 7 or 8 percent as an Ebola outbreak cripples business in the iron-ore-exporting West African country, the government said on Wednesday," reported Reuters' Umaru Fofana. "The economic outlooks for Guinea and Liberia, two other mining-dependent West African countries also fighting Ebola, were lowered by Standard Chartered Bank." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/2TangoHealth workers wearing protective clothing prepare themselves before to carrying an abandoned dead body presenting with Ebola symptoms at Duwala market in Monrovia Aug. 17, 2014. Sierra Leone has cut its 2014 economic growth forecast to 7 or 8 percent as an Ebola outbreak cripples business in the iron ore-exporting West African country, the government said on Wednesday. The economic outlooks for Guinea and Liberia, two other mining-dependent West African countries also fighting Ebola, were lowered by Standard Chartered Bank. Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia are among the poorest countries in the region and the hardest-hit by the worst Ebola epidemic on record, which has killed nearly 2,300 people. Sierra Leone Finance Minister Kaifala Marah told Reuters that a previous target of 11.5 percent economic growth this year was "unachievable in the face of the Ebola outbreak". "Revenue is dropping [because] many of the big businesses are folding up," he said, estimating that the government had lost $60 million in revenue in the last three months as activity in the mining and tourism sectors dried up. The end of Sierra Leone's war just over a decade ago led to large scale investment from mining companies like African Minerals and London Mining, spurring rapid economic growth even if development lagged. Peace and pristine beaches brought nearly 60,000 visitors last year through the country's nascent tourist industry. But in the face of the deadly disease, miners have reduced activity, airline flights have been suspended and the government's weak health system is struggling to contain a disease that has killed 509 people so far in the country. In a Sept. 8 report, Standard Chartered slashed its forecast for Sierra Leone's economic growth this year to 7 percent from a forecast of 12 percent. "Iron-ore production, which accounted for more than two-thirds of Sierra Leone’s 20 percent real GDP growth in 2013, is expected to take a significant hit in 2014," Standard Chartered said. Cases in this Ebola outbreak were first confirmed in Guinea in March. The disease has since spread to Liberia and Sierra Leone, and cases have also been reported in Nigeria and Senegal. But the impact of the disease and restrictions imposed to fight it are being felt across the region. Standard Chartered said Liberia's economy was expected to grow at 4 percent, missing a 5.9 percent target, largely due to mining companies suspending operations and delaying investment. It said Ebola would add to political uncertainty and power cuts in Guinea, where economic growth was likely to slip to 2.5 percent from a forecast 4.5 percent. "As these countries are mining-dependent, growth revisions come on the back of expected production shortfalls," Standard Chartered said. "Disruptions to agricultural value chains are also considerations. The consequent price pressures could accelerate inflation into double digits by year-end," Standard Chartered said. The World Health Organization has warned that Ebola may infect up to 20,000 people in West Africa. The Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation said on Wednesday that it would spend $50 million to support emergency efforts to help contain the epidemic.   (Additional reporting and writing by David Lewis; Editing by Toni Reinhold) FREE AppDownload
ReutersA pressure gauge is seen at a gas compressor station near Uzhhorod May 21, 2014. Russian gas giant Gazprom on Thursday posted a 41-percent year-on-year plunge in net profit in the first quarter of 2014 partly due to Ukraine's gas debt, the company said. The company's net profit amounted to 223 billion rubles ($5.963 billion) between January and March this year. The energy giant's sales in the same period rose by 7.0 percent compared to the same period last year to 1,558 billion rubles ($41.6 billion). Analysts had expected the group's profits to fall due to the falling ruble. Ukraine receives half its gas supply from Russia but Moscow finally cut the flow of gas to its pro-Western neighbour in June after last-ditch talks failed to resolve a price dispute. Russia is still sending gas intended for other parts of Europe through Ukraine, however. Gazprom said its expenses went up because it had to make a provision of 71.3 billion rubles ($1.9 billion) for "doubtful trade accounts", saying this was mainly Ukraine's state-owned Navftogaz. via AFP Gapzrom saw its operating expenses go up 15 percent in the first quarter compared to the figure for the same period last year, while its operating profit fell 8 percent to 472 billion rubles ($12.6 billion). Gazprom's sales to Europe, its main market outside Russia, rose 13 percent year-on-year to 484 billion rubles ($12.9 billion), due to increased volume of sales and a higher price. The European Union is seeking to reduce its dependence on Russian gas, fearing interruptions to its supply over the winter. Russia agreed to give Ukraine a hefty discount to its gas bill in December last year but then cancelled the discount when pro-Western politicians took power in February.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Years after the crisis began, the unemployment rate in Greece still looks utterly dismal.  Here are a couple of tweets to show how bad the situation is.  This is why Europe is coming apart. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were very slightly lower on Thursday as investors awaited data on the labor market and attempted to determine whether equities' long-term advance or recent weakness would be the driving trend going forward. While Wall Street rose on Wednesday, recent action has been to the downside. The S&amp;P has fallen for five of the past seven sessions, and on Wednesday it closed below its 14-day moving average for the second straight session, a sign of weak short-term momentum. Despite that, the benchmark index is only 0.6 percent away from a record closing high hit last week, and it has not suffered a pronounced pullback in months. Weekly jobless claims are due at 8:30 a.m. and are seen dipping by 2,000 to 300,000 in the latest week. The most recent read on the labor market, last week's August payroll report, came in much weaker than expected. While this was a bearish sign for economic growth, it was also taken as a sign that the Federal Reserve may hold off on raising interest rates soon. Overseas issues may return to the forefront a day after U.S. President Barack Obama said he had authorized U.S. air strikes in both Syria and Iraq as a part of a broad campaign against the Islamic State militant group. While markets have thus far seen little impact from geopolitical tension or brutal violence in Iraq, any impact to the region's oil supply would likely have a major effect on the commodity space. U.S. crude futures fell 1 percent to $90.79 per barrel and are down 5.4 percent in September.   (Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Moir A flag flies over the former headquarters and registered office of the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) in Edinburgh, Scotland March 29, 2012.Two major British banks, part-owned by the British government, said they would relocate to London if Scotland votes for independence, hours after a poll showed a slender lead to those who want to keep the centuries-old union with England. Britain's political elite have rushed to respond to the prospect of Scottish voters backing secession in a referendum on Sept. 18 after a poll at the weekend showed the 'yes' campaign's first lead this year. Leaders of Britain's three main political parties scrambled to the country on Wednesday where they said Scotland would gain more autonomy if it rejected independence. Part-nationalized British banks Lloyds and RBS both said they would relocate to London if Scots decide to end the 307-year long union with England. Lloyds, which is 25 percent-owned by the British government and controls Bank of Scotland, said its contingency plans included setting up "legal entities in England." RBS said it "would be necessary to re-domicile the bank’s holding company." Bank of England Governor Mark Carney also raised questions about currency arrangements in an independent Scotland on Wednesday, saying the country would need big stockpiles of sterling if it adopted the pound without an agreement with the rest of the United Kingdom. This could threaten the spending promises of Scottish National Party leader Alex Salmond who wants a deal to share the pound and the BoE with the rest of the UK but Britain's main political parties have ruled that out. There was some relief for unionists when a poll released on Wednesday evening showed 53 percent of Scots would vote against a split, with 47 percent intending to opt for independence - unchanged from its last survey on Aug. 28. The figures from the poll, carried out by Survation for the Daily Record newspaper, excluded 10 percent of voters who said they were still undecided. Until a few weeks ago the "No" campaign had been comfortably ahead, according to a range of polling companies. Financial markets are on edge about the prospect of Scotland breaking away, probably taking much of the North Sea oil and gas reserves with it and raising questions about Britain's balance of political power and its membership of the European Union in the future. The cost of hedging against sharp swings in the British pound ahead of the Scottish referendum in a week's time jumped to 13-month highs. Thursday marks the anniversary of the 1997 referendum in which Scots voted for their current devolved administration with Salmond, who leads the pro-independence movement, due to speak at a major news conference. His campaign was, however, dealt a setback after the influential Scottish newspaper The Scotsman said on Thursday it had decided to back remaining part of Britain. "The conclusion is that we are better together, that Scotland’s best interests lie not in creating division but in continuing in the Union and using its strengths to help us continue in our success," the newspaper said.   (Writing by Costas Pitas; editing by William Schomberg and Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/TedxTalks Ian Bremmer is on BloombergTV this morning, and he's made the prediction that the Scottish independence vote on September 18 is going to be a decisive 'NO.' It's been long assumed that the independence referendum would not pass, but a new poll over the last weekend showed the 'YES' side leading for the first time. Bremmer thinks this poll itself will encourage some people — who might have voted YES as a protest against leadership in London — to think twice, and vote to preserve the status quo He also predicted large negative economic ramifications if Scotland does decide to leave. FREE AppDownload
Council of Foreign RelationsThe United States and European Union have made plans to halt oil exploration in Russia by some of the world's biggest oil majors, according to Reuters sources. New sanctions are expected to be announced tomorrow. The move would stop billions of dollars in planned oil exploration, from companies including Exxon Mobil and BP that was set to take place in the Russian arctic. From Bloomberg: "Once the EU implemented the new ban on sharing energy technology and services, the U.S. would follow suit with a similar package, including barring the export of U.S. gear and expertise for the specialized exploration that the Russians are unequipped to pursue on their own, the U.S. officials said." Jason Bordoff, former energy adviser to President Barack Obama and founding director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University in New York, told Bloomberg that the sanctions "would be a very big deal." The US and EU have stepped up sanctions against Russia as the allies accused Moscow of fuelling the conflict in eastern Ukraine. The previous round of sanctions targeted key sectors of the Russian economy, including the defence, energy and banking sectors. REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinRussian President Vladimir Putin.While a ceasefire has been agreed in eastern Ukraine, the Western powers remain sceptical about Russian President Vladimir Putin's willingness to pull back from Ukraine. With reports that the ceasefire has been broken in some instances, the US and EU want to keep up the pressure on Moscow to support the peace agreement. The proposed measures, which remain undecided, would mark a significant escalation in the economic standoff between Russia and the West, as it would target the main lifeline of Russia's economy. Exxon signed a $3.2bn deal with Russia's state-run oil giant Rosneft in 2011 to develop Russia's Arctic fields. While the country remains one of the biggest oil producers, its existing oilfields are considered to be in decline, making the Arctic exploration critical to its future as a leading energy supplier. Meanwhile, officials from the EU are set to resume talks on tightening sanctions against Russia on Thursday. The EU measures being discussed relate to banning the sharing of energy technology and services with Russia. If the measures are passed, the US is likely to follow suit with a similar package of sanctions.     FREE AppDownload
With assets pouring into index funds and ETF’s and away from traditional actively managed mutual funds it has never been more important to understand the process of portfolio construction.  Although the industry appears to be moving in the right direction in many ways (primarily away from high fee closet indexing funds) you still have to be very careful about how you go about constructing a portfolio because there remains a great deal of misinformation. In the last few weeks I have emphasized the myth of passive investing.  That is, even if you use low fee index funds you still have to actively pick assets.  This “asset picking” will be the key factor in your portfolio’s performance.  In essence, we are all active asset pickers.  And that means we are all relying on some implicit forecast and our ability to decipher how certain assets will perform in the future. I should emphasize that I am not an advocate of traditional “active” management.  In fact, I am an advocate of low fee indexing.  But that doesn’t mean I think the distinction between “passive” and “active” is very useful.  In fact, I think it’s rather dangerous.  Here are two main reasons why I think this is so important: 1)  Beware of advisors charging a high fee for “passive indexing”. Over the last 5 years I have noticed a growing trend in asset “management”.  I see more and more advisors charging a high fee (usually between 0.5-1.5%) for “passive indexing” approaches. But what most of these advisors are actually doing is picking an asset allocation for you and then claiming that you need them to “manage” it for you over the long-term.  And they will charge you the high fee for this service.  This is nothing more than a form of active management sold to you under a different name.  The fact that they are using low fee index funds does not mean they are not actively picking the asset allocation.  This, in my opinion, is a worrisome trend that investors need to be keenly aware of.  While paying a high fee for a closet indexing mutual fund is silly, it’s only marginally less silly to pay a high fee for someone marketing themselves as a “passive indexer” when the reality is that they are doing something that is simply a less active version of an alternative. 2)  “Passive indexing” is better than closet indexing, but that doesn’t mean it’s necessarily smart.  Portfolio construction is all about process.  There is, by necessity, a certain degree of forecasting that goes into any form of portfolio construction.  Some people just use historical data.  Others try to gauge the business cycle.  Others try to forecast returns using value metrics.  There are lots of ways to make forecasts about the future and gauge how certain assets can help us meet our financial goals.  But we should be aware of how most “passive indexers” go about doing this.  In my experience, most of them are using historical data based on “factor” tilting.  That is, they are basically expecting the future to look something like the past and they are actively tilting the portfolio in a specific way based on this view using a value, small cap or other “factor” emphasis.  This is not necessarily bad, but I wouldn’t say it’s necessarily good either.  As any Wall Street disclaimer will note, past performance is not indicative of future returns.  This is as applicable to index picking as it is to stock picking…. Worse, what many of these “passive indexers” have done is constructed a strawman around “active” management.  In an attempt to differentiate themselves from all things active they have overlooked the reality that they too are active asset pickers.  As I showed here, many of these “passive indexers” are guilty of the same thing they accuse active managers of doing.  What’s dangerous here is that they’ve pegged closet indexing mutual funds as the entire scope of “active” management in an attempt to claim that the indexing approach is necessarily different and superior.  But the reality is that they’re just picking assets inside an aggregate just like stock pickers are.  Yes, buying an index is certainly better than buying a high fee closet indexing mutual fund, but that doesn’t necessarily mean the underlying portfolio process and allocation is smart.  It just means it’s smarter than something really bad (the high fee closet indexing mutual funds). I think it’s important to go into the process of portfolio construction with your eyes wide open.  We can all implement low fee and tax efficient portfolios while also remaining diversified through the use of index funds and ETFs.  But I think we should also embrace the reality that all of this is part of an active endeavor.   Marketing gimmicks are the cornerstone of Wall Street’s ability to sell you something.  And when something sounds too good to be true on Wall Street that’s almost certainly the case.  While the concept of “passive indexing” has grown in popularity it’s also become increasingly susceptible to misinformation.  Hopefully my articles on this topic have helped to enlighten someone so they can avoid some of the pitfalls out there…. Related: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sara K. Schwittek"What did it feel like to be inside the World Trade Center at the time of the 9/11 attacks?" originally appeared on Quora: The best answer to any question. Ask a question, get a great answer. Learn from experts and get insider knowledge. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+.  Jonathan Weinberg is president and founder of AutoSlash.com. I arrived for work that morning on the 77th floor of World Trade Center tower 2 (WTC2) around 8 a.m. It was a bright beautiful morning, and you could see seemingly forever out the floor-to-ceiling windows of the building. My company had offices on the 77th and 78th floors. My office was on 77, facing WTC1 (the north tower). I was standing in the hallway outside my office talking to a coworker, when I heard a tremendous explosion at 8:46 a.m. I looked into my office (office wall was floor-to-ceiling glass) and saw a gaping hole in the South side of WTC1. We had no idea what had happened. No part of the plane was visible. (It had hit WTC1 from the north — the opposite side from where my office faced). Eventually word filtered in from somewhere that it was a plane that hit the building. We didn't know whether it was a commercial jet or a private plane like a Gulfstream. It also didn't occur to me at the time that it was a terrorist attack. I just assumed it was a terrible accident. At some point I saw people appear at the edge of the gaping hole. Smoke was pouring out, and while I don't recall seeing much in the way of flames, it was clear that there was a raging fire going on inside the building. I saw a number of people jump to their death, desperate to get away from the heat/flames. It's hard to express what I felt at that point, because I can only describe it as shock. Your mind cannot really comprehend what is happening — almost an overload state. You see it with your eyes, but you are somehow mentally detached from it at the same time. I called my wife to let her know what was happening. She was just walking out of Penn Station on her way to work. I quickly apprised her of the situation and told her that within a few minutes there would probably be pandemonium as people learned what had happened. I assured her that I was OK, and my building was not impacted. I told her I'd call her again when I could. AP Photo/Suzanne PlunketPeople run from the the collapse of the World Trade Center.Many of my coworkers began to leave the building immediately after the plane hit.  For various reasons, I decided to stay. This was partially because I believed that it was an accident and I was in no immediate danger. I was head of technology for a financial information firm at the time. Based on what I was seeing, I figured it might be days or weeks before we could return to our offices, so there were many things I needed to attend to so that operations could be moved to an off-site location. At some point, I left my office and took the escalator in our space up to the 78th floor. We had a large conference room there with a projector and cable TV, so I wanted to get the news on to see what was happening. I turned on CNN. Information looked pretty sketchy, but I decided to return to 77 to inform my remaining coworkers that I had TV coverage on upstairs if they wanted to come up. APA plane approaching New York's World Trade Center moments before it struck the tower at left.I returned to my office and decided to call my mother. A few seconds after hanging up the phone at 9:03 a.m., I felt a violent jolt, and then a falling sensation. I remember thinking that the building was coming down and it was the end. The impact caused the building to sway heavily. It was actually designed to sway to a certain degree as the towers have to withstand high winds on a regular basis, but this was far beyond anything I'd ever felt before. Eventually the building stabilized. Much of the ceiling had come down, and I could feel the breeze from blown-out windows on the other side of the floor. This felt oddly disconcerting since none of the windows were designed to open in the WTC. At that point I honestly didn't know what had happened. Strangely enough, my first thought was that WTC1 somehow exploded and what we experiencing was the impact of that. I found myself outside my office with a number of coworkers. There was tons of dust and debris in the air and the electricity was out. While I was covered in dust and other particles, I was not injured. We (about 10 of us) made our way to the stairwell on the NE side of the building. Upon arriving at the stairwell, we ran into some people who had apparently just come down from the 78th floor. One woman had a severe laceration on her arm. While the wound was quite serious, it did not appear to be life-threatening. There was some brief discussion about going up (I cannot recall why), but the injured woman or someone she was with mentioned that everyone was dead on the 78th floor. REUTERS/Russell BoyceA man at a wall showing photos of missing people outside Bellevue Hospital in New York on Sept. 16, 2001.I later found out that United Airlines flight 75 had slammed into the southwest face of the tower, creating an impact hole that extended from the 78th to 84th floors. Apparently the conference room that I had been standing in just a few minutes before was now obliterated. Had I decided to stay up on 78 instead of returning to my office when I did, I would not be alive today. Tragically two coworkers whom I considered personal friends took an opposite path that day, making their way from the 77th floor to their offices on the 78th floor just before the impact. I never saw them again. Seemingly insignificant decisions a person made that day determined whether they lived or died. It's still something that's a bit hard to fully come to terms with. Unbeknownst to me at the time, my wife had arrived at work at the midtown financial firm where she worked, right around the time my building was hit. The WTC towers were clearly visible from the trading floor of her firm. While we'd spoken earlier and she knew I was OK, that was before the second plane hit WTC2. She knew I was still in the building at the time, and she knew what floor I worked on, so at that point, she had no idea whether I was still alive. Once we got into the 77th-floor stairwell, I recall jet fuel pouring down the stairs. I mentioned previously I was definitely in some form of shock at that time and not thinking rationally. Having worked as a baggage handler at JFK airport for a summer (ironically for United Airlines of all companies), I knew what jet fuel smelled like. Still, I could not put one and one together and make the connection that a jetliner had just crashed into the building only a few feet above my head and split open, spilling the contents of its fuel tanks into the building core. We slowly made our way down the 77 flights of stairs. A woman there who worked for me at the time was about six months pregnant, so we went slowly in order to stay with her and help her down. At some point, I remember passing a number of firefighters heading up the stairs. They had a full set of gear on, and they looked weary and frightened, yet they continued up past us. It's hard to put into words what I feel for the firefighters who sacrificed everything that day in order to try to help others. Reverence is about as close as I can get. Eventually, we exited the stairwell and made our way into the mall connecting the WTC complex. I recall thinking that we were still alive and basically were out of danger. It was then that I saw police officers or firefighters yelling and waving at us frantically to get out of the building, and we quickened our pace. AP Photo/ VIctoria ArochoFirefighters in the early morning Sept. 15, 2001, near the site of the Twin Towers.We exited the mall in the NE corner near the Millennium hotel. We were standing on the street and it was chaos. I was with a colleague and my boss at the time. There was debris falling off the building, and my boss suggested we get out of the area. We began walking north. We had gotten maybe five blocks away when we heard a large rumble and saw a massive dust cloud to the south of us from the direction we came. Word eventually filtered up through the crowd that WTC2, where my office resided, had just fallen. It was a strange and surreal experience. Thoughts flooded through my mind like, how many people just lost their lives? Do I still have a job? Even a mental inventory of the things that were in my office that no longer existed. Words with my coworkers, which I cannot recall, were exchanged, and I decided to set off on my own to try to get home and reach my family to let them know I was OK. I eventually walked over the Williamsburg Bridge, caught a bus in Brooklyn heading for Queens, and then flagged down a gypsy cab in Queens to take me to my home in Port Washington, Long Island. I eventually got through to my family via phone to let them know I was safe. I also spoke with the president of the company, who was down in Florida at the time. He later told me that I was speaking very quickly and not making much sense. I guess the events of the day had taken their toll on me. I made it home a number of hours later. My mother-in-law was there with my daughters, but my wife was still trying to make her way home. I walked in and hugged my two daughters like I had never hugged them before. The rest of the night was mostly a blur. I spent most of it on the phone trying to account for every employee in the company. It was emotionally draining, but necessary work. I think I collapsed for a couple of hours, and then was picked up by one of the guys who worked for me to head to Philadelphia, where my company had a smaller office. I recall driving down the Brooklyn Queens Expressway and passing the downtown area, seeing a massive plume of smoke still rising from the WTC site. I can only describe it as surreal. At some point during the trip I received a phone call from a relative of an employee who had not yet been heard from. I tried to remember where and when I had last seen the person. It was one of the most difficult and emotional conversations I've ever had in my life. We arrived in Philadelphia later that morning to ensure that we had accounted for all of our employees to the best of our ability, and then to set about the task of trying to resurrect a business that was basically in tatters. I still had not had a chance to really process what had happened, but I realized that unless we immediately got to work, hundreds of people were going to lose their jobs. It wasn't until later that night when I checked into my hotel, about 36 hours after it had all begun, that I had a chance to turn on the TV and watch a full account of the events. Sitting there in front of the TV, it was like a floodgate had opened, and my mind finally had a chance to deal with the tragedy and all the emotions that went with it. I lost four friends and coworkers that day who will forever be in my heart. I try to live every day to the fullest, to honor their lives, and the lives of others who perished that day. EDIT on 5/2/11 follows: Yesterday Osama Bin Laden was killed in Pakistan. As a survivor of the 9/11 attack on the WTC, I'd like to personally thank the U.S. armed forces and our intelligence community for their relentless pursuit of both Osama Bin Laden as well as other extremists who carried out acts of aggression against Americans. As the President pointed out, the American people did not choose this fight. It came to our shores and started with the senseless slaughter of our citizens.   While nothing will ever bring back our friends and loved ones, it's a testament to the resilience and fortitude of the American people that we were finally able to gain some measure of closure following this dark event in our country's history.   We must remain vigilant, and most of all, never forget — both to honor those we lost, as well as to protect our loved ones, fellow citizens, and future generations from similar tragic events. FREE AppDownload
© Getty/AFP/File Justin SullivanAttendees look at the new Apple Watch during a special event at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, CaliforniaNew York (AFP) - It's not the first with a smartwatch or mobile payments system, but Apple is likely to use its market muscle and sense of style and innovation to redefine those categories. With its ambitious series of product announcements, Apple has returned to its familiar formula -- without creating any new product categories, it seeks to refine and perfect them to make them a must-have for consumers. "Innovation is back at Apple after a three-year pause," said Trip Chowdhry at Global Equities Research, referring to the period since the death of co-founder Steve Jobs in 2011. Apple's long-anticipated event on Tuesday unveiled the company's first smartwatch and two large-screen versions of the iPhone, and a mobile payment system that ties into the devices. Chowdhry called the Apple Watch "groundbreaking," and far superior to rival devices using Google's Android Wear software, even though it has come out well after rivals like Pebble, Samsung Gear and Motorola 360. "Right now, none of the Android Wear devices comes even close to what Apple Watch can do in terms of user interface and capabilities," Chowdhry said in a note to clients. The analyst predicted that Apple Pay, the mobile system allowing users to tap the new iPhone or smartwatch, would be a "runaway success" because of the convenience and security built into the phones, and would also give consumers a reason to upgrade their handsets. Jonathan Collins at ABI Research offered a similar view, saying Apple may boost the wearables segment with its smartwatch. "Given the power and reach of the company and the strength of its brand this cannot be underestimated," Collins said in a research note. "Apple has a long history of making existing technologies appeal to a far wider audience and going on to make its offering synonymous with the wider market." J.P Gownder at Forrester Research said, "Apple will legitimize and create the mass market wearables category." Apple Pay meanwhile could be a wild card that draws more people into the company's orbit. By lining up major banks and retailers, Apple appears to have overcome many of the hurdles faced by other mobile payment systems. "We believe Apple just reshaped the payments industry," said Benjamin Reitzes, analyst at Barclays, citing the large number of Apple partners and security features of the system. Eden Zoller at the research firm Ovum said Apple "will prove effective at marketing mobile payments to consumers, not as a technology but as something that will make paying for goods and services with your phone fast, easy and even fun." "When Apple introduces cool features on the iPhone people tend to use them, which is critical for the future of NFC (near field communication) as an enabling technology," Zoller added. "If consumers start using NFC for proximity payments then merchants will be more prepared to invest in it, a key factor that has held NFC back." Kulbinder Garcha at Credit Suisse said that even if Apple Pay does not generate significant revenues, it fits nicely into the Apple strategy of integrating hardware, software and services. "We believe that the mobile wallet will likely re-energize the iOS ecosystem and hardware sales," Garcha said in a note to clients. "Apple's vertically integrated structure across hardware, software and services, and across multiple products results in several strategic advantages versus its peers." The time could be ripe for a newer payment system given recent news on hacking of retailer credit card terminals, said Greg Sterling at Opus Research. "Apple Pay is ready to go 'out of the box,'" Sterling said in a blog post, noting that other systems such as Google Wallet have struggled. Michael Walkley at Canaccord Genuity also welcomed the Apple Pay news. "While consumer adoption rates in the mobile payment industry have been slow to date, we believe Apple's strategy and Apple Pay offering could help accelerate this market," he said. FREE AppDownload
elliot brown on FlickrScotland's largest banks will abandon the country for Britain if Scots vote "Yes" to independence on Sept. 18. The news adds to fears that independence could prove to be an economic disaster for Scotland. Lloyds Banking Group and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) both confirmed their intention to re-domicile to England in the event of a breakup of the U.K., while Standard Life reiterated it was also looking at transferring its business south of the border. Elsewhere, The Lawyer reports that a leading Scottish law firm is already moving its money out of Scottish banks. The moves throw the future one of Scotland's most successful industries into doubt — and with it the Scottish government's post-independence budget plans. Financial services contributed £8.8 billion to the Scottish economy in 2010, or one-eighth of the country's total economic total activity, while one in seven Scots are employed either directly or indirectly by the sector. In its statement, RBS cited "material uncertainties arising from the Scottish referendum vote which could have a bearing on the Bank’s credit ratings, and the fiscal, monetary, legal, and regulatory landscape to which it is subject" as the reason for the move. Bank of EnglandScottish bank assets would be worth 12x independent Scotland's GDP. The main problem is that the size of the banking industry would dwarf the resources of an independent Scotland. Scottish banks have assets totaling about 1,254% of the country's GDP — even worse than in Iceland (880% of GDP) in 2007 before its banking crash. On Wednesday, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney warned that an independent Scotland would require £130 billion in cash (or cash equivalent) reserves to guarantee bank deposits and provide the country's banks with a credible lender of last resort. This would be equivalent to 100% of GDP. The decision by these firms to make their contingency plans public ahead of the vote shows how uncomfortable the industry has become with the prospect of a breakup of the U.K. It also shows just how close people are now expecting the vote to be. FREE AppDownload
AFPInflation in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, remained stuck at its lowest level in four and a half years in August, according to final data on Thursday.  Confirming a preliminary flash estimate released at the end of last month, the federal statistics office Destatis calculated that German inflation this month stood at just 0.8 percent year-on-year, unchanged from July. The last time inflation in Germany was lower was in February 2010.  Inflation has been unusually low across the 18-nation eurozone, fuelling concern the region could slip into deflation — a sustained and widespread drop in prices that hampers economic activity and threatens job losses. While falling prices may sound good for consumers, deflation can trigger a vicious spiral where businesses and households delay purchases, throttling demand and causing companies to lay off workers.  Such concerns persuaded the European Central Bank to cut interest rates last week and unveil other measures to ease monetary conditions in the single currency area. Using the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) — the yardstick used by the ECB — inflation in Germany also stood at 0.8 percent in August, far below the bank's annual inflation target of just below 2.0 percent. FREE AppDownload
Mike Hutchings/ReutersOscar Pistorius. Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Thursday: 1. In a speech Wednesday evening, President Barack Obama outlined a four-part plan to "destroy" the Islamic State militant group ISIS. 2. As part of expanded military action against militants, Obama authorized airstrikes in Syria and more ground troops in Iraq.   3. The judge in the Oscar Pistorius case is expected to deliver a verdict Thursday morning on charges that the Olympic track star murdered his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp last year.  4. A new Survation poll on Scottish independence showed the No vote — or pro-union camp — leading by 6%. The news is a relief for the Better Together campaign after two polls earlier this week showed the Yes vote — or pro-independence camp — ahead.  5. The Royal Bank of Scotland said it would move its headquarters to London if Scotland goes independent.  6. Apple has delayed the release of the iPhone 6 in China, set for other parts of the world on Sept. 19.  7. The NFL is investigating a report from a law enforcement official claiming football executives had a video in April of recently ousted player Ray Rice hitting his fiancee in an elevator. 8. Toronto Mayor Rob Ford has been found to have a tumor after he was hospitalized Wednesday with abdominal pains.  9. Russian hackers published the passwords to nearly five million accounts. 10. China and Russia are reportedly planning to build one of the largest seaports in northeast Asia. And finally... Scientists are doubting whether a crater near Nicaragua's capital that appeared over the weekend was caused by a meteor, as originally reported.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Moir The Royal Bank of Scotland confirmed Thursday that it would move its headquarters from Edinburgh, Scotland, to London in the case of a Yes vote on Scottish independence. "As part of such contingency planning, RBS believes that it would be necessary to re-domicile the Bank's holding company and its primary rated operating entity (The Royal Bank of Scotland plc) to England," the bank said in a statement. "In the event of a 'Yes' vote, the decision to re-domicile should have no impact on everyday banking services used by our customers throughout the British Isles," it added.  The vote is set for next Thursday, Sept. 18. The announcement follows an essay by George Soros published Wednesday that said: "This is the worst possible time for Britain to consider leaving the EU — or for Scotland to break with Britain." Soros' argument is centered on the necessity for the eurozone to stay together. He wrote that policy differences between both Scotland the U.K. and the U.K. and the eurozone could be mediated. Analysts at Deutsche Bank have also said that if Scotland broke from the U.K., it would fall into a deep recession.   Earlier on Wednesday, the British pound was rallying after the latest poll from Survation showed that No votes on independence were leading Yes votes by a 53-47 margin. Over the weekend, a vote in favor of Scottish independence seemed like a real possibility, but reality might be setting in as we move closer to the vote. RBS has been based in Scotland since 1727. The bank said it "intends to retain a significant level of its operations and employment in Scotland to support its customers there and the activities of the whole Bank." FREE AppDownload
